Uh turn your Bibles tonight to Psalms twenty-seven, Psalms twenty-seven. On Sunday we looked at uh David the sinner, the man after God's own heart, whom God used mightily, not just in his day, but from that time until this, God used David, his life, his testimony. Even the tragedy that we looked at Sunday God used to warn Christians. And I think the life of David is proof that failure doesn't have to be fatal. That it doesn't have to be the end, that God can still bring you back if we'll return and submit to Him. God can restore unto you the joy of your salvation. You continue to serve Him. David experiences some of the most tremendous victories that we find on the pages of Scripture. He soared up there on the mountaintops with uh with the greatest of the greats. He experienced God's hand on his life and the victories like none other. All of Jerusalem, yea, all of Israel, sang David's praises. They herald this man who had killed his tens of thousands. But he was probably the most popular man in his day. In all of Israel, there probably wasn't a man that was more well known than David. But uh let me remind you that popularity in society is uh it's fleeting. It doesn't hang on Those who are on the top of the charts this week, whom everybody loves, next week they're forgotten. Somebody else replaces that influencer that everybody's watching, and now there's a new influencer, and you come to find out you were replaced by some twelve-year-old. Okay, that's the society we live in. I mean, you think about it, where were all of David's followers and those that loved him when David was running from Saul? When David could find no place to hide out and he had to end up going to his enemies. His enemies accepted him when his own people, all those people that were singing about him and extolling his virtues, were gone and nowhere to be found. Not only did David get to spend some time on the mountaintop and experience those great victories, but as we saw on Sunday, he was very familiar with the valley. He was very familiar with hard times and tumultuous days and trouble that plagued him at different times during his life. Beloved, this is why he could write so many psalms that so deeply impact us and strengthen us. Because he understood what it was to go through trouble. That's why Psalms 23 is so powerful. Because he knew what it was to be in the valley. He knew what it was to have God as the only friend that he had to carry him through. Beloved God has not left us alone in our trials. There's actually so many illustrations or different people in the Word of God that we could glean the principles that I'm giving you tonight from that it was more really just a decision of who to draw them from. Who to look at. Because the topic for this evening is I want to talk to you about or preach to you for a few minutes is how to trust God in trials. How to trust God through the trials. The trials are going to come. We see this man very familiar with victories, but also who understood the valleys. And so we're going to draw some principles from some things that David said here in Psalms 27, and uh probably draw in some of the other people in the Word of God who went through trouble that are very fitting and uh applicable as well. But how to trust God through trials. First of all, and maybe most importantly is you need to live by your convictions. He says here in verse number one, a Psalm of David: The Lord is my light and my salvation. You see, beloved David knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that God was his Savior That he held the salvation that came from God. There was no question, there was no hesitation, you could not get him to doubt it This was something he was fully convinced of in his heart and his mind. He knew that he had a Savior, that God, the His Lord, was his light and his salvation. In the face of that he says, Hey, as God is my salvation, then whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? If we're going to go through trouble, if we're going to go through heartache, if you're going to endure a trial, you need to start by knowing that you're saved. That you have a Savior. That there's not a question there. There's not a doubt. You have a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. You have a Savior whose name is Jesus. And if He is your Savior, you can hold on to that. You can hold on to that. You have that conviction in your heart. In Psalms 12, verse number 7, he says, He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed. Trusting in the Lord. Beloved, when you have the confidence of your salvation, you can go through trials with confidence, knowing that you have a sure foundation However tumultuous things get in life, if you have a sure foundation, you can face that trouble, you can face that trial. You remember after his sin with Bathsheba in Psalms 51, I read Psalms 51 probably 10 times on Sunday afternoon, just reflecting on David's Epic tragedy, but his repentant heart as he came back to God. And you remember in that Psalms he says, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. He doesn't say, restore unto me my salvation. He knew that he was separated from God because of his sin. He knew that God wasn't pleased with him, but he also knew that he was still his God. That even in the face of all that heartache that he had a sure foundation, he knew he had God as his Savior. You know the three Hebrew children that we love to read about that stood their ground in the face of a fiery furnace You see, beloved, they lived by conviction. Not only do you need to know that you're saved, you need to know what you believe. You need to know what you believe. You need to know where you stand, where God's word stands, and stand with it. You see These three Hebrew children had convictions that they were not going to bend. They were not going to bow. They were going to stand no matter what. In the face of great hardship, they were going to stand. Why? Because they had a conviction You see, beloved, conviction is not a belief you hold. A conviction is a belief that holds you. It's not something that I think, yeah, I think this is a good idea. It is a conviction of your heart that holds you And it'll hold you from going and being tricked and swayed into the way of the world. It'll hold you from falling or faltering when Satan comes and attacks. It'll hold you in the face of a fiery furnace. Because it's a conviction. You know what you're supposed to do. They said, we're not going to bow. Whatever happens, you can put us into the fiery furnace, and God's going to save us. They said, but if not, we're not valid. God can save us. They believed that God could But maybe in God's perfect will they said maybe God doesn't want to save us. That's up to him. We know he can, but if he doesn't, we're still not going to bow. Amen. You need to, beloved, live by convictions. Know what you believe. It was evident in their life. In Daniel chapter 3 and verse number 12, there are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These three men, O king, have not regarded thee. They serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. You see, it was evident in their life. The people around them saw the difference in these three men. They said, hey, everybody else is bowing. They're not bowing. There's something in their life that's different. They were living by convictions. It was evidence not just in their life, but it was evidence in their lips. What they said unto the king in Daniel chapter 3, verses 16 through 18, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we're not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thy hand, O king. They said, either way, we're going to be delivered from you. Either way, we're going to be delivered from you. And then in verse number 18, they said, But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. You see, beloved, no matter how hot the fire is, how strong the storm, or how tough the trial, if you're living by conviction, it'll hold you. It'll hold you through it. You'll know what you're supposed to do. You'll have that sure foundation. This foundation of your salvation, the foundation of what you know is right to do. Well, do you know you're saved tonight? Do you have a sure foundation? Do you know what you believe? We need to see, secondly, not only if you're going to trust through the trial, live by your convictions, but you need to lean on your companion. Look at verse number two and three in Psalms 27 there. He says, When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, come upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. His companion. He knew he had a savior. He knew he had a friend. David had learned that he had a companion. A companion that was going to be with him in even the toughest of trials. You learn that when you're on the backside of the mountain caring for the sheep and a lion comes. And a bear comes. But I'm saying as David walked with God, caring for the sheep, and God delivered a lion and a bear unto him long before God delivered a giant. You're only going to have the faith to face the giant and know that God is with you as he stood before the giant and he says, You come to me with sword and spear, but I come to you in the spirit of the Lord. He says, I have the Lord with me. But you only can have that kind of confidence in the face of a trial when you've walked with God through the little trials. You've seen God deliver you out of the paw of a lion and the paw of a bear. in proportion, a much smaller trial. You you go to the hospital Hopefully you have some confidence in God already. That you know God's in control. Today, Brother Greg Saying, God knows. God knows. He knows exactly why this happened I wish he would tell me, but he knows why it happened, and I'm looking for why, and I know God has a plan. And regardless of the fact that I'm here and I'm in pain. He was saying that God is good all the time and I know that. How does he know that? He didn't learn that today in the hospital. You don't learn that in the midst of a trial like this. No, you learn that when you're all the way back here and you're working on the car and and they give you the wrong part And you're so frustrated. You learn that during the little trials, those things that you walk with God through those things, you feel like, well, I don't really need God in this. But that's where you learn to trust God. In the little battles, so that when the big battle comes, you can go into it with faithfulness, with confidence, and trust God through it. Learn that your companion is always with you. He knew the promises of God. In Psalms 91, 10 and 11, David said, There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any flag come nigh thy dwelling, for he shall give his angels charge over thee. He says, hey, God has promised to there's angels watching over you, there's people. God is with you. You have a companion, and he is present, he is a help in time of need. And you ought to have confidence in that. In the midst of how to trust through a trial, learn in the little tests, in the little trials, to trust God, and you'll be ready in the big ones. Beloved, nobody said that you wouldn't have trouble. Psalms 27, verse number 5 there starts. What's the first sentence there? For in the You got your Bibles open? Or in the what does it say? Time of trouble. He says, for in the time of trouble. He says here in Psalms 27, verse number 5, for in the time of trouble. He shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock. He says, hey, you're going to have trouble, but in the time of trouble, do you have that confidence? Do you have that confidence because you've fought a lion and a bear, you've fought the giant, you've gone through other trials and other tests, and you've seen God's faithfulness in the small things and you can experience and know God's faithfulness in the big ones Chadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo went before the king In Daniel 3. 20 he says, and he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. What I'm saying, beloved, is you're going to have some trouble. Nobody said you were going to be able to avoid the fiery furnace. That's one of the problems with a lot of the prosperity gospel. It it takes the mindset or the attitude of Job's three friends Who said, if you're having trouble, you must be in sin. There must be something you're doing, because if you're doing right, you're going to be richly blessed. That's not true. There's so much scripture that's contrary to that. David said, hey, in the time of trouble Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo didn't know exactly what God was planning. You see, understand, they ended up in the fiery furnace because they followed the road of obedience They all they did was be obedient to God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not bow down to any graven image. And they said, Okay, we know what God said. We're going to be obedient to God. And it put them in the fiery furnace. You say, man, that's not fair. I did what God wanted. Why do I have to go through this? You say they trusted God. Even in the trial. Nobody said you're going to avoid the furnace. Maybe you're going through a fire of physical affliction of some kind. There's several in our church right now, Connor being one of them, who are going through the fire of bereavement, of loss, of a broken heart in grief over somebody you loved and cared for deeply. Many of you, many are oftentimes going through fire of relational challenges or troubles with people you love and care about and just trying to balance those relationships and keep those things right. Maybe you're going through a fire of financial hardship or tragedy or trouble. Nobody said you could avoid them, but how can you trust God through it? David said, What time I am afraid, I trust in thee. You see, beloved We need to lean on our companion. God has promised to always be with you. You may have to be in the fire, but God has promised to be in there with you. Just like with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they got cast into the fiery furnace that had been in. Heated up seven times hotter, and the guys that threw him in died at the door because the heat was so intense. And yet the king looks into that burning flame, hoping to see the dead bodies of those that would not bow. And what does he see? He says, Did not we cast three into the furnace? And yet I see the likeness of four men, and the the fourth is that like unto the Son of God. God was with them in the fiery furnace. That's the promise we have from God. God didn't say you could avoid the furnace, but he did say that while you're there, he'll be with you. When we learn to lean on the companion that is there. Proverbs 1:33 says, But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely. And shall be quiet from fear of evil. You see, God has promised to be with us in the fire. So we lean on our companion. Thirdly, we need to learn how to comply. We see in Psalms 27 verse number 8. We see the compliant heart of David. David had learned some hard lessons. You see, David wrote this psalm when he was on the run from Saul, and close to the time period when he had just saved Saul's life, or spared Saul's life. He could have taken it, but he said, you know what, I'm I'm not going to do that. Why? Because I'm not supposed to touch God's anointed. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to go against God, even though I I my flesh would want to. You see, David had learned some hard lessons. See what he says here in 27-8. He says, When thou saidest, seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. That's some pretty direct obedience. That's some pretty direct compliance. He said, God, when you said seek me, I said, okay, I'm going to seek you. I wonder how often our compliance is that quick. You see, when we are compliant like that, we can have confidence and know That God is leading. That we're doing what God wants. The three Hebrew children went into the fiery furnace with confidence. They knew they were being obedient to God. They knew God had the power to save them. They knew whatever happens, God's will is going to be done. And they were submitted to that. Why? Because they knew they were following God. They were being compliant to what God had said. David had figured out the best policy is just to be obedient, to just submit to God. See, he didn't evaluate God's command. How many of you realize when we start evaluating God's commands, we end up with some some other solutions? We start figuring out a better way. Oh, this would probably work better, or that would work better, or we we find a way around it. He didn't evaluate God's command, he didn't question God's command, he just did it. He was just obedient. He was just compliant. This will give you stability in your life You know, an unstable uh man, I'm sorry, double-minded man, is unstable in all his ways. Sometimes the instability that we see in in our lives or in people we love and care about is because they're not settled. They're not following one person. They're Following two or three or whatever. They need to be following God, and that will give you stability in your life. David's compliance was rooted in his love for God. In Psalms 27, verse number 4, look what he says there. He says, One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, to inquire in his temple. He said, man, there's one thing that I desire of God. To be in his presence. To be where he is. I've heard a lot of prayer requests in my life. I don't recall that ever being one of them. Boy, would you just pray that I could know God? Just pray that I would be content in God's presence. That I could be a better Student of Christ. I mean, I know that's our desire, but here's what I'm saying a lot of times. I mean, if I ask these young people here, uh, you know, if you could ask God for anything. What color would it be? How big of an engine would it have in it? What would you ask God for? What would be your your number one request? He said, Lord, the one thing I desire of thee If you were going to ask God for one thing and that's all you could do, he says, boy, one thing I want is to know you, Lord. His love for God is what motivated his compliance to God. From the very beginning, beloved, David was a man after God's own heart. You know, he didn't always get it right. We know that. But the direction, the desire of David's heart from the beginning, God saw it. He said, here's a man that wants to know me. He longed to be with God. Psalms 42 and verse number 1, he says, As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. I want to know you, Lord. Now David learned a bitter lesson about how sin separates us from his God, from our God. And he knew that he needed to get back to restore into him the joy of his salvation. Learn to comply, and that compliance is going to be rooted in our love for God. Lastly, tonight, you get to enjoy, or I'll say love, the conclusion Look down at verse number 14. Psalms 27, verse number 14. He says, wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thy heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. How to trust God through the trials there's going to come, David said, if you could learn to wait on God, you could get to enjoy the victory. You'll get to the end and you'll say, wow, look at how good God was. Wow, look at how God brought me through that. He delivered a lion. He delivered a bear. He gave me victory over this giant. He allowed me to get through this heartache. He carried me through this financial trouble. He guided my family through that tumultuous time. He gave me wisdom in the rearing of my children. He helped me to learn how to love uh church members. He gave me the ability to be the witness that I could be. Wow, look at how good God is If we could just learn to wait on God. Isaiah 40, 31, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Learn to wait on God. The flesh doesn't like to wait. The flesh wants what it wants right now. We want it right now. The boys and I working on that carpet in the foyer was an arduous task. And my boys were like, this is ridiculous. This is taking so much work. This is taking a lot longer than we thought it was going to be. Oh, why is this so difficult? Why is it so hard? I said, that's just life, boys. It's just the way it is. Part of it. It's part for the question that's the way things go. Take one step forward, two steps back. You just have to keep plugging along. It's done now. It's done. It's all in there, right? It's all finished. Didn't know if we were going to make it. But uh I mean you just have to keep plugging away. Be patient. The flesh wants what it wants right now. We wanted it done on Monday, you know And we finished it up last night. I don't know, eight or nine o'clock last night. Uh but we uh just got to keep going David learned this lesson, and he's encouraging or telling us to learn it. You know we could learn it from David. Or we could learn it ourselves. It would be far better to learn it from David than to go through the school of hard knocks and have to learn it ourselves. Psalms 25, 5 says, Lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all the day. Just learning to wait on God, learning to see the victory. We don't know when it's going to come. We have to trust God through the trial. We're in the midst of the trial, and we want to see deliverance today. We want to see an answer now. We want the pain to end now. I was telling Greg and Marjorie, I said, you know, the doctors told me six to eight weeks. I was counting them down. Six weeks I'm like I should be better. I heal faster than the average man. Because I'm, you know, just strong like that, right? Six weeks? Nope. Eight weeks? Nope. I mean I got to eight weeks and I was telling them I was still in pain all the time. All the time. And I don't know how many weeks it was. It was months that I was still in pain all the time. Now I wasn't taking medicine for it. It was bearable, but I just said, you know, it was, I just was living with it until one day I wasn't. Tell one day I realized, wait, I don't I don't have any pain today. I mean that's the surprise. Like you just get used to it being there all the time And finally it did heal, but in my mind it was like eight weeks and we're done. You know, I was trying to help prepare Greg, because he's a little bit, you know, he's like, let's go. He's like, we're gonna stand up tomorrow, you know. He's excited about it. But we gotta be patient. We gotta wait. Trust on God in the middle of the trial to get us through. Sometimes it may be a day or two, maybe six or eight weeks We don't know when deliverance is going to come, but we need to learn to wait. If we're going to love the conclusion, if we're going to get to the end and be able to rejoice in what God did, we've got to continue to trust all the way through. Psalm 62, verse number 5, My soul wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. We see here in our psalm that there's two other things in this last verse here. He says, be of good courage. You know, you can have courage while you're waiting. Because you have him, a friend, that's closer than a brother, because you have the confidence of that relationship, the foundation of living by conviction and knowing that you're doing what God wants you to do. You can have courage because you know your strength is from him. You know, sometimes we think of courage as acting. It's courage to act, to go, to do something. That's courage to step out and go. But he's saying, be of courage, wait. Maybe sometimes that's the better part of valor valor. Maybe sometimes that's the that is where the greater courage is exercised. Instead of trying to make it happen ourselves, We say, okay, God, I'm going to wait. I'm going to wait on you. The three Hebrew children followed Christ right into the furnace. But you know what? They also followed him out. God brought him out of the furnace. And that's What we get to experience the conclusion of the matter is when God brings that trial or that test to an end. We see those three Hebrew children, they were preserved. Daniel chapter 3, verse number 27 said, The princes, the governors, and the captains, and the king's counselors being gathered together, saw these men upon whom's bodies the fire had no power Nor was the hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them. I mean that's pretty amazing. You know how strong smoke stinks? The smell of smoke. I mean you uh sometimes in the wintertime when we're you know we burn wood to heat the house. And I'll come in the house from being at the church all day and I'll be like, who smoked up the house? Like who you guys have been running fires long enough. You should know how to do this without getting smoke in the house. Like it And and they don't even smell it 'cause they've been in there all day, you know, but somebody allowed it to backdraft and get a bunch of smoke in the house and it wasn't that bad, but when I come in out of fresh air, coming into the house, you're like, Man, somebody got smoke in the house. It stinks, but their clothes didn't even smell like smoke. God preserves them. God will preserve you through the trial. If you'll learn to wait on him, if you'll learn to trust him. Not only were they preserved, but God was praised. Verse number 28, then Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Who has sent his angel and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word and yielded their bodies that they might not serve nor worship any God except their own God. You see, God was praised. When you and I trust God through the trial, when we follow him and we wait on him and allow him to bring a conclusion in his way, we're not praised. God's praised. They see the hand of deliverance from an almighty God, and God is praised. And we see, lastly, that they were promoted They were promoted. In verse number 30, he says, Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon. God delivered them. God promoted them You see, we can trust God. If we're going to get to that place all the way at the end where we get to see Us preserved, God praised, and by God's leading and direction, his promotion It starts all the way back at the beginning where we trust him through the trial, where we learn to live by conviction. Where we learn to lean on our companion, Jesus Christ. I hope tonight for those who either maybe currently are, if you're not right now, we know that you will be going through a trial. And how are you going to trust through it? See some admonitions from David here. Would you stand to your feet with me? I'm gonna ask the pianists to come.