Numbers chapter 11 tonight, Numbers chapter number 11, verse number 26 through verse number 30 is the text for our message. I'm going to preach a message tonight entitled How to Stand Out in the Crowd. How to stand out in the crowd. Have you ever wanted to stand out? Have you ever just wanted to get noticed? I know sometimes we are the opposite. We say, oh, I want to kind of hide in the back of the crowd. I don't want anybody to see me, you know, but in today's world people want to get noticed. People want to get seen. I mean, they've got all kinds of crazy antics that they do today to to try and be noticed, to stand out in the crowd. They do different things with with their f with fashion. You know, you'll see people they'll wear just crazy hats or or just ludicrous shirts or or you know, just something just goofy is all get out, just to stand out in the crowd, like a like a red sneaker and a, you know, white sneaker I mean just for no other reason than because they want to stand out in the crowd. They'll do some crazy things. When I was a teenager, uh we had one young person that a lot of other young people kind of look to and uh this young person thought it would be cool and I don't know. They were a little bit more worldly and maybe this was a fashion in the world and I just didn't know it. But when I was a teenager, this young person began wearing their sweatshirts inside out Just wearing all their sweatshirts inside out, and that was the thing. And I mean everybody thought that was cool. And so we're all wearing our sweatshirts inside out What's amazing is, you know, one trend setter, somebody that just wants to be different, will do something like that. And then everybody else thinks they're being different and they do the same thing that everybody else is doing and pretty soon everybody's doing it You know, but the desire to stand out in the crowd, I'll tell you what the crazy things people do to especially like on YouTube and stuff like that where people are trying to get their video noticed, you know, all just to get noticed. I mean no other reason at all that but to They actually participate in petty crimes sometimes to get noticed. Like oh I'm gonna break into my friend's house or whatever. Uh they do things like that, the different types of anti You all have seen people that maybe they have to create a scene everywhere they go. You know, they aren't really that mad, but they just like the scene that it creates, you know, and somebody pushed them or somebody got in their space or or whatever. It's all about drawing attention to themselves. We're in an attention hungry society today, I know that. Uh people will even go as far as hurting themselves to get attention. We look at that and we think, man, that's crazy. I mean, why would people do this? And what is the drive to to try and stand out in a crowd like that? But It's along another vein, it's a little bit different, but you know that we as Christians we're actually are supposed to stand out. We're supposed to stand out in the crowd, we're told in Matthew chapter 5. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick. And giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. We're supposed to stand out. As Christians, we're supposed to stand out. In our text this evening, look at Numbers chapter 11, verse number 26 through 30. We're going to use the Bible character that's mentioned in this text by the name of Joshua to talk about how to stand out in the crowd. He says here, but there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other was Medad, Medad and Eldad. And the Spirit rested upon them. And there were of them that were written. But went not out into the tabernacle. And they prophesied in the camp. And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Bedad do prophesy in the camp. And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men, answered and said, My Lord Moses, forbid them. He came and he said, Moses, tell them not to do that. Forbid them to do that. And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets? And that the Lord would put his spirit upon them. And Moses got him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel. You see, in verse number 28, we see Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men. Now, at some point Joshua went from being one of his young men to being Joshua. To standing out in the crowd. Now, in today's world, it doesn't take a whole lot to stand out. We are to be the light of the world What is happening here in our text, Eldad and Medad, these were two men that were part of the 70 men that were called upon to help Moses. You remember the story of Moses, how Moses got to the place where he said it's too much. Lord, I need some help. I can't do this And so they called seventy men from among the people. There were men that were full of the Holy Spirit, from men that had power, that knew God, that were respected. They called these seventy men. The Bible tells us that God took the Spirit from Moses and put it on these men. Now these men had the Spirit of God on their life. And with the power of God, they were standing out in the crowd. They were the ones prophesying You see, until now Moses was the one that prophesied. Until now, Moses was the one that would stand before the camp in the power of God and give words from God. He was the one that parted the waters. He was the one that brought water from the rock, all with God's power, but I'm saying he was the one that was used. And now God's power was on these other men. And people were seeing how they were standing out. I want you to understand this is not about doing something so that we can get attention. What it is, it's about doing right. And the attention will come. Doing what we know we're supposed to do. And the attention will come. You get God's power on your life You do right. Do what God wants you to do, and you will stand out in the crowd. You begin to let the fruit of the Spirit show forth. And you will stand out. When we talk about different people in the Bible, uh how many of you If I asked you tonight, tell me somebody in the Bible that from your viewpoint stands out in the crowd. They might be in the mix of a crowd of men or they might be somebody or group of a crowd of men, but somebody that stands out. Go ahead and tell me somebody that stands out in your mind. David. David stood out. He was a young man, but he had a lot he had a bunch of brothers, didn't he? But he stood out above and beyond his brothers. We could take time and look about why he did that. What's another somebody else that stood out, Caleb? Stephen stood out. Do you know why? Stephen stood out? You know he was only one of seven disciples. Hmm? Deacons, I'm sorry, deacons. You know what I meant. Deacons. And he was only one of the seven deacons. But why does Stephen stand out above I'm sure the other men, the other deacons, were good men. They were godly men, but I think there was something there that caused Stephen to stand out above and beyond. How about somebody else in the Bible? Brother John? Paul. Paul. Paul stood out amongst the men of the day. What about somebody else? Joseph. Joseph stood out amongst his brothers that he was brought up with. He stole yours. Yeah, we could go through the Bible and you you know we talk about different men and they they really they just stood out above and beyond the others. You think about Peter as one of the disciples. Hey, all the disciples were godly men. But Peter kind of steps to the forefront. He was the one God used to preach. And 3,000 were saved on the day of Pentecost. You think about a lady by the name of Mary. Who stood up and above and beyond the women of her day, and God chose her to bring the Christ's child into the world. There's been through the ages people that have stood up. And you know, when you stand up, you stand out. As Christians, we're going to have to stand up And when we do, we'll stand out. You know, it doesn't take much light in a dark place to be very bright. We are living today in a very dark world. So the truth of the matter is, is a very weak Christian can actually have a lot of light In the dark world that we live in. You see, if we turned all the lights off in here and it was dark outside, Just the smallest little pin light. Some of you have those little pin lights on your on your keychain, maybe. Just a little, just a little dot. But my that he's got one right there. That that's how When all the lights are off and it's dark? That makes a lot of light, doesn't it? And that's the world we live in today. You are going to stand out when you stand up at all. Standing out is not saying, hey, hey, hey, look at me yelling and doing some kind of crazy antic. Standing out is just doing right. Standing up for right. And you'll stand out. But what I'm not necessarily dealing with tonight is as Christians Standing out in a dark world. Because, as I said, a very weak Christian could shine bright because the world is in such bad shape. The world is so dark. The people that we talked about in the scripture here in Joshua that we're going to be looking at as an example this evening, he stood out among others. Christians. He stood out as a light when the lights were on. It was bright enough that he was noticed. And people acknowledged and recognized him excelling above the others as one of Moses' men to becoming Joshua, the leader of the children of Israel Because he stood out. We need some Christians today that have a desire to stand out Not just to stand out in this dark world in which we live in, but to actually stand out in and amongst the church house. Not to just be content here in church and find our little seat where we're comfortable and our little niche where we fit in and our space and do our thing. But they say, you know what? I desire to do all that I can for God and as a as a afterthought and as a natural byproduct of searching after God and doing what God wants us to do. You will naturally rise to the top. You will naturally excel above the others. Young people, kids You here, we need some young people, some some boys and some girls who say, I don't want to just be like everybody else. I don't want to be Just okay. I want to be above and beyond. I want to do more for God. I want to have a desire to please God beyond just what's ex accepted at church and what's okay and I've learned the rules and I know what I can get away with and what I can't get away with and I know if I fit in here I'll be alright. We need some young people to say I want to go beyond that I desire more than that. I want to know God and I want to please God, Him first of all, and you will stand out, even in church. You'll stand out in the youth group. Everybody else is just getting by and for some reason you're excelling. You're moving to the front of the class You're getting A's when others are getting C's and B's and they're content with it. We need some Christians who desire to stand out Are you just one of the teenagers of Hunt Valley Baptist Church? Or are you Stepping above. Not as a matter of pride and a desire to be recognized, not jumping up and saying, look at me, I'm super Christian, but as a desire of pleasing and honoring God. The byproduct is that you rise to the top. That's what will happen. That's what will happen. I want to give you three things that we see about Joshua, why he rose to the top. I hope God would motivate us as Christians from the youngest person in here to the oldest adult in here. To desire these things to be part of our life, that we would not just be one of the church members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But that God would take us and use us in a greater way. Turn to Exodus chapter number 33 Exodus chapter 30, number 33. Obviously the story of Joshua is kind of interwoven through these pages and We're going to look at a few different spots to pick some things from his life that I believe made him stand out. In Exodus chapter 3, 33, in verse number 7, through verse number 11, he says, And Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it without the camp. And it came to pass that every one which sought the Lord Now notice that here. Everyone that sought God. Not everyone that was in the camp, but everyone that sought the Lord went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was without the camp. And it came to pass when Moses went out unto the tabernacle that all the people rose up And stood every man at his tent door and looked after Moses until he was gone into the tabernacle. And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloud pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses And all the people saw the cloud, cloudy pillar stand at the door, the tabernacle door. And all the people rose up and worshipped every man at his tent door. And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp. But his servant, Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle You see, this young man was there and got to see God meet with Moses. Moses finished talking with God as a friend, just as a close friend there in the presence of God. But then Moses, concluding his time with God, went back to the camp. But what did Joshua do? He remained in the tabernacle. You see, Joshua sought after God. He sought after God. He wasn't content just to be like all of the other Christians, like all of the other church members, or all of the other young people. God is the one that handpicked Joshua when it came time to lead the children of Israel. Out of all the people of the children of Israel and all the young men that were working with and helping Moses and serving with Moses. Joshua is the one that got picked by God Almighty to do that. Why? Because he was someone that sought after God. He wanted to know God before he ever led the people. He longed for God. To be with God, to have a relationship with God, to know God personally. You have to want it. You have to desire it. You have to want to see prayers answered. You have to want to understand the truths of his word. You have to want to see him lead you in your life and to bless you day by day. Not to stand out, but to know him. And when you know him, you will stand out. You see, young people, you gotta desire. You gotta want it. To know God personally. So many of our young people, they are going through the motions of being a Christian, Because they know what's expected. They may even be reading their chapters But can I ask you, is God speaking to you? Is God talking to you? Are you getting things from the Word of God? Is it something beyond just a duty and beyond just reading some verses on a page? What I'm saying is God will to you. Is God something where God is building a relationship with you? You've got to have that. And I'm talking to the young people, but I hope every adult in here is listening as well. Because so many young people get up to the age where they get to determine their own life and they go away from God. Why? Because they've gone through the motions But they've never sought after God. They never reached a point where they wanted to know God personally, and you hear stories about God leading people and you hear stories about God blessing people. God's speaking to people in their word, and you sit down for two minutes and you read three verses and you say, Well, God didn't open the windows of heaven, and God didn't shine the kind of glory on the pages of Scripture, and so it must not be real. Hey, I was a kid and I grew up in a Christian home. I know what it's like. You get up out of bed and You look at the pages and you're trying to read those. You know, Jacob said, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. He got so hungry for God, he said, I'm not going to let you go. He fought and he wrestled to know God. We can't even stay awake. How bad do we want to know him? To seek after God I'm talking about how do we rise above the average? How do we stand out in the crowd? In the crowd when the lights are on, in the crowd in the church house, is we seek after God Desiring to know him personally In Exodus thirty-four, twenty-nine, Moses is coming down from Mount Sinai. And uh he had just received the tablets, the testimony he had in his hand when he came down from the mount Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. You know, sometimes when you spend time with God, you think, I didn't really get a lot out of that. And you might come down and you might go about your day not thinking that it's made any difference. But I want you to know that other people, when they look at you can see there's somebody that's been with God. Moses didn't even realize the difference that had taken place in his heart. Or on his face, his countenance, it was visible. They could see that he had been with God. And when you consistently, day after day, take a little bit of time and read Read the Word of God and let Him mold you and shape you. Some days you don't get anything at all. You read the pages and you might even feel like that was a waste, but I want you to understand That what's happening is God is shaping you and you're building a relationship with Him. And when other people see you, they're gonna say there's somebody that's been with God. There's a young man and there's a young lady that's rising above the average I've had from the very young in this room to the very old in this room come to me and talk to me about how do you know when God is speaking to you How do you know when God's leading you? How do you know when you're having your devotions if if if it's if God is really real? You've got to be faithful at it. You've got to work at it. You've got to seek after him and let him speak to you. You. It takes time. It's not something that we're going to get because we tried it one morning. I'm going to get up tomorrow early before the sun comes up, and I'm going to spend time with Jesus. Amen. Then you gotta do it the next day. And the next day. And the next day. You know who's going to stand out in the crowd? The one who says, I want it. I want it. I want God to be real to me. God's real, young people. This book is true. I grew up in a Christian home and I went to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Wednesday night, every night of my life, every week of my life. Every revival service. I knew how to walk the walk and talk the talk. I taught junior church as an early teen, and I ran the bus route as an early teen. Went out knocking doors and leading people to Jesus Christ. But when I went to college, I pulled my car up on the edge of the Fairhaven's campus. I shut my car off. I looked up into heaven and I said, God, if you're real, are you hearing me? I said, God, if you're real, I'll give you one year to show yourself real to me. I'll give you 110%. I'll give you all that I've got for this year. If God, if you don't do something real and true and powerful in my life in this year, I'm going to go live my life how I want to live it. Young people, you gotta get to the place where you say, God, I want to know you. I want you to be real to me. And you don't have to wait till you go to college. You don't have to wait until you reach a certain age. You can start as a very young person in here, the young from the youngest in here God can speak to you and lead you. How bad do you want it? You gotta desire it. The one who's going to stand out in the crowd is the one that wants it, not because they're supposed to, not because that's what it's expected, not because they're reading through a devotional book, but because they want God to be real to them. They're seeking after God. What you see secondly, turn to Exodus chapter twenty-four. Exodus chapter number twenty-four. Back a few pages. In Exodus chapter twenty-four, verse number thirteen, fourteen and fifteen we'll read to the A principle here. And Moses rose up and his minister Joshua, and Moses went up into the mountain of God. And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us until we come again unto the unto you. And behold Aaron and her are with you. If any man have any matters to do, let him come unto them. And Moses went up into the mountain, and a cloud covered the mountain. What you see here is that Moses said, Tarry ye here for us. Joshua Stayed around good people. Joshua stayed around good people. He wanted to be with Moses He wanted to be in Moses' presence. Aaron and Her were down there in the camp and they see he said, hey, if you need anything, talk to Aaron and Her because they're here. Tarry ye here and wait for us. Now we know that Joshua was unable to go all the way to the top of the mountain with him, that he tarried back a little ways, but as long as he could, he desired to be in the presence of Moses. He wanted to be there. He wanted to be around him. To be taught by him, to be trained by him. He stayed with good people. He was not out there with Korah. Talking about Moses, taking too much upon himself, complaining about what was going on. He was stuck by Moses' side. We need to watch and be careful who we let influence us. Joshua Rose above the crowd because he sought after God, because he also because he stayed by Moses' side. Because he stayed with good people. Because you are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. Because your friends influence you. You need to have a desire to get around and be around godly people that are going to influence you the right direction. You need to listen to the right kind of preaching. Not just anything that's out there. There's all kinds of stuff out there. But you need to listen to the right kind of preaching that challenges you spiritually and motivates you in your Christian life. You used to stay around and spend time with godly people, even the staff of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm not tootin' their horn. What I'm saying is you could do a lot worse Get around somebody that's going to help you do right, that's going to motivate you to follow after God It's going to make you uncomfortable when you decide to stop at that place or to bring that into your home or to do that that you know you're not supposed to do that they're gonna ask you about your devotions that you read this week and You're gonna have to say, Oh, I haven't read this week. Man, I don't want to be around that. That's what you need. If you're going to rise above, then you need to be around good people. There's people even in the church that aren't good for you. I remember as a young man, there was a friend that I had by the name of Brian Kufus. And anytime Brian and I got together, we got in trouble. It really didn't matter what, I mean, if Brian and I were together, there was trouble. We did so many things. I could tell you story after story about the beatings I got because I was with Brian. So finally my dad went to the Kupas family and said, hey. I'm sure Brian's a good kid. I'm sure Caleb's a good kid. We want them both to turn out for the Lord. So I think for both their sakes, we need to separate them They are not good for each other. Every time they get together, they get into I mean we just encourage each other down the wrong road Thing is you could have some friends like that in this church. As adults. People that you get together and you know their spirit's not right. You know their attitude is not correct You know that they're not encouraging and challenging and strengthening you, but they're pulling you away, discouraging you Costing you. You've got to be careful who you allow to influence you. You need to stay around good people. The real problem is not just that we've got some people in the church maybe that are a bad influence on you. But the fact is, is most of us allow the world to influence us. We allow the world to influence us. We need to be around good men of God. The Bible tells us that we're supposed to be simple concerning the world. Why is it cool? If your pastor knows the latest hip hop artist, why is that cool? Why is that awesome? That your pastor's like on the edge. No, your pastor's not. But I'm just saying in the majority of what you would call Emerging churches today or or churches that are drawing people or seeker-sensitive type churches or these atmospheres that people seem to enjoy, there is this this uh magnetism to a man who is upbeat with the times and he uses all the modern lingo and and uses the street language in the pulpit and He knows who the hip hop artists are and what the latest show is on HBO or on TV and who did what to who and what happened in this program and his messages might start out with some story about something that happened on TV this week. Why is that what people long for? Why don't we long to know God? We're supposed to be simple concerning the world. You ought to be glad that your pastor's ignorant of a lot of that stuff. I mean you ought to be glad that these young people are ignorant of a lot of that stuff. They should never feel ashamed or bad about not knowing stuff about the world. They don't need to know about that junk. The devil's gonna force it down their throats soon enough. Let's keep them innocent and here and ignorant of that stuff as long as we can. Why bring it into the church house and discuss it? We shouldn't be letting the world influence us. You are being influenced by the world when you let that into your life. You've got to put up a wall, a barrier, something and say, I've got to be around the right kind of people because I want to step up All the young people in here, you play different kinds of video games? The video games influence you The music that's on there, the different dress that's on there, the activities that are partaking part of These things influence you. And I enjoy a game as much as the next guy. But you need to have some common sense and some wisdom and say, you know what, this is not good for me. And your parents could come in and step in and say, I don't want you to do that anymore. But why don't you step up and say, hey, God's not pleased with that. I'm gonna make a change. That's where you'll rise above. That's where you stop just being in the status quo and only what's required. When you say in your heart, God, what do you want? And God says, I don't like that. And you say, Okay, then I'll quit it. That's how you see God real in your life. Because He's moved you personally to make a decision, to let go of something that you like, that you want, that you desire. He stayed with godly people. We are impacted by who we are around. Paul was possible because of Barnabas. Timothy came on the scene because of Paul. David because of his father Elisha because of Elijah and Joshua because of Moses. You are influenced by who you hang around. You want to rise to the top and start hanging around people that are going that direction. Instead of the people that are just on the fringe and barely getting by. You attract what you are. Here this is the problem. This is the conflict. You see you attract what you are and you want to be around people that are like you. Where you are spiritually and what you like and don't like. So Timothy, come here. You see what happens is Stephen come here. Well, this is not very good because we have an age difference here. Come over on this side, Stephen. Tim, you stay there. What happens is let's say Timothy desires to please the Lord. And he's trying to have his devotions. And let's say Stephen is a jokester. And everything's funny. And he has no interest in God. These people don't want to spend time together, do they? They'll get together maybe a day or something and they'll say I just don't like hanging out with Timothy. Or oh you no, I don't I just don't like hanging out with him. Why? Because they're different. See, water finds its own level and people find their own kind. But we need to have more wisdom than that. Don't just find your own kind. Eat your vegetables. You can go sit down. What I'm saying is you know vegetables are good for you. You might not really like them, but you know they're good for you. So you eat your vegetables. And then as you grow a little bit and you get a little more mature, you say, you know what, those vegetables are pretty good. I like those. I could have some of those and you start to enjoy it. But with you with a little bit of wisdom, you say, Hey, I know that person is not good for me. I'm not going to spend time with them. I know this person is. Although I'm uncomfortable, I'm not sure how to talk to them. I don't have a lot in common with them because we're going different directions, but I know that's the way I need to go, so I need to be with them i. e. somebody godly in the church that pushes you the right direction. You need to be with them. But it's uncomfortable because you know your own heart. You don't have a lot in common with them. Maybe you've been spending a lot of time in the world, and the only things you know to talk about are what's going on on TV. But if you start spending time with them, you'll start talking about the Word of God. There'll be a change. You choose to make that change. You eat your vegetables Wisdom says, I need this, so I'm gonna do it. You need to start choosing what you need. Joshua sought after God, and Joshua put himself around godly people. Sometimes, parents, we might have to limit who our friends are Adults, we need to remember that iron sharpeneth iron. And we need to get around godly people that will sharpen us. Now, I've always tried to make myself available. To anyone that would want to spend time with me. It's kind of a principle that I live by. I figure if somebody wants to be with me, I'm going to take the opportunity to influence. them. If they want to spend time with me, I'm going to try and spend time with them so that I can influence them. Now I can't make you spend time with me. I can't make you want to be with me. I've invited some well most everybody here at some point or another to my home. There's some people that I have invited several times. And for one reason or another, they can never make it. I mean I can't make them want to be with me. But if there's somebody else that wants to be there, Then I want to try and invest in their life. One of the reasons I believe that Pastor Derek is here as our youth pastor. and part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church today is because when he was an intern, he wanted to be with me. And I opened my home, my heart, my family. I said, if he wants to be with me, I'm going to take as much time with him as I can. And yeah, we worked a lot of hours together. But you know, we also just spent a lot of hours talking, sitting at the house, long after the kids went to bed. Many, many nights he sat with our family and had devotions The kids went to bed and he and I talked into the morning. Because he wanted to be there, and I figured if he wanted to be there, I'll take the time with him. Now, as a youth pastor, he understands what that investment was. He understands the time that it took. But what I'm saying is I'll take whatever time I can with somebody that wants to be with me. I can't make you want to, you have to make the decision. And I'm not lifting myself up. I'm certain there's other people in this church that are more godly than me that would be great examples for you. I'm just saying you have to choose who you want to be around. You got to get around some godly people that'll help you go the right direction. That's what Joshua did. You know that God gives wisdom to the wise? I mean we think the opposite. We think, man, here's a guy that's an idiot. God needs to give him some wisdom, right? But that's not what God does. God gives wisdom to the wise. And the Bible says he gives uh understanding to them that have knowledge. You use wisdom and God will give you more wisdom. Let me give you the last one. He also served others. Turn to Joshua chapter 1, verse 2 Joshua chapter 1, verse number 1. So he sought God, he stayed with godly people, and he served others. You actually will find this many places. We could have looked right there in Exodus, chapter 24, and seen this phrase as well. But he says in Joshua chapter 1, verse number 1, Now after the death of Moses. The servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' minister. After Moses had passed away, Moses wasn't even on the scene anymore. God acknowledges and recognizes Joshua as Moses' minister Now to minister, according to Strong's, is to attend, to serve, to wait on. To attend, to serve, to wait on. He served others. The more you serve, the more you'll stand out. The more you serve, the more you'll stand out. I know We've got a pretty active church, a pretty busy church. I think it's funny, I'll never forget the illustration of the story Brother Glover told when he came and they went home from church on the first Sunday and he said, if we go to that church, that's a serious church. I mean, that's no fooling right there. And I I don't know that that's what his exact words, but I mean basically he's saying that's a working church And I know that. But I want you to see that you want to rise above. You see, in today's world, you already rise to the top. If you just come to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night tonight. You're already kind of rising to the top. And all you're doing is showing up for church. But I'll tell you what, if you actually came out to a work party Whoa, you are stepping. I mean you you are are you're gonna rise above. I mean my goodness look at wow and if you came out soul winning, if you were here for Saturday bus or for Tuesday night visitation, you're a fanatic You've completely lost your marbles. But you rise up the more you purpose in your heart to serve God. I know we have an event like Roundup Sunday and we close out the event and it was a big day and we all had a great time and Everybody that's there jumps in to put everything away. Oh hey, let me help you put the tables away or whatever. That's great. But I mean really What kind of a bum would you have to be to not help after you've enjoyed all this and had a good time and and and partook of everything and and You were still here and were putting tables away, what kind of a bum would you have to be to say, oh, they're working, okay, see ya, and and leave. But what about the three days of preparation? That it took to get there. How many said, hey, I want to help get that done? See that's where we serve. Now I'm thrilled that my kids get to do it. My kids aren't thrilled about it. But my kids do a lot. All the staff kids do a lot. And as they were standing on the platform here this morning singing with the rest of the bus kids and all the other kids from the church. But the older group that's here is the staff kids for right now. And Marley. Who is stepping up, doing a good job. But what I'm saying is, who's going to take their place? Who's gonna do that three days of work before Roundup Sunday when they aren't here? At least he's going to college next year. I'm talking about a day like Roundup. These kids put in hundreds of hours. Hundreds of hours. That you can't imagine. You don't even see. Who's going to do it when they're gone Now I count it a privilege that I get to be a part of it and that my kids get to serve and do that. It's good for them, and God's going to bless them for it, and I don't begrudge it at all. I'm glad we get to do it, and I wouldn't have it any other way. It doesn't, I'm not complaining. It doesn't bother me at all. I'm just asking, do you have a heart to serve? And what's going to happen when God removes them from the picture? When he calls them away, when they go off to college? Who's going to set up for Roundup? Who's going to set up for Veterans Day? You say, Pastor, you're sure stepping on toes. Somebody told me recently you're not candidating anymore, so just let us have it I'm trying to help you. You want to rise above the top? Seek after God Let God be real to you. Let it be more than just motions and something that we're going through and just some pages that we're reading. Hey, next year the theme that we've got for next year is going to be right down this path, and I I want to tell you, but I'm not going to tell you right now. But I'll tell you this. Next year, our devotional book, our devotional thing next year is going to be one chapter. You say, man, Pastor, you're going easy. I want you to look at that one chapter and get something from God out of it. It's not about how much you read, it's did God speak to me? I want you to be able to take a little bit of extra time and look at that chapter and let God speak to you. Pastor Derek and Pastor Gus and myself have been writing a devotional. For every day to go with that chapter to try and help you. That's the direction we're heading next year. Seeking after God. Stay with those people that are sharpening you, that are encouraging you, that are challenging you to do more, not to do less. And then serve. Serve. Serve. When you have when you just, you know what? I love going to a new church because they do not expect me and my kids to get involved in serving, but it is so much much fun when they're like let's say they they close in prayer and they're like okay we're gonna move all this and myself and my wife and all my kids get up and say let's help I mean the people are just like, wow. I mean that's a lot of help with all of us. It's a lot of help. And they're so thrilled and it's so much fun to do that because they don't expect it. Next year for Capital Connection We're gonna go and we're gonna help set up and tear down the chairs for that auditorium. Because last year when we were closing up and leaving, the the church that hosted Everybody's leaving and the church to host it, they're all getting ready to load all the chairs and put all these things in trailers. And we of course didn't come prepared to do that, but I thought, you know what, next year we need to help. We need to help do this. Do you just do you have a heart to serve? Do you want to see God use you like that? You'll rise up top if you do.