We can turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse number 20, as our text verse tonight. Uh I hope that you don't mind doing a little bit of a Bible study this evening. uh getting into the word of God, looking at some uh well really quite a bit of scripture. Uh but we preached on Sunday on on meaningful or meaningless and dealt with the aspect or the idea of does your life have meaning? Is there any value in in living life? And of course the questions posed by Solomon there in Ecclesiastes and just is all this vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. And I've been pondering that throughout the week here. I am we're we're wrapping up this kind of how-to, a few how-tos that I've done through the summer here. And uh I've got this week and next Thursday night. Uh and then when I come back from the missions trip, we're going to jump into the book of Job and be going verse by verse. But here I've just been thinking about this idea of our life having meaning and the purpose of a Christian life and what is it And we see in 1 Corinthians 6 and verse number 20, he says, For ye have bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are his Therefore, glorify God and your body and your spirit, which are his. We know, beloved, that it is the call of every believer to glorify God. If you want to have meaning in your life, if you want your life to be something of value that lasts for eternity, glorify God. The damage that is caused to the cause of Christ by believers who fail to glorify God is really incalculable. It is not only our duty, but should be our delight to glorify God That great composer Bach said, all music should have no other end or aim than to glory, than to the glory of God. And a soul's refreshment. Where this is not remembered, there is no real music, but only devilish hubbub. Can you imagine what Bach would think of today's music, uh of what they call music today? He says if the goal of writing that song is not to the glory of God and the refreshment of the soul, that is the spiritualness of a man, it's just devilish hubbub. And he said it right, didn't he? We know, beloved, it is our command, yet still many Christians fail to glorify God in their lives. I think it's because they have failed to come to the realization that our body is not our own. Our body is not our own. If you back up one verse. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse number 19, he says, What know ye not, as your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and you are not your own. For the first time in my life, in all the years that I have been preaching, growing up in a Christian home, a pastor's home, This thought has never struck me until right now. Till literally yesterday. And throughout the day today as I studied and prepared for this, but beloved, not only do you and I not own this body, Which is how I have always looked at this text. You are not your own. Why? Because you have been bought with a price, right? We don't own this body. We belong to God. But beloved, not only that, we are not alone in this body. You are not your own. You are not alone. As a believer, at the moment of salvation The Holy Spirit of God comes and dwells inside you. You have the presence of God with you everywhere you go. We must, as he commends or uh states here in the previous verses, we must stop using our body. For wicked activity, because we have another member on board. Look at verse number 15. He says, know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? He says, shall I then take the members of Christ? And make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. That thought has never in my life, and maybe I'm just behind, but it's never struck me before in the context of this verse here that what know you not uh that your body is a temple of the Holy Ghost and you're not your own for you've been bought with price. I've always looked at it from this aspect of, well I've been bought God owns me, therefore I need to do what he wants me to do. But not only have I been bought, I'm not alone. The members of Jesus Christ are present with me. He's saying should You take those members and go use them in an immoral, uh, adulterous relationship to go into a harlot? God forbid. He says, no, you don't want to force the very Son of God, the presence of God to go through and be part of that kind of wickedness? Certainly you don't want to do that. And can I tell you, beloved, that regardless of what it is that God is a member with you, you are not your own Now you are carrying with you the presence of God in every activity that we're involved in. Therefore, it behooves us to glorify God in our body. Only when we realize this truth Do we come to the place that we begin to see how important it is for us to glorify God in all that we do? You see, we think that no one knows, we think that nobody saw. We think we've made it out in the clear Beloved, not only does God know, and we have talked about that before, but God was there and he was forced to participate in this wickedness. We like to justify or explain our actions, but no justification or explanation has ever made them okay. There's a lady that was a Christian and she knew it wasn't right, but she was working in a place as a waiter and as a waiter, of course she had to was asked to serve alcohol and She she didn't like it and she didn't, you know, she knew she really shouldn't do it, but she said, well, somebody's got to do it. That's not a justification. That's not an explanation, and that doesn't make it okay Somebody might do it. Nobody should, but certainly a Christian shouldn't. So this evening, my goal or desire is to answer the question that is of utmost importance for us. How do we glorify God? We know it's a command, therefore glorify God in your body. Well, how do we glorify God? What is it that we do? Is there some particular activity is there certain things that we should do. Well the Bible has a lot to say about it. I have found seven thus far. And we're gonna try and deal with three tonight. I want to talk to you about what the Bible says about how we glorify God. So turn your Bibles first of all to Joshua 7, verse number 19. Joshua chapter 7, you guys are familiar with that passage of scripture. If you've done your your uh what do they call it, chapter content quizzes and such, your chapter content. Joshua 7 is the story of Achan. Uh when he went and he stole of the accursed thing, he went directly against what God had told him to do. God comes to him, or through the prophets, through Joshua. He comes to him in Joshua chapter 7, verse number 19. He says, And Joshua said unto Achan, my son, my Give, I pray thee, glory to the Lord God. So here Joshua is saying, I want you to give glory to God. Notice how he says he's going to do this. He says, give thee glory to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession unto him. And tell me now what thou hast done. Hide it not from me. Beloved, the first is confession of sin. How do we glorify God? We confess our sin. The problem of man has always been sin. It is sin that separated us from God and left us dead in our trespasses and sin and through the shed blood of Jesus Christ we're restored in our relationship with him and praise the Lord for that. But do you know what after salvation our problem is still sin. That's the facts. My penalty has been paid for, but my problem with sin hasn't been solved. I praise the Lord that I know that I'm going to be in heaven and my sins are forgiven. But my problem with this old sin nature is still a problem for Caleb Batrau. I must confess and forsake the sin that plagues my life. You see, Aiken was caught, but he still had to confess. He thought, like so many Christians today, that he could just cover his sin. Hide it under his tent. And he could just cover it and pretend it wasn't there or pretend nobody saw it. He that covereth his sin shall not Prosper. We can't cover our sin. We must confront our sin. If we don't confront it, it will confront us. The Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out It may not be today, it might not be tomorrow, but it's very clear, the Bible is very clear, the day will come So we must confess our sin. To confess is to acknowledge our transgression. It's to admit that we did something wrong, to realize that we did transgress, that we did break the law. A man has a real hard time asking for forgiveness if he doesn't feel like he did anything wrong His wife might have a different opinion. But uh he has a hard time coming to the place where he's ready to say, Man, I'm sorry for for what I did when You know, people like that, how they like to phrase it. I'm sorry you feel like I did wrong. Right? Wait, that's not an apology. I'm sorry that you have a problem with this No, that's not an apology because they haven't realized that they've transgressed. They're not ready to admit it. And when we confess our sin to an Almighty God, we're We're admitting, we're acknowledging the fact that we transgressed his law and sinned against the holy God. It is the pattern of man to see the sin in others while ignoring the sin in their own life. We can talk about the drunkard or the adulterer. We can uh point the finger at others and the problems that are in their life. What about the rebellious teenager? The teen who is not in submission to desire and will of his mom or dad? Oh, it's easy to call out the homosexual. Oh yeah, that is wicked. Boy, they shouldn't be living like that. But what about the wife who refuses to live in submission? You say, oh well I really don't like that part of the Bible. Well, the homosexual doesn't like the part about homosexuality being an abomination. You see, we don't get to just check and choose what things that we decide we want to agree with. No, we've got to follow the word of God. What about forsaking the assembly of ourselves together? You see, a lot of us, we're we're we're we're I I mean I don't know. Maybe you're hiding it real well. I don't think there's any drunkards in here. I don't think there's anybody out, you know, tipping the bottle every night and can't get away from it. I d I don't think anybody here's dealing with that. So Really wouldn't do us any good to preach on that, but what about uh bad attitudes? You see, those are acceptable Baptist sins. Don't preach on those, oh amen, preach on homosexuality, Pastor, oh, oh preach on preach on uh this or that. You can nail these things to the wall, and yes, sir, that's right. But uh when we get down where we are, we don't like it as much. The Bible says uh that uh the man that says he has no sin. What does the Bible call him? Says the truth is not in him. Right? We all have sin, but we have what we call acceptable sins. The Bible talks about that. I don't know the reference off the top of my head, but it says blessings and cursings come out of the same mouth. These things ought not to be. So what about that? What about the tongue? What I'm talking about tonight, and I hope that we can get a hold of this because it could transform your life spiritually, is we're to glorify God in everything that we do. And it begins with us confessing our sin. Saying, God, search me and try me and see if there be any wicked way in me. And God, when God confronts it with us to us, we say, okay, Lord, and we confess it. What about neglecting your walk with God? To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. Things that we know we ought to be doing. What about your witnessing? Sharing the truth and telling others that are dying and on their way to hell about Jesus Christ. And we when was the last time we said God forgive me for sinning against you and that individual who I knew I was supposed to witness to and I failed to do so. You say, I've never done that. Well, amazing. You have never failed to give the gospel when you should have. No, you see, we've got acceptable sins. We've got things in our life we think that they're okay. But if we're going to live our life with the mindset of glorifying God in all we do, it begins with being in a right relationship with Him, and that's not possible without the confession of sin. When we excuse sin is to pretend as though we have not ever broken the law. When we confess our sin, we're acknowledging His holiness and how far we've come short from His glory. I will read it to you. We're going to look at a lot of scripture tonight. You don't have to turn there, but you may want to make note of it. Revelation 16, verses 8 and 9. We see in this text that confession of sin glorifies God. He says, and the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and the power was given unto him to scorch men with fire. And men were scorched with great heat and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues, and they repented not to give him glory. They wouldn't repent because to repent would have glorified him. Confession of sin glorifies God It acknowledges our transgression of the law. And beloved, when we confess, we get to experience his faithfulness And righteousness. As we know, if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's what confession is. So we see, first of all, how do we glorify God? We confess our sin. Secondly, We live by faith. Turn to Romans chapter four and verse number twenty. Romans chapter four and verse number twenty. When the believer lives by faith, believes and trusts God It gives God glory. And in Romans chapter 4, verse number 20, it says, He staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief. But was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Beloved, when we live our life by faith, we're giving glory to God. It doesn't have to be that hard for us to glorify God. Some of these things are very simple, straightforward, practical aspects of life, but when we doubt We are claiming, maybe even inadvertently, but we are claiming that God is insufficient. That God is not able. And so faith is the opposite of that. Doubt would be another acceptable sin for the believer. But doubt dishonors God. When we feel that we can't handle it, when we come to the place where we think, I'm not gonna make it. It's too much. I can't do this. What we're saying is, God is not able. God can't get me through. God is insufficient. But you know, beloved, it doesn't take a lot of faith to believe God when the doctor says, hey, this is a routine surgery, don't worry about it. I mean any surgery is important and and could be dangerous, but when the doctor says, uh, this is routine, we do this, uh I do four of these a day, you know, not a big deal, uh, you know We we still wanna but when the doctor looks at you and says, I need to call a specialist, this is beyond me. I need somebody that has some experience that that knows this. This is this is a real concern That's a different level of faith, isn't it? That's a different level of faith. Things just got real So faith is believing God, trusting God, even when it looks impossible. Faith is obedience. Just being obedient. Faith, beloved, is knowing the will of God on a matter and submitting to His will Doing what he wants you to do. Just saying, okay. And that brings glory to God. Submitting to his will, knowing it's what God would have you do, and submitting to his will and saying, Okay, this is what God wants, I'm going to do it. And that glorifies our Father. By the way, you do it even if it's going to cost you. You know the three Hebrew children that went into the fiery furnace Some weeks ago I preached something and mentioned the three Hebrew children said something about it. I don't recall what message it was, but I remember after the service I was talking to Nelma. And Nelma told me she heard many, many years ago a message that she would never forget, and she said the title of the message was But If Not, Faith. But if not faith. The kind of faith that trusts God to go into the fiery furnace, even if God is not going to deliver you. Oh, we all want to be delivered from the fiery furnace, and that's the faith we want. The faith that says, hey, God's going to deliver me from this, we're going to get out of this. But if not What about that faith? The faith is going to trust God to go into that furnace even if God's not going to get you out. That's the kind of faith. That glorifies God. Obedience, even if it's going to cost you. There are missionaries in China. Many, many years ago, but they were ordered by a British delegation to leave because the dangerous conflict in the region They had the the soldiers or the the British litigation had ordered carts to be brought to haul all the missionary stuff and to haul the missionaries away and they said it's too dangerous, you you cannot stay here. The missionaries said, okay, and they began to prepare, but through the day they they were convicted and said, well, we we really cannot Tell these people to trust God and get on a cart and go to safety So they told the British delegation, we're we're not leaving. They sent the carts back, and they stayed there. With their people on the mission field and said, we will trust God together because God is in control. In the preceding days, there was word came down that a military regiment, a group of people were coming into the town, a thousand strong. They thought, well, this is it. Here we are. We've got to trust God. The night before that group of people began to or would have approached the town, A thunderstorm struck that region so great it washed out the roads. So strong It caused disarray among the thousand-man group of people they they didn't even know where everybody else was. God delivered them. Those missionaries didn't know that God was going to send a rainstorm. They said we're just going to trust God. That kind of faith brings honor and glory to God. I can imagine the fruit that they saw in the coming days after that, because they had faith to trust God. If we would trust God even in the midst of a storm, what kind of fruit could we see? Beloved, one way in which we glorify God is just do what you're supposed to do. It doesn't have to be that. It doesn't have to be a great big thing. It doesn't have to be a magnificent light shining from heaven and the sun stands still or something. No. You can glorify God just by doing what you know you're supposed to do today. The things of life that are are mundane, you think, well, all I did today was take my kid to school and all I did was prepare some lunch and do the laundry and and and uh go to the grocery store. You you did the things that God has called for you to do right now that are on your plate and if you would faithfully execute those things for God, that glorifies God. I remember when I was in college in uh early 90s, Dr. Bob Jones I don't know which one because there's too many of them. He came and he preached, I think it was the third, but I'm not positive on that. He preached in the title of his message was Brush Your Teeth Christianity. The entire thing was tomorrow when you get up, what's relatively close to the first thing that you should do? You should brush your teeth. You ought to be brushing your teeth every day. And he says, here's the thing is a lot of Christianity is just doing what you know you're supposed to do right now You get up in the morning and you brush your teeth, you read your Bible, you go to class, you do what God has called you to do today, and therein we are able to glorify God It doesn't have to be a grand thing where you speak to a thousand people. Beloved, you you're serving in the in the prison ministry and you say, Well, uh I'm gonna go down there tonight and there's only Two people maybe gonna show up and and but you go because you you said you would and you serve and you get there and you got two people you get to minister to. God's glorified in that because you're doing what you're supposed to do today Man, what a thrill it ought to be to us as believers to just know that we can glorify God by just doing what we're supposed to do. Amen Whether therefore you eat or drink, whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Whatever it is. Faithfully execute what God has called you to do. Our faith is seen in our prayers I've told you before, just the expression of prayer is faith in action. By you pausing to stop and say, Lord, can you, will you, you are. Exercising faith. And God is glorified in that. In John chapter 14, verse number 13, he says, and whatsoever ye shall ask in my name That will I do. Do you know the rest of the verse? That the Father may be glorified in the Son. One of the reasons God loves to answer your prayers is because it glorifies the Father. It glorifies the Father. That's one of the reasons that prayers that we ask, that we ask that we may consume them upon our own lust are not answered. Because those prayers are not glorifying the Father. There was one mother of several young children sitting in the back of a very uh Ifalutin church. And it was the invitation time, and everybody bowed their heads and closed their eyes, and the pastor began to pray a very eloquent prayer. Right then in the middle of the prayer, her six-year-old son whistled really loud. And she stopped him as soon as the prayer was over. She says, What in the world are you doing? Why did you do that? And she says, I asked God to help me to whistle, and he did right then. He answered my prayer real right then, right then. So I'm not sure what she did with that as a mother, but hey, prayers glorify God It's an exercise of our faith, and it brings honor and glory to God to see our prayers answered. Thirdly, and lastly, tonight, I would have you see. How we glorify God is faithfulness through suffering. Faithfulness through suffering. Turn to John chapter eleven. John chapter eleven and verse number four. I would encourage you to keep these and just write these references down and have it when we're done. Currently I have seven on the list of things that we see the Bible tells us very clearly glorifies God. So we see here when Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for what? The glory of God. The glory of God. That the Son of God might be glorified thereby. You see, beloved, sometimes there's things that are brought into our life, some suffering, some heartache that are brought into our lives that are for the glory of God. Often our greatest hardship may very well be the greatest opportunity we'll have this side of heaven to glorify God. Isaiah was sawn asunder. Paul was beheaded. Peter was crucified upside down. John was exiled You can read about those in 11, uh in Hebrews chapter 11, who were for their faith, tortured and killed. Job suffered beyond human understanding. But it is our suffering that increases our capacity to glorify God. Look in First Peter chapter one. We've got several references here in First Peter with regards to suffering. We're coming to a conclusion tonight here, but I want you to see this in 1 Peter 1, verse 6 and 7. He says, wherein ye greatly rejoice, Though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations, that the trial of your faith being much more precious than that of gold that perisheth Though it be tried with fire, it might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You see, it is our trial, it is our suffering, it is our heaviness that we may bear for a while that increases our capacity to glorify God. Christ is the example that is given to us of one who suffered and did not deserve it, and how he handled it. Look in chapter 2, verses 20 and 21. 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 20 and 21. He says, For what glory is it? Okay, so the question is posed here, who's getting this glory? He said, What glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? So he's asking the question, he says, hey, sometimes things that we're going through were brought on by ourselves And he says, What's the glory in that? Who there there is no glory in those situations when we inflict things upon ourselves or when it is our fault that we're going through some particular penalty He says, but if when ye do well and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. You see, beloved Jesus Christ was executed as a criminal. And the only man on earth to ever live a sinless life. He was persecuted and he didn't deserve it. He was falsely accused. He was crucified. I think sometimes our idea of persecution needs a a checkup I think if the Lord tarries, we're gonna know persecution in this country. But right now we feel like we're persecuted because somebody said something unkind to us. We're reading a story about a young lady who is a Jew at eleven years old was sent to her first internment camp. The the the amount of brutal suffering that this girl went in. We we're four years into her story right now. She has been abused and beaten and starved and hauled all over the country in cattle cars where there wasn't even room to sit down on these trains for days. The description of what she endured is is heartbreaking and graphic, I wouldn't feel comfortable describing it in here That's suffering. Undeserved suffering We need to re-evaluate what we believe is the suffering that we're enduring. But regardless of what it is or what it came from, we're exhorted or challenged here to Follow in his steps. Verse number 21. He says, For ye even hereunto were called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. So we should go through our suffering as Christ went through his. You see how he went through it in verses 22 and 23. He did not lash back, he did not accuse, he did not try and get even. He was rivaled and he uh reviled not again. Our suffering sometimes is acceptable to him. We know that our suffering is for our good or for his glory. Ultimately, we need to respond correctly that it might glorify God However, it came into your life, whatever the circumstances that brought it, it is an opportunity for you to glorify God. If we would respond to it correctly Turn to chapter four and verse number thirteen. We must take the suffering that comes into our life and use it to glorify God. Chapter 4 and verse number 13 says, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. He said, rejoice. That when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy if ye be reproached for the name of Christ. Happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you, and their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. For he is glorified. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody or in men's matters. So he's saying, Don't let your suffering be because you've been foolish. He says, but yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God on this behalf. Glorify God. Yes. We can glorify God. And God will use it to magnify him in ways that we can't even explain. There's a young lady who came, she was a Jew. But she came to see Jesus as the Messiah. She put her faith and trust in Jesus Christ and She held a pretty good position at her work, her place of work. Having come to the realization that Jesus Christ was the Messiah and having put her faith and trust in him, she began to share her faith at work Co-workers didn't care for that, and they began to ridicule and criticize her, and she continued to share her faith at work, and then they co-workers began to complain to management Ultimately, management came to her and said, it's come to our attention that you've been talking about Jesus Christ here at work. And she said, Yes, he is my savior, and I take him wherever I go. And they said, well, you can't do that here. And she said, well then I will look for another job. Because I am not going to deny my Savior. I'm not going to be silent about the one who saved my soul. This is what I believe to be right, and I will share my faith. And they said, well, we don't think you can continue to work here if you're going to do that. And she said, well, I have to, I will. And they said, well, let us think about it For now, we're going to move you into a different position. They moved her into a remote area where there wasn't very many people, and it was kind of a demotion from what she had been doing. And she thought, well, here I am, but it's okay, because I'm going to honor God. Every day expecting to come into work and for them to say, we no longer have a place for you. One day a currier came into her particular area of work and dropped off a letter which she saw was from management and she thought, well here it is. It's done. This is my dismissal letter. They've given me two weeks or whatever it is, and I I'm gonna go and I'll be on my way. And she she opened the letter and she began to read it And they said, after careful consideration and evaluation, we have determined that a person of your caliber, who is unwilling to bend on their beliefs, is someone who is trustworthy. Therefore, if you are willing to take it, we're asking that you assume this new position in management. And she was given a job that was considerably higher and of higher pay. Because she said, I'm going to do what's right. You see a lot of Christians today, they just say, well, work says I can't share my faith, so I'm not going to do it. Work says I can't talk about God, so I'm not going to talk about God. That's just the way we live today. Wait, what about what God said to do? We're to please God rather than man. So we see, beloved, our opportunity to glorify God really is not that hard to do. Confess the sin that we find or see in our life. Live by faith. And stay or remain faithful even in or through suffering. These are three of the ways we've seen in the Bible thus far to glorify God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?