God's desire and God's plan for the believer to live a transformed life. We should slowly through the process of sanctification be changed into the image of God. We should be more and more like Jesus Christ each and every day that we live. The process is not always linear. It's not always going to be direct a uh climbing uphill and every day you're a stronger Christian than you were yesterday because we're but frail humans and the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak and sometimes we go the other way sadly But the fact of the matter is, is we serve a good God, and He's always there to draw us back and bring us to where we were and then challenge us to continue on in that process of transformation. I want to speak tonight for a few minutes on how to be transformed. How to be transformed from Romans chapter number twelve. We're just going to look at a few of these things many years ago. Warren Wearsby, who just went home to be with the Lord in 2019, published a series of books that some of you might be familiar with. It was called the B series the B series. And he covered many different topics like be confident and be worshipful and be faithful and be free and Be determined. And there's actually 50 of them in that series of books that he wrote, little small books, on what Christians should be. And I thought about titling this message tonight, How to Be But it fitting with our text and with Romans chapter number 12 here. Really it is, it's being transformed. And if we are living in and through the power of God, the transformed life that God wants us to have, there's some things that we're going to be. And we can picture those or we can see them as evidence in our life if we're being transformed as God would have us to be, then there's some things that we're going to be. And if we're not those, then we can prayerfully seek that God would bring them about in our life. That God would challenge us and change us slowly into His image So first of all, we're going to walk through Romans chapter number twelve. We're just going to read down some of these verses. We're not going to get all the way to the end, but we are going to cover a few of them. You know, sometimes I think of myself, I'm I'm I'm moving too quick. I need to slow down. And uh the one thing that Brother Tesson told me, he says, when you come to the Philippines, you get to speak English. He says, but what you need to do, and you guys have all heard Brother Tesson speak, he says, what you need to do is you have to talk slowly. They can understand English if you communicate slowly. And for me, that's going to be very difficult when I'm when I'm preaching, when I'm trying to get uh across the point or something to slow down, to communicate slowly, but I'll tell you what, if I go too quick and they're just the words are all running together, you know sometimes you guys hear like I imagine that their listening to me will be like when we listen to somebody who speaks Spanish and they're just like and you're like, what in the world? Like, uh, you don't understand any of it, you know. I think it might be like that, but sometimes I just get run and I get, you know, and I I gotta slow down. So we see here first of all, you're gonna be humble Now we're not going to cover all 50 of them that Warren Roseby had, but we're going to cover a few as we go down through these first of all. He says in Romans chapter 12, verse number 3 here, he says, For I say Though the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly according as God hath dealt to every man a measure of faith. Beloved, this is an area where any one of us would struggle, a area where we have to continue If we're going to be transformed, I mean there is no greater picture of humility than God Himself, who became man and dwelt among us. And he humbled himself and became obedient unto death. And if we're transformed into the image of God's Son, we are going to be humble. We are going to take on that spirit, that characteristic of Jesus Christ Himself, and we've got to be careful in our lives to maintain a spirit of humility. Every one of us here has different skills. You've got strengths. You've got things that you can do. And those things, if you aren't careful, Satan will bring come along and start to puff you up, start to build you up and make you think, boy, yeah, you are really uh all that in a bag of chips. Look at how well you can do this or do that. But can I remind you that although everybody here has some strengths, we also have some struggles. Every one of us here have some areas of weakness, some things that well we would rather people not know about. We would rather nobody point out. We would rather not be confronted with those because they are our weakness. And we can get prideful about our strength, but we need to be reminded of our weaknesses. Only in the presence of God's strength, only in the presence of our weakness do we get to learn and experience God's strength. You and I uh fail as often as we succeed. We just have selective memory and we like to ponder and think about the victories and forget the failures and hey, we're supposed to forget those things which are behind. But we can't be puffed up in victory thinking that we have accomplished something. Romans chapter 12, we see in verses 4 through 8 here, he says, For we have many members in one body. And all the members have not the same office. So we being many are one body in Christ, and every one member one of another. Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us Whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the portion of faith, or ministry, let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, and he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. What he's saying here is going through the church and he's saying everybody in the church has some different strengths. There's some that have been gifted in a particular area or capacity, but we have to go back to and remember and remind ourselves, don't get puffed up in that. Don't get prideful. We're going to be humble if we're going to be changed into the image of God's Son. God put the church together and God has the plan. Now we're going to go quickly. because I do have ten of these tonight. So we're going to go through them quickly. Hopefully you keep good notes. Secondly you want to be sincere. You want to be sincere. Romans chapter 12 and verse number 9 here. He says, let love be without dissimilation. Abore that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. The love of Christ, the love of God is a pure love. It is a love that is without ulterior motives That's the love that God has for us. That's the description here of let your love be without dissimilation. That word dissimilation means hypocrisy. Saying one thing and doing something else. Expressing your love, but not showing your love. Our love needs to be genuine and sincere Not counterfeit or fake. That's what hypocrisy is. Counterfeit. Fake. Our love, beloved, for God, should be without hypocrisy. Jesus was talking to the Pharisees and the disciples, and he confronted with them. He answered and he said unto them, Well hath a Isaiah said Or prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. They honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Sometimes, beloved, we may come into the church house and we may want to say, Praise God, and Amen, but our love is lip service, not life service. It's a whole lot easier to testify of our love than it is to live our love. He said, if you love me, keep my commandments We ought to love God with a love that is without hypocrisy. These hypocrites would gather in the synagogues and talk about their love for God and then ignore Jesus Christ. Beloved hypocrisy dishonors God and it confuses men. Don't turn there, but in Romans chapter 2, verses 23 and 24, he says, Thou that makest thy boast of the law, Through breaking the law, dishonorest thou God. He says, You making your boast of the law. This is your big thing. You're going to boast of the law, but through breaking the law, you've dishonored God. He's saying you've been You've been a hypocrite, he says, for the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles. He says, you're breaking the law. It dishonors God. And you now the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles. And we've all heard that, right? I'm not going to church because there's too many hypocrites there. There's hypocrites, there's hypocrites everywhere. But listen. We ought to love God without hypocrisy. And that means we're going to be sincere. If we're going to be changed into the image of God, we're living a transformed life. We're going to love God without hypocrisy. Does that mean you're perfect? No. But it means the direction that you're going. You know, we've been studying David and just working through that right now, and I don't know how many weeks we're going to be on David here in the Old Testament. Uh but you know, David, the Bible says was a man after God's own heart, right? But you tell me, was David a man without failure? No. Even not even long before Bathsheba, way back in the beginning, he and his men were on the run from Saul, and he lied to the prophet. And told them what they were there for, and the pr and and the prophet says, Oh well, uh yeah, you can you can eat this bread. You can have this this bread off the off the table of showbread. So he lied there. What he said is he told them that Saul has sent me here on a mission. But Saul didn't send him. Well here's what I'm saying. It's not about how perfect you are because we are sinners that are saved by grace, but it is the direction of your heart. Is your heart after, going after the things of God? Are you sincere in that, not without failure, but living in faith, following God? Then I want you to see we're gonna not only are we going to be humble, we're gonna be sincere, but we're also gonna be discerning. Verse number 12, uh 12, verse number nine, the second half there, let thy Love be without dissimilation, abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. There are some things, beloved, the Christian shouldn't be part of. To abhor means to utterly detest. It means to despise, to detest something, to really dislike strongly. And to cleave, that means to stick to like glue. Some Christians need to have some common sense and use some discernment about the things that they're doing. Discernment is spiritual sight. Discernment is being able to look at something and through spiritual eyes and let the Lord lead you in whether you should be doing that or not. Christian, we need some discernment today. Skipping church is a it shows a lack of spiritual discernment. Going on vacation to places like Sin City is a lack of spiritual discernment. There's a lot of other places you could go. The Christian is showing his lack of discernment to go to Sin City on vacation. Come on, you carnal Christians, help me out. What is it? Las Vegas. Yeah, Las Vegas. Um But Sin City's a good description of it. I said Christians don't need to be going there. That's not where we Christians need to be going. I mean, there's so many good things you could go see and experience and do. Why would you want to go to that place like that? Go in go into Mardi Gras. Oh, we just wanted to see it. For what? You have no business being in a place like that. Going to experience that. That shows a huge lack of spiritual discernment. Saying, oh no, we didn't get involved in that. We just wanted to see it. Go see something else There's lots of things you can go that aren't the the the bedrock and the seat of the of what Satan's doing among people God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. We should understand that. There's a lot in this world that discerning Christians are going to stay away from. You need some spiritual discernment. You know, years ago, I'm I'm kind of going back a little bit now. I'm going somewhere with this, but years ago, uh there was a lot of people impressed with Hannah Montana. Even even uh Christians talking about how there there was this wholesome young lady This wholesome young lady ultimately made the vulgarity of Madonna look mild. When I was growing up, Madonna was so vulgar and out there, she was the one pushing the limits. Well Hannah Montana went way beyond that. I don't even know what's her real name. What is it? Miley Cyrus, yeah, that's who it is. But let's bring it up to current. Let's bring it up to current. There's a whole lot of people that are called Swifties today. Christians don't need to be listening to Taylor Swift. Right. Oh, but her songs are about love and her songs are about childhood and sweethearts and her songs are about Yeah. I l I I I don't have them here. I read some of her lyrics today Talking about how they they want to get you into a church to make you feel bad, but I want to go and live my life like I like I had. These that's not the exact exact quotes, but I mean mocking God, talking about how people want to try and influence you to do right, but what feels right is what I feel when he's holding me. I mean it the the going against parental authority. Don't let your kids listen to that stuff. Oh, I know it's popular. But spiritual discernment says this is not good for you. A lot of Christians are getting it backwards. They're letting go of the things of God, the things that they should be sticking to like glue. They're letting that go. And they're holding on to the things of the world. Like the things they should be abhorring. They're got it backwards. We need to be like David. In 1 Kings chapter 3, verse number 9, he said, Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people that I may discern between good and bad. You say, God, I'm lacking some spiritual wisdom. I'm lacking some spiritual discernment. Lord, I need help. I need to know what would be right and what listen, God wants you to know, He'll show you Have some spiritual discernment. Be careful what it is that you're getting into, listening to, watching, being involved in Then I want you to see to also be kind. Romans chapter 12, verse number 10, there he says, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love. Beloved, it's not going to hurt you just to be kind. I know sometimes we think it might, but it's not. We do not have to respond as the world does with the flesh. We can be kind. Ephesians 4. 32, and be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. First Corinthians 13, 4. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Love is kindness. It escapes me the cruelty of people. How how people can I I just wonder what is the motivation. I mean you take something like a like a young boy who hasn't been trained or taught properly by his parents and he'll take a small animal and mistreat it. Just be cruel to a small animal, or or maybe even whatever, you know what I'm talking about. They're just needlessly hurting small animals. And if that if that doesn't get brought under check, then that child will grow up to needlessly hurt humans Sometimes it's because that child, a lot of times it's boys that are that way because girls are naturally more compassionate than guys, but that child maybe he's been abused by somebody and he's taking it out on something smaller than him. Now that that does happen, but you take that up into the adult years and you wonder why or what would motivate somebody to just be cruel. Why be c why needlessly be hurtful to other people? That's not Christ-like. Young people, kids. It's not Christlike. You did a great job answering a lot of questions. What was your name? Man, you're a smart kid. Now here's what I know. I know his his dad's like, oh boy, you got you got him here here's what I know. Uh because I have sisters. I know sisters can be annoying. Without a doubt. They can be, and sometimes you just want To get that annoying sister away from you. Sometimes it's just the way it is, but here's what I'm saying. It's not Christ-like to be cruel. Sometimes Satan would want you to say things that are hurtful to your sister that are just mean And you might be mad. You're just mad. Well I'm just mad. And so you want to hurt her, but that's not Christ-like. So to be like Christ, we change that. And I'm talking to him, but you know what it goes to every one of us. I had I have five kids and we've had this conversation in our family devotions. You don't communicate with each other like that. There is no reason to be hurtful. To be kind we need to be kind. Beloved in the church house, we need to be kind. Why would somebody make up something false about Miss Jan and try and spread it and say things that were not that were untrue? Now nobody is, to my knowledge. I'm just using her as an example. I'm just saying this is what Satan does. And you wonder, like, what is the motivation? Where did that even come from? Why are I mean is the goal just to hurt her? Is the goal to hurt the person you're communicating to? Or what is the where is it coming from? What is the motivation? All I can think of it is Satan is the enemy And he is the one who would try and get in and hurt the family of God. And he would any weaker Christian who lacks spiritual discernment maybe would allow Satan to use them to do that. Even if you know something true about Galena, you shouldn't go around saying it. Even if you know something true about Armando. If it's not kind, what did mama say? If you ain't got nothing kind to say, then keep your mouth shut, right? And don't say anything at all. Yeah, yeah, I mean listen Christian, we need to be kind and that if we're gonna transform into the image of God, uh we need to Miss Rebecca, I can't think of her without thinking of this because she always she comes to me and she starts saying something and she goes, Whoop Put a watch before my mouth, oh God. She says she says that to me a lot. She's like, I gotta be careful, preacher. I gotta be careful. I says, I want you to be careful, Miss Rebecca. Thank you so much. Amen. And hey, we ought to all be doing that Put a watch before my mouth, oh God. Listen, we should look for opportunities to be kind. You remember the story of David when he went and he found Mephiboshev? You remember he was so brokenhearted because all of Saul's family was dead? And he said, wait, wait, is there not one, one member of the family that I may show kindness to? Isn't there one person I could show kindness to? We ought to look for opportunities to show kindness and be kind. Number five, I've got to move quickly here. We need to be respectful. Be respectful. Romans 12, verse number 10. He says, in honor, preferring one another. Listen, people don't want to give honor today to anybody. Do you know why? Because we've missed the first point. Humble. When we are not humble, when we feel like we deserve the honor, and how come nobody's recognizing me, and how come I'm not getting patted on the back, we certainly don't want to pat anybody else on the back. We don't want to, and this is something that we have to guard against in our own heart, and we need to be very careful about in honor preferring one another. Honor is to show respect. Children, honor thy mother and thy father. It is to respect them, to show respect. To prefer is to give deference to, to prefer another over yourself. That's a hard thing to do. A willingness to fulfill someone else's wishes over your own I know I've heard people talking about they they don't even want to fulfill the wishes of their boss that they're getting paid to fulfill the wishes of Let alone just people in church or people that they meet or their neighbors or whatever, preferring one another, and honor preferring one another. This is what we're supposed to be do, in honor, preferring one another, showing this, being respectful. Now, I know that this idea must be catching on because At the shepherd's uh supper with the shepherd, we can't get anybody to go through the line. We're like, okay, guys, uh uh time to eat. Food's hot, it's ready to go, and everybody's waiting for somebody else to go. Like nobody wants to go. Yeah, we somebody's gotta go first and we're like, well no, I'm a servant. I'm waiting. I'm gonna just servants go last, I'm waiting till everybody's waiting till last. I'm like, come on guys, somebody's gotta start And uh so everybody's going. And uh I mean that's the right spirit to have. We ought to not be, oh, I'm first, I'm first, you know, me first, the old uh Pat song, me first, no, uh, but in honor preferring one another Then we want to see we would need to be diligent. Romans 12, verse number 11. Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Be diligent. That is the exact opposite of slothful. There is no place for slothfulness. Parents, don't let your children be slothful. Don't let them be lazy. Give them responsibility. Give them jobs to do. You have to train them to work hard. You have to first be the example. Then you have to set the expectation. Then you have to inspect what you expect. That's a lot of work. But you had 'em. You gotta raise them That's the that's the job you took on when you when you said I want kids or whether you said you want them or not, you got 'em Okay, maybe it was a surprise, but you got them now, and God's given you the responsibility to train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Don't let them be slothful. There's way too many young people today that don't know how to work at all. Be diligent. Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. All thy might. Don't let your child take four and a half hours to clean his room. You say, well, it kept him busy. No, he's being slothful. Teach him how to clean his room in a set amount of time, and then let him go outside and play as a reward. Instead of just piddling around in there and not actually doing anything, that's training, that's teaching. The gold rush of 1849 motivated many otherwise less industrious men to be very diligent. Men from all over the country left their jobs and homes and what they had and went west and lived in tents and worked fifteen, sixteen, eighteen hours a day from sun uh from sunup till sundown and afterwards by candlelight and and lanterns, all with the ambition to get wealth Some people struck it rich, but most didn't. But the motivation that caused them to be diligent was wealth. Our motivation ought to be worship. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Everything that we do, do it as unto the Lord. Our motivation for our industry and our desire to be diligent ought to be because of God. Proverbs 10, verse number 4 says, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. You see, that's just the fact of sowing and reaping. If you're a hard worker, you're gonna end up with something. That's just the way it is. You get out and do the job and get busy. Ultimately, the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He says, fervent in spirit. That is to be zealous, energetic about the task. Have some energy. Have some excitement. Young people, I know you don't want to do the job mom gives you. What's what's what's your uh name, young lady? Right here behind Galino. Yeah, what's your name? Emma? Emma. Yeah. Emma. Very good. Alright. So here's the thing. Has mom ever given you a job that you didn't want to do? She's like, no, certainly. Um but fervent in spirit means you go do it with a good attitude. You go do it even though you're not really excited about it. You say, you know what? This is what mom's told me to do. This is what I'm supposed to do. I'm going to go do it. And you do it fervently, fervent, energetically, with a good attitude. My kids loved it when I said that. You're gonna do it and you're gonna do it with a good attitude. Amen. And that worked every time. They just fixed their attitude, right? This like immediately. At least on this they fixed it. Maybe not in their heart. We know that that's another matter. But the diligent beloved are rewarded. It's just a sowing and reaping thing. Rewarded. The hand of the diligent maketh rich. Thomas Brooke said this, the lazy Christian has his mouth full of complaints. The active Christian has his heart full of comforts. The lazy Christian has his mouth full of complaints, but the active Christian has his heart full of comforts. Number seven, be delightful. Be delightful. Be nice to be around. Be happy. He says here chapter 12, verse number 12, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer. Rejoicing in hope. That idea of rejoicing is to be glad, to delight in something. Beloved, as Christians, we've got a lot to rejoice about. I know we have problems, I know we have struggles, I know we have bad days. But even though things are going horribly wrong, you and I can still be delightful We can still be happy. The fact of the matter is, is when things are going horribly wrong, is when you have opportunity to show what kind of Christian you are. It's easy for everybody to put a smile on their face when the sun is shining, when everything's going smooth, when when uh you know the birds are singing over the back fence, when when everything is uh hunky-dory Sugar and spice and everything nice. I mean that's that's great. But when things are going bad, that's when you have the opportunity. To show your faith. To show how like Christ you are. I was talking to somebody just on Sunday. They're asking me about the fruit of the Spirit. How to get the fruit of the Spirit in their life. And I said, your focus is wrong. You you you don't say, well Man, I need more temperance. So I'm going to do everything I can to be more temperate. No, what you need to do is everything you can to yield to the Spirit of God. It is a fruit of the Spirit. It is something that is produced in your life as a byproduct of you walking with God and yielding to Him. So the the the nine fruits of the Spirit are going to be evident in your life as you yield to Him. And you yourself will start to even recognize it as you yield to God. One day you're going to say, Whoa I used to give in to that really easy and I just resisted it like it was nothing. Why? Because the fruit of the Spirit is being evident in your life It's going to happen naturally. We need to be delightful, and as we are yielding to God, the fruit of the Spirit will be evident and we will be able to rejoice even though things are going bad. We have hope, beloved. Whatever happens in this life, you and I still have hope. Hope thou in God. One of my favorite topics to preach on is hope. Number eight, be patient. Be patient. Number twelve, there he says, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation. Patience is endurance, perseverance. It's kind of those two things combined, really. Persevering even though it's not easy. Patience is not, beloved, just waiting in a calm peace, but it's waiting even though you're in tribulation. When you get the bad news, when the attack comes, you be patient, you endure. The transformed Christian For the transformed believer, patience is not desperately waiting in doubt, but waiting in confidence because of the promises of God So when the storm comes, when the heartache falls, when the trouble hits, when that tribulation comes, yes, we are to be patient, but it's patiently waiting in confidence because we have the promises of God that back us up. The New Testament uses the term patience in two different ways, the idea of being patient with people, and Lord knows we need that. And secondly, the idea of being patient in circumstances or situations like we're talking about here, tribulations In 2 Timothy 3 and verse number 10 and 11 he says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience. So he's talking there about patience with people. He says, you guys know I've been long-suffering with you. You guys know I've been patient through these things. But then he goes on in verse number 11, and he says, persecution. Afflictions which came unto me in Antioch and Iconium and Lister were persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me So he says, hey, he had patience in both areas of life, patience with people, and patience with the circumstances. True transformed patience is not Just waiting, but it's waiting with a purpose. Because of the promises of God. Knowing, beloved, that God is in control. You can go to sleep because God's awake. That's what patience is. The struggle is real, the burden is heavy, the storm is right on you. But you know what? You can go to sleep because you know God is awake. That's what patience is. Continuing instant in prayer, be prayerful. Be prayerful. Prayer is how the child of God communicates with his Father. We know and we've had many lessons on prayer, and I'm not going to belabor this point, but we need to be a people of prayer. Prayer is faith in action. Prayer is the clearest expression of faith that I know. Simply by bowing your head and praying, it is saying, God, I believe. That it's worth asking you, that it's worth talking to you about this. This is this is faith in action And we need to be peaceful. Verses 13 through 18 kind of deals with this in many different aspects. We're not going to take time to break all these down, but he says Distributing to the necessity of saints given to hospitality. Bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one to another, mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Honest in the sight of all men, if it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Be peaceful. In all these different circumstances. Verse 13 describing the need to be helpful to others and the desire to be hospitable to others. Verse 14 talking about being a blessing to others. Verse 15, describing the need to share in people's triumphs and tragedies. Rejoicing with those that rejoice and weep with those that weep. Verse 16 talking about unity, being of one mind. 17. Recompense to no man evil for evil, but live peaceably with all men. We talked about it the other day, but there's something about peace that should be present in the heart of a Christian because why? Because we have peace with God. We ought to be able to have peace with our fellow man. And it is a sign of being transformed into the image of God's Son that we're at peace with people. God says he is able to make even your enemies. Be at peace with you. Amen? That's the life of the Christian. So how to be transformed. These things are maybe a something to shoot for. But also maybe a barometer for you to be able to gauge and say, okay, how transformed am I into the image of God's Son? What areas do I maybe need to ask God? To do a work in my heart that I might be more like him. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?