Amen. Turn your Bibles tonight to Luke chapter number fourteen. In Luke chapter 14 here, we open and uh right from the beginning we see that Christ is At the home of a community leader, somebody that is lifted up as chief, a ruler of the Pharisees. Present among these Pharisees are some lawyers. Some people that are good at arguing their points, right? We notice in verses one through three he says, And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees. And Jesus answered, Spake unto the lawyers and the Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? As usual these Pharisees, these uh Men were looking to try and entrap Jesus. They were striving to try and find some cause against him, a way that they could bring an action or an argument against him. And Jesus goes on to teach them the parable of the least at the wedding feast. And in between that, he closes that up and he gives a few comments. He he makes what literally could be like some transitional statements as he moves into teaching on Which when I I taught it I used the title from uh brother uh Paul Fedena, which he titled that par parable which in the Bible is often called the Great Banquet But he titled it Two Fools and a Hinpecked Husband. And uh and the reason is because that you remember the the parable of the great banquet that you know ge the message went out and they were supposed to come to the banquet and Uh one man says, Oh hey, I can't I've just bought some land. And I can't I I can't 'cause I got this land. And then the next one he says, Oh, oh, I can't come to the banquet because I bought some uh Donkeys, I think. You bought some some livestock and and I can't and then the third one said, Well I can't 'cause I just got married. And uh so the title, you know, Two Two Fools and a Hinpeck Husband 'cause They were invited to the feast, but they they one one had some real estate that he didn't want to give up and the other had uh some you know this uh uh resources that he wanted to hold on to, and the third had a relationship that was more important than Christ, and they ended up losing out in the end because of that. But in between those two parables, Jesus gives some transitional statements. He gives some words uh really about what it means to be great or how to be great is he's talking about this great feast. And it's a little bit different than we might think, a little bit different than the world would surely think. And if we aren't careful, we would read over these verses without even really giving them much thought. But tonight, for a few minutes, I would like to preach on a great ministry or how to have a great ministry. And we see these lessons given to us here in chapter 14, verses 12 through 14. He says here, this is our text for tonight, Luke chapter 14, beginning in verse number 12. He says, Then Said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors. Lest they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the main, the lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed. For they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Beloved, I would love to have a great ministry. I look at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and I would love to have A great church. It's a worthy ambition, I believe, for any of us to desire to have a great ministry, whatever that ministry is. Wherever your area of service is, I think it's a worthy ambition. God uses the word great 962 times in the scripture. Thousands of times if you include all the cinnamons or synonyms or all the cinnamon uh Or you include all of the variations on the word, or like great greatness, or greatest. If you include all those thousands of times. uh it would have be referenced and so certainly it's not something we should we should not look at but beloved if I could be honest and just a little bit transparent with you for a minute Uh the fact of the matter is human nature is to look at something from our perspective and say, Boy, I I would like a great church. And and I want a great church because I've got some pastors' friends that I would love for them to be impressed with the church that Pastor Caleb is being able to lead or to build or to grow. I would love a great church where where boy the auditorium was full for every service and we had ministries bursting at the seams and we had so many people people gathering here we weren't sure what to do with them and and and that people would look and say, wow look at that great church I would love to have a great church that from you know just from a purely humanistic standpoint, from a fleshly standpoint, we look at it and say it would be recognizable and praised by men. But beloved, we could do all of that, and God could still not be pleased. It's not about the size of the crowd in the auditorium. It's not about the uh number of ministries that we can check off and say we have. What is it, beloved, that makes a great church in the eyes of God? At the end of the day, that is what should be the most important Have we pleased and honored the Lord today? Have we brought glory to God this day? And he gives us some thoughts here about how to maybe guard ourselves. or to be careful with that aspect of human nature that desires for the praise of men We find Jesus sitting here among these men who are leaders of men, these Pharisees, these lawyers, the chief of the Pharisees. These are men who were consumed with their personal greatness. This is promoted today. And it's it's it's applauded today, this aspect of personal greatness and personal recognition If you've ever seen any uh of uh America's got talent, you'll see them uh they'll they'll they'll get up on the stage and they're gonna sing or they're gonna juggle or whatever they're gonna do for for for their presentation And you know, Simon will look at him and say, hey, uh, what's the dream? What do you want to do? Like what why should you win this? And over and over again you'll hear them say, I want to perform and sell out coliseums. I want to sell out rooms. I want my name to be in lights. It's all about that. And beloved, it is sad, but even in our ministry it can be about that. Instead of bringing honor and glory to God. So we won't be long, but I want to give you this three things from these three verses. We're just going to look at these verses and say how to how to be great. And first of all, Jesus rebukes our selfish motives. In verse number twelve, he says, Then he saith unto him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen. First of all, here he dresses addresses the motive of relaxation. I would say that he's dealing here with the aspect of calling your friends and your brother and your kinsmen, that there is the aspect of comfort in that. They're the people that are easy to get together with. They're the people and beloved, it's not that it's sinful or wrong or that you shouldn't get together with those that you're comfortable with. But don't call it ministry. Don't call it service. Because what he's saying, he says when you when you go to do this, don't call those that are easy to be with. Don't call those that uh you know are you're just comfortable with the the ministry that you're involved in that is easy or comfortable for you to do. Beloved, he says you've got to be careful about your selective invitations. And I would say your selective volunteering, your area of service that many times, oh, I'll be glad to do it as long as it fits inside of my comfort schedule. As long as it fits inside my my my bounds of what I'm I'm comfortable doing. Sometimes if we're really gonna embark on service for God, we've got to get out of our comfort zone. It takes being willing to say, Lord, what do you want? Every one of these missionaries that volunteered to go across the world. I can tell you that initially there was a process in which the Holy Spirit had to break their heart and they had to say, okay, Lord. I doubt many of them, if any of them, were just wanting to get out of the US Just wanting to go to another country. They they wanted to yield to God and serve the Lord and We too should be willing to get out of our comfort zone and engage in ministry that would honor and glorify God, even if it takes us beyond those that we're most comfortable with. He addresses the motive of relaxation, but secondly, he addresses a motive of recompense. He says, don't just call your friends, your brother, and your kinsmen. He says, nor thy rich neighbors. Lest they also bid thee again, and recompense be made thee. You see, beloved, there's the old adage of, well, what's in it for me? What what am I going to get out of this? How is this going to benefit me? Am I going to have some measure of recompense? And beloved, I I believe tonight, and especially when we're talking about the area of ministry, that that recompense really is not going to uh come in the form of cash. But you know recompense can come in a lot of other ways. And he says, you got to be careful about your service, your ministering for recompense. Do you have to have a pat on the back? Do you have to have a thank you? I mean, listen. We ought to say thank you. And and this is an area that I know I'm weak in and that I need to work to try and express gratitude more more faithfully and consistently for those who love God and serve the Lord in the church here and make things possible because I know that the ministry here would not happen without so many willing servants that fulfill what God has called them to do. But beloved, your motive should not be that you get a thank you from Pastor. We're not serving Pastor. We're serving Almighty God. And he sees and He's keeping a record and he knows exactly what you've done. Whether Pastor ever acknowledges or recognizes it or not. The fact of the matter is, is sometimes people's motive, their whole motive for ministry, is that they would be publicly acknowledged. Well, you know, beloved, they have their reward. We cannot be driven by our selfish intentions. Looking for the praise of men or the approval of the brethren. We've all seen in high society People give large amounts of money to different charities. And you know full well there is no sincerity in that gift. It is only for status that they would achieve or have some measure of recognition in this world. But can I tell you, beloved, action taken for recompense is not thoughtfulness, it is a transaction. Timothy cuts hair. Do you know if he cuts somebody's hair, doesn't matter if it's for $5 or $50, it's a transaction. He would much rather do it for 50, just so you guys know. But if he does it for nothing, that's thoughtfulness. And our motive for ministry, our motives for service, our motive should not be about what we're going to get out of it. And obviously again we're certainly not talking about cash, we know we're not getting any of that. But are we getting the praise of men? Are we getting are we doing it that somebody might know? Are we are we trying to Be recognized. Beloved, we must do righteousness. We must do right for righteousness' sake, not for reward. If we're going to have a great ministry in God's eyes, we cannot put a price on our service. We must live and remember it is God who we're trying to please, who we're trying to honor and glorify. Beloved, the preacher who strives to please men will be a compromiser. Because you cannot. Truth divides. Truth steps on toes. Truth sometimes hurts. And that is not the intention of anybody. Certainly should not be the intention of anybody that shares the Word of God. But the fact is, is it going to step on some toes? The things that people have been mad at me over the list is is unbelievable. I I I think the Lord blessed me with a bad memory and he cursed me with a bad memory. So it's kinda kinda goes both ways. It's a blessing because I can't remember a lot of things. I thought I have often thought in the last few years You know I should have started at the beginning just to have the list. Just to have the list of things that that, you know i i i th it's astronomical. It's people are gonna get upset. We cannot be for sale. We don't preach just to please men. But we preach to please God and pray for men. That we would all yield and be what God wants us to be. We know though. The fear of man bringeth a snare. And the preacher should not soft pedal the truth because of the fear of men. At the same time, beloved, I believe God is just as displeased with this self-righteous arrogance That causes some men to stand in the pulpit and carelessly and needlessly berate and tear down people. I don't believe God's pleased with that either. We ought to speak the truth in love. That's what God expects So we don't soft pedal the truth, but we can share it in love. And that brings honor and glory to God. And I believe that the Holy Spirit uses that to change the heart of men. Instead of a man trying to demand change. Like sometimes that's how you end up with conformity instead of transformation. Because people will conform to what they're being beat into instead of the Holy Spirit transforming them from the inside and making them into the image of God through his miraculous work. We see a rebuke of selfish motives in verse number 12, and we see the requirement of selfless ministry. In verse number 13. You see, beloved, it's easy to serve those you love. It's easy to serve those who will recompense you. But God calls us to selfless ministry in verse number 13. He says, But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, call the main, call the lame, call the blind. You see, Brother Beloved, he says, hey, call those that are broke. Call the poor people. He says, call those that are broken. Call the maimed, the lame, the blind. We could go on with that in today's world, and I think that people's lives are broken by sin. And the damage that so many people come to church with today sometimes is so great That you you look at it and you wonder what could happen, what what could they do because the the the the heartbreak that they've already lived with the Victories that Satan has already won in their life and you feel like they're so far down, but but can I tell you that we serve a God who changes lives We serve a God who can make the lame walk, and he can make the blind see and he can heal the brokenhearted. But beloved, he also can take the sinner who's been given over to a life of sin and he can make the drunkard pure and clean and he can cure a man of of his his besetting sin and he can give him victory where he can be used of God in a mighty way. If they would yield to the Lord and allow God to use them, and if they had a church that would stand behind them and pray with them and labor with them and love them and lead them in the way that they should go. They could make it. We've got some in our church right now who literally on the brink of what God could do with them is astronomical, but they've got to win some battles in their life first. And they need some people that are willing to get out of their comfort zone and labor in love and lead them along the way to help them get victory. Because every day they're beaten down by sin and by Satan and this whole world. They just need somebody to love them enough to keep them faithful while they win. You know Young Christians face the toughest battles in their life they're ever gonna face. Satan is trying to pull them out. And we've got to stand with them. We've got to help them. We've got to lead them, point them in the right direction, be that encouraging individual that helps them, and not for us, but for God. Not so that we could say, oh, look what I did, or look at who I got to lead to the Lord, or look at who I got to bring along. But that God would be honored and glorified. The world is not impressed with the humility that God requests. The world is not impressed with the greatness as defined by God. In Luke 22, 27, he says, For wither is great. He that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth, is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. He says, which one's greater? The one that's sitting down eating or the one that's serving? And then he says, well, the one that's that's eating. He says, that's the world's perspective, but I'm here as one to serve it. And that's what the God calls great. In the kingdom of heaven, the way up is down. Things are backwards, then this old world has it In Matthew 8, verses 1 through 4, he says, At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Jesus called a little child unto him, and he set him in the midst of them, and he said, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as a little child, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same as the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. It's selfless service that God calls us to. Let me just say, don't be weird about it. You see, God sees your heart. God knows your heart. And what I'm saying is don't think that because somebody happened to see you, Take out the trash. Your recognition from God is gone. It's not it's not it's your heart is what matters. If somebody happened to find out that you did something, it's okay. The difference is as you stand up and say, Oh look what I did, look, look, praise me, praise me, I want recognition. That's not what you're doing. But sometimes I mean I've had people get mad at me because uh no, I'm just using these two ladies as an example and the and It did not happen with them, but uh I went to Miss Trudy and said, Hey, I just wanted to thank you so much for uh your help with this or that or whatever it might be and Galina happened to be standing there. And then Miss Trudy gets mad at me because I said something about what she did in s in front of somebody else. So all I was trying to do is show some gratitude to say thank you. But now because You know, that you want to be so spiritual. You don't want anybody in the world to know anything that you did. you're going to get mad. You're gonna get offended. Even though the Bible says, Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. But you're so spiritual that you don't want anybody to know. And so now you're mad at the pastor. What I'm saying is don't get weird about it. That's right. That's right. That's good. Just look at realize in your heart. God knows your heart. see is is your heart about what I w uh the recognition I want, the the pat on the back or the thank you that I want, or is your heart about honoring and glorifying God? And then it's okay if somebody else happened to know. It's alright. It's gonna be okay. True ministry happens, beloved, when we get beyond our comfort circle and we begin to serve for God and God alone. But we see lastly here in verse number 14 that there's a reward of spiritual blessing. He says, and thou shalt be blessed. For they cannot recompense thee. I mean you've gone out and you've got those that are broke. You've got those that are broken. They're not going to be doing anything for you. But God is. He says, first of all, he gives us a promise, a present blessing. He says, Thou shalt be blessed. I believe that's blessing right here on earth, that God's going to bless you in your life. And I think that each of you are with me in that I would much rather have the blessings of God than the praise of men. I'd much rather have the blessings of God than recognition or a pat on the back. And he says, thou shalt be blessed. Not only do we have present blessing, but he reminds us that there's also eternal reward. He says, for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. At the end, when we are Called before God when we says in glory that there is going to be a recompense, there's going to be a reward for what we've done here on earth Only one life will soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. And our ministry, beloved, is going to be rewarded, whatever that ministry is. Not just with a blessed life here on earth, but with rewards in eternity, truly laying up treasure in heaven. Boy, you can live your life for today, and that's all you have. But if you live your life for tomorrow, You'll have blessing today and reward in heaven. Beloved God is not impressed with the size of our crowd. He's not impressed by the world's standards of greatness. You Pick your movie star or sports star. You pick whatever influencer or billionaire or socialite That you look at and can I tell you God's not impressed. You know, it doesn't matter how many followers you have. I thought about this today. I wondered, you know what? I wonder how many people are worried about how many people they got to follow Christ. That's what God considers great. Now I I would love to see this auditorium with a hundred and fifty people in it on Thursday night. That would be awesome. Okay, I tell you as well. The Bible says, except the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain to build it. And I believe that the goal at the end of the day is I want to be honoring to God. And I wanna uh I want to please the Lord, and I want at the end of the day for him to be pleased. And so that means I have to live with a clear conscience before God and man. That means I have to preach what I believe the Lord lays on my heart. That means we have to keep uh our standards and our convictions and our belief on the word of God, all these things have to remain. We can't sacrifice those things to try and draw a crowd. But I believe if we honor God, He'll bring the crowd. He'll bring people. And we have to just put it in his hands. He says we'll be blessed. We'll be blessed right here, today, now. And we'll be blessed in eternity. I want God to bless us. When we do the hard thing When we live in obedience to God. When we love the unlovable, when we help the hopeless, when we lift the low. When we walk with the weak, God is honored. God sees it, and God says, that's great. When it's not about you, it's not about the crowd you're going to build, it's not about recognition from people you look up to, but are you pleasing me? That's what we want to do. I don't want to have a great church in the eyes of men. But I pray and long that we'll have a great church in the eyes of God, one that God can bless. And it will truly be His work and what He's done. Would you stay in with your head spot in your eyes closed