Service, but be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove that what is good and acceptable will of God. So the will of God. The will of God is something that we can know. God has a will for us and and he has a plan for us. He has something that he desires for us to live. So I thought about titling this because I kind of was on the last week, the what does the Bible say about? But actually there is no way I could exhaust the topic of what is the that's it's just what does the Bible say about the will of God? That that is a endless topic. Uh it can you can draw from every story that we know and tell, from every application I mean there's so much in the Word of God that can apply to discerning or knowing the will of God for your life. And so I could not exhaust it, but I want to give you just a couple of principles tonight. with regards to the will of God that are fundamental, that are irrefutable, that if you're going to be living in or knowing what the will of God is for your life, that this is going to be part of it. In Exodus chapter 40, we have here the children of Israel. They have been, of course, on their journeys through the wilderness. following the Lord. They have been day by day seeking the Lord, of course, for their daily bread. Right? This whole principle of give us this day our daily bread. is lived out in the life of Israel as they daily have to go and gather the manna for that day and if they tried to take extra it would just spoil. They the the the the high whole idea and principle of us is God's children needing to daily seek the Lord and get that nourishment, spiritual nourishment from Him is is pictured there in that example given to us uh with the children of Israel, but they have been living in a theocracy, a a a uh group of people that were quite literally ruled by God. They didn't have a kingdom, they didn't have a democracy. They weren't voting on things. God just told them what they were supposed to do and They were supposed to follow his will and they were dependent upon him for their daily sustenance. He would guide them day by day if if And they were supposed to sit and stay and wait. God would just have them wait and until it was time to move, and then he would tell them, okay, it's time to move. So if we look at Exodus chapter 40, we see here God is giving them some instructions. He is teaching them or telling them about the building of the tabernacle. He says in verses 1 and 2. He says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. So uh God is giving them some clear directions. He's giving them some instructions. And uh you know that the God directed and led his children of Israel here in this chapter and beyond with the pillar of fire at night and with the cloud by day. I mean sometimes wouldn't that be nice if determining God's will that there would be a filler of fire. You know, you like do I should I buy this house and there's a cloud sitting on the house, you know, like that's the house, right? There there's this pillar of I mean maybe not even that dramatic, but just some way of like, no question, this is what God wants me to do, and and but it's not necessarily always that clear, but there is definitely some principles in the Word of God that that can guide us And uh so what I want you to understand is that there's a process described for us here in this chapter as God leads his people that can be applied to our lives. And that overriding principle that we're going to illustrate in this chapter is applicable in every area of our lives. And first of all, what I want you to see is we're if we're going to determine or know the will of God, we must know or understand, first of all, the commands that God has given us. So in this chapter, in verses 1 through 15, God gives the children of Israel some very clear commands. I'm just going to read a few of these verses for you. I'm not going to read them all, but I want you to see and hear the clarity, the description, the definitive amount, even in the beginning there where the Lord tells him exactly when to start. He says, On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. He tells him when to begin. He says, And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony and cover the ark with the veil. And thou shalt bring the table, and set in order the things that to be set in order upon it, and thou shalt bring in the candlesticks, and the lamps, and light the lamps thereof. And thou shalt set the altar for gold, for incense, for the ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the it goes on and on, one verse after another. very clearly and definitively describing for them what God wanted them to do with the construction of the tabernacle. God literally gave them a blueprint God gave them a pattern. God told them what they're supposed to do. Now I've had the privilege of building several very large steel structures, ordering the steel from the manufacturer and You know, it comes on semi-trucks, and these semi-trucks unload this huge piles of steel, they get laid in the yard, and it is literally a large erector set. Uh it's fun. I I enjoy doing that. You know, you get a crane and and you literally put this thing together one piece at a time. And uh the blueprints that come with these are really quite simple to follow. They're they're very descriptive. You'll have, you know, a a LH3 and LH three is supposed to go right here, and you know, an LH five is supposed to go right here. You you've got these purlings and girts and these are supposed to go between the upright beams and you've got your door cutouts that have to fit in right here. It's all big erector set. You just put it together, just like was planned by God For the children of Israel with the tabernacle, he told them exactly what to do. One time in Kansas, uh the Ampride building, it was a local truck stop. And uh they had, I think, four bays and uh a gas station for cars and they had service center and whatever, but this ampride went out of business. And so they contacted us. Don't ask me why they would contact us, but they contacted us and said, hey, do you want our building? You can have it if you come and take it down. Well sure we'll come we'll get a tip we'll take a free building so we went out there literally with a church work party I'm talking about kids Ladies, teenagers, adults, nobody in hard hats, nobody in vests, nobody in any safety gear. No no hard shoes, no no, you know I mean if OSHA would have come by we would have all been thrown in jail probably. But we literally took this I rented a crane and we took this building down piece by piece. Now I understood the concept that I needed to put that building back together. So I was trying to mark these beams when we're taking it down. I was trying to mark, you know, this connects to that and that connects to this and and making marks and uh you know trying to keep documentation of that. But we had so many people taking stuff apart, a good number of things got removed before I marked them. And so here we are now have this huge pile of steel out on the property, and uh we're gonna build this building and we have no blueprints. We have no plans, and we have a hodgepodge of marks that I made as it was coming out of the ground. Now that was quite difficult to put back together. It was You know, lift this up and see if it fits. Well, you have to have a crane to lift it up. You can't you can't just grab it and hold it there. I mean it was a job to put this thing back together because we we had not planned very well. But see, God doesn't do that for us. He gives us a plan. He gives us some very clear commands. His word is chocked full of them. Ephesians 5. 17 says, Wherefore, be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Beloved, it is God's desire that we would understand the will of the Lord. That he we would know what God's will is for our life, for our family, for our future. In Colossians 1 9, he says, For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, did not cease to pray for you and desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will. Paul says, you know, the desire is that you would be filled with the knowledge of his will. God has a will that he wants us to understand. He has a will that he wants us to be filled filled with. And beloved, that would be His will that is revealed unto us. The will of God, the clear commands that God has given us. This clear commands that are given to us here in the Word of God, and I could not by any means try and even just list for you. I mean I'd have to print up a huge document and just hand it to you. To try and give you the the clear commands that are in the Word of God. Specifically tied with this phrase, the will of God. For instance, one that you're familiar with, 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 through 7. He says, For this is the will of God. Even your sanctification. Beloved, it is the will of God that we be sanctified. That sanctification, if you don't know what that is, it is the process whereby we are conformed into the image of God's Son. Where we let the old things pass away and let all things become new, we become sanctified, not santimonious But sanctified, where we begin to live separated and holy lives. He gives a little bit more description here. He says that ye should abstain from fornication. That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Beloved, this is something that is vitally important in today's base society, a society where more and more you're hearing about men who are being unfaithful to their wives and and uh just the the uh base immorality that's uh prevalent in society and promoted on every hand. Beloved, we need Christians who know how to possess the vessel in honor and in sanctification. This is the will of God. We know this is God's will, that we live sanctified holy lives, that we possess this vessel in honor and sanctification. Not, he goes on, not in the lust of con. How do you say it, Jacob? Concupiscence. Yes, thank you. Even as the Gentiles which know not God That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. Listen, just a matter of being honest. Don't defraud your brother. Don't be a cheat. Don't sell your car. As if it has no problems when you know the transmission is about to fall out of the thing. You know, just be honest. Say, hey, that here's the situation. I mean sure I would love to get $10,000 out of this, but the transmission is just about to go. You know, what can you give me for in light of that? You know, I mean you just just be honest. That's the Some sometimes that's the hard thing about being a Christian. Amen. You gotta be honest. You can't just lie to people. You can't just try and play ignorant. Oh well he bought it. You know, I washed my hands of it. And and you know, you don't that's not how we are to live as God's children. That uh no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any manner because that the Lord is the avenger of all such as We also have forewarned you and testified. For God hath not called us unto uncleanliness, but unto holiness. So this is the will of God, that our sanctification. You know, we know this. In everything give thanks for This is the will of God. So we know that we're to live lives in sanctification, separated holiness unto God. We're to live lives in gratitude or an expression of thankfulness, to have thankful hearts for what God has done for us and what other people do for us. We have Mother's Day coming up and hopefully the kids are planning some way of expressing their gratitude to their mother. of showing their appreciation to mom. It's a a day that's set aside where we honor moms. And that shouldn't be the only day that we do it, but certainly should do it on that day where we are thankful for what has been done for us. This is the will of God. He wants us to live in submission to the ordinance of men. Obviously we ought to obey God rather than man, and that's not what we're dealing with tonight, but certainly if there's a command given to us or a law of the land that contradicts the law of God. But as long as it's not causing us to uh go against the will of God, then We're to obey the ordinance of men, he says in 1 Peter 2, 13 through 16, Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Whether it be to kings as supreme, or unto governors, or unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, that would be government. That's the role, the job of government, is to punish evildoers. and for the praise of them that do well, for so is the will of God. This is the will of God, that you you live in subjection, submission to the authorities that be So I certainly have not exhausted the list, but there are clear-cut commands that God has given us in His Word. So secondly, we see here tonight in 16 through 33 in Exodus chapter 4, we see Moses' compliance. Now we're not going to read all these verses, but we see it given to us very clearly in verse number 16. He said, this did Moses. According to all that the Lord commanded him, so did he. It couldn't really be stated any clearer than that. Moses did that. So what I want you to understand is that there is a revealed will of God that we are to do There's no question about it. There's no wondering, should I do this? Is this what God wants? There's the revealed will, the clear-cut commands that God has given us. Beloved, it is foolish to be consumed with knowing or understanding God's perfect will for me for ten years from now, if I'm unwilling to submit to God's will for me today. I'm concerned about what God wants me to do regarding who I'm supposed to marry, but I don't want to live a pure holy life right now. I'm going to allow myself to be taken away and to look at the filth on the internet and allow my mind and things to wander. And at the same time, I'm saying, well, I want God to show me who God's will is for my life You see, that doesn't work. If we're going to know the will of God, then we've got to submit to the revealed will of God, just like Moses did here. He complied, he did exactly as what God said for him to do, and when God has given us clear-cut directions, our first thing with regards to knowing the will of God is doing what we know already we're supposed to do. There is to be an application of God's revealed will to those areas where some discernment is needed. There are some things that are not directly answered in the Word of God. There's nowhere in here that says, thou shalt buy that house. Thou shalt not buy a house over $200,000. This is not in the Word of God. So how do you know, well, should I buy that house? Then what you have to do is you have to take God's revealed will, this book, His Word, and apply it, apply principles, apply truths. To your situation. For instance, if you're going to buy the house, I understand that I'm to be a steward by God's revealed will. He has told me I'm a steward. That what he has given me I'm to be a wise steward of and to use them fine the finances correctly, so would this be a wise use of that monies? Would this be in accordance with uh good fiscal policy? Am I overextending myself or my family or uh am I putting too hard of a bind on things? It would this be there's regular revealed principles that can be applied to just about every situation. Out of God's reveal, we make it too difficult sometimes. Like it's some mystical, oh, I'm just gonna know. Somehow I'm just gonna have this feeling inside and I'm gonna know it's God's will. There there are principles that can be applied to your life situations. Should I marry this young lady? Should I marry this young man? Well, is he saved? You shouldn't even be Dayton if he's not saved You should never get to the place where where you're asking that question. That should be up front, because you know the revealed will of God is to not be unequally yoked. So that shouldn't be something that should even be considered. But you get to that point and you say, well, should I make this step? Should I do this? There's some revealed will of God regarding your relationship. Let me ask you this. Are your parents for it? The Bible says, honor your mother and father. If your parents are not for the marriage, there is a pretty big warning sign that it is not God's will for you to do. If you're going to follow biblical principle now, if you have a God-fearing, God-honoring family, a mother and father that they're not perfect, but they desire to please the Lord, And they're not for the marriage, you are stepping on on rough ground and and unstable territory where you're going to try and go ahead and do that. Because you are not honoring your mother and father, you're disobeying a revealed principle of the Word of God to go do what you want to do. You see, that doesn't line up. Some people say, well, this is God's will. I'm gonna do it. And I've seen it happen. And I've seen young men and young ladies get in a mess that could have been avoided if they would have just listened. But no, they want to do it. They want to do it. There are some principles that can be applied that they could have or should have taken into Consideration when they were making their decisions. I want to ask you, are you living in compliance or in conflict with God's current will-free life? You see, if we're going to know God's will, it starts with us doing what we know to be God's will today. doing what is revealed to us that there is no question. We don't have to wonder about it. Should I take this job? Well let me ask you, is the job, let's just take a scenario that comes up a lot in today's society, does the job require that you serve alcohol? Well, I would submit that if you take the revealed written word of God, that that is not God's will for you to have that job. I don't care how much it pays. The the Bible says, Woe unto them that give unto another man strong drink. We are not to even look upon the wine when it is turn in the cup, when it turneth itself aright. Christians are not supposed to be involved or participating in that kind of thing, and that wouldn't be anything that God would want you to be doing. So you could look at that and you say, oh well, this is not God's will because I'm not supposed to be involved in the distribution and the sale and the promotion of these kind of things. And you could apply that to many other things as well. What about should I take this job? Well, is the job going to require that you miss church? The Bible says clearly, forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together as a manner of some is. That Jesus Christ loved and gave himself for the church. That to me is a foundational beginning principle. That's clear, spelled out. Church should be a first priority for the believer. God gave himself to the church The only three institutions in this world that were ordained by God, government, family, and church. And a lot of Christians feel like they can take it or leave it. Like it's up to them. Like they could decide whether they want to go or not. I mean, yeah, I can I can catch church. I can catch it online. I could catch it here and there. Doesn't matter. No, it ought to be a priority for our lives. And any job that's going to require that you miss church, I would submit that it's not God's will for you to take that job. Is the environment such that's going to help you spiritually When I was in college, I was working at Walmart, and the Walmart I was working at was in Val Prazo, Indiana, and Invalpo was uh a college, Bel Praza University, and here I am, nineteen twenty I I don't know, actually I was younger than that because it was when I was a freshman, so seventeen. Uh I went to college when I was seventeen. And I'm working at Walmart and these girls from Bal Pro University were coming in there uh I would say dressed horribly, but undressed would be a better description. And I'm work I'm working in that environment and I was finding it very difficult. Here I am in Bible college studying to be in the ministry, and I'm having the biggest struggle in my mind. uh keeping a pure mind because these girls are coming in here all the time, young, attractive, undressed women, and I said, God, I gotta get out of here I can't keep working here. I did for several months, and then I I'm not going to tell you the whole story, but ultimately God led me to take a step away. Uh first I transferred to a different uh Walmart for a period of time so that I could fulfill my obligations uh that they needed from me and then I I closed that job and God oh God led in miraculous ways and That's how I became a drywall contractor and provided work for a bunch of other people and so on. But ultimately it started with me just saying, listen, this is not healthy for me spiritually. So I could look at that and I could say, listen, this is not where I need to be, because spiritually this is not strengthening me. This is hurting me And, you know, uh maybe somebody else, somebody stronger, maybe somebody in a different place, they could they could do it and it wouldn't affect them. But I knew me, as a seventeen year old young man, I'm trying to purify my mind, not fill it with filth every day. And every day I go to work and I'm looking at this stuff and I said, I gotta get out of here. I I I can't be going home and having to confess every night for all the junk I looked at. So I I made the decision to get out of there. You can pray about it. You can look at the revealed will of God and say, okay, there are some principles that can be applied to this. Are you living in compliance or conflict with what you know God wants you to do right now? Are you living in total submission to His revealed will for you? In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall Direct our paths. We want God to direct our paths. We're talking about knowing the will of God, knowing what God wants us to do. And sometimes we look at it and say, Boy, what does God want for me five years from now? Or what does God want for me down the road for for here? What does God want for you right now, today? Obviously, I'm, as they say, preaching to the choir We have the Thursday night crowd, people that are here for midweek service and and committed to the things of God enough to at least Set aside Thursday night to to be in God's house and say this is this is a priority for me for sure. But I know not just for you but others that are listening online and and people you may have the opportunity to influence uh and these young people as they're praying about their will or what to do, uh how do you know God's will? Well You take the clear-cut commands and you apply them to your current situation. Make sure you're in compliance and not conflict with what God wants you to do. And then we see, lastly, that God sends the cloud. Look down in verse number 40, I'm sorry, chapter 40, verse 34 through 38. I'm going to read all of these because they kind of they go together in description of this. Notice the first word. He says, then. Now if we took the time to read the entirety of the chapter, we have the first 15 verses that describe the commands. God said, do this, do this, do this, do this, do this. Then we have 16 through 33 where Moses did what God said to do. Then Beloved, if we want to know what God's will is, we've got to take the commands that God has given us and do them. Then God will give you direction. Then God will show you. He says, then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because a cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in their journeys. So we see here God directing, God leading, God showing them with this cloud that it's time to take a step. And verse number 37, but if the cloud were not taken up, And see, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day, and the fire was on it by night, and the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all of their journeys. So what we see here is the very direct guidance of God given to them. Very specific This pillar, this cloud of fire that came, but notice it came after they had fulfilled what God had told them to do already. Then God, the cloud came. This cloud, a picture of the Holy Spirit, the presence of God coming and filling the tabernacle of God Presence filling this place. Well, you and I have the Holy Spirit that comes into our lives. And the Holy Spirit will guide you. Yes, he guides us unto all truth, but he will guide you in your life. But not until you're doing what has been revealed to you already. Not until you're doing what God already wants you to do. the cloud leading them day by day. Let me just say that you don't find God's will through some some misconceptions that are out there. For some reason the the finding of God's will gets gets very misconstrued and very vague, but you don't find God's will through feelings. Feelings come and go. You you know, sometimes you feel up, sometimes you feel down. Sometimes you're excited, sometimes you're discouraged. You can't determine the will of God or God's direction for your life based on feelings. We know that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? We can't even know our own heart, so how can we trust the feelings that we have about something? You cannot find God's will through what has commonly been called open doors. You know, Satan can open some doors. Sometimes what looks to be the most convenient is not the will of God I remember an illustration of this many years ago, I think it was in the 70s actually, but uh Dr. Bowman, pastor of Fairhaven Baptist there, uh he had a lady come to him and say Uh we would like to give your church ten oil wells. And I mean cha-ching, cha-ching, you start thinking oil. We get oil wells. Hallelujah. And uh that would be great. Well, thank you very much. He didn't pray about it, didn't consider it. He thought, wow, look at what God's doing. We have all these needs. Here we're going to have these oil wells. So they signed over these oil wells to the church. And guess what? These oil wells were not only not functional, it cost them several hundred thousand dollars to close them and make them EPA compliant. It cost the church hundreds of thousands of dollars. He didn't consider, he didn't pray about it. He just thought, boy, here's a way we're going to get a bunch of money. They want to give us these oil wells. Oh, awesome. Praise the Lord. Thank you. It looked like an open door. But it ended up costing them. I have illustrations in my own life, I'm not going to take time to tell, but times that I made decisions Where I didn't pray about it, I didn't look at it, I just thought, boy, this looks like a great opportunity, and I did it and found out it wasn't all that because it wasn't the will of God. Just because you have an open door. does not mean necessarily that it's the will of God. We see that there was times that Paul uh had an open door, but he was hindered. from from going and doing what looked like, hey, I've got an open door. But the Holy Spirit, the Lord said, no. You're it's not time. So you don't find the will of God through flipping a coin. Which, by the way, this Is very much like flipping a coin. This idea of just okay, what does it say? Uh Judas went out and hung himself. That's what I'm supposed to do. You say, oh no, no, that must be the wrong verse. Let me do it again. Gotta do it again. We need we need a better one. Whatsoever thou doest, do so quickly. Oh no, that's not how you find God's will. Now on occasion you'll hear a preacher or somebody give a testimony and talk about, you know, missionaries they they they were praying about what God wanted them to do and they they read a verse that God used to touch their heart. specifically towards a particular field or or towards making that decision. And and I'm not saying that God go God uses his word But I want you to know this just randomly dropping the Bible and picking a verse and saying, well, that's what God wants me to do. There's nothing in here that tells you to do that. Okay? And we want to go with the revealed will of God. So you find God's will by doing God's will. What he's revealed to you right now. And then applying what he's revealed to those areas which are not addressed directly Applying the Word of God. Also, with the idea of applying the Word of God, we know that the Bible tells us to ask for wisdom. There is wisdom in a multitude of counselors. There's safety. We we we need to seek some wisdom. We need to get some some advice, talk to some people that that know or that have some information with regards to those categories, those areas of expertise. You know, seek some wisdom. That's applying biblical principle. Walking in the Spirit, letting the Holy Spirit lead you in your life. Living by faith. Following the authorities that are in your life. The authorities that are in your life. Listen, I believe that God will bless you. If you will honor or follow the authorities that are in your life, you say, Well, I think they're wrong. I believe God will honor you and bless you if you follow the authorities in your life, even if they are wrong. Because these are principles that are clearly taught in the Word of God. If you think they're wrong, pray that God would change their heart, and God can. God can change their heart. Things can arise and bring it to a place where maybe it wasn't God's timing then, but now it's God's timing. And it took that time for God to move them. For them to be submitted to the will of God, but you need to honor the authorities that are in your life. This is just applying biblical principles So I uh thought about bringing this to a conclusion by illustrating uh You know, it's gonna take somebody like Sophia and blind her uh put uh mask on and say, okay, we're gonna give you direction around the auditorium and then and then guide her like, okay, take three steps. Now turn right. More more right. Okay, now take five steps and guide her around the auditorium. And after a very short amount of time, she wouldn't really know where she was But as long as she was listening to the voice and doing what was told her to do right then, she would get to where she needed to go. And here's the thing with God is sometimes We worry too much about way down there when God has told us very clearly what we're supposed to do right here, what we're supposed to do today, what we're supposed to do right now. And if we would just be faithful and fulfilling and doing that, and then taking what he has revealed to us and applying it to situations that arise, then we would have direction from the Holy Spirit When it's time to move, when it's time to stay, if it's time to pursue that relationship, if it's time to Buy that big investment, the house or the car or whatever that next thing is, if it's time to get a new job, whatever those situations are, we can know the will of God. uh it's not as mystical as sometimes we make it out to be. So I'd ask you, are you currently right now? Uh in compliance or in conflict with God's revealed will, would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?