We're going to talk this evening about how to make and sustain real life change in your life. I have preached on this topic about seven years ago, so if you remember the message, I'm sorry Tonight we are going to repeat a message that I preached about seven years ago. But this morning we looked at the idea of having ambition. And I hope that goal, the desire of that was to try and get you to think and to get you motivated and say, Yes, I think God wants me to try and do something this year and to maybe get a vision for what God would have you try and accomplish and to set forward in motion in your life some steps to make that happen. But you know, ambition without action is just a dream. And so there's got to be some action. There's got to be some steps taken to bring those things to fruition, to make it a reality in your life It's not just a uh fleeting thought, boy it would be nice to be spiritual. Boy, it would be nice to to know God like the apostles knew God, or boy it would be nice to have power and soul winning and be able to witness like that and See people, bow their head, and trust Christ. It's not just a fleeting thought. There is the possibility for that in your life. But in order to do it, you've got to take some steps So tonight I want to be practical and talk to you about how to make and sustain real life change. You know, the Christian life, to know the Christian life is to know change. That's what the Christian life is. There's been a great, great change, amen. Since I've been born again. I hope there's been a change in your life since you've been born again. And not only that, some of you have been saved a long time. I hope the last change you experienced wasn't when you got saved. I hope there's been some change along the way, amen. He's still working on me, I know that. He's still growing me and challenging me and helping me as Christians we are to know change. If you're in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, look down in verse number 9 through 11. These are familiar verses, not anything you haven't read or been challenged from before, but the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 11. He says, know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters. nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkers, nor rivalers, nor extortioners. Shall inherit the kingdom of God, and such were some of you. Then he's talking about the change that takes place in the life of a believer, but ye are washed. But ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. To know Christ is to know change. What you were, you aren't anymore. The things you used to do, you don't do them anymore. There's been a great change in the way that we think. I hope so. I hope we think now in line with the scriptures and in line with God instead of this world's philosophy and mindset. There's been a great change in the way we act. They're supposed to have been. We're supposed to be just do do we're supposed to be doers of the word, not just hearers of the word. Amen. We come and hear the word preached or Read the Word of God in our private devotional life, and that is supposed to bring about change in our days. What I was speaking to you about this evening Is making and sustaining real change in your life. Can I ask you how many of you, don't raise your hand, but just in your mind you think, how many of you have Attempted to try and do something for God, but failed. You knew that this is what God desired, and you took a step for Christ. And you said, boy, this is something God wants in my life. And let's let's just talk we were talking about devotional life this morning. We'll say that. Maybe you said, I'm going to have a walk with God every single day. I'm going to read my Bible But over a period of time, that change that you brought into your life was not sustained. It didn't continue It was there for a while, but it didn't become part of your life. It didn't it's not a real life change for you. Maybe you determined to give up a particular sin. You said, This is not something that God wants in my life I know that I need to let it go. I need to get rid of this. And so you decided I'm going to give that up. I'm done with that? No more is that part of my life. But we battle the flesh and the devil every day, and Satan comes back around, and On a day that you're a little bit weak and haven't had as good of a walk with God as as you need it, to get the armor of God and the strength of God, Satan wins a victory, and you get back into that sin And because you've fallen before or you've been through it before, you begin to think, well, there's no use, and you give up and you say it's not worth it. I can't do it So I guess I'm just gonna live my life and this is just gonna be part of it. But I want you to know that that doesn't have to be that way. You can make and sustain real life change in your life. God wants you to. You want to in your heart. I want to encourage you first of all tonight with the thought that it's possible. It's possible. Realize, beloved, the Bible still says in Philippians 4. 13 that I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. You can do what God wants you to do. Oh, I know sometimes we get discouraged or we get downhearted. We get because we got tripped up. Because we started and we didn't finish, because we made a change and didn't keep it. But I want to encourage you tonight that you can do what God wants you to do. It's something that God wants, you have the ability to do it. When I can't, God can. When I can and don't, God won't. God wants you to do your part. He's not going to just do it for you. You're not just going to make it happen. You've got the steps that you need to take. But beloved, one in God is still a majority. When you have God on your side, you can be the victor. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world and Satan has won too many victories in our lives, and he's taken control too many times, and we need to get back on the winning side where God wants us to be. Because God is greater than he that is in the world And he is there for us, and his power is available to us. Gideon with 300 men beat 135,000 Minnesonites. Elijah, one prophet against 600 prophets of Baal, one prophet in God, one against 600 prophets of this world. Samson stood on a hill with a just the jawbone of a donker and defeated a thousand Midianites. Come on, Philistines I mean, if you were paying attention, there's Philistines he killed, not Midianites Mixing up my stories. David defeated a lion, a bear, and a giant. He said before when he stood before the giants, God delivered me out of the paw of the lion, out of the paw of the bear, and he will deliver me you into my hand. God's the one that gives the victory. You can make and sustain real life change in your life. I know we say it, but do you believe it? Are you ready and willing to rely on God to start fresh and new and have and experience real victory today? I know we wish God would just take it away. We've had conversations with people, had some addiction in their life. Either they were addicted to to smoking or to drinking or to pornography. And they've said, you know I've heard people give testimony about how when they got saved, they never touched alcohol again. It's just that just right the next day, they couldn't even drink it. They didn't even like it, didn't want anything to do with it, and it was gone All the desire was gone. And why do I still have this desire? I I wish I could answer that for you. I know it'd be a whole lot easier for you if God would just take hold of the old flesh away, right? We didn't still have those desires. But you're in good company. Paul said the things that I would, I don't. The things that I wouldn't, I do. I don't know why it is. I don't want any part of this sin. And yet still the flesh draws me toward it. And still I heal and give myself to it. I don't want to do that You can't have victory over it tonight with God's help. When you do your part, God will do the rest. I'm not talking this evening about the power of positive thinking. I'm talking about the power of proper thinking. Realizing it's not us, but it's him that worketh in us. That gives you the victory that you want and need in your life. You don't have to continue to live that way. Proverbs 16, verse number 3 says, Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. Love it, give it to God. Give it to God. Let God give you the strength to be victorious. With God's help, Hannah gave birth to a baby that was impossible. With God's strength, Esther stood before a king and saved a nation. With God's strength, Noah built an ark. With God's strength, Joseph overcame temptation and extreme adversity and continued to stand and do what was right. With God's strength, you and I can as well. Realize you can do it in it through Christ. That's where it starts. Knowing that it's possible. You can make that change in your life. You say, oh, but I tried before. Don't let Satan convict you or convince you, I mean, that you can't do it. God wants you to know you can make and sustain real life change. Then you need to realize that what you put in is what's going to come out. Acts 4, verse number 20, he says, For we cannot speak the things, cannot, but speak the things which we have seen and heard. You know, what you're hearing is what you're going to say. What you put in is what's going to come out. That familiar verse in Philippians 4, verse number 8, finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Why does he say that? Because what you put in is what's going to come out. Don't spend your time thinking about all this worldly stuff and expect to get spirituality out. So you want to make it spir sustain real life change. You've got to determine, listen, if I want change, if I want to change what's coming out, I got to change what I'm putting in You can't continue to go the places you used to go and expect to change your behavior. You can't continue to have the same friends you used to have. You can't continue to spend time in the same places you used to spend time and expect things to be different. When you continue to do what you've always done, you'll continue to get what you've always got. If you want to do something different, if you want to bring about change, it's not just the fruit that you've got to change, it's the root you've got to change. You've got to go back to the source of the problem and say over here is where I'm letting this into my life. If I want to quit cursing, then I gotta quit listening to people that are cursing Right. Listen, no Christian ought to be talking like that. Now I was listening to one of these preachers this week and I hesitate to even call him a preacher. In his sermon, he said what I w several of what I would call Christian cuss words from the pulpit. I don't even want to repeat them right now. And it's not it's not it's not really like but I'll tell you what, it's things that when I was a boy, if I said it my dad would have whooped my hive Christians just don't talk that way. I mean you have a possibility and uh an option to be a testimony to this world. In one of the most simplest and basic ways is with your conversation, when Peter was caught out in the crowd and they said, Hey, you're one of Jesus' crowd. He said, no, I'm not. And they said, yeah, I think I've seen you with Jesus. And he changed his conversation to try and show that he wasn't with Christ Well what are you showing when you're talking like this world? We need to control what comes out of this mouth. But Christian, listen, if you want to control what's coming out of the mouth, you gotta change what's going in. And there's a whole lot of this world's entertainment the Christian has no business taking into their heart and mind. We don't need to be listening to that stuff. Now I enjoy entertainment. I enjoy a good movie There's methods and means available today that you can watch a good movie and have have that filth and junk taken out. You shouldn't, as a Christian, you should not be comfortable sitting there watching the filth of the world. At least I hope you're not comfortable. Tozer said, the problem with most Christians is they've got enough religion to make them uncomfortable at the bar, but not enough to make them comfortable at church. So they aren't comfortable down at the bar and praise God for that. But we gotta get close enough to God where we enjoy church. Amen Where we love being in God's house, where that is the highlight of our vacation, where that is a time where joy is seen and felt, and where where we rejoice to just for a few minutes to get away from the filth of the world If you want to change beloved what's coming out, you gotta change what's going in. You having problems in your marriage? Y you can't continue to do what you've been doing. You gotta make a change. You gotta maybe start putting in, instead of some derogatory and negative communication, maybe you gotta put some positive communication in there. Maybe you need to invest some time and energy in that relationship. So if you want to sustain real life change, you've got to realize that what you put in is going to s come out You know, I don't know how many of you have ever had food poisoning. That is miserable. I mean you talk about gut pain just turning your stomach Now me, I I actually when I'm sick, I want to throw up. I want to get it out of my system. I mean if if if sitting like this makes me uncomfortable and makes me want to throw up, I'm going to sit like this until it comes out My wife's the opposite. She'll do anything she can to keep from throwing up. I'm like, why? Get it out of your system. Whatever's in there making you sick, man, get it out. I always feel better after it's gone And uh but you know when you get food poisoning, when you realize the source of it, you don't go back to the refrigerator the next day and so, hey Yeah, this made me sick, but I think I'm gonna have another helping. Christian, the problem is too many of us know the source of the problems we're having in our life. We know the source of the hurt that's coming into our Christian and our spiritual life, but we keep going back to it and keep taking it in. We keep putting it in, and then we wonder why what's coming out is coming out. We've got to change that, what's going in, if we want to change what's going to come out It's amazing, beloved, that a blood-bought, born-again believer of child of God can experience the grace of God, can live in the mercy of God, enjoy the wonderful, bountiful blessings of God. and continue in the ways of this world in the flesh. Sometimes the greater problem is that we want what we can get from God instead of wanting God Himself. Re realize tonight that you can do it, you can make change. Realize you've got might have to change what you're putting in in order to change what's coming out. And then realize the threefold cord is not quickly broken. If you want to make and sustain real life change, in second, uh in Ecclesiastes, chapter 4, verses 4. Sorry, chapter 4, verses 9 through 12, he says, Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone with the fallen. For he hath not another to help him. He's saying, if you've already fallen, who's going to help you? If you're alone with somebody that's already down, this is Christian young people, this is why it's good to have a friend that's on fire for God instead of a friend that's full of sin. Because when you get when you start to fall, who's gonna help you if who you're hanging around is already down there? You've got to get a friend around you. This goes on, and it says a threefold cord is not quickly broken. The idea is that you've got three chords that work together to bring you back. And you might need to get an accountability partner, you might need to get a friend or a brother in Christ that's going to help you make and sustain that real life change. You know, when I'm all by myself and I have purposed in my heart, I'm going to have a walk with God every day. And I told God, and that's all. It's pretty easy for me to to fall back on that. It's pretty easy for me to let that go. Well, God will forgive me. He knows I'm weak. He he I've done this to him before. He he understands. And and we just kind of justify it and we let it go. Every one of you know what I'm talking about? But when you set a promise with another brother or sister in Christ, somebody that's a friend that you can trust, that you can rely on. You say this listen this is what I want to do. This is what God has touched my heart in, and I I want this to be a reality in my life, and I'm making this change, and I want you to hold me accountable to it. You've set that third cord in place. It's a whole lot harder for you just to quit, just to give up, because somebody else knows about it. Somebody else is going to be coming and asking, hey, how'd you do on your devotions today? Hey, have you fallen? Have you have you had victory over that sin you told me you were going to get rid of? Have you been able to keep uh uh consistent in that in your life? You need somebody that's a friend that's strong. Somebody that loves you enough to tell you the truth and maybe to motivate you when you need some motivation. But you need that kind of a friend. A threefold cord is not quickly broken. And get someone that you can confide in that you can rely on. This is what our church family is for. I hope you have friends in the church that are close enough that you could rely on them like that. If you don't, then you need to spend more time with the church family. You need to be building that relationship. You need to be investing in other people's lives, building a relationship. Stop being an island to yourself The church family's here. We're open. We're available. You know, we went to that church last uh Wednesday night, that services on Wednesday. We were there till nine o'clock. Told Mary, I says, Are we are we staying here to help clean up? Or is that what we're doing? I mean I I'm about ready to go We're just talking, just fellowshipping, just just spending time with God's people, people we never even met before. I told the pastor and his wife, he says, hey, I want you guys to come down to Baltimore. Take you around, show you some stuff in the area. It's not that far, three and a half hours. Leave in the morning and be there by lunch. You know, I want you to come and see us. I said, I'll call you next week and we'll set up a time so you can come down. Building relationships, investing some time. What I'm saying is sometimes people sneak in late and they head out early and they wonder why they don't have a relationship with God's people. Get here early, spend some time. You know that's what Fifth Sunday Fellowship is for. Do you just eat lunch and want to get out of here? The whole design, the whole idea behind that is that we would take that opportunity to say, you know what, I don't know Matt and Lauren that well. It's gonna be a little awkward sitting down talking to Matt. Lauren probably okay, but Matt's gonna be awkward But you say, you know what, I'm gonna sit down and I'm gonna eat lunch with them and I'm gonna work at getting to know them a little bit. You know, if if I sit with Matt and Lauren every time for Fifth Sunday Fellowship for the next year, then I'm going to get to know them pretty well. But I'm not going to get to know anybody else. So I might want to break it up a little bit. Maybe sit with them once or twice and then find somebody else to sit with. And I know we got to get out of our comfort zone to make that happen Sometimes, but that's how you build those friendships. The older I get, the more I value that kind of friendship. Those relationships that go beyond just casual, hey how you doing? Christian, we need people that are true friends to us. Not just so we can call on them in an hour of need, although we know they're there for that. But so we have that brotherly, that sisterly love, that compassion for one another. We motivate each other and exhort one another to love and good works. The threefold cord is not quickly broken. Realize, beloved, that it's not going to happen without a plan. It's not going to happen without a plan. You know I've known a bunch of people in my life that have said, boy, I would really love to be able to play the piano. I bet you most of you have heard people say something very similar. And you say, well, why don't you? Is there some thing that I mean do your fingers not work? Um you know, d I mean I I I I don't know. There is there something hindering you from doing well, no, it's They kind of have a dr they just want to wake up one day as a prodigy and be able to play, right? They don't want to do the work to play. What I'm saying is that there's it can't just be a dream Boy, I'd love to play the piano. There has to be a plan put in motion to be able to do it if you actually want to accomplish it. And it it was hard this morning as we're talking about ambition not to kind of squeeze over into tonight's message because just to have ambition without any action is just a dream We've got to go beyond the ambition and the desire that's inside and put a plan into action. As we're talking about having a quiet time with God, do you know a quiet time with God starts the night before? A good quality quiet time with God starts the night before, when you go to bed, so that you can wake up in the morning. You understand, young people, that when you don't go to bed it's hard to wake up Right? Uh uh I know because I have five kids that I wake up in the morning. Not every day, but you all have been through it. These kids that They take after their father is the problem. And I'm a night owl and I could work all night. Well you know what? If you if you're gonna have a plan to get up in the morning and have time with God, then it starts for you purposing your heart, you know what, I need to go to bed because I got something important to do in the morning. I've got to get with God. And here's what's here's how it's going to happen. You have a plan even for the morning how you're going to get with God. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to get up and I'm gonna brush my teeth and then I'm gonna walk downstairs and grab some coffee and and and meet with God. Whatever your plan is, but if you don't have a plan, you'll get up in the morning and you'll go into the bathroom and get your shower done. And you'll get your hair fixed and and you'll you'll brush your teeth and you'll go downstairs and have a little bit of breakfast and then you'll check your email and and then it'll be time oh my goodness, it's time to leave for work You may have even got up in plenty of time to have time with God, but somehow the time got eaten up because you didn't have a plan. If you want to get rid of a besetting sin in your life, you've got to put a plan into motion. You look at that besetting sin and say, okay, when do I usually fall into this sin? Is there a particular time of day that I usually fall if I fall? Is there a particular time or event, or maybe it's when I'm discouraged, or maybe it's when there's nobody else around? Okay? Well, if I know that this is the telltale signs of when this happens, then in order to keep me from doing that, I've got a purpose in my heart to not be alone. I've got a purpose in my heart to uh prepare the way, not go to this particular place, or if I see that I'm uh maybe getting discouraged, then here's what I'm gonna do so that I can hedge it off at the pass and I don't go down that road where I end up getting discouraged. You guys know my besetting sin when I get discouraged I spend money. That's my problem. So my wife doesn't like it when I get discouraged. It gets expensive. But you know what? You c you know that. I I know that about myself. And I know that if if times are tough, if I'm really downhearted, if I'm really burdened about something, I know what my tendency is. So I can guard against it. But what about you? If you've got something you're trying to get victory over, then you have to say, hey, when does this happen? What causes it? Let me put a plan into action to hedge that off, to keep it from taking place in my life. A vision will motivate, but a plan will mobilize. You've got to have a plan to put into place. You want to be a witness this year? Can't just be in a pie and sky. Oh, I want to be a witness. What's your plan to be a witness? Do you have the do you have the uh Romans road laid out in your Bible? Do you have a j a little uh John and Romans or do you have uh a little New Testament something that you can have with you? Do you have tracks? Do you know where you're going to keep them? You know where is it going to work for you to be able to have things, to be able to be a witness, put have a plan. You want to make changes in your home? Family devotions? Doesn't happen without a plan. Alicia, she uh is Just a few weeks away from getting her license turned the other direction. She's excited about that. You know, that's when you're 21. You know, the kids license are vertical. They're they're this way. And when you're twenty one then they go like normal. She's like, I'm gonna get a normal license, yay. And her brother said, Now you can drink. See, well that's not what it's for. She's a little bit away from twenty-one years old. Mary and I had decided before she was born we were gonna have family devotions every night. Every night, every night, every night, we were gonna have family devotions Now I've I'll tell you what, I don't know if you've ever listened to Pastor Allison, but him talking about his family devotions I mean them kids are memorizing scripture and quoting the New Testament and and and I mean they were doing all kinds of man I'm A poor father by that regard. But you know what? I said in emotions I had family devotion. Now she's almost twenty-one years old, or twenty-one years. We've had family devotions every night. Mm probably can count on one hand the nights we've missed in twenty-one years. Why, because we had a plan. Said here's what we're gonna do. This is how it's gonna take place. Doesn't have to be something major. We don't have to have uh uh you know three points in a poem and and we it doesn't have but we're gonna sit down every night We're going to look at God's word. We're going to be challenged spiritually. We're going to pray together as a family. Sometimes our family devotions last a couple hours. It's not something that was planned. We're just sitting around talking, just sharing our hearts with one another. Those were precious times. Sometimes they last 15 minutes, 10 minutes. minutes. Read a passage of scripture, pray, and I say, kids go to bed. It's two in the morning. But you gotta have a plan. Put a plan into place. If you want to see something come to fruition If you want to make and sustain real life change, know that you can do it. God wants you to do it. It's possible. Greater is He that is in you than He is in the world. With God, all things are possible. Remember what you put in is what's gonna come out. Want to make real life change you might have to change what's coming in, not just not just the end result. You want to remember that a threefold cord is not quickly broken. Get a partner, get a friend, somebody that will walk alongside you and help you. And get a plan for success. You know, new, that word new is a marketing term. It's plastered on everything everywhere. The new and latest, right? Well, just because we've begun a new year doesn't mean it's gonna be better than the last one. Just because they make a new product doesn't mean that new product is better than the last one. What 2022 is going to be remains to be seen. If it's going to be a better year than last year, it boils down to the decision and the determination of your heart. You know, the law of entropy states that things left to themselves are gonna decay. Things don't get better on their own. It doesn't just happen. If you want this year to be better than last year, you have to purpose to make it so. Have determination to make it so. What are you going to do different this year? I want us as a church to move forward in new depths of stability and new heights of victory. What are you going to do in your life?