If you have your King James Bibles, please turn over to Proverbs chapter 13, Proverbs chapter 13, and verse 19. Proverbs 13 and verse 19. You're looking at the very verse that my dad shared with me. When he taught me how to memorize scripture, which I'm going to share with you in just a little bit here, but we'll start with the verse. Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 19. It says, the desire accomplished is sweet to the soul. But it's abomination for fools to depart from evil. Tonight we'd like to talk about how to memorize Scripture. Let's have a word of prayer. We'll begin. Heavenly Father, words cannot express how thankful I am for my earthly Father that taught me this so many years ago. Lord, I prayed that this might be a blessing tonight to these people That your word will convict, and as a result, the lives will be changed, and souls will be saved, and chill be raised for you. I cannot do this myself, and in your wisdom, strength, and power. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. After this morning and hearing me preach, some of you probably get the idea saying, wow, this guy must have a photographic memory That is not true. This guy must have a high IQ. That is not true. Ask my wife. She'll tell you nothing can be further from the truth. So I'm going to tell you a little about me that I used to be ashamed of, but now I tell everybody I can because I believe God gave me this background to help you understand that anybody can memorize Scripture. I was raised in a preacher's home, praise the Lord. My dad was a wonderful pastor and excellent Bible teacher, or I wouldn't be here today But from the age of seven all the way through the age of eleven and a half, the doctors diagnosed me as being mentally handicapped or slightly retarded. That's right. I wasn't supposed to finish high school I was X'd off. I was thought of somebody that would not make it. I was called dumb, stupid. The big name they called me was Jughead. I thought it was a failure. I asked myself, why the wild world am I in this preacher's home? I had four sisters and no brothers. That was bad enough. right in the middle of all of this. And on top of that, my old sist older sister's Linda's one of these girls who don't go to school, you know, and look at the books a little bit, shut them up and go out and play and then walk in the next day and ace the test, you know, make you sick, you know I got that going on top of it. Anyway, this went on and on and I thought, Well Gor Lord, why am I here? And it was a shame, you know, 'cause my My dad loved Iwana. He was saved in the first Awana Club, and back then I wana was good. And here I go to voice club and I couldn't even say a verse because I thought I couldn't memorize scripture I I used every excuse in the world. I had a bad memory, but I had a doctor's excuse, you know, because after all, I'm dumb, stupid, retarded, I can't do this. Well, at the same time, this is back in the 60s, my dad saw my love for cars So they started teaching me the years, makes and models. By the age of 11 and a half, we're going to grandma's house one night, lived in Chicago, about 35 miles northwest of where we lived. We lived in Streamwood. And here I am naming these cars off at the Kennedy Expressway at nighttime, Chevy, Ford, Pontiac, and my mom feeling sorry for me and says, oh David, you're doing such a wonderful job. I said, you haven't seen nothing yet. Watch. That's a fifty-seven Chempley. That's a fifty nine Cadillac. That's a 60 Buick. She said, that's amazing And my dad said, that is amazing. And he said, how do you do that? I can't even do it at night like that. I said, Dad, it's easy. All you've got to do is look at the taillights. My mom and dad looked at each other and I thought, what did I do now? I was always getting in trouble, you know. Well, we went to grandma's house and the next day I went back to school and I came home and there's my dad sitting on the couch looking at me and saying, David, sit down, I got some good news for you I said, what's that? You're not retarded. I said, what? He said, no, you're not retarded. He said, I think you can learn. Anybody that can memorize cars, yours makes and models by the tail lights is not dumb. He sat down that night, it shared me the simple method I'm going to share with you, I've add a lot to it, but it literally changed my life I not only finished high school, but actually went to college and made the honor roll a couple of times, even at Dr. McNeely's class. Believe it or not, I got A's in Dr. McNeely's class. Can you believe that? How did that happen, you know? But seriously, they don't call me junkhead anymore. They call me the walking Bible, the Bible Answer Man I tell you this because some of you sitting here thinking, well, this guy's got a gift. You'll come back to the back table and tell my wife, oh, this guy's got a wonderful gift. No, I don't have a gift. It's a desire to learn God's word. So I tell you that to start with, so that you can understand where I'm coming from, because I love this method of memorize the scripture. Anybody can do it. In this verse, it says, the desire accomplished is sweet to the soul. The first thing you must realize is that you have to have a desire to learn God's word. You have to have a desire to learn God's Word. My dad told me that I believe I could do anything if I put my mind to it. He also told me this: I have two modes. I have a difficult mode, that was my favorite. And the determination mode. You have them also. And we use them all the time. And the difficult modes will be used to say, well, I can't do this. So you look at a Bible verse and say, there's no way in the world I can memorize this. Boy, how many times did I do that? But it doesn't work anymore because my dad said, hey, you're using your difficult mode. You need your determination mode, like you do when you memorize the 64 Chevy. Amen And it was he went on and down to show me this, but it worked. So I should tell you you have to have a desire to memorize God's word. Proverbs 18. 1 says, Through desire a man having separated himself, seeketh in the middle with all wisdom. You have to have a desire to learn God's Word. The second thing is this. You have to memorize from the King James Version. You have to memorize from the King James Version. Now, in this day and age, you hear this all the time. The King James Version is so hard to understand. Well, I have mercy to refute that. Proverbs 8 verses 8 and 9. If you're taking notes, I'll say that again. Proverbs 8 verses 8 and 9. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There's nothing for the perverse in them. They are all plain to him that understandeth and right to them that find knowledge. The problem was not the Bible, it was the person reading it. They've just been brainwashed into thinking that. Along with that, I want to share a little inmate story. The inmates also, because of all the verses I quoted at the present, were interested in memorizing scripture. So I taught some of them what I'm teaching you tonight Only they made a mistake. Some of them read out the verse cards. They put them in other versions. And they came to me and said, Preacher man, I can't memorize this. For some reason, I just can't get this. And I said, let me see your cards Sure enough, it was another version. So I explained to them just the difference between the other versions of the King James. So they went back and wrote out King James cards. Guess what? They could memorize You see, the King James version was designed to be memorized. The other ones weren't designed. They were designed for you to get the concept. Because of course every one of them is different and they can't get it right. That's why they keep on making more and more and more. So memorize from the King James Version Another thing my dad taught me is this. K-I-S-S. Keep it simple, stupid. Keep it simple. Your memory is like a muscle. The more you use it, the easier it becomes. Seriously. Now we're gonna pick on Caleb again here Uh let's say that he's getting ready to lift the waste because he wanna press the ladies, you know. He's getting that late place, you know, where he's thinking, here comes the bride, all dressed in white, slipped on a banana peel and went for a ride, you know, he's thinking about that, you know Well anyway, he starts lifting weights. So is he gonna start out with 150 pounds? No. He's gonna start out with 25 pounds, gonna go like this. I'm done Little by little he works himself up. Then he gets up to 50 pounds. Then 75. What's he doing? He's working his muscles up. It's the same thing with memorizing scripture. That's why I say start simple. Don't start with a verse like Daniel 9. 27. And he should confirm his covenant with money for one week. In the midst of the weakest cause of sacrifice of obligation deceased, and for the overspread of the abomination they make it desolate, even under the consumination, that which the dearment should be poured out upon the desolate. Phew, take it easy. We're not going to memorize that verse tonight. Amen? But we are going to memorize the verse. Take your Bibles to Psalms chapter 118, please. Psalms chapter 118 and verse 23. Remember, I was very simple-minded when I started memorizing it. I thought I couldn't do it. But my dad proved to me that anybody could I got so good at memorizing and learning how that later on when I was a leader at Boys Club, he sent me to work with the real mentally handicapped kids, and they could memorize. Something to think about. So you've got to keep it simple. Here we see a simple verse. This is the Lord's doing and is marvelous in our eyes. From this verse, we're going to show you a lot of techniques about how to memorize Scripture. that will help you. Here's one of the questions I get all the time. Preacher man, how in the wide world do you remember all those references? Does your wife pull up two cards for you? No. Do you have a chip in the back of your brain that you can turn on and off? One guy accused me of having that, by the way. He says, You must have a chip back here or something to remember all those references. No, that's not true. It's very simple. Are you ready? The reference is part of the verse. That's rule number one. The reference is part of the verse. You see, most of you, if you're going to start memorizing Psalm 118. 23, you start with this is the Lord doing. No. You start with Psalm 118-23, because the rule number one is the reference is part of the verse. And there's where a lot of people make a mistake. Because if all you start with is Psalm 118. 23, if you don't have time, you forget about the reference and you just keep on quoting the verse, and then you come to the preacher man saying, I can't remember the reference Well the problem was as you learned rule number one. The reference is part of the verse. The reference is part of the verse So the very first thing you would learn is the reference, because it is part of the verse. And as you saw from the Sunday school lesson this morning, how vital it is. I would have not had a ministry at the prison at all. No soulsman is saved. No Muslims, no devil worshipers, nothing could have been saved unless I would have had rule number one in my mind, the reference as part of the verse. It had to be there Alright? Now the next thing is this. One piece at a time. One piece at a time. Remember Caleb lifting the weights. He did it one bit at a time. One bit at a time. It doesn't matter whether it's a small verse like this or a long verse like Daniel 9, 27. That used to scare me to death I remember one night I was supposed to memorize Titus 2, 11 to 13 for Voice Club. I looked at that verse and I looked at my dad and said, Dad, there's no way in the world going to memorize this verse And to my surprise, Madame looked at me and said, You know what? I think you're right. I about dropped my teeth. I was ready for a six-point sermon, you know. Then he said, You know why? Said, why? He said, because you've already made up your mind you can't do it. The difficult mode, he said. He said, remember what we taught you? One piece at a time. I remember that. I did it one piece at a time. And guess what? I went to voice club that night, quoting Titus 21 to 13. And now there are some of my favorite verses. So tonight we're going to show you how to do this one piece at a time. So if I was going to be memorizing this verse and you're going to be memorizing it tonight, I would look at the verse and remember rule numbers what Rule number one is what? The reference is part of the verse. So the first thing I would do is say out loud, Psalms 118 23. So you've got to say it with me because you're learning the verse. Here we go. Psalms 118-23. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. One more time now. Okay, without peeking, what's the reference? Boy, you folks are pretty smart. Alright, so now you're getting the idea. So now we're gonna start with the beginning of the real verse. Let's say the first race, this is the Lord's doing. Here we go. This is the Lord's doing. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. One more time now. Now it's time to review. You say, preacher man, we haven't finished the verse. Oh, we've got to go back and remember what we've reviewed learned so far. So let's start with the reference. Here we go. Psalms 118-23. This the Lord's doing. Say it again. Psalms 118-23. This the Lord's doing. Say it again. Say it again. Psalm eighteen twenty-three. One more time now. Psalm eighteen twenty-three Alright, now let's go back and pick up that last phrase. It is marvelous in our eyes. Here we go. It is marvelous in our eyes. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again. Say it again Say it again. One more time now. Alright, now we're gonna do something different. We're gonna go all the way back to the beginning. We're gonna say the reference, the verse, then the reference. You got that the reference, the verse, then the reference. Here we go. Psalms 118-23. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalms 118-23. Say it again. Psalm 118-23. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalm 118-23. One more time now. Psalm 118-23 This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalm 118-23. Alright, close your Bibles. No peeking. No peeking. Alright, here we go. Psalms 118-23. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalms 118. 23. All right, do have a volunteer on this side to say the verse for me. Reference first then reference. Yes Amen. All right, we can you get a scripture memory ministry pen? Got it? Gave a gave a guy a little haircut there. Alright, somebody on this side. Somebody on this side. Yes, sir. Psalm 18 Amen. Alright, I'll give you a scripture memory ministry pen. Here you go, sir. Alright, somebody else on this side. Somebody else on this side. Yes, sir. Psalm 11823. This is the Lord's doing Psalm 118. Amen. You get a scripture memory ministry 10. Alright, and somebody else one more over here, one more over here. Alright, way back there. Yes sir. Psalm eighteen twenty-three. Amen. All right, let's give you a pen here There you go. Got it? Beautiful. Alright, let's all say it together. Here we go. Psalms 118-23. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Psalms 118, 23. Now let me go back and explain to you why we did this. There's a purpose for everything. First of all, notice we said it out loud There's a reason for this. You're using a lot more of your senses. You're hearing it, you're thinking it, you're seeing it, and you're saying it out loud Now, some of these people here that know me know I also do impersonations. That helps, you know. And so once in a while I would impersonate a teacher, but what I would do after class is I would pretend I was a teacher and I would go out to the woods or whatever and I would pretend I would teach in the class. I'd get my notes out to teach, just like the teacher did If it was a test, and I was going to be in the test test, I'd tell myself, this is another test, you need to go over this. So I go over it several times and emphasize it. If I could remember something, I'd say that over and over again. So I would Then I'd go home and have my wife quiz me or somebody like that. If I still in the door might have somebody somebody else quiz me. And I was all excited. I walk into the class the next morning and say, Give me that cast. They all thought I was nuts Until they saw my grade. So how did he do that? Well, you're seeing it right here. So you can apply it to your schoolwork or whatever. But as you can see, this is very simple, but say it out loud. The second thing is this Repetition, repetition, repetition. Just like Caleb with those weights. Repetition, repetition, repetition. The more you say this, the more it's engraved in your mind. Now, let's solve a problem Let's say you forget a phrase. You're not having a senior moment. All you have to do is take that phrase out. Let's say you're memorizing John 3. 16, and you can't remember that whosoever believeth him. That means you need to review that phrase a little bit more. So you take that phrase out, you say it out loud several times. Then what I would do is when I review the verse again, I would emphasize that phrase John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, you're not going to give me this time that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish but have everlasting life. John 3. 16. See what I'm doing? I'm emphasizing the part that I couldn't remember. And it works because you're telling your mind, hey, you need to learn this, you need to have this, you need to have this, you need to have this It's so, so important. Now, when you review, this is important, okay? Always say reference verse then reference. Reference verse then reference Remember, rule number one is the reference is part of the verse. Now I was talking to a person after that before the service that said they had many verses memorized, but they never applied the reference. And I told them what to do. I said, you make out verse cards. We're going to teach you in a minute how to do this. And you put the reference on one side, the verse on the other, and then you review them, reference, verse, then reference Reference first than reference. And after a while, you will learn the references. Now, as you review, listen carefully, this is one of my secrets. Always pretend you're teaching the verse. Always pretend you're answering someone's question. Otherwise, what happens is this is just information. You know how it is when you take your verse cards out and you just rattle through the da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da. What's next? No, no, no, no Then it's just all information. And then you go to talk to somebody and you go, da da da da. I'll get back with you. See, preacher man, I got a bad memory, this doesn't work. No, no, no, no. Actually pretend you're teaching the verse For instance, most kids would say, John 3. 16, for God's love for God, forgotten who should not have life. Come on, where's my candy bar? No John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life John 3. 16. See what I did? I actually pretended I would teach him the verse. Now let's make this a little fun. Let's go out west. I have here a gospel gun. This is made out of wood screws and nails. Let's visit Sheriff John Wayne. All right, Pilgrim. This is my town And you're an outlaw, and I'm gonna have to ask you to leave. And the outlaw says, Well kid, I think this gun here in my hips can decide who's gonna leave, who's gonna stay The John Wayne says, All right, pilgrim, have it your way. Take this gun out of my holster, put a couple of bullets in you, and get on my horse and ride out into the sunset. Boom! Who's the one that wins? The one with the fastest and deadliest gun. Question, how did John Wayne get prepared? Oh, I know. One night he stuck his gun under his pillow and prayed Dear Lord, when I wake up in the morning I want to be the fastest that has gone in the West. Amen. That how he did it? I don't think so. He had to practice and practice and practice and practice his raw. And then he had to practice his name, you know, practice, practice, practice practice and then of course he lives out west so he's got to pass this by the trough and dry the barrel and then turn around like this go boom why because it's a matter of life and death That's what you need to do with your verses. Practice, practice, practice, practice. Did it down so you could do it in your sleep That way, when you need to review, when you need to have the verse, it will be there because you practiced and practiced and practiced. Just like somebody's gonna be a dead aim with their gun, they don't get that way just by doing it once. They can do it several times. You do it the same thing. Now everybody's memory is different. Some people can learn a lot quicker than others. Don't let that bother you're the way God made us My older sister Linda, she was a whiz. But guess what? Now she's the one asking all the Bible questions, and I'm the one giving all the answers. Amen. Well what I'm saying is this. Go at your own pace If it takes you six weeks to memorize your next verse, because you just memorize one tonight, but if it takes you six weeks to memorize your next verse, so what? There's nowhere in the Bible that says thou shalt memorize a hundred verses one month. From the day that thou shalt not do so, thou shalt be backslidden. It's not in there, amen But the Bible does say in Psalms 1 verse 2, But his delight is in the law of the Lord, his law to the meditate day and night. That's what you're doing As you're reviewing these verses, you're actually meditating in God's word. You're teaching the Bible. It will help you understand the verse so you can teach it to others. Oh. You see that way it's not just information that sticks with you. It's so so important. Now, let's show you about the verse cards. This is so, so important. I have with me these here Three by five cards is what I use. They're very handy. Men? They conveniently fit in your suitcoat or in your lunchbox when you go to work. Don't tell me it takes you an hour to eat your lunch. You'd be big as a house. Amen. So how about taking 15 minutes of that lunch hour and start doing some of this stuff? You'd be surprised how much you get accomplished Ladies! Guess what? These conveniently fit right in your purse. They all for the kids, they fit in their back pockets. These things can go anywhere you want to go. It was kind of funny They wouldn't let me carry a Bible into the prison, but they never said a word about these. It was great. And then when I work overtime, they stick me in a tower. Oh, I was in heaven I could write my Bible quizzes, you see, back there, and I had these verses to review. I was in heaven. Why? Because I had these with me, see? So let me show you how this works 3x5 card. So I have with me here a giant 3x5 card. Can everybody see this? Good. Alright. Now notice something here. This is what you call the topic card There's nothing on the other side. All this is is a topic card. What this does is show you what category you have. Now you have your sheets with you. Get them out You notice that these verses are listed topically. There's a reason for you having these sheets, several Some of you might say, well, where do I begin? Where do I start memorizing? Pick some of these verses right here that means something to you. We'll get to that in a minute here. But seriously, this will help you. But notice these verses are all listed topically. This is how you talk to people topically. So we have here the subject of the love of God. This is my topic card, so there's nothing on the other side. All this is is my topic card. Now, here's a regular verse card. On the subject of this would be 1 John 4. 19. So you've got the reference on one side, the verse on the other. Let me repeat this. This is important. The reference on one side The verse on the other. Now, some people like to put the reference on the same side as the verse. That's cheating You say, what do you mean? Because when you go to review, you know what you're going to do? Peekaboo, I can see the reference. No, no, no. You see, this way it forces you to be able to review backwards and forwards, see? So if I've got this first card here and I see first John four nineteen, I can't see the other side So let's see. 1 John 4. 19, we love him because he first loved us. 1 John 4. 19. Now, you can also do it this way. You can do it backwards. So now I'm going through the verse. We love him because he first loved us. Where is that found? Oh, I can't peekaboo. It's not there. I can't see it, it's on the other side. See? 1 John 4:19. It forces you to learn the reference and the verse together. See how it works? Also, when you review, have somebody else review you, it works just like a flashcard if you're going to do arithmetic with your kids with the timetables or whatever, okay? So this is how this works, okay? So the reference on one side And the verse on the other. Now, on your sheet here's an example. You see here the category kind of minimized, the love of God. Notice they're all under the subject of the love of God. Notice something else. John 3. 16 is there. You say, preacher, man, you have John 3. 16 in the verse yard. Yes. Because it talks about the love of God. So when I review the category of the love of God, John 3. 16 gets emphasized in there, but I emphasize the part about the love of God. Because watch this. Here's another category. Salvation. Uh-oh. Look, John 3. 16 is here. What do I do? Listen carefully. I make out two John 3. 16 cards. One for the love of God subject The other four, the subject of salvation. As a matter of fact, I have several. I've got one under the world, I've got one under eternal security. And every time we review that category, John 3. 16 is reviewed with it. However I think topically teaching the verse under that subject. So if I'm going to teach John 3. 16, I'm going to emphasize salvation under this category. If I'm going to talk about the love of God, I'm going to emphasize the love of God of John 3. 16. See how that works? It helps your mind teach the verse, it helps you understand your Bible, and also the person you're talking to will be able to comprehend this a lot more. Remember what I said this morning. The Word of God does the convicting, not you And when you can explain the Word of God to them, it helps a lot. Most of the time you're just writing a bunch of verses off and you'll look at you like, well, what did you say? No, explain it to them. Take your time. Explain it to them. Be patient with them. Sometimes it might take two or three times. Sometimes it might take two or three visits with the Muslims. It took over a year and a half sometimes But you know what? I never got tired of it because I knew it was worth it. Now, here's my favorite part out of the whole program. Have a verse for everything. My dad taught me to never preach or teach anything unless you could back it up with scripture. As you can see, he created a monster. Well, I'm here to create some monsters. Amen? All right, so let me give you an example of how this works. It's Monday morning and Brother Patrell goes to his mailbox. Bills, bills, advertisements, right? Bills, advertisements, bills, bills. Hmm. Prudential, I wonder what they want. Dear Mr. Petrell, we see that you and your family have overpaid your life insurance for the last 10 years. Here is a check for $3,000. And Brother Bertelsky's gonna go. Amen. I don't think so. He's gonna go. Hallelujah, guess what's reading? Woo-boo-boom-boo-bomb-boo-boo! You and I are going out tonight. We can celebrate this. Yeah And then it goes Proverbs 25, 25. As cold waters the thirsty soul, so is good news of our country. It's a special day here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And Mrs. Petrell, being the good pastor's wife she is, takes her rightful place in the nursery, listen to all the babies singing a joyful noise unto the Lord. And all of a sudden she smells a distinct odor. What does she do? Why, she calls the nursery verse. First Corinthians 15, 51, Behold, I show you mystery that we shall sleep and we shall all be changed. Why, I even have one for President Biden. Are you ready? Chalk 109, verse 8. Let his days be few, let another take his office. You see, now wait a minute, preacher man, these verses are completely out of context. Let me explain to the myth of my madness. Number one, I'm teaching my mind to have a verse for everything. That way, when I teach the Bible, the Bible verse has to be there. I don't feel right because I'm not the one that has the answers, the Bible does. Amen? So you're teaching your mind to have a verse for everything. Number two. I'm keeping my memory sharp. You know, just like Caleb, he's always lifting the weights muscle to show off to the girls, okay? Well, hey, you're keeping your memory sharp by doing this. Also, I'm training my mind to think topically Because I'm always thinking of a verse on the subject, you know, like, okay, for the male, what's the male verse? Proverbs twenty-five, twenty-five. See what I'm saying? What's the nursery verse? Verse 1551. See, and and you think like that, and you'll have categories in your mind because this is the way your mind is set up. You think about it. If I was to ask these ladies to draw a diagram of their kitchen where everything's at, they'd do it with no problem. Because they know where it's all at. They could even tell you where their husband's socks are at. Amen I know my wife can. But what I'm getting at okay now the men are the same way with the garage or with a football game. You know, they never play at everything. Why? Because your mind thinks topically, we think about things in categories It's the same thing with the Bible. It was designed to be memorized topically, reviewed topically, and when you do this, it makes all the difference in the world. Now I make this look easy. I've been doing this over 53 years. But I tell you, this literally changed my life. And like Brother Batrell was saying this morning, I want to emphasize this is important. When I started using this, and I started having answers. I got excited. And I wanted to go back and memorize more answers so I could be more prepared and more prepared and more prepared. And God saw this and decided to put me in a prison where I couldn't have a Bible. I had to memorize, amen. But you know what? I'm so glad. I'm so glad. Because little that I know what I'd be doing for the rest of my life is scripture memory ministry, teaching other people how to memorize. But I tell you this will help you. Think about it. You can have a category of raising your children How to be a good husband, how to be a good wife. And think about it. I love this part. When you go to work and they ask you, well, why do you go to church? Well, it's the right thing to do, and if I don't go, my pastor's going to come and visit me. Is that what you're going to tell them? No Why don't you give them a Bible verse? Amen? Like Psalms 122, I was delayed with verse 1. I was glad when they said to me, let us go into the house of the Lord. So what? And when you start getting Bible verses for everything you do and everything you don't do, you know what they're going to do? They're either going to shut up and leave you alone, or they're going to get more curious and start asking you more questions Think about it. How many times at the prison that happened? I started quoting verses for everything and they started getting the hang of this saying, wait a minute, this works I gotta share this story, then we'll kind of wrap this up. An inmate story. I was in a position for several years called Shop Patrol. It was a neat position. You're working with the uh cream of the cop inmates and they get to work with Class A tools and so on as secular bosses. Well I had this guy with me. He was the uh secretary of my office and it was the gas station there. That was my office and we travel around the uh the uh the w shop patrol area and patrol everything and he would pump the gas but he also had out custody so we had a gator and one of the things we would do is go up to the outside of the institution to pick up the trash for the tower It was nice because he did all the work. All I had to do was drive, amen. Well anyway, the inmates got the idea that they're going to make the preacher man quote versus So they saw I had verse for everything. So what they did was they told this guy to create situations, gave him a clipboard, and to mark down every time the preacher may close a verse and see how many verses we can get out of the preacher man They came up, I think, with about 150 that day. But it was neat because after that it started revival back in Shop Patrol. The inmates saw the importance of this and started memorizing verses. They started quit swearing. And it was really cool. They started getting right with God. All because somebody had the nerve to have a verse for everything. Amen? You never know where this is gonna go. But it all has to start with you, mom, dad. My dad was the one that set the example. He never made me memorize verses. He never sat down and said, here's a whip, I'm gonna strike you. No, no What he did, listen to this mom and dad. He set the example. He quoted the verses when we went visiting. He showed me how to do it. He did this all the time. And it encouraged me to be ready. And always ready. And I'm so glad because when I got older, he'd be up there preaching. And he Quote a verse and he looked at me right in the middle of the message, look at me say, Where's that found, David? I had to give the reference. He was either that or crawling to the pew, amen. But you know what? I loved it. I ate it up. Little didn't know what he was doing was preparing me for this ministry and a work in a prison, amen? Alright, I'm gonna wrap this up with one more story to make you think. Uh while I worked at the prison, I worked about every position there was. They did this on purpose, so the last five years I was available And qualified to work any position at a moment's notice. It came in handy many times. I was what you call a ground unit. I loved it because you get to travel all over the institution talking to people. Well, I was in charge of the main gate for over two years I was in charge of everything that went in and also everything that went out. A very important position. I had officers under me, and one of the things we had to do was shake down the 4-12 ship when they came in. I had a housekeeper that came out. He was an inmate. This guy happened to be a Muslim, but a good one. He was a hard worker. He he did a beautiful job mounting the floors, cleaning the bathrooms, and He had out custody so you could shovel snow outside, you know. I thought it was great. I'd teach them about taking to my house to shovel my snow for me, you know. Anyway, one night we were getting ready for the four to twelve ships, they came through, and an officer was a Christian Asked me that $64 question. Preacher man, what's the verse for the day? I quoted him a verse out of the book of Proverbs. He was very interested and said, I like that. So he grabbed this pad of paper and wrote down the ref and says, you know what, when I get home, I'm going to study this one. I like this is a good one. And he walked away with the stuff. To my surprise, this Muslim walks up to me and says, Preacher man I noticed you quoted to this man out of the book of Proverbs. I said, yes, that's correct. Then he pulled me aside. He said, come here. He said, Preacher man, I want you to know something Even though I'm a Muslim, I've been secretly reading the book of Proverbs and finding it quite fascinating. I said, really? He said, can you do me a favor? For the next month when I come to work, can you quote me verses out of the book of Proverbs and we discuss them? I said, I'd be more than happy to. Let's wind the tape back. Back when I was a teenager, my dad told me, he said, son, there's 31 chapters in the book of Proverbs. There's 31 days in a month. Along with the regular devotions, read that chapter for the day Every time you do that, you'll find more verses to memorize topically. By that time it memorized over 300 verses topic in the book of Proverbs. See? Get prepared, and God will use you. The preparation of the heart of man, but the answer tongues from the Lord, Proverbs 16. So we did this. He got very interested. As a matter of fact, the last week he was supposed to go in for his human services, that's the Muslim services. He stayed out to have a Bible study with me. And at the end of this, at the last day, he came to me and said, preacher man, he said, I can't tell you how much I've enjoyed this. It's not half as much as I have. I said, I've been really loving this. He said, he's asked tons and tons of questions, good ones, about salvation, everything. He said, I got one more question for you. I said, what's that? He said, Preacher man, you're the first Bible-believing Christian I've ever met. That had a chapter and verse memorized in the tip of their tongue for every question I've asked. Here's my question. How can Christians call themselves Bible-believing Christians and not have answers? We Muslims are taught to have an answer from the Quran. We're required to have an answer from the Quran. How come Christians aren't that way, preacher man? And I had to apologize to him for all the Christians that weren't prepared. I went on to tell him about my ministry, of how I traveled around the country. And presenting what I'm doing tonight and so on about how to memorize, how to review, where to find verses to memorize. And we do a lot more than that. This is just about tip of the iceberg. But anyway, what I explained to a little bit about my ministry. You know what this Muslim said? This was a Muslim He said, preacher man, he says, I like your ministry. Don't stop. I'm hoping someday real soon to become a Bible-believing Christian Question. Was I apologizing for you? You see, it's easy for you to sit in a good church like this with a wonderful pastor, decent music, I love it. But wait a minute. What about you individually? Am I apologizing for you because you don't have answers? And you have to tell people to I'll get back with you or you're too embarrassed to go visiting because you don't have an answer? You can change all that tonight. Mom and Dad, your kids are looking up to you. You're their example. You could tell them all day long the memorized scripture, but it's a lot more effective when they see you doing it and do it in their own lives. I wouldn't be in the ministry today if my dad didn't do it. Something to think about, isn't it? Let's bow our heads. Close our eyes. No one looking around. In a moment we're gonna have a good old-fashioned invitation in our good old-fashioned church here. What I shared with you tonight is something simple, practical, yet needed. You have more questions, be more than happy to spend the time to answer them. We're just heading in a motel down the road. I'd be loving love to help you any way possible while we're here. But I challenge you to take this serious because I want to help you get prepared to be the right Christian, be the right mom, to be the right dad To be a right soul winner, to be that white bus worker, whatever you may be doing, you're required to have an answer, as we talked about this morning. O Heavenly Father, thank you for this opportunity. Thank you again for a loving father that looked beyond the doctor's diagnosis. They decided to teach me how to memorize Scripture. Oh God, I never forget that. And I'm so thankful. And now, Lord, I pray that you might use this tonight to help others. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You'll stand your feet with your heads bowed