All right, good evening everyone. Let's turn in our Bibles to Matthew chapter 26. Matthew chapter 26 So uh pastor asked me about a a month ago uh to plant uh pencil this date in to preach tonight. And um So I've been preparing. Uh I had a message in my mind that I had already and I've been studying for the last couple weeks. Um yet this morning I believe God changed my heart and changed the direction of what he wanted me to preach. So I Spent about just this afternoon writing this message. So um for all of you going home to watch the football game, hopefully I'll be short. So uh we'll see. Right Tim? So um You know, I'm not sure why God had me go this direction. Uh it was actually something Mr. Anthony was saying. Um a thought that I've been studying, Mr. Anthony uh mentioned something in Teen Sunday school this morning. And and I really was studying last night but it was just so hard for me. Um I was developing that thought and it was just so hard for me to continue, but I mean, I have to preach, right? So I just do what I believe the Lord had me to do. But uh this morning, um God told me, especially during the message, that you know, this is what I want you to preach. So that's what I'm gonna do. Matthew chapter 26, verse 57 is where we're gonna look. Verse Matthew 26, verse 57, it says, And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. But Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest's palace, and went in, and sat with the servants to see the end. Now the chief priests and elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to death But found none. Yea. Though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days. And the high priest arose and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing, what is it which these witnesses against thee But Jesus held his peace, and the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tellest whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said, Nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now ye have heard this blasphemy. What think ye? Then answered and said, He is guilty of death Then did they spit in his face and buffeted him, and others smote him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, who is he that smote thee? Please pray with me as we begin the message. Do Lord, thank you for the stages, thank you for this thought. Thank you for um giving me the message for this hour. I just pray that you would uh fill me with your spirit, I pray that you would empty me of uh myself and that just I could effectively and uh purposefully relay this message that you have for us tonight. Just thank you for this day. We love you in your name. Amen I'd like to preach a different type of message tonight, a type of message that I've never preached before. Um I'm not a pastor, so I don't have that much experience, so it's not saying that much. Um But um I would generally say my style of preaching is expository, where I go and I read a passage of scripture and I try to pull out the purpose or the principle behind that passage and then I I I preached that. Tonight's Smith message is going to be a little more topical. A little a a little more topical. So as an assistant to Pastor Caleb, you know, I I try to leave those types of messages to him. I don't try to preach the hard or the weird messages, but I believe that this is what God has me to preach. You know, he preached this morning on the family. You know, he got his message from the Bible. So I could preach the same message on the family. I could pull the same principles and uh texts from the Bible, but it would be a more effective coming from him, right? Because he's been um a husband a lot longer than me. He's been a pastor for a lot longer than me, um and he has kids too. I don't have kids. So I'm much more qualified to preach that. Um you know, I don't have the same ex a life experiences that he has. You know I'm young, I'm I'm still wet behind the ears, so to say. Um but what I'm preaching tonight I've gone through. I've gone through the nightmare of witnessing this first hand. Um I've seen my wife witness this firsthand. And undoubtedly most of you in here have witnessed this first hand. You know, it's something that if we don't handle it carefully, we can watch it destroy our lives. We can watch it destroy people's lives, people we love. So tonight for a few moments I want to give a message on how to handle false accusations. How to handle false accusations biblically. I'm not sure why, and I again I really have no idea why the Lord put this in my mind. I have I have been studying this, I have looked at this before, but it was just this is what God told me to do, so that's what I'm gonna do. Um, I have no idea if anyone's been falsely accused. That's basically what I'm saying. The disclaimer there. You know, God never commands us to control what others said about what others say about us. You know, he only commands us to control what we say through us. We can't control what people are going to say about us, but we can control what we say back. We see dozens of examples in the Bible of people who were falsely accused. Joseph was accused of sexual immorality by Potiphar's wife Moses was accused of abusing authority by Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. Moses also was accused of marrying wrongly by Miriam and Aaron. David was accused of treason by King Saul. He was also accused of wickedness by Shimei. Job was accused of hidden sin by his friends. Elijah was accused of troubling Israel by King Ahab. Naboth was accused of blasphemy. by Jezebel's false witnesses. Jeremiah was accused of treason by Judah's princes. Daniel was accused of disloyalty to the king. by the jealous officials. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were accused of rebellion by the Chaldeans. Esther, we know in the Jews, were accused of sedition by Haman. Jesus Christ Our example today was accused of blasphemy, accused of treason, accused of working by Satan, by the Pharisees. We see Stephen accused of blasphemy by false witnesses, Peter accused of preaching unlawfully by the Jewish Council. Paul accused of sedition by the Jews, and also accused of defiling the temple, the Jewish leaders, what we discussed this morning. Silas accused of disturbing the city by the Philippian masters, and John the Baptist accused of Of having a devil by the religious leaders. There's a pattern here. Every last one of these people did something great for God. They did a great work for God, but all of them were falsely accused of something. From Genesis to Revelation, falsely accusing others is one of Satan's tools against God's servants. But God has never once failed to see the truth. You know, I believe that if you're ever going to do something for God, at some point you will be falsely accused. We believe God's word when it says, yea, and all that will live godly shall suffer persecution. We believe God's Word when it says, If ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. But when we're actually in the battle, when we're actually being falsely accused, when the lies and the false accusations are flying all around We can get tempted to ask God why me? Out of the 8. 3 billion people that live on the earth, why do I have to be the one to endure this? If you have been accused of something, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Let's acknowledge this reality honestly. Sometimes the accusations against us are completely and utterly false. But sometimes There might be a grain of truth. There might be some context that is truth, but the charge itself is still wrong. Either way, these accusations can cause great, deep, great, and deep harm. And really These accusations can come from any sorts of people. They can come from teachers, employers, friends, family, and yes, even people here at church. You know, accusations hurt the most when they come from people closest to us. The people we thought, you know, oh it it'll never come from that person or it'll it it would never come from them That's when it hurts the most. And when those accusations come, the real danger is not what is said about us, but what they can do inside of our hearts if we don't Take pr take care of that properly. You know, scripture gives us more than advice in how to handle how to handle accusation. It gives us a a pattern. How to handle it biblically. And that pattern, I believe, we could find it from multiple passages of scripture. All of those people I said, we could see how they handled it, and a lot of them did handle it biblically. But I believe We should primarily look at Jesus Christ. He was the only sinless man, yet he was the most falsely accused man ever to live. Why is that? Before we look at how he responded, we must understand why he was accused. Turn to John chapter 18 tonight, if you could. John chapter 18. I'm going to go go back and forth between these passages, and these are just two accusations of Jesus that we can see. But Again, dozens of examples that we can use, but I just want to use these two different times where Jesus was falsely accused. John chapter 18 and verse 38. It says, Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all. But ye have a custom that I should release unto you one at the Passover. Will ye therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. He was a lot more than a robber. Mark called him a insurrectionist, a murderer Um so he was a he was a very, very bad man and that always has baffled us baffled me how how that was a better alternative. We're gonna let that man out in the streets instead of Jesus. And that just shows you how much they hated him. From this passage we see the innocent one, Jesus, being declared guilty. Pilate's official verdict was, I find no fault in him. He was completely innocent, yet the religious leaders went forward with the charges anyway. Why? Why did they do it? Well, the scripture tells us in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 18. For he knew that for envy they had delivered him. They envied Jesus so much they hated him. They hated him. They hated him so much that they chose Barabbas, a violent criminal over Jesus. You know, false accusations rarely flow from the truth. Sometimes they do, but rarely they don't. They usually flow from three things that I've personally seen in my own life. First is threatened power When the authority feels unstable, the truth can become dangerous to them. Secondly, when their wounded pride, when the ego is injured, accusations naturally become self-defense. And last, in this instance, unchecked envy. When comparison replaces contentment, accusations will then follow. I think of Joseph in the Bible, right? His br the Bible says that his brethren envied him. And then they almost killed him. They sold him into slavery. Um and just the terrible things that they did to his brothers, that was out of the envy that they had for him. And unchecked envy can escalate into lies and betrayal. When accusations start coming, you can learn how to handle them by checking the accuser's motives You know, i what are they trying what what is their motive? What are why are they doing this? If if they truly want the truth, then you know you can work with that. But a lot of times they're looking for control or maybe trying to protect their image or driving maybe it's their emotions that driving this accusation. You know when those accusations come in our lives, and they will, we will be accused of false things. We need to know how to handle them properly. And the best example, like I mentioned, that we have in Scripture is, of course, Jesus. So the first thing we are false to do when we are falsely accused is to be silent. when the lies are spoken. Be silent when the lies are spoken. Matthew 26, verse 63, we had uh already read, but I'll read that again. The first sentence there, but Jesus held his peace. Jesus held his peace. Before Pilate, before the council there, before the crowd, Jesus heard these lies against him. And he refused to speak. He refused to argue with the false, the false lies that were being portrayed. You know, silence refuses to legitimize falsehood. What does it say in Proverbs chapter 26 and verse 4? Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. Silence was powerful. Jesus had no reason to debate these lies. The false witnesses in the passage that we read did a great job enough proving themselves wrong by contradicting themselves. You know, the truth really doesn't didn't need to panic. Jesus had no reason to panic because um they were wrong. You know, silence refuses to legitimize falsehood. It also entrusts justice to God. When we're silent We are allowing, we are trusting that God is the ultimate end of justice. Psalm 37, verse 5 and 6 says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, and he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light. You know, Jesus here trusted his father. That his father, which was God, he didn't trust the court because the court was against him. What do you hear people say when they are accused? What's their first response? You know, our first motive is to retaliate, right? Hey, that no, that's a lie. You know, you're not gonna lie about me. Uh we want to retaliate. We want to make sure that our record, our name is clear. We want to defend ourselves. But when we stay silent We are entrusting that God is the ultimate end of justice. And justice justice is ultimately God's. When we yell or we lash out at our accuser, we are taking the justice out of God's hands. We're trying to Take care of it on our own. You know, silence also protects the soul. Proverbs 13 verse 3 says, He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. Having an angry defense often produces sinful speech. We can say things that we shouldn't be saying in the moment. We haven't had time to think through what we should say, and that can lead to sin. You know, it's possible not to sin even though you're being sinned against, right? Jesus refused to sin while being sinned against. And how did he do that? He stayed silent. Silence protects the soul. You know, if you're being accused, you could ask yourself this question: do I trust God enough to let the lies go unanswered? A lot of times we don't. We have to make sure we clear our name and and make sure that those other those people know and and we got to network and make sure everyone knows that maybe heard something that this is false. No. We should let God. We should trust God. We should leave it with God. Am I more concerned with righteousness or my own reputation? Many times we're too concerned about our reputation, too concerned about how people view us, too concerned about what the image is. You know, we need to let God take care of that. We need to allow God to vindicate for us on our behalf. So first be silent when the lies are spoken. Secondly, only speak when the truth is demanded. Only speak when the truth is demanded. I'm going very quick, so um Super Bowl, here we come. Verse 63 again, we see the pattern here. But Jesus held his peace, and the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tellest whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. The high priest said, I adjure thee by the living God. This was a formal oath. They were requiring him to speak here. If Jesus stayed silent, this would equate to denial. So he had to speak. So he does. He does speak. Jesus saith unto him, verse sixty four, this is Matthew twenty-six, verse sixty four. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said, Nevertheless I say unto you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. So he speaks only what he needed to say. You know, Jesus speaks when God's honor is at stake, and I believe we should do the same. When God's honor is at stake. Acts 5 verse 29 says, we ought to obey God rather than men. You know, our first and foremost person that we answer to is God. Over our authority here on earth, God is the first person that we answer to. And so when Jesus sees that God is um uh The truth is he has to answer here. He answers. I adjure thee by the living God. So he speaks You know, he answers truthfully. He said it in a concise statement. He does not speak um he could have said many other things. He I think he could have tried to say something to get out of it. But you know what? He speaks the truth. And he speaks because it honors God. He also speaks plainly, not defensively, right? Even when we do speak and and there's um uh something we want to answer, we might say, Well well You know, this is the you don't understand, or we try to be defensive, right? We put those the walls of defense up to try to get people to understand. You know, Matthew 26, verse 64 says, Jesus saith unto him, thou hast said. Matthew 5. 37 says, let your communication be yea, yay, nay, nay. It was very plain what Jesus said here. He wasn't prevaricating. He wasn't trying to beat around the bush. He just said the truth. And This truth was going to cost him. You know, no explanation was needed, no argument was needed, no manipulation on his behalf was needed Again, it's our human nature to get defensive. It's our human nature to try and protect our reputation, but not with Jesus. He stated the truth and he left it there. Jesus speaks even though he knew it would cost him John 18, 37 says, For this cause I came into the world that I should bear witness unto the truth. Jesus knew that his answer right here was going to seal his death. This is This is uh right before he gets crucified. This is that last the last um step before that happens. He knew it was gonna seal his death, but he said it anyways because that was the reason he came, to bear witness unto the truth. You know, the harsh truth here is that faithfulness doesn't always guarantee our safety. The truth is more important than anything that can happen to us. Jesus spoke the truth even though he knew it was going to cost him his life. But that's why he came. You know, some questions to ask yourself if if again if you're being accused of something, do I speak because truth am I speaking because the truth demands it, or am I speaking because of my pride because I have to get the last word in or because I have to defend myself. You know, am I willing to speak the truth even though it might cost me everything? Jesus did. And I have one more point tonight. Um again I'm uh trying to be quick here. Um just let me finish this last point. We saw Jesus only speaks spoke when the truth was demanded, but lastly we see Uh he was submissive when the outcome was unjust. He was submissive when the outcome was unjust. And this is the part we struggle with that I struggle with. Um leaving it in God's hands. After speaking the truth in verse 64, that was it. Chaos starts to happen after verse 64. Jesus stopped speaking and suddenly four false accusers that were prevalent in the story revealed themselves. The first was the religious leaders, the ones who accused Jesus. They accused him of being self-righteous. You know these Leaders rejected the truth because it confronted their sin. They hated Jesus because he was everything they weren't. He was right on the inside. They weren't. You know their religious language did not sanctify their sinful motives. They were wrong. But They accused in many ways. So the religious leaders were first one of the people accusing Jesus. Secondly, we see Pilate. Pilate. You know I always sympathize with him because he said, I find no fault in him. But he was in a position to not allow this to go through. You know, Pilate knew Jesus was innocent. We already read that. I find no fault in him. So, again, I believe this is the um this is not in the exact same story. This is the high priest here con um condemning him, but in John chapter 18 where I read earlier, Pilate was here. We see Pilate knew Jesus was innocent, but it was his authority that was unstable. He had a problem with his with himself, and and the problem was this, that Paul Pilate feared Rome more than he feared God. And that was the problem. When our image matters more than our integrity, injustice will be inevitable. You know, also Satan He's the great accuser, isn't he? He is under all of this. You know, if a brother in Christ accuses you, it's important to remember who the great accuser is. And that's Satan. Satan ultimately wants Everyone to accuse everyone. He he is the great accuser and he has been accusing from the beginning. The old accuser, the father of lies, the great corruptor He is the one who causes that confusion. And then the last accuser we see present here at Jesus' trial was the crowd. The crowd of people. I believe that they are also guilty as well. uh in John chapter 19. You know the crowds they were loud and crowds can be loud, you know, but they weren't very discerning, were they? They had the evidence. They had the facts. I find no fault in them. But they wanted something else. They were driven by their the momentum here of their emotions. You know, church family, we need to be control in control of our emotions. We can see the type of damage that can happen if we don't have those emotions under control. We see Jesus being put to death. And a part of the reason was because the crowd could not control their emotions. They wanted him crucified. I find no fault in him. What kind of person would put someone to death even though there was no evidence? It was people that were ruled by their emotions So how did Jesus respond? What was his ultimate response? This is what we can learn. What we can learn from when we were falsely accused. 1 Peter 2, verse 23 says, who when he was reveled, reveled not again. But committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. He entrusted himself to the Father. You know, Jesus here, I believe, he was man, he was human, he wanted to be vindicated, but he valued obedience over that vindication. He trusted God's timing. He committed himself to the Father, to him that judgeth righteously. Can we obey God without immediate vindication? Or do we have to feel vindicated? Do we have to get a word out? Do we have to make sure that people know that what the truth is? Do I trust God's judgment more than man's judgment, more than the human courts have to say about what the verdict is? Am I willing to be misunderstood for the sake of truth? Jesus was. Jesus was accused So that we could be forgiven. Jesus was condemned so that we could be justified. Jesus stood silent so that we could be declared righteous. Everything he went through was for us. Think about Barabbas, right? I read that in John chapter 18. Barabbas was sent free. He was allowed to go free. The last person that should be allowed to go free was Barabbas. More than any of us in here. Unless there's a murderer in here. I don't know. Um but it just it makes no sense. But it does. You know, I just with studying this, I just learned, I never really understood this, but Barabbas' name literally means son of the Father. Do you know who else was the son of the father? Jesus. That's that's really good right there. You know, Barabbas was a robber, that you know, an insurrectionist, a murderer. He was guilty of violent criminal deserving of punishment. Jesus was sinless and innocent, but he took Barabbas' place Pilate said, I find no fault in him. You know that is the gospel right there. That is the gospel. The gospel is that substitution. He took our place. He is the innocent. I am Barabbas. We are Barabbas. We are the guilty ones. We are the ones who have sinned. Yet Jesus has never sinned. You know, Jesus was falsely accused so that guilty men can be acquitted. Jesus was falsely accused so that condemned sinners can be justified. He went through that for us. You know the last person that walked this earth earth that should ever have been accused of anything wrong was Jesus. Yet he was a falsely accused of worse that ultimately led to his death. If anyone understands how you feel when you're falsely accused, it's Jesus. So take comfort in that. Jesus clearly leaves a pattern for us to follow. You know, vindication for our hard times, it might be delayed. You know, we we might not get the answer we're looking for. Others might think poorly of us. You know, our di our reputation might be tarnished. But again, vindication might be delayed, but with Jesus, it will never be denied You know, so bring those accusations that have someone accused you, bring those accusations, bring those wounds, take them to the one who has been falsely accused, so that you could be acquitted. It is the same one Who won will one day make all things right? How to handle false accusations biblically. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness to us, God. We come tonight before you acknowledging that you are the God of truth, and that nothing spoken here on earth is hidden from your eyes. Lord, many hearts here today might carry wounds that were unfair, accusations that were untrue, and judgments that were never right, God. You know every thought, every motive in our heart Every hidden thing, you know our hearts, God, and we rest that you know that. We rest in the fact that you are a judge and that you judge us righteously. Pray that we would not try to retaliate, but that we would entrust our reputations and our cause into your hands, God. That we would allow you to work on our behalf. Trusting that you will bring justice in your time. Just thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for this message. I just pray that it could help someone in some way today. In your name. Amen.