Turn your Bibles tonight to Proverbs chapter number three. Proverbs chapter number three. We're going to get into the Word of God tonight. I don't know exactly when uh I'll start another topic, another Bible study verse by verse. Uh there's just a few weeks here in in the interim where we're throwing some of these how-tos, some practical things. And uh we looked two weeks ago at you know how to comfort the grieving and I talked about possibly dealing with how to grieve and I I've decided that we would leave that for grief share. That's a 13-week course and would benefit anybody and it's already offered. It'll be in the fall here, not too not too far away. So I would encourage anybody to come and be a part of that. You'll learn much, I'm sure. And so we're going to move on. Tonight, we're going to deal with how to make wise choices. how to make wise choices. There are some people that believe the only way to make uh your choice in life or to learn how to make good choices is to make a bunch of bad ones uh that kind of mentality of sowing your wild oats or uh you know just do it and uh you know that old uh thing of learning by hard knocks, the school of hard knocks and and that's how you learn to make Wise choices is just making a bunch of stupid choices. That's one way to learn, but you don't have to learn that way You don't have to uh make a whole bunch of foolish choices and end up scarring your life and uh creating a lot of damage before you learn how to make wise choices. And we want to learn to make wise choices And the Lord gives us a lot of wisdom in that regard for the young man, which is found in Proverbs, as well as us as young believers or as Christians. to just make wise choices, making the right decisions. And I know sometimes you wish, man, I wish I could have confidence that I was making the right decision every time I don't know that I could give you something that would give you that 100% confidence that you're making the right decision every time, but I believe the Bible does give us some pretty good direction. And uh if you would follow the biblical principles regarding making wise choices, you could certainly uh avoid making a whole lot of foolish decisions that people make. You could minimize the number of foolish decisions you make and maximize the quantity of wise decisions that you make if we just follow the directions that God gives us in His Word. The fact of the matter is, is uh especially young people, you're making decisions right now that are going to shape the rest of your life. Decisions that are going to impact you not for just the next few years, but forever, for all of your days. And many times there's scars that people carry in their body, in their mind, in their spirit because of things that they did when they were young and if they have the opportunity to go back, they would without question change it and not do those things. They would make different choices. And so you have not crossed that road yet. So make wise choices as you're young. Make decisions that are biblically based and would guide you in the right track. We're talking about the difference between having uh a home and having a happy home. We're talking about being able to have right relationships with your family and co-workers and friends. About Living the rest of your life with scars from foolish decisions or joy and blessing from making right decisions There's such a blessing that comes from having made a wise and right decision. And there is so much heartache and struggle that comes when you make foolish or unwise decisions and that applies to every part of your life. There's so many examples in my mind uh going through my mind right now as we're just saying that, just the idea that A a foolish decision creates so much heartache. And sometimes that's heartache that you endure for many years, or it takes months or years to Grow past it or to get through it and finally get to the point where that decision is no longer uh wreaking havoc in your life. Uh and sometimes you never get past them But when you make wise choices, you have the opposite, and that is you have the blessing of having made a right choice. And a lot of times the wise choice is the harder choice. But that's what brings the blessings of God and brings benefit in your life and joy to your heart. Many times, especially young people, they tend to think, well, I'm making this choice just for today, that I'm I'm deciding just to do this today But the fact of the matter is, is today shapes tomorrow. Today shapes all of our tomorrows. And what we do today impacts tomorrow. And so we've got to make wise choices. In order to have blessing tomorrow instead of burden tomorrow. You could consider the biblical example of Lot. Who thought, well, I'm just gonna pitch my tent towards Sodom. It just looked like that was the more advantageous route Out of the two things, I'm just going to weigh these out. I'm just going to look and see what seems like it would be best. And he decided he was going to pitch his tent towards Sodom, going to go towards those well-watered plains. And then we see down the road, because of that foolish, unwise decision, that he reaches the point where he's ready to turn his daughters over to the perverted, wicked men of the city. And ultimately God sends a messenger and his life is saved, but his wife's life is lost because she turns back. And you think about the heartache and the struggle and the turmoil. The Bible says that he vexed his righteous soul daily. Why? Because of a decision Made based on what is most advantageous instead of what we need to do We want to follow the biblical principles here. First of all, tonight, if we're going to make wise decisions, just three simple points, and we'll we'll be done. First, you need to completely trust in God. In Proverbs chapter 3 Very familiar verses. You probably have these memorized, but trust in the Lord. 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge Him. And he shall direct thy paths. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Remember, this is advice given from a father to a son. This is compassionate concern that a father has to try and guide his son in his life and saying, here's how you end up with a successful life in all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. G. Campbell Morgan said uh he was a great expositor and I would encourage you to read any of the sermons or uh uh commentaries that he's written, but he said that this particular verse was very, very precious to him. For thirty-three years he carried it with him. all the time because on the day in which he was leaving to go to school, his father came to him and said, I want to give to you something that will help you in your life. And he handed him Proverbs 3. 6. He said, My father gave this to me without comment. Or advice other than the comment of his godly example that went along with it. And he said, I carried this with me all these years, this advice from a father to a son to help me in my life, to guide me in my life. The fact of the matter is, beloved, is it's contrary to everything that's drilled into us through society and media and schools today, but we need to acknowledge God. Not ourselves. God is 100% trustworthy. Our own heart and our own life is not. Our own mind and our own deductive reasoning can be faulty. The person that we cannot trust is ourself. We should know that without question. And yet often we look to ourselves for our own examples, our own direction. This world will tell you to trust yourself, trust your heart, do what feels right. I saw a clip that said you need to forget about what he wants, forget about what your parents want. Forget about what your friends want. What do you want? That's the mentality in society today. Forget about what anybody else thinks, whatever anybody else thinks would be good. You do what you want to do. That's the world's mentality, and people have bought into that lock, stock, and barrel. Everything this world does pushes you to simply please self. One person I read several different life coaches on uh guiding young people and making life's decisions One said this. You need to become more sensitive to yourself. Hear the message of your mind, your body, your spirit. But ultimately, you must understand there is no wrong decision. That is idiotic, friend. There are lots of wrong decisions. In just about every kind of every stage of life and everything that you're going to be doing, there's uh a right decision or a wrong decision. There are so many wrong decisions, and there's certainly Many decisions that would be worse off than better off, but this world wants to remove the uh idea that there's any absolutes. Somebody said, Well, there's no absolutes, and they said, Are you sure? Yeah. Right. You know, th there are absolutes. And there is punishment, or there is certainly detriment to making a foolish decision. To say, to, I mean, with a life coach telling a young person, hey, there's no wrong decision, that's idiotic Timothy went through a red light in uh Chicago and somebody hit him. That's a wrong decision. You say, oh, there's no wrong decisions. Do what you want to do. No, there's wrong decisions, and when you make the wrong decisions, there is penalties for that. The Bible tells us very clearly the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? We need to get in the habit of acknowledging God any time that we're making decisions outside of the structure of the guidance of the Word of God and the Holy Spirit, we're on the path to destruction. The only person that we can trust 100% is God. His love is sure. His love is stabilizing. Proverbs 16, verse number 3 says, Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts shall be established. It's a sad fact, but there are many Christians that live like they're atheist. I mean they would never say that. They would never say there is no God, but when you consider the fact that Day after day after day they make decisions for their life without ever acknowledging God. In all thy ways, what does it say? Acknowledge, in all thy ways, acknowledge Him. In all thy ways, acknowledge Him. But Christians are living their life day after day after day, and decision after decision after decision without acknowledging God at all. Without ever realizing or thinking about the fact that God is there and God is in control and He wants to guide and direct our lives and we're just making the decision living like we're an atheist. The soul that is not submitted to the Lord is bound to make foolish choices. Following God is the only sure way to keep from disaster. It is certainly not just following what feels good. The Bible tells us to let the peace of God rule in your heart, when you're making decisions, acknowledging God Talking to God, considering if the Lord wills, if this is what God wants, if God will allow me. Considering God in all your ways, acknowledging Him. And then letting the peace of God rule. And if God doesn't give you that peace in your heart, you say, well, how do you know if you have peace or not? It's practice. The more you acknowledge God, the more confident you will be in God's direction and leading. If it's very new to you and you have not done that in your life, you haven't prayerfully uh work through some things. It might be you're like, well, I I'm not really sure. You might have to figure it out, but I can tell you what, you'll be a whole lot better off. praying and asking God to help you to make a right and wise decision and submitting to Him and saying, I want to yield to you. Would you give me peace? And Lord, I'm I'm young and I'm new at this and I don't have a lot of confidence, but Lord, would you uh would you show me and God will lead you God will guide you. God will direct you in your life. The closer you are to God in your daily walk, the more right decisions you'll make. It is a consistent submission to his will. In all thy ways acknowledge him. It's a consistent submission to the will of God. Just an acknowledgement, just an understanding, realizing that God is there and saying, okay, I want your will. Not my will, but thine be done. Whatever it is, every aspect, every stage of life, God, I want your will for my life. Can I ask you, are you presently aware of His control and direction in your life? Are you presently aware of his control and direction? Are you consistently conscious of the fact that he sees and hears all that you do? You see, the one who lives like an atheist is not conscious of the fact that God is watching, that God sees and hears everything we do, that we are to be in submission to Him. And you can take comfort and gain confidence in the promise that is tied to this condition. We were just talking about conditioned promise verses, and here's another one for you. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and what's the promise? He shall direct thy paths. That's a promise from God. He's going to direct your paths. We're talking about how to make wise decisions in your life, how to make sure you're doing what you should be doing. Well, in all thy ways acknowledge Him. The more of your life that you're submitted and yielded and acknowledging God, the more closely you're walking with Him, the more direction you'll have for your life, the more confidence you'll have in the decisions that you're making. Instead of it just being a well, I hope this is okay, or well, I just hope this is right, you'll have confidence that you're making right decisions because you have it consistently acknowledged God. He's going to direct your paths. Have you ever had to follow somebody through traffic? I mean you guys are here and you're like, hey, let's go over to this restaurant and we're going to eat dinner. And and you don't know how to get there, and you're like, well, I'll just follow you. Now that happens a lot less now with GPS and everybody just pops in their phone and they all can they all can If we get separated, I have it, you know. And so there's not the anxiety, but those of you that are older remember free uh cell phones and all that where you could just punch it in. Uh when you're following somebody and then traffic and then all of a sudden you get caught in a light and you're like, oh no, uh he's taken off, he's driving, and and now there's five cars in between us and You're trying to look and and and make sure you can see him and you're just hoping he doesn't turn off. And then if you're trying to maybe squeeze through traffic and get caught up so that you can Get good visualization where he's at, so you don't lose them and and the anxiety you feel if you think they turned and and you hadn't seen them in a while. You think, oh they turned, oh no, I've missed it, now I don't know where I'm going, I've got no idea This is pre-cell phone when you could just pull it up and call and say, hey, I missed you. Where are you at? I mean this is back, you know, a few years. A lot of these kids have no idea But that's what it was like. You're just following and you're tough out of luck, man. So you gotta try and find each other again. Driving around in a car, no way to call, no way to text, you know, just hoping, you know. And That what I'm saying is that's what it ought to be for the Christian looking for God. In all that ways acknowledge him, God, okay, I'm going this way. Alright, this is what you want? Okay I don't want to miss a turn where you want me to turn, Lord. I want to be right in the path you want me in, looking for him, looking for his direction all the time, because we're not trying to end up where we want to end up. We want to end up where he wants to lead us. And that means we're looking for him, watching for where he wants to direct and guide our lives. You want to make wise decisions, right decisions uh choices and completely trusting God. Secondly, this is just practical, but you need to collect all the goods. You need to get the information. You need to have some some you know get all the facts. Proverbs 13, verse number 16 says, Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge, but a fool layeth open his folly. You see, the prudent man dealing with knowledge. He says, okay, what are the facts? What is the information that I need? What is pertinent to this situation so that I can make a wise choice, a right decision? But a fool layeth open his folly and just says, Oh, I'm just gonna go do what I want to do. Yeah, he said, get the facts. An executive, somebody said is a person who can without the facts make a quick decision and occasionally be correct as an executive Listen, listen to this. This is going to blow your mind. One of these life coaches that are guiding young people today said this about how to make decisions. Ultimately, it is probably wrong to use any logic at all. This may sound crazy or maybe even delusional to most. Pretty much. But especially when it comes to life-changing decisions, you have to do what feels right. Whether it is your gut or your heart or your intuition, whatever, you just have to know the dots are going to connect. That's the advice they're giving young people today. Is it any wonder young people are missing up in the mess they're in? Oh, don't worry about any facts Don't worry about getting the information. Don't worry about using logic or deductive reasoning. You just do what feels good. No, there's no wrong answers. There's no wrong decisions. You can do whatever you want. You just have to trust that your intuition is going to guide you and all the dots are going to connect. That's foolishness. A prudent man dealeth with knowledge. God didn't just say pray, he said watch and pray. Have your head up, have your eyes open, be observant. Luke 14, 28, says, which for which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost whether he has sufficient to finish it? Counting the cost. Looking at all the facts. In 2008, the housing crisis that just about destroyed the U. S. economy was by and large due to the fact that they were giving exorbitant loans that people could not afford to people who had no idea what they were doing. And they were trying to determine who's really at fault here. Is it the bank because they didn't inform the borrower of all the details? Or is it the borrower who borrowed the money and should have got informed? And so they put a bunch more laws that lenders have to, you know, inform borrowers of different things. But listen, a borrower with his head screwed on straight is going to get the facts. I know of a guy that uh bought a $400, $400,000 house, $400 would have been nice, $400,000 house, and He bought it on what he did not know was an interest-only loan. He was paying on that loan interest only for 10 years He went to figure out how much he owed on the house, and after 10 years of making payments, he still owed more on the house than he did when he bought it. This is a relatively bright individual. You want to say, how in the world could you make that decision, sign on the dotted line, and not know that you're paying a hundred percent interest W how could you not look at the payment schedule when you get the bill every month and it shows you the balance of principle that's due? For ten years you've been investing in this and now you owe more than you did when you started. It's not gathering the facts, it's sticking your head in the sand. I uh read a humorous uh study of interesting facts and they said they did a study, they watched uh 100 ostages for eighty years and they have yet to see one of them stick their head in the sand. So I don't know. I don't know if that's true or not, but Uh you know, that's the idea is just sticking your head in your sand to hide and and pretend that it's not that way and that's not you need to get the information. Luke 1431 says Or what king going to make war against another king sitteth not down first to consult whether he be able to with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him or with twenty thousand just saying look if I'm going to go into battle how many do I need? How much do I need to get this done? How much money is it going to take? What are all of the facts? Getting all of the information to try and guide you so that you can make a right decision I wonder how many foolish decisions could be avoided if we would have just collected all the facts I can tell you right now, those of you that have lived a few years, every one of you, and even some of the olders you're hearing, the amens, they would say, we've all said this. Knowing what I know now, if I could have gone back there, I would have made a different decision. Because of what I've learned, I understand, and I've learned some things, and I realize boy, this would have been a better decision back here. If I could go back, I would make a better decision, a different decision How many foolish decisions could have been avoided if we would have just collected all of the facts, got all the goods, thinking through something all the way to completion. Proverbs 10 and verse number 5, he that gathereth in summer is wise son, but he that sleepeth and harvest is the son that causes shame Thinking, well, here's the time to do it. This is the facts. This is the information. This is what I need in order to be able to make a wise decision Purchases are very evident and immediate ways of seeing these decisions. But understanding how loans work and knowing, you know what It is not the time to buy a house when people are offering forty thousand dollars over the asking price because that's the house they want, and there's ten buyers right now. That's not the time to buy the house. That's foolish. You're getting yourself in trouble. I know somebody that uh Coming up to 2008, bought uh a house. And in 2008, when the housing crisis hit, they lost over $100,000 worth of value in their home overnight Because they bought at the peak, the height of the market. Everybody wanted this home and and she overpaid for it and and she got it. And ultimately she and a lot of other people they just said, Well, I owe way more on the house than it's worth I'm just gonna let the bank repossess it. Just because that's uh that's the only thing I can do. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna stop making my payments, the bank's gonna repossess it, and I'm gonna start back from scratch. You know how much that kind of a decision hurts All the money that they put on down payment, all the money that they put into that house up to that far is gone, lost? Why? Because they couldn't wait. They couldn't be patient like, oh, I want this house now. When the housing market is at its peak is not the time to go buy. It's good for the for the sellers. They you know the the the realtor knows, hey, we're in a seller's market They're going quick. If you want a house, you're gonna have to pay over asking price, and people are getting top dollar and beyond. It's just a foolish time to buy. Knowing about interest rates and how it works, is it's smart to learn those things, to get all the facts You should never be upside down on your loan and uh car loan. You should at any time be able to sell your car for more than you have in it That way you can get out of that mess. If something happens and you lose your job and like, oh man, I can't make this car payment. Well it's not a big deal. It's worth uh 18,000 and I only owe ten thousand on it. I can sell it. The problem is the majority of Americans uh owe 18,000 and it's only worth six. Or even worse than that, because some salesman has talked them into rolling over their previous car loan into their new car two or three times. Now they owe almost double what the car is worth anyway, and they're thinking, well, I just have a payment. It doesn't matter. It's basically going to I'm just paying rent. But the problem is you're presuming upon a future that is unassured. It's unwise. It's because you're not getting all the facts. You're not making wise decisions based on the information that you have at hand. Proverbs 31 woman, that woman that we praise for the gifts that she has, the blessing that she is to her family, she is not afraid of the snow for her household. For all her household are clothed with scarlet. What he's saying is she's not afraid because why? Because she planned ahead. Because she's made this closure ready. She's planned for the winter that's coming She's looked ahead and said, hey, uh I'm not stupid. I know that there's gonna come a time when the economy's not gonna be as good as it is today. I know there's gonna come a time when they're gonna be doing layoffs and I might get laid off So I need to be, instead of spending every dime I have right now, I need to be planning for the winter that may come, which more than likely probably will come. I need to plan for the flat tire, for the water heater that's going to blow up or the roof that's going to need to be replaced We gotta start planning ahead, thinking ahead, get all the facts. If you if we would just be patient, it would go a long way in a lot of these decisions where people get themselves in a mess. And these are just what I was talking about here is just simple financial decisions. And financial decisions many times are the easiest things to solve. Relationships are far harder. And far more important. And making decisions about relationships that you have and these things like this outside of the direction or leading of the Holy Spirit of God. can create great problems for you that you will live with for the rest of your life. You want to make wise decisions? Well Consider, completely trust God. In all their ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct that past. We need to Collect all the goods, get all of the information. Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge. And lastly, tonight, we need to communicate with the godly. Proverbs 12, 15 says, The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. There is safety in a multitude of counselors. Getting some wisdom from other people, talking to godly individuals. You know, everyone that ever made a stupid decision An unwise decision did so thinking they were right. Thinking that they were right. Thinking, this is what I need to do. This is what I should do. They they thought they were right. You see, but The way of a fool is right in his own eyes because that's the human nature. We feel like we're right. We feel like we've got it, but There's safety in a multitude of counselors. We need to seek some communication, some wisdom from some other godly individuals Seek godly counsel and it doesn't have to be the pastor. Certainly I'm here and happy to try and help where I can, but there's other godly men in here, especially if you have some that are uh especially gifted in a particular area Seek their counsel. They may know about this or they may know about that or would this be a good idea or this field? I know that they're they're very good at that. Talk to those individuals Ladies or men that are godly. The problem is we're so full of pride today. We're so full of pride. We're we we we and I see it in young couples That are just getting married, they're just getting started out, and they do not want to seek counsel They don't want to really get honest with somebody and say, here's where we at, here's what we're doing, this is what we need. And I'm not talking about their relationship or whatever. I'm talking about life decisions. Should we take this step? Should we buy a house right now? Should we get a car right now? What should we do with this right now? Just talking, but we feel like we've got the world by the tail. We've got it all figured out. We know what we're doing. We don't need anybody to give us any advice. And I see so many young people making decisions that are going to set them back 10, 15 years That could be easily avoided if they would have just asked somebody. And in hindsight, I look back at my own life. And I say, man, I wish I would have sought some counsel. I wish I would have sought somebody with some years of maturity and said, Hey, what should we do in this area? How do I do this? It would have helped us out. It would have made a difference. Instead, we we we grinned and bear it and we made it through and Mary put up with it. But we could have avoided some of that if I would have sought some counsel. So I'm just trying to encourage the younger generation here and all of us as we make decisions. You know, I don't think we're ever past the place where we don't need some safety in the decisions we're making. And say, hey, what do you think about this, brother? What do you think about this, sister? How do you view this? Or what do you know what the Bible says about this? I just need some wisdom. Communicate with the godly. If you have to think very long to remember the last time you were wrong, there's something wrong with you. Okay. That that's the way of the fool is right in his own eyes. Here hear the verse we read, right? So what I'm saying is if you have to think very long to remember the last time you were wrong. I'm not saying you haven't been wrong in a long time. I'm just saying in your own mind you just think you haven't been wrong. We have been wrong. We're just not willing to admit it Those individuals who are always right, you know, they haven't made a mistake in 20 years, or at least they think so. You know, they're also very hard to get along with. Because it's always somebody else's fault for whatever is going on in their life. For whatever trouble, whatever hardship they're in, whatever problem that they're enduring right now is because of somebody else in their life. Because certainly it's not because of them. We saw that on Sundays we talked about Saul. Certainly Saul was in the condition he was in because David ate a little bit of honey after battle, not because he offered sacrifices when God told him not to. It's not because he was in sin. No, it must be because David. The person who's always right and unwilling to admit when they're wrong, the Bible says here, is a fool. He's always right in his own eyes. Everyone in here is ever we we we we're we're all given to making unwise decisions. It's human nature. That's why there's safety in a multitude of counselors. It it is wise to talk to somebody, to give some advice. I know that we're given to that because the Bible says the heart of man is desperately wicked. We cannot know the direction or desires of our own heart and how well they're going to line up with God. We need some wisdom. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Let's acknowledge God. Let's seek some counsel from others. Get the information we need and communicate with the godly. Proverbs 1522 says, without counsel, purposes are disappointed, but in the multitude of counselors, they are established. Your goal or desire might be to accomplish a particular thing in your life. You may think, well, I want to reach financial stability, and here's how I'm going to go about it. Well, it'd be good to get some wisdom because your goal and your purpose of getting to there, the Bible says without counsel, your purpose is disappointed. It's disrupted. The plan is not going to reach fruition. You need some wisdom and some counsel to make those right decisions to end up where it's a worthy ambition. It's a great goal. I was listening to Dave Ramsey this week and a pastor called in and said, uh, hey, uh I am, I've been following you for a long time. My wife and I are 100% debt-free. We're going into the ministry, and the church is going to give me a very small salary, and I'm really excited about that, but my goal is to get to where ultimately I don't even need to take a salary from the church. And how I want to do that is I want to get some Airbnbs. And I'm going to take some money we have, and he said he had whatever, $25,000 or something. Oh no, he had a house in another state. And he said, I want to I want to use that as an Airbnb from another state. And Dave Ramsey said, That's foolish. He says, first of all, I wouldn't do an Airbnb and he he gave him three reasons why. And he said, secondly, having it in another state is Is really dumb. And and uh he said, You're not there, you're not hands-on, you're gonna have to pay for everything. And the guy says, Oh no, no, I've got family that lives right in town and they are gonna be there to help out. He's like, now that's really dumb He said, That is you do not want to do that first of all unless you're gonna pay your family what it's worth, then you're taking advantage of your family, you're gonna end up creating problems in in your relationships. That's just I'm just telling you, that's stupid You shouldn't do that, you know. So the guys the guy he said Dave Ramsey said, Hey, you've got good ambition, good goal. I like the idea of getting the place where the church doesn't have to pay you anything and you're self-sufficient, but I'm telling you the path you're heading down to go get there is not wise. Let's do this. Let's take let's sell the property that's in another state. Take that money, buy a small house where you're at, and uh rent it out to somebody that's going to stay there. Don't do an Airbnb. The workload. You don't want the workload and all of that. He explained a bunch of things to him. Hey, he was just giving some of them wisdom. His purpose was good, but he says, hey, your purpose is going to be disappointed. You may have big dreams that are very good, but they'll be disappointed. But with a multitude of counselors, they can be established. Get some advice, get some wisdom. Do you think this is a good idea? Is this a good path to take? Is there anything that I haven't thought of? And let me say, if you go to somebody for advice, it would be wise to listen. I know ultimately they don't know God's will for you. That's between you and God. But there's safety in a multitude of counselors, and a guy's pretty foolish if he continually goes and asks for advice and then doesn't heed any of it. You need to say, well what if they tell me you know what I don't want to hear? Well, that's probably gonna happen. Uh that's that's probably gonna happen. You're seeking for advice. Let me ask you, you go to your friend and you say, hey, do you think this is a good idea? Do you suppose their desire is just to ruin your day? Their desire is to just, you know, disrupt your plans. I mean their goal is to help you. Their desire is to just be as much help to you as they can be So if their advice goes against what you want to do, don't take it personal and get offended. Be glad that they're willing to be honest with you. That they're telling you the truth. They want you to be successful. They want you to be happy. They want what's best for you. That's where that advice is coming from. Some people say, well, I knew you were going to say that. Yeah, that's a lot of times why people don't ask for advice because they know the answer before they come. And what they want is somebody just to agree with them and tell them, yeah, that's a good idea, why don't you go do that? I think the guy on uh you know uh calling Dave Ramsey was probably a little dis disappointed that like, man, I thought I had a great plan. And and Dave just shot it all up and said, no, this is dumb. You need to do this, do this, do this. You know, he would be wise to heed that advice. I mean, I don't know if he will or not. But that's what you call and get advice for. So if we're going to make wise choices, how to make wise choices, simply completely trust God. He is 100% trustworthy. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Collect the goods, get the information, learn, get the facts, get all the information you can, and then seek some godly counsel. Communicate with the godly. Just get advice and know where you're at And that's how we can make wise choices. Let's close with a word of prayer.