You can turn your Bibles to Proverbs chapter five. Proverbs chapter five. I would normally preach a message like this in February, some time ago. It's been a few years since we took the whole month of February to look at the family, but uh Really felt that we needed to address this. Uh just I I learned you can't take for granted that everything's okay. That that Everybody just, you know, we're all we're all plugging along and everything seems to be fine and and and you know maybe we we pretend or or put on a happy face and act like everything's okay, but Um, you know, when Mary and I began uh dating, you guys know I've told you the story before that I told her I didn't want to get married and so there's no reason for us to be dating because I'm not getting married. And she's like, what And I said, because I I just uh I I'm not interested in being miserable. And it seems like so many people that get married You give them a few years and they're miserable. They're just unhappy. They're just existing. And I I don't want to live I don't want to live that way And so I was quite apprehensive, afraid to get married, because even in in churches you see so many people that e they can name the name of Christ and and they're they're in God's house, but It seems as though uh you know they're just existing somewhere between a calm storm and chaos. That they're just kind of enduring one another. Um they're just a few steps away from hating each other. And it shouldn't be that way. I think if you're going to be committed to each other, committed to one another, you you say, okay, uh uh divorce is not an option, so We've got to live together. We might as well be happy. There's no reason to live together and be miserable. Amen. I mean who wants to be miserable? So if you say that, you just determine it and say, Well, I want to be I want to be happy. And so then that means we have to Work this thing out. That means we have to figure out how to live together and be happy and how to make this marriage thing work, how God planned for it to be I don't know what happens in a with a couple between the time when they are dating and within a few years of getting married You know, so when you're dating, you're in that pursuit mode. You're in that mood mode where, you know, love covers a multitude of sin And and it really doesn't matter what they did. It could be terrible, but it's okay. You can overlook it. You can forgive it. You're trying to put your best foot forward. You're trying to look your best. You're trying to do your best. I mean you're trying to uh minimize any of their weaknesses or any of their problems. Somebody else will come to you and say, well Didn't you know that she does this? And you'll be like, well, that's not that big a deal. I mean, we can overlook that. I'm uh that's fine. We're not going to talk about it. But then after a few years of being married Those little things are all of a sudden the only thing you talk about. And love's not covering a multitude of sin anymore. And and you're just existing together, and it's a sad commentary on many homes today that that's the way it is should be. So tonight I just want to give you some very practical biblical reminders of how to avoid being married and miserable. How to avoid being married and miserable. And just going to give you some just some simple, straightforward biblical truths. uh beginning here with help for the husband. First of all, you need to be faithful. Be faithful to your mate. Just we need husbands that are just flat out committed to and planning to be faithful to their mate. And and not in in I mean in every way. Faithfulness. Faithful to love and follow and and be with her. Be physically faithful. Proverbs chapter five, there's several verses here. Look in verse number four fifteen Proverbs five fifteen drink waters of thy out of thine own cistern and running waters out of thy own well. This is the wife that God has given you, the glorious relationship that he ordained the home and husband and wife relationship. And that is where you're supposed to be going. Be physically faithful to her. Proverbs 5, verse number 20. Says, And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman and embrace the bosom of a stranger? Why would you do that? Beloved young people and adults, what we need to do is we need to be careful. We need to protect ourselves. Don't put ourselves in a situation that opens the door for that to happen. Because the fact of the matter is, is we're all just sinners saved by grace. We all have this old flesh. And that means a prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. That means you don't go to the place where she is. You avoid situations that can put you and open the door for opportunity for you to get involved with somebody you shouldn't be involved with. You know if somebody has uh uh their eye on you, or your wife knows. There's been more than once my wife came to me and she says, um, that lady Is a little too friendly with you. And I'm like, no, nah, I don't think so. You're being paranoid. You better listen to her. Ladies have that sense. I remember more than once my mom telling my dad, uh, you need to watch her. Like she is a little bit too friendly. She's a she has got her eye on you. The way that she carries herself or gets when she's around you or or whatever, you just need to be careful. Don't put yourself in the situation that would open the door For you to be unfaithful. Look at Proverbs 5, there, verses 8 through 10. Remove thy way far from her. Come not nigh the door of her house. Lest thou give thine honor unto others and thy years unto the cruel, lest strangers be filled with thy wealth and thy labors be in the house of a stranger. You're going to destroy your home It's far easier to just protect yourself and not get in the place where there's somebody that's too friendly, somebody that's too casual, somebody that's a little bit too touchy. You've got to guard yourself against that. And you young men that aren't married yet, when the time comes that you get married, you're going to have to take these steps to protect yourself. Don't let that person get too friendly. Don't be flirty with other women. Don't give your wife or any other person a reason to suspect that you've been unfaithful. You need to be very clear and upfront in your dealings. All your dealings, very clear and up front. Don't give anybody the opportunity to even suspect. You know, any dishonesty destroys trust. There was a lady that got pulled over speeding and uh she had to go to court. She hid the speeding ticket from her husband. And then she had to go to court. She thought she could get it thrown out, but she didn't get it thrown out. And so she ended up having to pay a fine. She paid the fine with her check. And then she thought, well, he's gonna see it in the checkbook, so what am I gonna do? And so she wrote down in the checkbook she put one pullover, forty seven eighty Now when that comes out, when that gets known inadvertently, somehow, what does that do to trust? Like, well I I was I mean it was I got pulled over and that's what it was. But you know you weren't being forthright. You know you weren't being honest And if you want to avoid the appearance of evil, then you've got to be very clear and forthright. Any deception destroys trust. Be communicate that you want to come home, that where where you are when you can't come home, if you're delayed and you're going to be late, you know, it's just communication. Communication. Men you need to be careful where your eyes go. Your mate sees your eyes. And everybody else sees them too. I mean you've seen other people, uh they'll say something like, hey, my eyes are right here. Because your eyes were looking somewhere else They can see it, and other people see it. And I know in the wicked world we live in, it's everywhere we go. So you've got to beg God and work hard to have a pure mind and control your eyes. But that is a form of faithfulness to your wife. Is is watching what these are looking at. Being careful where your eyes are going. And your wife will see that and she'll appreciate that. that you're controlling your eyes because she knows what's out there. She sees the the improper dress that's all around and the things that would be appealing to a man. She understands that and when she sees you on purpose avoiding that she appreciates it. You don't need to be commenting on girls' appearance And I don't mean just like a little five-year-old, like, man, you got a pretty dress on today. You know, I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about other ladies. What they're wearing, their dress, how they happen to look in that dress. It was a few years ago, um, a girl that was in our bus route She's much older now. She has her own kids. She's all married. But she was at our bus route. We used to take her to church and she had a streak of gray hair. And I'm standing there talking to her and this gray hair came up and her her husband's there. Right, we're just chatting. I didn't mean anything by it. But I I looked and she's like, you know, I don't know. I mean I'm a little embarrassed about it. I said, no, no, it looks dignified. It looks good. I think you should leave it And right away my mind is like, Caleb, you shouldn't have said that. That is not your place to be telling another woman she looks good. And this is one of our bus kids. This was not and I said it in front of her wife. I was not by any means being improper, but the Holy Spirit pricked my heart and said, that's not you shouldn't be commenting like that. And we've got to be careful, men. You say, well that's that's too far. Yeah, well, how many men are falling into sin today? Because they aren't being careful. They aren't being careful with their words. They're not being careful with their hands. They're being too touchy. There is power in touch. There's power in touch, and even if it's a casual touch, Sunday was uh Don and Debbie's last day at church And of course being their last day, everybody was hugging everybody, you know. I told Debbie, I says, man, you guys got a hug in church around here. And she's like, I have hugged more people today than I have in seven years. She says, this is so uncomfortable for me. You know, like all these people. I'm like, I just thought that's the way you guys were, you know, which I knew they're not. Uh but it was just their last day and so everybody was hugging everybody, all these people, you know, saying goodbyes and stuff. But you need to be careful about that And and just it's it's guarding yourself, it's protecting yourself so you don't get yourself in a mess. Proverbs 6, verse 27 and 28 says, Can a man take fire in his bosom, bosom and his clothes not be burned? That's talking about the fire that starts inside your soul when you touch the opposite gender that you shouldn't be touching. So some help for the husband here. You need to be faithful. Be faithful with your eyes and your hands and your and where you're looking. And don't get yourself in a place where you can open the door for any type of unfaithfulness. Be a good provider. Be a good provider for your family. This is 1 Timothy 5. 8 says, but if any provide not for his own, especially for those of his own house, he denies the faith and worse is worse than an infidel. We know that we're supposed to be a provider for our family, but it's more than just a paycheck. To be a provider for their home is more than just bringing home some money and saying, well, here's the money. I put a roof over your head and that's good enough. No, being a provider for their home is is more than that. It means you provide security. That you provide a home, but the home is secure and the home is taken care of. You know, there the front door is not falling off. There's not water running down the ceiling in the bathrooms. You know, the that the the home is taken care of. It's it's functional. She doesn't have to live in a mess. The kids don't have to endure uh a nightmare every day in the home. Being a provider means you provide the home that's in good repair and and is sound and it's safe. You obviously provide for the table, food to put on the table and meet the needs of the family in that regard. You know, you just need to be industrious. There's a lot of people today, it seems like uh more and more less industrious. They don't want to get out and they don't want to work. They they don't want to labor to do what needs done. They uh are wanting to paycheck without getting without doing the work and so they're is even if they're willing to go to work when they come home, there's nothing left to do. And I know we get tired, but the house needs fixed. The wood needs chopped, the door needs painted, you know, the roof needs patched. Th there's always little things that have to be done on the house. and and you have to be industrious to get them done. You have to be on purpose. Like we've got to get to that. Otherwise it'll be ten years and you still haven't done it. And I know that's been the intention. It's been the plan. We're going to clean the garage out Next year. You know, we're gonna we're gonna do this. It's gonna be the plan. You have to be industrious and say, okay, let's get we're gonna get after it. And uh do do what you need to do. Uh just be industrious, do what you so you can provide in that safe shelter for her. Be a self-starter, work hard, have some drive, have a plan for the family. A plan. That's part of security. It's not just we're not just existing, but we have a plan. Here's what we're doing. This is where we're going as a family Here's the retirement plan, here's the plan for paying off the house, here's the plan to get the car paid off, here's the the plan to pay off this debt, or here's our plan for getting through to this place and here's our plan for the children and here's our are you planning are you thinking are you just living each day just letting life happen to you I think one of the reasons a lot of couples get into a mess is because they just let life happen to them instead of living their life on purpose. With a plan. Do you have a plan, direction that we're headed? Well, I was gonna say you're gonna like this one, but you might not. You need to be a good lover. Okay, you need to love your wife. And sometimes men have a hard time with this. It's not my personality or whatever. Now I give Mary a hard time all the time, and my kids know that. You need to your wife needs to feel pursued. She needs to know that you want to be with her, that you desire her, that you are looking looking at her and that you want to be with her. That'd be something she needs to feel pursued. It was there when you were pursuing her when you were dating. But now that you want her, you just oh well we're married, I don't have to pursue her anymore. No, that's something that has to continue for the rest of your life She needs to feel pursued that you're you're going after her, that you're putting thought into it, and you're doing things that are special for her. That you're you're doing things beyond, I'm not just saying, you know, flowers on Valentine's Day. I'm saying, what are you doing to win her heart today? To keep her heart, to let her know that you're going after her. Let me ask you, what would happen to not these plants because they're plastic, but if you bought a plant And uh you put it inside in the corner and set it there and didn't ever do anything with it. You didn't tend it, you didn't water it. You didn't Mary has some and she's moved Outside because it needs to get some rain. Gotta bring him inside because it's a storm. Gotta put him outside because it needs some sun. Gotta bring him inside because it's too hot. I mean she's always moving these plants Back and forth. They're in the way of the door and I can't open the door to get my barbecue sauce out, you know. She's got these plants all over the living room. She she's taking care of these plants. She's putting some effort into 'em. That's what happens in our relationships if you're not tending to it If you're not putting some effort into it, it's gonna grow cold, it's gonna get weak, it's gonna die, and you're gonna say, Oh, well, we just don't love each other anymore. No, you you you you don't fall in love and you didn't fall out of love You stopped pursuing. You stopped making your life special with one another. You need to pursue in your conduct as well as your conversation. You need to tell her you love her. Communicate that to her on a regular basis, but also not just in words, but with what you do Communicate your love with your actions, with your life. Pretend you're still dating. Pretend you still talk. Talk to her. Love covers a multitude of sins. She'd be a lot more patient if you pursued her. If you stirred up that love, the problem is as many homes of love wear so thin That there's nothing covering the sin. And when I say sin, I'm using the context of that verse. I'm talking about the problems that we have, the shortcomings. We're all flawed creatures. And for anybody to be married to this person, they have to be willing to overlook some stuff. They have to be willing to be patient in some areas. that that I I might rub them the wrong way. And so we need love to cover that. But if we're not cultivating and stirring up that love Then love starts to wear thin and everything starts to rub the wrong way. Everything starts to hurt. When love is strong, you look at it and you say, oh, it's not that big a deal. Oh, I ain't worried about that. Somebody else would say, what? He doesn't close the front door? Oh, that's no big deal Ah, that would drive me nuts. I would be yelling at him, you know, what's the big deal? Oh no, that's not it. He doesn't do this, whatever you want to plug there But love covers that. If you've been stirring that love up, making and putting forth efforts Plan some special things once in a while. Do something that she enjoys. You need to be a spiritual leader. Be spiritual. The husband is to be the head of the wife, the head of the home, but That's spiritual head. That's to lead the family in spiritual matters. And it's not just that she's more spiritual. What that means is that you just do what's right. It means you lead the family in the right direction. You make choices to do what's right. Okay, we're gonna go to church today. Okay, we're going to Get involved in this. We're gonna do this as a family. We're gonna read together. We're gonna we're gonna pray together. We're gonna we're gonna just be le do what What's right as a family and you lead in that regard It means you choose to put God first. For yourself and for your family Let me give you some wisdom for the wife. Wisdom for the wife. Be sweet Proverbs chapter 15, verses 1 and 2, a soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright, but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. That familiar passage in Proverbs 31, verse number 26, says, She openeth her mouth with wisdom And in her tongue is the law of kindness. You need to be sweet and use that. There's little more less attractive than a contentious woman. Be sweet, be kind. Let sweetness come out of your mouth. Use your tongue to build up, to encourage. It seems like it comes naturally with moms for their children to build up and encourage, but sometimes they forget about their mate. And it's very sad that many times wives tear down their mate. Now I know that that's promoted in society and it's part of every sitcom on television. that they always make fun of the husband and they always, you know, talk about how the husband hasn't done anything right in ten years and he's an idiot and he can't even order food for the children without my help. I mean they they make the the husband out to be a bumbling idiot in every show. But that doesn't mean that you should do that to your husband. You should build him up. You should praise him for what he does, correct, encourage him in What he and who he is. You need to be sweet. You also need to be discreet. Be discreet. Proverbs 11. 22, as a jewel of gold and a swine south, so is a fair woman which is without discretion. You need to be discreet. Titus 2. 5 says, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. This is an expectation that you would be discreet because I know things happen at home and that should be kept at home. It should be kept between you and your mate That's not something you call and talk to your friends about. That's not something you tell other people to church about. That's not something you call mom and dad and talk to them about. You you keep those things that happen at home between you all. The the I know he does some stupid stuff. All guys do some stupid stuff. But that you're just shooting yourself in the foot when you want to If it makes you feel like you're getting even or that somehow it makes you feel better because you made him look bad, I'm not sure what the motivation is, but you're one flesh. And when you attack yourself, when you attack your mate, you're attacking yourself. And you were talking about how to be married and not miserable. And one way to do it is to be discreet, be careful. Deal with things at home and let them stay and stay in the home. Proverbs 14, 1 says, every wise woman buildeth her house. But the foolish plucketh it down with their hands. Use some wisdom and build your house with your tongue. Use some wisdom and build it up instead of tear it down. Be feminine. In every way. Carry yourself and communicate in ways that are becoming of women. In your appearance and in your conversation. I was contemplating this today and thinking about how it's amazing how when a man who wants to be a woman How does he dress? He tries to get very feminine. He tries to get very uh, you know All of the aspects of the effeminate attire and things like that. There's no question, even in society, what is feminine. And what is masculine. So be feminine. Be that. We know that that is how God created us, and especially in today's world, I wouldn't want to do anything to blur those lines for myself. Be content. Be content. Proverbs 15, 16 and 17: better is a little with the fear of the Lord and good treasure and trouble than great treasure and trouble therewith. Be content. Learn how to live with what you have, and it seems like ladies are very good at this, probably more than men. Men probably have a more of a drive to be more, excel, or to get more. Uh so seems like maybe men this should have been an immense thing, but we need to learn to live with what we have. Learn how to be content with where you're at. Don't compare yourself among yourselves or with other people in the church or other people down the block or whatever. This is where you're at as a family and work together to uh you know accomplish what God wants you to. But in whatsoever state, be content. And also you need to be spiritual Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Be spiritual. I can't tell you how many times over the years I have been very grateful for a spiritual wife. For a wife that reads her Bible every day. For a wife that has not been perfect, has not always been super strong, but one that strengthens me when I'm weak, and that I can strengthen when she's weak Having that where we're both pursuing God. When I'm weary or tired, she has been fed by God and is strong and is doing well because she's been walking with God. And when she's weary and tired, I can strengthen her because I've been walking with God. But you gotta do that together. It gets very, very hard for somebody in a in a home that is doing it by themselves when only one is walking with God. They're carrying that spiritual burden all the time. And they never have somebody else pick it up for a day. Just pick it up for a day so that I can be weak for a day. They need somebody to help them and listen you've got to be going together. You've got to both be pursuing God. And we need to pray for those in our midst who have unsaved mates. Who are carrying the spiritual burden continually, 100%, all on their own, because it is an arduous battle. It is an arduous battle, and they need God's help and God's strength. The greatest thing you can do for your husband and for your children is to walk with God. Have God's power and God's blessing on your life Just like the greatest thing a husband can do for his wife or for the family is to walk with God. Have God's power and God's blessing on your life Could you imagine for a moment a marriage where both the husband and wife dedicate themselves to creating an atmosphere where they can be close to God, where he is highly esteemed and honored? where they're able to grow and accomplish the Lord's will in an atmosphere of warmth and tenderness Can you imagine a home like that? That's the way it can be. That's the way God wants it to be. The combining of two lives is a source of great friction. You've got two different people that you're putting together that can be the can create so much friction that's why we need to do it God's way. So that he can come in and make that blending and the uning unifying of that life where they dwell together in unity. in a bright relationship with one another. Let me tell you in closing here that it's a lie of Satan that there's no hope. It's a lie of Satan that there is no hope for your marriage. If there are two people willing to put aside their personal pride and follow God. God will salvage your home. God will. I believe all things are possible with God. And I have seen it in our church over the last ten years, God restore homes. Because people willing just to submit and do what God wants. And God can do it for you There is hope for a happy home. You don't have to be married and miserable. A lot of people live that way. That's not God's plan. That's not what God wants. And if we would be willing to do it God's way, You could be happy. And I'm happy. Just ask her. I'm happy. Yeah. God God is so good. And the joy of having a hope home cannot be replaced. I mean, there's nothing else in this life that is so blessed than to have that kind of a home. This world is such a mess, isn't it? And uh man, to have that that you get to go home to and be with with a mate that you're loving God and praying together and Following the Lord. That's what I want for all of God's people. And we want to do it God's way. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?