From Texas and uh you never know what the summer's gonna be like. Last year, June was absolutely gorgeous. I mean now all sincerity is in the seventies, it's absolutely beautiful, and we've had snow in June And and in July it was like this. This was the weather we had in July last year. It was just crazy. About about two years, three years ago now, probably. Well actually probably before COVID, probably like six or seven. We had this couple come up that we'd known them for years and they came over in July and uh they were from Texas and they complained it was too hot. You know, it was ninety degrees. Uh it was ninety degrees and uh we have no air conditioning. Uh and so we don't need air conditioning because generally if it does get hot it doesn't stay hot very long. Um I I this is an easy church to come preach to. This is an easy church. Emissions conferences, or Pat and the Scrape will tell you Sometimes they're exhausting. Uh sometimes they're uh you you got every minute dictated to you, uh and sometimes you do nothing. There's there's nothing. You get there and nothing's planned and uh you guys got I think the happy meeting You got a lot going on and we've just enjoyed your people. These young people, preacher, you got a great family. I really do. You know, we get sometimes to go to church and they sing a song and it's just whoa boy You won't hear me get up and say, oh well, it's a blessing. I don't shut up, not say anything. Amen. And this so when I say that you I just appreciate your young people and your and uh they've been a blessing to us, we have been blessed this week. As far as instruments go, I do want to put a plug-in. This was what we had on the field for our congregational singing. Whatever instruments our kids could play. Uh and as Luke was getting older we realized he's leaving. Uh he was playing trumpet, that's what we led the music with, uh was a trumpet. And my wife said, I need to pick up an instrument or something because And so she started playing flute just recently, uh not too many years ago, uh to take to do the congregational singing. So anybody can do it. You can she's never played an instrument before, and uh it's a blessing to see God, but she's worked And I appreciate her very much. I do want to put a plug-in uh again, I hate phony, so what I'm telling you is is the truth. I'm not doing this for any uh uh um uh points or anything, but if i y I would be thrilled if Pat said, Hey, we got a FPWM coming to Estonia. I can't think of a better board. And I I am not with FEWDM. I used to be, and our church decided to take a different direction as a church, and I was in opposition to that direction that they went. I had to leave FEWM reluctantly And they they still have my heart. Those are good men. I believe uh if we may not we may still have been uh successful on the mission field Uh but it would have been a lot harder. Uh the training we received uh was um invaluable. And so many times I can I hear the lessons that we heard There it is. They came back to give us a light to direct us in the dark place. And I appreciate their teachings. It's so valuable. And so many things I believe that God has allowed us to do on the mission field have been directly in response to the teachings that we got with FWM. So I I I promote them as a board. If you're going to go to a board, go to the FPWM. They're good people And I would be thrilled if I heard some of us coming to Estonia. Not so much some other boards that we've dealt with, but trust me. Um it's it's appropriate. that uh as you feel like you're the mule at the Kentucky Derby here amongst these men, I our brother Saster's messages and and her past have just been a blessing to me. I've gotten so much out of them. And I feel like the mule's Kentucky Derby. Like I mentioned, it's appropriate that the mule comes in last. Amen. So I want to bring a message here tonight that uh God gave us and um I was in when we got kicked out of Russia uh we had no idea it was coming. Uh we had no um Radar that was it was approaching when we were told you're gone. And they gave us like uh three weeks, I think, total notice. Three weeks notice, two weeks before we had our big day, our first Sunday in the new building, we found out that we were gonna leave. We didn't tell anybody. We had to announce it and say, well We're gonna be gone next week. Oh, how long gonna be going? What are you guys even so soon for? Oh well we're gonna be gone. Gone gone gone. Uh that was rough. Uh we didn't want to break their the the the impetus to get into that building, all the work that we had done. Um and so when we left the field It was hard. I had a church that had contacted us when we announced that we were going to have to be leaving, and the day our aircraft left airspace there in Russia, we lost $600 a month support. And uh within six weeks we lost another seven. We lost thirteen hundred dollars a month in about six, seven weeks. It was rough And God allowed us to have a very good friend, Tom Murray. He was in the pictures of the remodel in Russia and Estonia. And uh Tom said, come up to Alaska when you fly out, just spend a couple days. Just decompressing uh at my um house here in in North Pole, Alaska, appropriate. And uh I was sitting on his balcony and looking out over the uh lake that was there and just had my Bible open saying why God, what are you doing? What are we supposed to do? I have no idea. I had no clue. I had no vision. I had nothing. I was empty. And uh I was reading this passage, Acts chapter 16. And as I was reading down through there, God directed me, and I wish I had this message years ago, and I hope it'll be a blessing to you tonight But as I was reading this, I looked up and there was a bird in the sky. I remember looking over there and thinking, wow, that's a pretty big one. I wonder if it's an eagle. And as I got closer, I could see that it was an eagle. And I said, you know, I have always wanted to see an eagle hit the water for a fish. And God just allowed that to happen right in front of me. It was like God sitting there saying, I got this. And so tonight as we read down through here, and I try to bring this message, I really want you to understand how God leads. How God leads. Oftentimes how God leads is not the way we expect to be led. So let's begin reading here in Acts chapter 16. Verse 6. Now, when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were, notice this next phrase, forbidden of the Holy Ghost. To preach the word in Asia. After they were come to Mysia, and they essayed to go into Bithynia, but next phrase, the Spirit Suffered them not. And they passing by Mysia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. After we had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord hath called us were to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothrace, the next day to Neapolis, from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony. And we were in that city abiding certain days. And on the Sabbath we went out of the city by our riverside, where prayer was wont to be made, and we sat down and spake unto the women which resorted thither. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, as we bow before you this evening, we pray you have your will and way in the service, and as we close out the conference, that you would continue to work Amongst us, Holy Spirit, continue to move. Amongst us, I pray for hearts to be lifted and I pray for wisdom. I pray for guidance. Lord, I pray it's a message that you had given me will be a blessing to others as I we present that this this evening. Let it help guide us in the dark days when we have those. Let it be a beacon that we can follow. Lord, I pray that you would move me aside tonight, guide the very words that I would speak. Let the name of Jesus Christ be lifted and glorified, for it's in his name that we pray. Amen. I want you to notice some things here. I want you to notice how God leads. God Almost always, when God wants to get us to go in a certain direction, He will put a destination out there to get us to go in that direction. And the reason is because by nature we are fleshly people. And we would rather walk by sight than by faith. And so God oftentimes, to get us to go in the right direction, will lay a destination out there. And this is ingrained in us so much so That oftentimes as we travel, and the Gordons will tell you this, I'm sure they ran into this, we started before uh um GPS I remember, Brother Pat saying, hey, I got this new thing called a word processor. And if you type a wrong character, They got a button that you can hit and it will back up and delete that mistaken letter. And I'll be able to go, wow That's impressive. That's amazing. This thing called a word processor. That's how long ago we we started going into missions. And you didn't get the directions like you have today. We didn't have cell phones. And I remember getting out on the highway sometimes, knowing we need to go safe north. And we come down to a highway and we go up there and it says Baltimore. And I'm sitting there going, okay, are we north or south of Baltimore? I'm not sure. So I don't know if we need to go to Baltimore or we need to go the other direction. We put destination so much ingrained in our mindset that the street signs will put a destination instead of a direction sometimes. You get down to inner, you go to uh California, you'll see San Diego or Los Angeles. You need to know where San Diego and Los Angeles are located to know which direction on the five to go. In Paris or in France, when you go there, they don't put these big cities. They put the end of the road town on it. So if you're in California, it might not stay. San Diego, they might say San Isidro, which is right on the border of Tijuana. And you better know what's at the end of the road so you know which direction to get going into. Now, when you give directions to people, because we are so destination to orient, I want you to understand what happens here. You go tell somebody, now listen. I want you to go down there, and there's there's 83 where it says Baltimore, you need to go that direction. And you go, but I don't want to go to Baltimore. I just want to get to the Walmart. Well no, yeah, I understand that you don't want to go to Baltimore, but you need to go to Baltim you need to take the road to Baltimore. But I'm not one going to Baltimore. I just want to get down the road to the Walmart I know you want to go to the Walmart, but just take the road to Baltimore. You see, we are so destination oriented that to give directions we often need a destination attached to it. He said, Brother Mike, where are you going with this? I want you to see how God leads tonight. Because God uses destinations simply to get us in the direction. First of all, I want you to see that God conceals the steps. Tonight as we got in here, we began to look at we looked at in verse 6 that says, Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia, And the region of Galatia and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Now what you don't know is uh what happened here because there's a lot of words that were in the Greek that you don't have in the English Bible, so I'll help you here understanding what's I'm being facetious. I'm out of the pulpit. All right. So Phrygia and Galatia, I'm going to paint you a map tonight. What you didn't know is in verse 5 and a half. It says, Paul. was at his home church, the First Baptist Church of Antioch. And they're way over here in the east. They were at a missions conference. Called Make a Tent. They hadn't got to the ropes yet. Okay? And uh he was there and it was just them. And he had a wonderful display. It said Paul. Premier missionary, Paul and Barnabas, premier missionaries to Asia. He had on his display Asian John Romans. He had on his, I know it hadn't been written. He had his display gospel tracts, you know, one thing God doesn't know. He hadn't got to five yet. He had all this stuff out here, his display materials, to go to Asia as a missionary and his church uh commissioned them, they sent them out because Paul is going to go from the east. He's going to go through Phrygia and Malaysia. He's going to head directly west And that is the destination of Asia that Paul has when he leaves Antioch of Syria. He is going to Asia To preach the gospel. How do I know that it tells me he is forbidden of the Holy Ghost? Which means he had been going there, he had got there, and he was going in But the Holy Ghost stopped him and said, You're not coming in here. He had attempted to get in. You get that? So he had gone from the east, he'd gone to the west. He gets to the border of Asia. God said, stop. But he says, the Lord, when we were over here in Antioch, you said head to Asia. God says, that's right. I gave you that destination to get you going in the right direction. God knew when Paul was in Antioch that he wasn't going to go into Asia. But God needed him going in that direction. And he gets to Asia, and God stops him. Says, you're not coming into Asia. So Paul had to get his laptop out and plug it into the camel. And uh type a prayer letter saying, well, it looks like we're not getting in Asia after all. The door's been closed. And about 25% of this support is dropped immediately. If Paul doesn't know where he's going, and he reaches Spent all that money on Asian China Romans just throwing down the soul sewer. What in the world's going on here? I surely don't want to support him God concealed the steps. Notice now When they're in Asia, the Bible says they were come to Mysia. Now what you might not know is that Mysia is directly north of Asia. So Paul has come from the east. He's gone directly west. Now he's going directly north. He gets up to Mysia. The Bible says They essayed or attempted to go into Bithynia. Now Bithynia is back to the east. So Paul has gone from the east. He's gone west. He's now gone north. Now he's going back east. But the Spirit suffered them not. Now that prayer letter he had just written when he was on the border of Asia and said, well, we're going to try out on Bithynia, he asked them to rewrite a new letter. It says Well, uh, we're not gonna get into Bethanya after all. And 25% of his support is now dropped. He's down to 50%. That's in the Greek. Then the Bible says, now we'll get this. So they've gone they've gone through Phrygeia, they've gone through Galatia, they got to Asia, they went up They passed by Mysia. They attempt to go into Bithynia. Now they turn and passing by. So now they're going back to the west, passing by Mysia. They came down to Troas. They've gone East, they've gone west, they've gone north, now they've gone south. Get down to Troaz, a vision appears, a man says, Come over. And they get over there in the Macedonia going back west again. He's abiding certain days. What were they doing? In this region of Macedonia for days. They're looking for a Well, come on, people. You didn't read it with me. They're looking for a man of Macedonia. And after days they haven't found him yet. So Paul, now how many ever heard somebody criticize Paul saying Paul is a women hater? Just me, okay. You've heard that? Because I mean he's the one that wrote. Never mind the Holy Spirit. Lay it be to him. He's the one who women be silent in the church. I suffer not a woman to preach. Right? Or use super authority. Paul must hate women No, actually, Paul knows that men are so stink and lazy that if he didn't tell the women to be quiet and let the men do the job, men would never do it. That's what I believe, anyway. Uh personally. But uh so Paul the woman hater Get so desperate looking for this man, he goes down to the river where prayer is once to be made, and he finds out because the prayer is being made by whom? The women That's ready to the women. So Paul ends up at a women's prayer meeting while it's still in session. Now I don't mind going to the ladies' meeting like yesterday after it's over and cleaning up some of the best brisket you've ever put in your mouth. There was a lot left over, but not after I got through there. I was looking around going, man, all the men already got a plate. And it was just, you want some of this salad over here? No. You want some of these beans? No. I was just putting brisket. I was standing there. I was standing there. I didn't move I stood right there, so I'd only put a little bit on my plate. And that way kept me and didn't realize how much I actually consumed. Amen? Oh man, that was delicious. But and I've never wanted to go to a woman's meeting. We got some weird people today We got men wanting to go to ladies' baby showers and and and bridal showers and man, I don't want to go showering with anybody. Amen? I don't get it. Gender reveal parties. It's psychotic. I have never wanted to go to a woman's prayer meeting in my life. And Paul, the woman hater, I'm sure he was in agony, going, oh man, I can't find this man. Uh-huh. Well the only thing I know is going on is they got a prayer meeting and he goes to the woman's prayer meeting looking for a man But he finds Lydia, a seller of purple and fine linen. And Brother Pat, you brought a point up I had never caught before. Just a little bit later we read that all Asia is reached with the gospel. Hallelujah. God knows what he's doing. God didn't need him to go into Asia at that moment. The Holy Spirit knows what he's doing. Wow! I'm so glad you brought that up. I had never seen that. It's in my message now. But God conceals steps. Paul, if Paul didn't know the next step. Why would you think you should? Abram, the Bible says, look for a city. And he went out, not knowing whither he went. I love Moses. I think I've preached this here before about Moses. I think Moses, when he sees at the at the burning bush, he's getting worried. God, what do you want to do with me? I think Moses' biggest problem was a language issue. He wasn't raised to speak Hebrew. Second language for him as he's speaking to the Jewish people. If you look at his his complaints and his his arguments, it's all around, they won't accept me, they won't accept me. And so he's kind of nervous about this position God's called him to. So God does not give him this whole plan. God gives him one step at a time, because God can steal steps. Could you imagine Moses At that burning bush. He says, God, what do you want me to do? Well, you want the whole plant? Yeah, give me the whole plan. Well here's the deal, Moses. You're gonna go down to Pharaoh and you're gonna have to to to to put your hand in to show the people because the people aren't gonna want you at first You gotta put your hand in your in your in your in your pocket there and pull it out. It's gonna be a moleprus. You're gonna put it back in. It's gonna be healed. You're gonna have to go down to Pharaoh. You're gonna have to throw this stick down. It's gonna turn into a snake They're gonna throw their sticks down, they're gonna be turning their sticks, Aaron's gonna be doing some of this too. You gotta kinda work together with the two of you guys, and they're gonna still f uh you're gonna say, let my people go, you've been hit the pulpit and they're gonna say get out of here I'll see you later and he's not gonna listen to you. You're gonna have to go down by the river and you guys have to strike the river. It's gonna turn to blood And even your own people are going to be having blood from the river, and they're gonna they're gonna all gonna be yelling at you and hating on you. Hallelujah. And and and and Pharaoh's gonna come down hard on the people, and they're gonna be getting mad at you, and you're gonna have and then you're gonna bring up frogs. And the Pharaoh's gonna like them so much you're gonna want one more night with the frogs, amen. And then after the frog you're gonna have life, and there's gonna be flies, and I'm gonna separate ghosts and your own people. out and their flies are only gonna be in Egypt but not in Goshen. Hallelujah. And it's not done yet because you see Moses go there's more. Yes there's more. We're gonna bring a moraine on the cattle. We're gonna get them killed. Then we're gonna get everybody a bunch of boils and then I'm gonna bring hail down from heaven and fire on the ground and then anything that's left over we're gonna bring the locusts in and eat it all up and after that they're still not gonna listen to you. He's gonna be kicking you out every time as you try to tell him I want my people to get out and worship the Lord. He's gonna be saying go away go away go away And I'm going to bring darkness. And so many of darkness is so hard. They're going to gnash their teeth. But there'll be light and Goshen. And they're still not going to listen to you. So you're going to come in one more time and you're going to tell them, let my people go, or God Himself is going to come down and smite them with death. And it'll be the death of the firstborn. Everyone doesn't have the blood on the man on the on the doorstep. Lintel of the door. Doorpost. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. You'll have a Passover. You're going to be instituted. You're going to have a lamb. Symbolic of the Lord Jesus Christ. But those that don't, the firstborn are going to die. And they're going to be so angry, they're going to be so broken, they're going to kick you out of the country. And you're going to journey out a little ways. And then the army's going to, that army of vengeance that's had their children killed is gonna chase you and your people down. Don't hang on, Moses, it gets better than that. You're gonna be at the Red Sea, you're gonna be on the sea coast there And we're gonna they're gonna surround you, they want to kill you. Oh, Moses, it gets good or miss. And they're gonna have to be surrounded, and you're gonna part the sea. Hallelujah. And it's gonna wind's gonna blow all night. Hallelujah. And it's gonna be, you understand how big this parting is. It's gonna be parted big enough. for millions of people. We believe about three million people, 600,000 of them just in the army alone. And this air is so big it's going to have to be miles wide in order to get that group of people in 24 hours across. It's huge on dry ground in the midst of the sea. I can imagine if Moses was having trouble just putting his hand in his breast pocket and throwing down a stick. The after he's heard about this, he because he would be a basket case for the second time in his life. Amen? But God gave him one step, he gave him concealed steps. Just one step At a time. I love Daniel. Daniel is one of the books we use to help people in Estonia to accept the Word of God. Because Daniel's writing things that he doesn't even know, he doesn't understand. And he prays to God. God sends an angel. The angel comes down and tells him. And the Bible says, after hearing from the angel, the angels, that's why I'm here, to help you understand, he tells us in chapter 10, verse 12, I heard, but I understood not. God conceals steps. God conceals steps. So when you are in a quandary saying, God, I have no idea what to do next, you are in good company. You're in good company. If you have to go out not knowing whether you go, you're in good company. Because God conceals steps. Number two. God changes steps. God changes steps. Paul as he leaves Antioch, Assyria, he's headed to the west. Then he ends up heading to north. Then he ends up heading to Heading back east, then he ends up heading back west, then he ends up heading south, then he ends up heading. I mean, this guy is all over the place. Because God changes steps. When Abram took Isaac up onto Mount Moriah, God did not want him to kill Isaac. God changed steps and had a he provided for himself a lamb. I remember when God uh called us to the to to to uh the ministry, we we had been in the military, we got out, I went in the aerospace, I got out, I was working in the church, we were uh doing the youth department in our church. We we thought we were active and we thought we were doing all we could do. And a message was we came for the first time to preaching conference in 1990 and I heard a message preach. You say you're alive but you're dead. Woo! That'll get you. And I thought, wow. And God called me to preach April 25th, 1990, at the Fairhaven Preaching Conference. We got back and I gave a four months notice at my work so they could find people to take my job. Packed everything up, sold what we could. Headed across country. Brother Phil, who's my pastor, Pastor Clark now, was just my my my friend. We were just we were good friends and he was my soul-winning partner. And so he Said, I will take vacation and uh I hate kicking these things. It's giving me a stubborn my toe and I'm feeling like my dear brother back there with his foot in a thing, but I feel my toes so I don't appreciate that And uh he said, I'll take vacation and go across country with you. We're traveling there and we're having days after day of this travel and talking. He said, Brother, what do you think that God wants for you? I said, I have no idea. I know he's called me to preach, and that's what I know. He said, well, sometimes we know God's will by what God leaves on our heart that we don't want to do. There's anything you don't want to do. Then that's God leading you away from it. I said, well that's easy. I don't want to be a missionary. Them folks is crazy. And I said, I don't want to work on a bus ministry because them kids are snotty-nosed rascal kids. I don't want nothing to do with them. Mmm. Little Demetrius, one of my bus kids one day was tapping me on the back saying, oh Bram I, oh I thought, boy, these kids love me, but I realized it was with a red sucker. You know got to Bible college, my first class, my first day, my first week of my first semester with Daryl Champlin's missions course. That man was crazy too. He thought everybody should be a missionary. And I said, I don't need this class. The only class I ever dropped in college is my first class I ever had. And I was struggling along, and my wife had already listened to God, and she was ready, she didn't say anything to me, and uh heard a message, Tom Ross is preaching about what was happening in Romania. Brother, it's like when you guys start your construction project, man, I want to be here. I want involves. I like to do things. And I heard what he was doing in a man, man, that sounds exciting. And uh God spoke to my heart. Wouldn't you like to get involved in this? And I said, Yeah, I would. He goes, I want you to be a missionary. We thought we were going to Romania. God changes steps. We surrendered to missions thinking it was going to be Romania. 1992, we joined the Fundamental Baptist Worldwide Mission that summer. Went to candidate school. We were accepted as our missionaries. We were still in college. And uh then I heard a sermon from Larry Engels about Ukraine, what God was doing in Ukraine. So God began to move us that direction. God changing steps. And then we saw the world's worst slide presentation known to man. Pastor Ben Jacobs had gone over to Russia and the Kamchatka Peninsula and he brought a set of slides And they say, well, if you guys want to see his slide sometime in the afternoon, we'll have a room over here. You guys can watch it. And there's about three of us in the room. And he he he he if you know Pastor Jacob is sweet, most generous kind pastor but just real slow and real you know well I got some slides if you guys want to see them and I don't know what that is. Well, that one's upside down. That's us going to the airplane. I mean it was that bad. I'm not exaggerating. Literally. He had slides upside down, he had slides we didn't we to this day don't know what those blobs were. But God just said this is it This is it. And uh we surrendered to go to Russia. But God conceals steps And God changes steps. When we found out we were leaving Russia, broke our hearts. My daughter cried and cried and cried. Because God changes steps, but He never leaves us alone. The Bible tells us all power, Jesus speaking, is given unto me in heaven and in earth Go ye therefore. Teach all nations, baptize the name of the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. And lo, I am with thee. What's the next word? Always. If you said always, you're wrong. Always. Always means on every occasion. He comes and goes. We're always in church. That's perfectly acceptable. But for always in church, we never leave the building. And Jesus says, I am with thee always. He never leaves us. He never forsakes us. He is always there. Whether we think we need him or we think we can do it on our own, he's still there. When we cry out to God, where are you? He's right there. But he changes steps, he conceals steps, and lastly, if you want God's blessings, you need to continue stepping God only blesses those that continue moving forward. When we surrendered to missions, again, we went to college, I didn't intend the missions, but what broke my heart was a message. And he said, if you don't want to do something for God, Tell him. What? I was expecting this message to say, and God's gonna get above that And say, oh, you don't want to do that, huh? What? Oh, you're going to do it. What? Yes, you are. What? Like a dis- No no no no no no no no no no no no no We have a God that loves us. We have a God that teaches us in Psalm 37:4, delight thyself also in the Lord, and He will give thee the desires of thine heart. When you tell God, God I don't want to do that. And if you continue talking and say, but if you want me, To do that? Would you give me the heart? Would you make me want it? Because God wants you to be blessed. And we began to pray. I said, man, I am not willing to go to the mission field. I'll admit that. And so we came to the front and said, God, I am not willing, but I am willing to be willing. Would you change my heart? And when God changes your heart, wow, it's a thrill. You don't have to have all the answers. You just have to be willing to be willing. And pray to God. Say, God, I'm willing to be willing. I'm not willing to do these things. But God wants you to be blessed. We didn't go kicking and screaming to Estonia. We went to Estonia after begging God to send us. And when God said go, it was like, whoa, glory to God. Hallelujah. It was exciting doing God's will. It's a blessing. Until you get into the game, you don't understand how exciting it is to serve the Lord. I want to close tonight with just bringing up something to get you to keep this point in your mind. God wants us to continue stepping. Way of illustrating that. We know the Christmas story. You guys do celebrate Christmas, I hope. A lot of churches are getting away from that. But if you study the Bible You'll know that you study the story both in Matthew and Luke, you'll know there's a point where it says there was wise men journeying from the east. East, right? And we have a song in English, it's terrible, but uh we sing it, you know, We Three Kings of Orientar. Right? You guys know that you guys sing that in church? Okay, there's some mistakes in that. What's some of the mistakes we have? They were kings? Yeah, we don't know we don't know that they were they might have been, but we don't know they were kings. What else? We don't know how many there were, right? Did you ever stop and think, now this is off topic, we're already over time, but I'm going to take some time anyway, just for fun. This thought came to me. Have you ever considered what that would have been like in Jerusalem? Keep in mind, when Eliezer journeys right next door to Syria to go get Rebekah for Isaac, how many camels did he take? Pen. Right? Because she had to bring water and camels drink about 50 gallons of water in the sitting. That's 500 gallons of water. That's a lot of water. Now, young lady, fill up the camels. If they took ten camels to go get one young lady from next door at Syria, how many camels did they bring across the desert. And you need like four or five camels for every camel just to feed the camels. You've got to bring fodder with you. You don't know if you know that or not. So you bring the first camel to bring fodder for this I mean bringing a second camel with fodder for the first camel, but then you need a camel to feed the camel, which brings the fodder for the camel, and you get about five camels before you get enough fodder to feed all of them. This is the truth. So you're talking when needed. This is why the Bible says all Jerusalem was in turmoil. Because this is coming in from the east. It will be like an army. Because they're bringing gold, frankincense, and myrrh, and gold is the least valuable of the three. They were bringing their king's ransom across the desert. They haven't uh they're they're they're not stupid. They weren't they were wise men, amen. And they were armed to the teeth It had to be. The Bible says when they saw that Herod didn't go, I'm going to get these guys. Herod went, whoops, what in the world happened? Read the Bible. But we get that song, and that song we get, we don't know there are three, we don't know the wise men. The Russians much better. Вот это да, да? Вот вахвы в Востоке идут. Isn't that so much better? Anyway, and so we sing this song, we three kings of Orient, and we get down the chorus, following yonder star wood. Read your Bible. The Bible doesn't say they followed a star to Bethlehem. Because if they did, this would be what it would say in the Hebrew or the Greek. They got to Bethlehem, found out Jesus wasn't there, and God face palmed in heaven and went, I can't believe I did not see that coming. He is not here. You're kidding me. I thought he was there. God knew all along where the baby Jesus was. Young child Bible, what the Bible says. So what they did is they didn't follow their GPS God positioning system. They were over here in the east and a star appeared to them. I believe that star is another way of seeing an angel. That's just me personally If you sicker that it's all out, they it's got to be able to convey information that there's born king of the Jews and they got this information They on their own accord decided to go to Jerusalem. They journeyed, and by the way, it's been a long time. And they get to Jerusalem, they talk to Herod, they find out he must be born in Bethlehem, and when they leave Jerusalem, The star the Bible said that they had seen in the east appeared again unto them. Hallelujah. And led them to the place where the young child was. They got a blessing. I believe it's an angel. That's why. Because it gave them the information there, and it appeared again unto them there, gave them the information, and led them to a house. How does anything in the celestial sky was it got a little laser pointer? Oh, it's over here. I mean just come on, let's just face it. It couldn't be the alignment of the planets, like I've seen some idiot say Because it wouldn't convey both information and it wouldn't appear again two years later. But that's me personally. You can believe whatever you want. If it's a scar in a script, that's fine too. I don't care, but God did it. That's the important point But what I want you to get tonight, they went two years without seeing a thing And the reason God blessed them is because they continued stepping forward. There's going to be a time in your life, if you're in the ministry, preacher, you know what I'm talking about, when it seems like everything is gone. It just goes dark. And you want to quit. But you get up in the morning, you get your Bible, you pray, and it doesn't seem like it goes anywhere. But you just keep doing it. And the star comes back eventually, doesn't it? And man, when that star comes back, there ain't nothing like it. That may not be good English, but you understand what I'm saying, preacher.