Well let's get into the Word of God tonight. Turn your Bibles to Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 24. In between our Book studies and I don't know what book I'm going to dig into next. I may uh I had somebody ask me about doing a doctrines uh kind of looking at the different doctrines uh and just kind of doing a doctrine study. So we might do that next, but I've been kind of hitting a couple of the other series that I have and just adding to those. And so we're going to do another how-to tonight. And tonight again, a very practical thing, uh the topic this evening is something that there's a lot of ways to address this, a lot of ways to to look at this, but I wanted to look at these three verses in Proverbs chapter 24, verses 5 through 7. We see a wise man is strong, yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength. For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and in a multitude of counselors there is safety. Wisdom is too high for a fool. He openeth not his mouth in the gate The topic this evening that I would like to provide an answer to is how to be a strong Christian. In our modern society A very large proportion of it is uh preoccupied with the physical body There's so much effort put into making this physical body attractive, so much work put into building and adjusting and beautifying the physical body. To that end, the weight loss industry is worth over $90 billion a year. The weight loss industry. $90 billion. It grew. by 4. 3% just last year due to the demand for weight loss drugs. People that want to lose weight without changing their eating habits. People that want to lose weight without doing any exercise. They want to just take a drug and allow that to counteract everything else that they're doing in their life. I think it was Nate Burgantz, but I'm not positive, so don't quote me on that. But he was talking about how his wife wanted him to lose weight. And he said, by that I mean she bought me a ticket and a per and a membership uh to a weight clinic in Switzerland. And she drove me to the airport and said, I want you to lose weight. Here you go. And uh she put me on a plane and sent me to Switzerland. He said, The amazing thing is, is this this weight loss clinic has phenomenal results. Like everybody that goes there within ten days they've lost like I don't remember the number he said, but just a lot of weight like within ten days. He said it's amazing. He said they have this amazing program. And he said what they do, what they give you is no food. He said, and I'm paying an exorbitant amount to be starved to death He said, I can't I can't believe it. And and that's the thing. They're paying all this money to go to a you know, boom another country for somebody to just help them control what they're taking in But people are consumed with this body and the physical aspects of it. You know, uh personal trainer industry is fifty billion dollars a year. The personal trainers, people to try and help others keep the physical body in good shape. But I wonder, beloved, how much effort, time, energy, and money is put into keeping the spiritual strong. This is not something that has just afflicted the world out there. This is something that Christians are preoccupied with. This is something that we are concerned with and we ought to take care of the body. My own boys go to the gym quite often. I'm like man I must not be working you hard enough. You got energy to go to the gym. But they they enjoy going to the gym. They like they like going there and lifting a weight, you know, and and and building building the body and And uh we're working on that. There's not anything sinful in that in and of itself, but the preoccupation with the physical at the cost of the spiritual is a problem. We need to build our spiritual life. How much energy and effort is being put in to truly being a strong Christian People pay for and go to the gym three to five times a week and think nothing of it. But when you ask them to come back for a Sunday night or a third or Wednesday night or Thursday night service, what? One week out of the year, one week missions conference or or revival. Could you come for three nights this week? Oh, I couldn't do that Because there's a preoccupation with the physical and a complete neglect of what is truly important, the spiritual. We know 1 Timothy 4. 8 tells us for bodily exercise profits little, but godliness, beloved. Godliness. What is that to us? How can we be a strong Christian? Let me give you a couple of just practical things here from our text tonight. First of all, you need to continue your workout Continue your workout. He says, a wise man is strong, yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength. Increaseth strength. You're never done training You've never reached the point where you've learned all there is to know about this book. You've never reached the point where you are strong enough spiritually that you can no longer take a little bit of time. Those of you that are over fifty, I'll put it whatever age group you want, but over fifty, you know how quickly This body deteriorates. If you stop doing any type of physical exercise, within just a few days, the the your your ability to do that You know, y you used to be able to do ten sit-ups and now you can only do two. You know, you used to be able to walk two or three miles and it didn't bother you at all. And you walk one mile now and your legs are about to fall off. There there's you used to be able to do this. Why? Because you stopped training And when the same thing happens, beloved, when you stop training spiritually, you begin to deteriorate, things begin to fall off. You and I should be increasing in knowledge Increasing our strength. You've heard people say that old uh saying that knowledge is power. That's true. It is Sir Francis Bacon that is believed to be the source of this statement. I don't know for sure who who said it. But the principle is true. Knowledge is power. That's why companies pay millions of dollars to get a hold of your information. to follow your tracks on the internet, to know what sites you visited, to know what products you're interested in, so that they can correctly market something directly to you. the the whole AI movement and all of this is is geared around being able to uh accurately work from the most precise knowledge available today. It's all about knowledge. It's all about knowledge is power. It is strength. A man of knowledge increaseth his strength. Beloved, we should be looking to increase our knowledge. Really, this is a all knowledge we should be working to increase. All of the topics and subjects, you don't get to the place where you just no longer need to learn. You've heard the statement. Leaders are readers. Increasing knowledge. I think it's great that Galena and a bunch of you are going to take up an instrument Even at this age, even at this stage of life, saying, you know what, I can learn a new instrument. It's it that takes effort, that takes work, that takes time and and and energy to So learn a new instrument, but we ought to be increasing in knowledge. That really is strength. It benefits you in your life. But the greatest benefit is when we increase in spiritual knowledge. It will help you in every aspect. The area in which we should pursue with the most vigor is spiritual knowledge. There's topics that I enjoy. I'm not really a gun guy. I mean I like shooting them, but I can't tell you You know, I I don't even know what guns to tell you about. I mean just this gun from that gun, what size ammo this uses and that uses and how many grain, you know Shell fits in that one opposed to this one or how many feet per second. That's just not something I'm not interested in. You know, I mean I'm not gonna read a magazine and learn how many feet per second the bullet flies. Hey, it's gonna do what I want it to do if I buy You know, it's just not and other people they they want to know that. Like I they they wanna I want to understand that. I want to know about that. How does that work? You know they want to increase in that knowledge. But I wonder how much do we want to increase in this knowledge? How much time are we investing in that spiritual walk with God? We've got to continue our training. I was talking to Miss Joyce last night or last night of F FPU and that's uh Joyce Struthers, not Norman, um but Miss Joyce she's I think she said she was seventy-nine. But she said, man, she was so excited. She's like seventy-nine And I am learning so much about the Bible, learning so much about God. And she says, I I leave, she says, the most excited I am in the week is on Sunday night. She's like, I go home and I can't even sleep. I'm thinking about all the stuff I learned in God's Word that day, and I I get down and I look at it and I gotta look up those verses again and I gotta go read about it. She starts, I start doing some research on it. She's like, I'm like wired on Sunday night. Every Sunday night I'm I'm excited. 79 years old and still learning. We can still learn, we can still grow no matter how old we are or how long we've been at it. You're going to be spiritually strong if you continue your training. Searching for those hidden treasures that are in the pages of Scripture. Proverbs chapter 2, verses 1 through 6, my son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, And lifted up thy voice for understanding. If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasure, Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. The knowledge of God, for the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Well, that's what we're supposed to be doing. We're supposed to continue our training. You want to be a strong Christian? You're not going to be a strong Christian without a consistent walk. You're not going to build this physical body without some consistency in exercise, without daily getting up and doing some type of physical workout or endeavor. Well, we've got to continue our workout spiritually. Continue to walk with God. How many people would neglect their walk with God but wouldn't miss a run or wouldn't miss, you know. going to do something at the gym or whatever it is that physically they enjoy being involved in. Yet we're so quick to neglect our spiritual workout. Beloved, the strongest individual physically is not necessarily the strongest spiritually. You certainly could be full of physical muscles, be physically vibrant, be physically strong, and spiritually dead Elijah stood on Mount Carmel against four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal. But then in the very near future we see him running, ultimately in complete discouragement because of one woman. What I'm saying is yesterday's strengths, yesterday's victories are not going to sustain you for today's battles. You have to continue your training. Navy SEALs, they go through training, but when they graduate from SEAL uh training, they're not, okay, here you go, here's your certificate, you're done. No more running for you. No more workouts for you. No more. Aren't you glad you're done with pull-ups now? No more pull-ups. No, their training continues. They have to continue to qualify in the gun range. They have to continue to qualify in close quarters combat, continue to qualify in insurgency tactics. They've got to continue to qualify. Why? Because their training is continuing. And this Christian life is such that we need our training to continue. We need to continue to be growing. He says there at the beginning of verse number five, he says, wisdom is what? What does he say wisdom is? Did I say did I say that right? A wise, sorry, a wise man is what? I said that wisdom wrong. I said wisdom is wrong. It's a wise man. That's what happens when I go from memory. So a wise man is strong. Wisdom is the correct application of the knowledge. So we continue our training, we continue to increase in knowledge, we continue to learn about God. But that that strength that that turns into strength for us when we take that knowledge and through wisdom we have correct application of it. That is, we learn about a majestic and all-powerful God, and we we see this creation, and we we begin to get a vision of what's possible and we say we we learn about the sun or you learn about the tides or you learn about nature and from that knowledge you say, Hey, there is an all powerful God that's controlling the universe and I live in subjection to him. A correct application of the knowledge. You maybe have been delivered from a besetting sin. Maybe, let's say, alcoholism, and in your life, you know, that God has delivered you from that. Well that knowledge correctly applied makes me understand that, you know what, I am going to be susceptible. To that. I'm going to be more likely, I have that appetite I have that desire in me, and I understand that because I know what I've been freed from, and so a correct interpretation of that knowledge, a correct application of it, is that I need to guard against that in a in an extra special way I need to go above and beyond. Maybe somebody else can be in such an environment and not be tempted at all, but I know myself. And so I'm going to protect myself and be Guard against that. And so whatever it is that God has given you victory over, you know who it is and what it is, and you say, you know what? I need to have some wisdom in this area And your strength to be victorious in your Christian life comes from a correct application of the knowledge that you have. That's what wisdom is. The wise man is strong, and we want to be strong Christians. We see secondly in verse number six that you seek counsel. For wisdom. You want to be strong? Get some counsel. Talk to other people that have lived through what you're talking about, or that have gone down that road already, or that have had a few more years than you, seek some wise counsel, counsel for wisdom. For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war. And in a multitude of counselors, there is safety. Beloved, when you seek counsel, it keeps you from careless error. Have you ever been on the brink of a decision and sought some counsel? And it saves you from making some some just foolish decision, just a dumb decision. You look back and say, wow, I'm so glad that I had so-and-so to give me some counsel. I I can think of some in this room in the last few years situations that I'm privy to. In my own life, I could think of one that just uh I saw an awesome deal on a car for Mary. It was I think like a twenty nineteen pilot elite, brother, an elite. Nice. And uh I took Brother Glover with me because I wanted some wise counsel. And we looked at this car. He was like, I don't know brother. He's like I there's just there's there's a couple of things I'm not sure about. Like it looks it looks good, you know, it looks like but there's a couple things and we were talking through it and I said, Well I'll just pass on it. I'll just pass on it. Like it was a good deal. It was exciting. That would have been a good one. But uh you know what? I said I'm just gonna defer to you. You've got some some expertise in this area. And I respect your opinion, so I'm gonna pass on it. Now I don't know, somebody else may have bought it and it worked fine for them. Maybe it broke, I don't know, but I know that for me, I said I'm gonna this is not the car God wants me to have. I'm walking away from it You need to seek some counsel from people that have some knowledge, some understanding in that area. Wise counsel with others provide accountability for your actions. You see, that's one of the reasons why we don't want to ask counsel. Because we don't want anybody up in our business. I want to do what I want to do. And I don't care what anybody else thinks about it. Instead of seeking some counsel, because counsel, last night in FPU, our last night at Financial Peace University, and uh Dave Ramsey says, now we're all done. Now what you got to do is go do it, right? Now you gotta apply it. And he says what you need to do is you need to stay connected to the friends and to your church and to the people that are involved in this because you need that accountability. He says, you need somebody that's going to look at you and say, you bought what? You're trying to get out of debt, man. You don't have 250 bucks to spend on a meal. You can't go spurge like that. You can't be buying that right now. You need somebody to hold you accountable. And when we see counsel We get that accountability from a godly friend, a godly brother in Christ, a godly sister in Christ who knows what you're going through and they see the situation in a few weeks you're drifting away from that and they come in out of love. They're saying, hey. I thought you made a decision not to do this anymore. I thought you were gonna you were talking about going this direction. What what what happened Oh yeah, but it's hard. I know. Well that's what seeking wise counsel will do. It'll give you some accountability. We're talking about how to be strong. Well, you know, you don't need to be strong all by yourself. Sometimes your strength comes from having somebody else with you. You know, I was really not a very good kid. I'll tell my kids to plug their ears right now. I mean as a teenager I was It's a miracle of God that I'm in church today, let alone a pastor. And uh I mean I was in places that no Christian should be, involved in things that no Christian should be involved in. And but I had one friend that he and I decided together that we weren't doing drugs and we weren't drinking any alcohol. We just decided that. Had nothing to do with spirituality or with God. We just looked at it and said, you guys are dumb. Like look at the way you're walking around. Okay, you're an idiot. We just decided that. But you know what? When we were in those environments where people were like, Oh, come on, drink. Like, why aren't you drinking? I mean everybody else is drinking. Why aren't you drinking? We we we would just look at him and say, You're an idiot I I ain't drinking that stuff. You're you're killing your brain cells, you know. And it why was it? Because I had somebody with me. Somebody else that stood with me to to I didn't have to feel Odd man out. Sometimes you need a partner, you need a friend to help you stand. You need somebody to be there. And when you're seeking counsel, when you're communicating with others about where you're at in your Christian life, it gives you strength to help you stand through. those situations. Too many Christians are trying to do it alone. When I was in college For three years I had a friend, we called him Grandpa. He was the oldest guy in his dorm. I think he was like 30. He was an old guy. We all called him grandpa because he was 30. He was still the only guy in the dorm that could do a backflip, but we still called him grandpa. Um but uh anyways he and I would go running together three times a week. And just about every week for three years we ran together three times a week, three to five miles. And uh we wouldn't necessarily run every single day on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. It might get moved to Saturday, it might get moved to Tuesday, you know, or it might be in the morning, it might be at night. But uh, do you know I never would have continued to run three times a week if it was just me Because there was many times I didn't feel like running that I was laying in bed. And he comes in, he's like, get up, man, come on! It's time to go. And I'm like, no, man, I'm tired. I need to sleep. I got class in an hour. You know, and he's like, no, we're gonna go run three miles. You'll feel better after you run. I'm like, no, I don't want to It is not gonna I don't like running to be honest with you. He's like, oh come on, he encouraged me. He helped me. And then there was times Uh sad to say a lot less the other way where where I encouraged him. But but he did encourage me and then I encouraged him and we helped each other because we had a friend so Seeking godly counsel, getting counsel will help you with wisdom, but it'll also give you a partner or somebody to stand with you and keep you accountable and encourage you when you need it. When you seek counsel, you have protection against the wiles of the devil. Satan is a subtle enemy, and we know that he sets traps for us. And we can fall into those traps, those snares. But whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. It's an amazing thing when we see people, and you can see it in church family, you can see it in the church. When somebody is following God. And they're pursuing him and they're making wise decisions in their life. You look at it and you can just see God's hand of blessing on their homes. You can see God blessing their family. You can see the the change that's taking place in their life and the direction that they're headed and just see God's blessing being put on them with one decision after another, with one aspect after another. And uh beloved, that's what any of us can have if we are striving to be a strong Christian and follow God's word and the ice the advice of godly Christians. That are giving us good counsel. Thirdly and lastly tonight, commit to your weakness. In verse number seven there he says, Wisdom is too high for a fool. Beloved, what he's saying is that It doesn't matter how practical it is, it doesn't matter how much sense it makes, it doesn't matter how uh beneficial it is, the fool doesn't want to do it. The fool doesn't understand it. The fool is not going to take those steps. And one area that Doesn't make sense from a practical standpoint, but it makes sense from a biblical standpoint, is that when I'm weak, I'm strong, and when I'm strong, I'm weak. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 12, verses 9 and 10, and he saith unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in mine infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in my infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. You see, beloved, a fool. They're going to rely on their strength. This is my strength. This is what I'm good at. This is where I'm going to succeed. But God's word tells us that our strength is quite often our biggest weakness. And our weakness is most often our biggest strength. Because, beloved, when you are relying on your own strength, you are in fact leaving yourself open to Satan But when we are weak and we realize that and we acknowledge it, then we get to the place where we're relying completely on God's strength. And that's where the majesty and the glory of God can be revealed. Where the power of God is comes true in our life. That's what he said there. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities. Why? That the power of Christ may rest upon me. That I have these infirmities, I have these ailments, I have these battles, I have these struggles, and I'm going to glory in those things that other people would avoid. Because why? Because that's when I experience God's power That's when I experience the strength of an Almighty God to carry me through when I'm not trying to do it on my own. When I'm not trying to do it by myself. It is in fact The power of God. You take Samson possibly the most the strongest in physical strength of any man who ever lived. And yet quite possibly the weakest spiritually. But you take Paul, who pinned these pages. Very by tradition, a very weak man. Paul, by tradition, is a man of weak stature, uh a small stature. Not necessarily a big strong guy. You know, his infirmity that he was asking God that that this thorn in his flesh could be removed, don't know what it is, possibly diminished eyesight. But certainly some physical ailments, some physical weakness. But Paul said, in this infirmity I'm going to glory because it is in that that I see the power of God. The glory of God, the strength of God. Paul took pleasure in these infirmities that the power of God would be revealed in his life. God's grace comes in and gives us sometimes comfort to get through, but other times strength to overcome Paul had learned, beloved, to lean on him in weakness And it's only when we learn to lean on him in weakness that we that his strength is made perfect in our life. So how to be a strong Christian? It's not a matter of pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps and just saying, bless God, I've got this, I'm gonna do this, and I'm gonna be victorious. You're gonna be discouraged. Because we can't do it ourselves. We need the power and the strength of God, and therefore we need to acknowledge our weakness and rest or lean on God. in those areas so that God's strength can carry us through. God's grace transformed Paul's perspective. And he can do the same for you and I. When I'm weak, then I am strong. Let's just see one last phrase here as I tie this up in conclusion. The concluding of verse number seven there, wisdom is too high for the fool. He says, he openeth not his mouth in the gates. Beloved, what he's talking about there is he's saying there's gonna come a time when you need wisdom. When you need knowledge. And he puts it into a public realm, a public place. He says, there's gonna be a time when you're in the gates, when you're amongst other people. when everything you do is going to be seen and you are going to need strength. In context, he's saying you're going to need knowledge. You're going to need wisdom. He says, but in that public setting, when that hour comes, when that day comes, he opened not his mouth. What he's saying, he says, you didn't have anything to say. You were in a public, you were you were exposed for being a fraud For walking around with a Bible but never opening it and studying it. Exposed as somebody that claimed the name of Christ but didn't have a walk with God exposed as somebody that testified as being a strong Christian, but really was very, very weak So what we're saying today is how to be a strong Christian is continue a training. None of us have arrived. None of us have learned all that we should. None of us have learned all that we could. How many have we heard stand up here? And even on Sunday we're going to have more stand up here and and and talk about the the discipleship, very basic fundamental things about the Christian life, but going back through those and learning again and seeing them from where you are right now, growing spiritually That's what the whole discipleship program is about. Learning, continuing your training. It's been amazing to see people that have been in church for years and years and years taking these, and they're like, man, I I My eyes were opened. I learned so much. I gained and benefited in such a great way because they continued their training. Don't be afraid to get counsel. From a good brother and sister in Christ. You want to be strong, you want to be able to stand in a day of adversity? Get a good friend, a godly friend, a godly mentor, somebody you can pray with and and talk to, and they'll help you through those times where you're you're struggling. And then realize we all got weakness. We got we got areas, it's not just a matter of, boy, I'm gonna be a strong Christian. No. We need to realize our areas of weakness and say, God, this is a weakness that I have. This is a failure area where I'm not strong and I need you to come through. I need your grace to be sufficient in this area because it's an area where I cannot do it. And in that we see the glory and the majesty of God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?