Um tonight we're starting the news that we finished up Jude. We're we're all done with that. Uh we're gonna kind of uh tonight's gonna be a topical message, uh so we're gonna be jumping around, but The homeschool co-op has gotten underway. The kids have been meeting and doing their school each and every day. Schools in our area, of course, are back in session and college classes are uh underway and uh you know the college students uh that we have in school have been calling and discussing their their workloads and and uh all of that. Uh you know it just gets to be a lot But this time of year as we get back into school and the swing of things, everybody seems to be engaging their mind, you know, it's it's back at it, that kind of mindset. So I thought for Thursday nights here for the foreseeable future, we would get simple, get practical, and kind of look at some how-to. sessions. We just bring it down to where the rubber meets the road and talk about how to. You know YouTube is the is the new how-to source. If you have anything you want to know how to do, I mean YouTube's the how to go to source. Go to YouTube. You can find out how to do it. You know, everything from change to change your brakes to change the diaper. I mean there's videos on there. I actually saw a video today on YouTube on how to search for how-to videos. So video on how to search for how-to videos. So there's videos on there for everything that you might want to learn how to do. Uh but I thought this would be good for us as a as a church to just kind of dig into in in a practical way some how-to areas. We're going to be looking at many areas that may include, but aren't limited to, how to pray, how to be a good father, mother, child, how to be a good soul winner, how to win and keep a heart, how to overcome fear, or how to be see be a success to be successful, how to teach a Sunday school class, how to be a good usher, how to be involved in uh missions and the missions program of your church, how to be happy, how to stay faithful until the end, how to enjoy life. How to help a weaker brother, how to study the Bible, how to treat one another, how to cope with hardship, and many, many others that I've been collecting. preparing, putting together uh in just kind of the the how-tos. And I think the list could actually grow because I'm also going to ask of you if there's any particular area that you say, boy I couldn't find a video on YouTube about this, so uh pastor, I'm interested in this and and how to do this. Or, you know, I've got this situation or I'm facing this and What does the Bible have to say about that or how would you do this? And I'll be more than happy to to put some thought and some study into it and try and prepare something that uh would be beneficial not just for you but for the entire church family. So I don't know how long it's going to go uh but I I have many areas, topics I've just been been putting down and thinking about and began collecting some thoughts on. with regards to how to, and I hope that it's uh both practical and engaging for us as a church. Tonight we're going to begin with the very just right at the beginning really with how to be a good Christian I spoke on this subject in a very basic way to a group of young Christians in Mexico when we were there for our mission trip. You know, it's a small group of young Christians, but you know, whether we're young or old, uh we need to be reminded. of uh the basics. We need to be reminded of how to and and maybe what's expected and And uh, you know, I was just challenged as I brought it to them and thought it'd be a good place to start with regards to uh us as we begin this how-to series. There's a song that my mother never really cared for too much, but the song is Lord, I want to be a Christian in my heart. Now the reason my mom didn't really care for it too much is she says, well, why do you want to be? Why don't you just be? You know, but this kind of uh that desire, that prayer that comes out in that is, Lord, I want to be a Christian in my heart, saying this is what I want in my heart of hearts. So I ask you tonight, do you want to be a Christian? Do you want to be a good Christian? The word Christian or the title or name Christian, of course, you know, is only found three times in the Word of God, and we're going to be talking about and referencing those as we get into this tonight. uh as I talk about or the idea of being a Christian, I I'm taking it one step further because you know of course that to be Christian is to be Christ like. That's the name what it means is Christian is to be Christ like. So I'm not referring to or or uh asking if you desire to be saved. I'm not asking if you desire to be a Christian in in a generic sense of the word that you know if you know Jesus as your Savior you're a Christian I think, you know, there are many people that enjoy being forgiven of their sins. They enjoy knowing that they're on their way to heaven. But the question begs Are they a Christian? Are they living like Christ? Oh, their sins are forgiven. They're on their way to heaven But does the name Christian really fit them? Does the name Christian really fit you? And so I ask you tonight Do you desire, do you want to be a Christian? And if you do, we certainly are going to be living like Christ. I want you to see, first of all, in the Word of God, Matthew chapter number four, we're going to be moving around in the Bible because this is topical as we're talking about the idea of a Christian and being a Christian. And there's just I've just got three simple points for you this evening and we'll be done. Obviously there are many things. I mean we meet four times a week, and really All the preaching has done, you know, has has to do with either becoming a Christian or growing as a Christian. So to try and narrow it down or summarize in in three points The aspects of being a Christian is maybe a little challenging, but I think you'll agree that these points certainly are central to being a Christian. If we're going to be a good Christian, I want you to see in Matthew chapter 4 and verse number 19. He says there, and he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Let's just be real tonight. We know the fact of the matter is that Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost If we're going to be like Christ, then we're going to be doing what Christ was doing, and his time here on earth was literally foundationally about seeking and saving the lost. He accomplished and did many other things, but his mission was to seek and to save the lost. His goal was to do that. And when he found somebody that said, I want to be a disciple, he said, Well, come on follow me. And he didn't say follow me and I I will make you a good Sunday school teacher or follow me and I will make you a good song leader and or I'll make you a good choir uh singer or I will make you there all these aspects are great parts of our service for our Savior. But he said, follow me and I'll make you fisher of men. I'll make you a fisher of men. Anyone that's going to be called a Christian is going to be a fisher of men. Now, beloved, I enjoy fishing a little bit. I'll go fishing if somebody asks me and I don't have anything else to do. You know what I'm saying? I have been fishing a few times. Went deep sea fishing once on a big trawler. That was fun. Been fishing with great a couple times out in the in the bay. That's fun. Crabbing, you know. We usually don't catch much. We just talk a bunch. But uh, you know, uh I mean I don't I I don't mind it if there's not something else to do, but you know what, I've never in my life one time watched a YouTube video on how to fish. I have never one time read an article about fishing Not once in my life have I read it. I have never one time looked up different lures and hooks and rods and reels and what you do to catch fish. So if somebody asked me, are you uh a fisherman, I would have to be honest and say, well, I've been once or twice, but I'm not really a fisherman. Right? They might ask me, well, if you're a fisherman, then when should I use this lure all? I can't even say it. I said, well, I actually don't even have any idea because I don't know anything about it. You're gonna have to ask somebody that knows, you know? And sadly I think a lot of Christians would be in the same boat with regards to fishing for men. Christ may come and say, Well, are you a fisher of men? And you'll have to say, Well, I've been once or twice. Well, I went one time when the church had this function and and it was fun and exciting. I kind of enjoyed that. But you've never really picked up any books to try and learn how to do it, which we will have a session on how to be an effective soul winner. But you've never really invested effort and time, you've never specifically studied in order to prepare to learn how to do that. is not really anything that you're pursuing. So literally you could say, well I I've been once or twice, but are you a fisher of men? Well, I think if we were honest, we would have to say no. I mean, for many, for many, many Christians. You say, well, are you a fisher of men? And they may say, well, yes. You say, okay, well, how do you do it? Oh well um um I guess you you could start by inviting them to church and that's good. What I'm saying is the level of knowledge to actually explain to somebody else how to be a fisherman might be lacking What I'm saying, beloved, is if we're really going to be called Christians, if we want to be a good Christian, we're going to be a fisher of men. I don't believe we can really call ourselves Christians, that is Christ-like, if we're not living like Christ, and that is fishing for men. Fishing for men, beloved, is a requirement, not a gift. Matthew 28, 1920 doesn't talk anything about gifts. He says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever by commandity. We know that's a great commission. It's given to us all, that we're to go and we are to be going and constantly and continually going. The requirement, beloved, is not based on personality. I can't tell you how many times that has been a topic of conversation. Well, that's not my personality. There's nothing in the Word of God about soul winning or reaching a lost that's based on personality. There is a command to go. You see, it's not based on personality, it's based on position. Our position in Jesus Christ. You know, if I had a physician down at Home Depot and I was hired to be a cashier, I couldn't go to them and say, listen I'm just not sure that that's where I fit in. That's not what I feel like doing today. So, you know, I think I'm going to leave that to the other associates. Because today I really I feel much more comfortable stacking lumber. And say, well, young man, you were, and they would say young man. They would say young man, you were hired to be a cashier Go out front and be a catchier. That's the position you were hired for. That's why you're here. And beloved, we have a position in the family of God. God has called everybody that's in the family to go find those that aren't in the family and bring them in. So they too can know that they're saved and their sins are forgiven and they're on their way to heaven. If I'm really going to be a good Christian, I'm going to be like Christ was about my father's business. is going to be a large focus of my life. Everything that I'm doing. I'm going to ask you if you were at the job at Home Depot or wherever else you want to plug that in. And you were hired for a position and you said, yeah, well, I really don't like that position. That was not a good fit for me. How long do you think you would stay there And as I pondered and thought about that, I wondered, Christian, how long is God going to leave us here as Christians? If we're not doing what he left us here to do. If we're not accomplishing that for which he has called us into the family of God to accomplish. Then what cause or reason does he have to leave us here on earth? I mean, God's immensely patient, and he is long-suffering beyond measure. And praise him for it. But I think at some point if we're not doing what God has called us to do, he may say, well If you're not going to do what I've asked, then it's time for you to come home. I think sometimes Christians refuse to be fishers of men because they're ashamed Ashamed of the gospel of Christ. And I know we like to quote the verse, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. But beloved, if you will talk to somebody out in public about anything else. Accept the gospel, then you're ashamed of the gospel. If you don't find it hard to talk about football or about the Ravens or or uh the Oreos or you know the weather or you you can talk about whatever is going on if you can talk about any of that stuff but never ever find a way to get it around to the gospel Then I think we've got to take a very serious look at ourselves and say, well, maybe I'm ashamed You know, somebody asked me, and sadly, somebody asked me this week I was sitting down with, and they said, Oh, do you have a picture of family? And I pulled out my phone. And when I went to Mexico, I took all the pictures off of my phone so I'd have room for all those Mexico pictures. So I only had one photo of my family and it was from like twenty twelve. I said, um those three right there, those little kids, those three are in college. And they're like, whoa, that is an old picture, right? So yeah, I know. But you know, I wasn't ashamed at all to pull that out But a couple minutes later, I made sure he was saved. Made sure he knew the Lord as a savior, and he told me he did. He told me he needed to get baptized though, and I said, well I know a good church where you could do that. Follow the Lord and Believers baptism, do what God wants you to do. Sometimes it's not because we're ashamed, sometimes I think it's because we're alone. And what I mean by that, beloved, is I know that there is some fear. I'm just like any of you. Walking up to a complete stranger and talking to them about what anything, whatever, I mean, we're not all outgoing. We're not all it there's some fear there. But what I mean by I think sometimes we don't do it because we're alone is that we don't have the Holy Spirit's power Because if you have the Holy Spirit with you, he'll give you the words to say. He'll give you the boldness to go and say and do that which you normally wouldn't do. So maybe it's not that you're ashamed, maybe you do really desire to be a witness and you want to be a fisher of men, but you haven't spent sufficient time in prayer and with God to get his power in your life so that when you walk up to somebody, you can do it in the power of God. Because there is apprehension there. Especially For people who are less outgoing, who are like me and they stand there wondering, what what in the world can I say now? You know. I already said two things, and that's all that's in my brain, so now I'm spending all my brain power trying to think about what to say next instead of just saying something, you know. I used to one of my good friends, you know, is Brother Gene Sharp. And you see, I overthink, I overanalyze everything. I try and be very careful about what I say, and if I'm going to say something, I usually think about it. And uh the good thing my mom always said about me growing up, she says, Caleb doesn't say much, but when he says something, it's usually worth hearing. And I thought, well, praise the Lord. I'll I'll try and keep it that way. Um but anyways, for the sharp, you know, he's the exact opposite of me. And I've had debates with him. I said, listen, man, I said that so many times, I wish I was more like you. I wish I was just outgoing and I would just say whatever comes to mind. And he's like, no, you don't. I said, you know, you just don't worry about it. You just don't care. You just say whatever to anybody, and it doesn't matter. And uh he's like, Yeah, but I usually get in trouble for what I say too. You know, we're all made different. There's the thing is God made us all different and and we can be who God wants us to be in the personality that He made us. But maybe we need the Holy Spirit's power to come out of our shell a little bit. But it doesn't give us an excuse not to be a fisher of men. It needs to be a way of life for us. You guys remember some years ago when my father fell over 20 feet backwards off of a scaffold? When he was working, I I still remember getting the call and being just just struck with the fact that my dad might not live through the night. Uh the phone call we got is dad fell 25 feet off scaffold onto a concrete floor and he's being life-flighted to the hospital. That's all we knew. We found out the next day that of course he had broken both of his wrists and busted his back in several places. But he was living, anyways. He was life flighted to the hospital, landed on the tarmac, they're get him out of the helicopter, they're rolling him into the hospital, and out of the hospital comes somebody that Hadn't been in church in a very long time. But they knew who he was. And they looked down, they saw him coming in on a on a gurney and said, Roger Batrell, what are you doing here? And he says, I don't know, but it might be to see you. It might be to see you. Haven't seen you in a while. Somebody who's living. That fishing for men. Instead of looking for opportunities to get out of when we could fish, I'll tell you what, a guy that's a fisherman, he looks for any chance he can throw throw throw a line in the water. I mean he'll put two or three out there. He's sitting there. He's got you know he's one guy, he's got four rods in the water. Like what? Well increase my chances, man. I'm sitting here, might as well get four of them out there. That's what a fisher of men is Just whatever line he can put out, wherever he can plant the seed, and if we're going to be Christians, we're going to be fishers of men. Want you to see, secondly, that if we're going to be Christians, good Christians, we're going to be followers of the master. Look in Matthew chapter 16. Matthew chapter 16 and verse number 24. This is the pattern of a Christian. He's a follower of Christ. In Matthew 16, 24, he says, Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. We saw, first of all, that a follower of Christ is a fisher of men. We know that. It's very clearly stated in the verse we read in the beginning here, Matthew 4. 19, and he saith unto them, Follow me You know, I will make you fishers of men. He's going to be a follower of Christ. He's going to be a fisher of men. But a follower of Christ is also going to deny himself. What have you denied yourself recently? You know, that's it's a spiritual exercise to deny yourself. That's what fasting is. It's just denying yourself, denying your flesh uh the physical so you can concentrate and focus on the spiritual. But as Christians it it would be a way of life where we would begin to live in such a way we are continually denying our wants and our desires that we're living. unto Jesus Christ and what Christ wants. Can I ask you, how long has it been since you've denied yourself? If it's been a long time, you might ask yourself if you're a good Christian To deny yourself is to have to say no. To say no to what you want, to say no to what you desire. And beloved, this is not just for new Christians. I know in the beginning, when somebody just gets saved, they come to Christ, and well, they got a whole list of things they got to say no to, right? They come to the Lord and it's like everything in their life, they every message they hear feels like a a list of things they gotta start doing or stop doing. But after we've been saved a while, we kind of get in the place where we get comfortable and We decide I'm okay and we we begin to exist and live in side of our little comfort zone instead of looking and seeking for what God would have for us You know, people are put into prison because they can't say no to themselves. Big government has to step in when self-government fails to function. That's ultimately what happens. Because somebody could not deny themselves, they couldn't tell themselves no to Whatever violence they committed or whatever crime they committed against society, whatever they stole, whatever it was, there was a point in their in that day or in that transaction that they could have said, no, this isn't right, and stopped it, right? But they didn't. And ultimately they lost their freedom because they couldn't deny themselves. And we look at it and we say, Wow, that's right. Well they at some point they should have stopped themselves and they wouldn't be in jail today And quite frankly, uh I'm not a real sympathetic guy. I should have more sympathy. Just ask my wife. But you know you look at somebody and you you think well you committed the crime you do the time you know you you were speeding you got a ticket you deserve it that is what it is That some of the kids are telling the siblings are telling on their older siblings, you know, Andrew. The younger ones are like, Andrew was driving this fast I looked at him and I said, son, you do that, you're going to get a ticket. And it's not just the ticket you're going to pay, as the your insurance is going to go up and you're going to be paying higher insurance for the next three years. It's going to cost you a lot for that few minutes of fast driving. So you better better engage your your self-denial. Feels good to go that fast until you see the red and blue lights. Then your gut falls down here, right? You're like, oh man, what did I do? Yeah, we need self-denial. We look at the prisoner or the guilty guy on the side of the road and but what about us as Christians? I wonder how many times have we not denied ourselves when it's what Christ wanted for us to do? We said, oh, but this is what I want. How many young men and young ladies have ended up married to the wrong person because they couldn't deny themselves? They couldn't control their own heart's desire to have or to attain or to be married or to enjoy the pleasures that are supposed to be held inside of the bounds of marriage. And then they ended up happening to get married or or letting their emotions and hearts run away to a point where they get married and they're married to the wrong person. And then it's too late. All because they couldn't control their heart's desire. I've I've had conversations with my kids. Of course, they're in college and looking at time of life when they start searching and you know I've tried to tell them the very beginning, you have to exercise wisdom and engage your brain right now. Because once the heart gets involved, Your brain goes out the window. Your brain no longer functions correctly. I'll even tell you something. You'll look at me and say, Dad, but you don't understand. And I said, I'm telling you right now, you're going to be telling me that Because that's what happens. Because they can't deny themselves. You know, it's our job as parents to teach our kids how to do that. The other day at the homeschool activity, we all got ice cream after we went bowling. And it was fun. There was a little ice cream shop there, so I said, hey, let's walk over and get some ice cream. This little ice cream shop gave us some ice cream cones and they were big. Big cones. And uh little Matthew is uh lactose intolerant. But his mom, she's compassionate. She doesn't want him to be left out. Doesn't want him to not be able to participate. And so she says, yeah, he can have a cone. But then when she sees the sized cone, she's like, um, that might be a little much. I mean a little little bit of milk's okay, but that much, we're gonna be dealing with this. Uh he doesn't do well with that But see it's a teaching opportunity to teach your son and say, and she did this. She said, okay, that's probably enough. I know the cone was this big. But beans, you're only this big, that's probably a little too much because it's not going to be good for you. And so you need to learn how to say no, even though you want it, even though you desire it. You need to say, yeah, that's enough. I need to put I need to stop. And he did. He took the at least half of his cone and threw it away because, you know, she was being wise and saying it's not going to be good for you to eat all this. And so we try and teach them that, but what about us? Are we willing to let the Lord teach us to say no to ourselves? How many adults have gotten themselves in trouble financially because they couldn't deny themselves? They couldn't say no to that new toy, that new car, that new house. Well, I I need a bigger house I need more space. I need a new car. I need this. And because we can't control that desire or say no to ourselves, we end up making a decision that is terrible A good Christian is going to be able to deny himself. He says there. As a follower of Christ, we're going to deny ourselves. That's just a part of being a Christian. It's denying yourself and letting the Lord lead you. Maybe you need to deny yourself on Saturday night, getting real practical and simple from Saturday night activities or even projects. I'm not saying you're staying up late watching a movie, although a lot of people do that. Then they can't stay awake during the service on Sunday. But you know me, I'm a night owl, and I like to work and I get in a project and I'll be working and I can't tell you how many times I'm downstairs cutting cabinets or making something or I'm out in the barn grinding metal, making a grill, amen. And uh it it Mary will come down and and you know, she'll say, Well, what time do you want to read and pray with the kids? And I'll look and it's ten thirty. And I'll be like, okay, I'll come up. So I'll come up to the house and I'll I'll read and pray with them. And then I'm like, you know what? It's an hour till midnight. I'll tell I'll tell Mary, I said, I'm gonna go down. I just want to finish this one thing that I'm working on and I'll be back, you know I'll go back to the barn. Next thing I'll look at the clock and it's 2. 30 and I'm like, oh my goodness. And I'm gonna go, it's so late. But that really affects my next day, right? Well on a Saturday night that would be really bad. So sometimes denying ourselves is just looking ahead and saying, uh, hey, uh this is what I need to do to be wise with my time and so on. As Christians, we need to learn what God wants and live that way. As a follower of Christ, I want you to see thirdly, we're going to listen for the shepherd's voice. And you don't have to turn there, but let me read for you John chapter 10, verses 4 and 5. He says, And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers. Can I ask you tonight, do you know his voice? Do you listen to, heed, and respond to the voice of God? I know today we have caller ID and most of the time you know who's calling. But you remember the day when you had to pick up the phone and hopefully by the tone of their voice you would know who you were talking to. Like you would most people that you talk to on a regular basis, you recognize them and who they are. And uh now you call anybody and they know who you are. But can I ask you when God calls, do you know it's Him? Do you know that He's the one that's speaking? That He's the one that's talking to you Or are we so busy and active with our life that we're ignoring or missing his call? We of course try and teach our kids to listen for the the voice of mom and dad. And parents, you need to teach your kids that. They need to tune in and respond to your voice They could be down in the gym and ten kids are playing and all the adults are talking, but if you call out their name, they need to hear and respond to your voice. That's what good parenting is. And that's what we need to be doing for our Heavenly Father We might be all busy and active in life, and everything's happening, but the Holy Spirit, God the Father, might say, Hey, here's an opportunity for you to be a witness, to be a fisher of men. But we're so busy we don't hear them. We're so involved in life that we're not getting it. I wonder how loud does your father have to get for you to hear his voice? You know, God might use a brother or sister in Christ to reprove you. Do you get offended at that? Or do you thank God for it? You know, they some brother or sister in Christ comes and says, Hey, you you know you really shouldn't be missing church. What? Who are you, Mr. Goody Two Shoes, Mr. I've never missed church a day in my life? Who are you to reprove me? You know, when somebody reproves you, they're not saying that they have it all together. You know, truth is still truth. If I couldn't preach on anything that I was ever guilty of, I couldn't preach anything. I'm just a sinner saved by grace. What I'm saying is it's not truth, is truth, and what God's Word says is right. And because a brother or sister in Christ comes and wants to encourage or help you or maybe even reprove you for doing wrong. You need to take that and thank God that somebody cares enough to tell you the truth. Be willing to say, I need to adjust, I need to improve, I need to make a change. That's what we would do if we were listening for the Father's voice. How long has it been since you heard the voice of God I want you to see lastly this evening that good Christians forget the material. Matthew chapter 19. Matthew chapter 19 and verse number 21. He says, Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. So we see here that this of course the rich young ruler and he's not telling him he needs to sell all that he has in order to be a Christian The Lord could see into the heart of this man and see that this man was holding to his riches more than he was holding to Christ. He valued his riches more than he valued righteousness. And Christ was putting his finger on the one thing that man wouldn't give up, even for Jesus Christ, and said, Would you be willing to let this go? Do you love me more than these? As he asked Peter. The rich man wouldn't do it. He understood the heart of this rich man, but it is the heart of a Christian to be able to forget about the material. If there's anything that describes the heart of Christ, it is willing to sacrifice. For He sacrificed it all for you and I. What are you willing to sacrifice for God? You know, beloved, we are willing, it's amazing to me what we're willing to sacrifice to get what we want. You know, and I'm as guilty as the rest of you, as anybody. What we want We're willing to sacrifice for. Boy, I want a suburban So I'm going to save and save and save. I'm going to put this money away, all and we're going to collect this. We're going to get it all together. Ultimately, we're going to shop. We're going to find them to get a suburban Five years of sacrificing, putting away money to be able to buy the suburban. And I've seen it over and over again. And listen, there's nothing wrong with God blessing you, but I'm just saying what when we want something, I've seen people go into massive debt to get what they want. Oh yeah, that's what I this is what I wanted. So I went ahead and I know it's double the payment that I had before and I know this, but you know what? It's just it's what I've always wanted, so I got it Good good good. I'm happy for you. But what's amazing is when God comes and says, Hey, could you do this for the brother? Could you do this for the Lord? Could you do this? What? Why is the church always asking for money? Or why is it why is it it's not even right that Pastor would mention that need because you know he's putting that pressure on us to try and do something about it. He shouldn't, if people want to give to it, they can give to it. But he shouldn't be out there pushing it like we need to do that. But we'll sacrifice like crazy to get what we want. But when God calls upon us to sacrifice, he's asking too much. I wonder. You know, our mortgage, I've got to get done, but our mortgage is right over a million dollars right now for our church. And from my perspective, as I look at that, I'm like, wow. That is unbelievable. I mean, I just it's you know that's nothing for God. You know It could be taken care of pretty easily. It could be. I don't know. God will take care of it in his time. Of course, if you want to be blessed by God, the first thing out of your checks should be your tithe. I believe in tithe and I'm not gonna belabor that. Teach your children to tithe. Be an example and tithe yourself. Seek and ask God what He wants you to do with the other 90%, because ultimately we know it's all His. Amen. God might ask you to sacrifice some treasure, but he also might ask you to sacrifice some time. You know, I know we're all busy We all have more to do than we can get done. We ought to praise and thank God for every opportunity to serve Him because you know what? Our service for Him lasts for eternity. It's it's an investment in eternity. And do you know most of what we do here on earth? It doesn't last. Don Wilson has been, he's told me several times. I hope you guys are listening, Don, because I'm going to tell on you. He said, he's been mowing the same grass for 50 years. He's lived in that house and he's been mowing. He says, I thought about this the other day. I've been mowing my grass for 50 years. And I said, man. That is terrible, Don. Think about all the hours and all the time invested in mowing that grass. You know, and it's part of life and you gotta do those things. Fifty years of mowing that lawn, what I mean what did it accomplish? What could that's one of the things I love about living on church property? Because at least if I'm mowing the grass, I'm mowing the Lord's grass, you know. That kind of thing. I love I love that It's part of life and we gotta do those things. But man, anything we get to do for God lasts for eternity. It's such a privilege to serve Him. As I bring this to a conclusion tonight, I want to ask you to ask yourself How well are you wearing the name Christian? I know we throw that name around and in today's world, especially everybody's a Christian, right? You know, I don't just mean are you saved and on your way to heaven. But I'm saying if Christian means Christ-like, if Christian and that name really does have meaning and it's a value, Are we being good Christians? Are we fishers of men, like Christ was? Are we like Christ was? He said, I must be about my father's business. Are we a follower of Christ? A follower of the Master? And are we able to forget about the material? Because this life really doesn't have any eternal value. It's all going to pass away. It's all going to burn up. And only what's done for Christ will last. You know, are you listening for his voice? Maybe God spoke to you tonight and would have you make a change or adjustment in your life