Tonight we are concluding uh this is part two of how to glorify God. Uh we began with that last week. The text verse is first Corinthians six twenty for Uh ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Glorify God in your body and your spirits, which are his. We know that uh our body is not our own, that our duty, our responsibility as Christians now is not just to satisfy ourselves or to fulfill our own wishes and desires, but to live lives that would bring honor and glory to God. And we established that thought last week. We looked at it. We know that it is the whole duty of man And we spoke spoke about the first three areas in which we are told to glorify God or areas that things that we can do that glorify God. And it's nice to to have a list. It's nice to know that, hey, if I do this It glorifies God. And my duty, my job, and responsibility is to glorify God. And God said, hey, here's some things that very clearly uh defined for us that glorify God. First of all, we talked about the confession of sins Joshua talking to Achan said, Hey, listen, give me, I pray thee, give glory to the Lord and make confession unto him. So confession of sin brings honor and glory to God when we acknowledge our sin and realize uh that we've transgressed God's law and therefore are you know, our sin puts us in debt and and Jesus Christ is the only way to pay for that debt. And so confession of sin brings glory to God. We talked about living by faith brings glory to God. In Romans chapter 4, verse number 20, he says, And he staggered not at the promises of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Strong in faith, giving glory to God. When we live lives of faith and practice faith through our daily life, it brings glory to God. Listen, uh just the act or the practice of spending time in prayer is an exercise of faith and that is uh glorifying God. When we're people of prayer, that's glorifying God. Obedience is faith in action. So when we are being obedient, that glorifies God. So living living lives of faith glorifies God. Then we talked about faithfulness through suffering. When Jesus heard that in John 11, verse 4, when Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God. here describing the story and saying, hey, this sickness that was present is not unto death but for the glory of God. And there's some suffering and there's some things that come into our lives that uh are for God's glory and we need to understand that. Now he says there's no suffering or there's no glory in uh self-imposed suffering and things, you know, that we brought upon ourselves, there's there's no glory in in that, uh, you know, but If there's things that God allows to come into our life, uh, you know, that we did not cause or bring on uh through foolish action, he says, Hey, if you're suffering for the glory of the Lord's sake, uh there is that does glorify God and we should be uh careful how we respond to suffering because it's an opportunity for us to glorify the Lord. Then tonight we want to uh give you the fourth and Fifth, sixth, and seventh we're going to go through tonight to give you these uh other things where the Bible is very clear. Uh in Luke chapter 17, verses uh 14, 15, and 16. Luke 17, 14, and 50, 15, and 16, we see The fourth thing here that glorifies God. He says, and when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priest. And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And fell down on it, down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan So you guys know this story when the lepers uh lepers were healed and uh you know God says, hey, go show yourself to the priests, and the Bible says that as they went in the way, as they started going that way, that all of a sudden they They noticed or realized, oh man, the the spots are gone. We're healed. They they were going to show themselves to the priest Uh which was a practice if you had leprosy and the leprosy was healed, the priest had to see and observe and and pronounce you as clean in order for you to be able to resume back in normal society. So they were going to present themselves to the priest and you know they had All this maybe in their minds are wondering, why should we go present ourselves to the priest like look at all this stuff all over us? And and yet on the way Being obedient to God while they're on the way, all of a sudden they realize, whoa, it's all gone. And uh the nine went on, but the one turned back. And the Bible says in glorifying God, he gave thanks. Can I tell you that giving thanks glorifies God? Do you remember the great sin of Romans chapter number one? Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful. That great sin in Romans chapter 1 where God turns these people, their their every imagination of their heart became evil and their Foolishness was in their hearts. They were darkened. They professed themselves to be wise and became as fools. These people they they knew of God, but they glorified God not. Christian, we're we're walking on dangerous ground when we fail to glorify God And when we fail to acknowledge and give thanks to God for what he's doing, to know all that God has done for us and to fail to praise him is a sin indeed. We need to be thankful, beloved. James chapter 1 and verse number 17. James 1, 17 says, in every good gift. We need to be thankful for every good gift that God brings into our life. I mean, we sing the song, Ain't God good to give us so many blessings. Yeah, God is good. And we say it. God is good all the time. All the time, God is good. We say that, but it doesn't God bring many good things into our lives? Many things in which we should truly be thankful for, thankful for every good gift that God brings into our life. I was talking to a young man on Tuesday who's young in the in the ministry. And I said, listen, let me encourage you, let me exhort you. I want to tell you that you need to take time to see what God is doing. Because here's the thing, it's very easy for us to get so consumed in the doing of the work. We're so busy doing the work that we're doing for God. That we don't see what God is doing through us. We're busy doing the work, and boy, we're getting all of this done, but we're not even really noticing what it is God's doing. And so I exhorted him, I said, listen, you're you're gonna burn out, you're gonna give up and quit, if all you're seeing is the work you're getting done. Because there's always more work than you're ever going to get done. There's more than you're ever going to get done in a day. There's more than you're going to get done in a year. It's there's always more to do than you can get done. And sometimes you may feel like you're spinning your wheels Because you're like, man, I'm just doing this and this and this and this. But when you see what God is doing, you realize it's an eternal work that God is doing in the lives of people. And through you, and that brings joy to your heart that cannot be put there any other way. So really just imaging and realizing the good things that God is doing in your life and That verse goes on and says, Be in every good gift, but he also says in every perfect gift. Do you know, beloved, there are some gifts that come into our lives that we would not necessarily classify as good We wouldn't put them into the good category. But God says they are still perfect. They are still things that God is bringing into your life. They are in His perfect will. And they are for our perfection as saints. That means our completion, our maturity. Be ye therefore perfect, as your Father in heaven is perfect, that that progress in which we are slowly conformed into the image of God's Son, God brings these things into our lives. They're not things that we might classify as good, but God says, hey, you need to recognize them as perfect. things. Things that are there for your perfection. They are inside the perfect will of God. And those are the things that are a little harder to be thankful for. A little harder to express gratitude and acknowledge. But when we realize that these things are directed by God and that He is in control, then we truly can be thankful. Amen? And we need to just flat out be thankful for God. And every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, cometh down from the Father of light. Being thankful for the Father. He is the Father of light. He did separate light from darkness. He did establish the sun, moon, and stars. But not just the light that we can see or behold with our eyes. Many times we will use the description or the phrase and we'll say when somebody gains an understanding of something, we'll be like, oh man, the light just came on. Like they just got understanding, it just registered with them. Uh or or what about moral light? The light that God has, you know, we don't even understand how blessed this country is because of the history and the heritage that we have. There is a lot of light here in the United States. You see the absence of light when you visit other countries, when you go places where the light has not shown, where you go into Papua New Guinea You go into some of the tribes in the outer bush of Africa, some places where all they've known is is darkness. There has never been the light of Jesus Christ, and man's eyes have never been opened to that truth and you can you you can feel it the darkness that's there we need to be thankful for the light that we have This word of God that is a light, a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. That we have and can read and partake of. And let it guide us in our life. Let it give us light. To show us what we're supposed to do and how we're supposed to live. These are the things that come from God. The Father of all light. So we know we are to give thanks. Giving thanks glorifies God. Fifthly, turn to Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 16. Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 16. Beloved, I want you to understand that it's not about you as an individual. What you're doing or accomplishing for God, it's not about you, it's not about me. In Matthew chapter 5, verse number 16, he says, Let your light so shine before men. That they may see your good works. And what's the last phrase? Glorify your Father. So, beloved, the activity or the accomplishment of good works glorifies God. And what I'm saying is it's not about you, and it's not about getting recognition or or somehow earning some measure of brownie points in heaven if you perform a certain number of good works. Much of the world likes to use Mother Teresa as the shining example of somebody who has lived their life for others and given time and energy and effort, but you understand it's not about us Ultimately, the goal and desire of performing or accomplishing work that is good is to bring glory to God That that it may glorify your Father which is in heaven. So the good works that we do, oh beloved, may it never be about us. May it never be that somebody could see us and say, Oh wow, look at how godly he is, or look at how magnificent of a Christian she is. May it always be about glorifying Him. Beloved, increasing in our knowledge of God is a good work. Good works glorify God, and it is a good work for us to increase in our knowledge of God. Colossians 1:10 says that ye may walk worthy of the Lord unto pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. And increasing in the knowledge of God. We are to be abounding, increasing in every good work. We are to be multiplying in this endeavor. And then Increasing in our knowledge of God. It's a good work. Studying the Word, getting into the Word. We were at a uh little pastors fellowship on Tuesday and the speaker that was there is a Prolific reader. Not like Dr. Green was. Reads, reads, reads, reads, reads. And uh Basically he put all the rest of us under conviction because he's talking about the books he's reading and you know he's like at any given time I'm probably reading ten books, twelve books. You know, uh he's like I have a book I'm a book in my car, I leave it there. If I'm stuck somewhere I I have a book there, I'm reading it. And he says, I have books at home I'm reading, I have books in my office I'm reading, I have books I'm reading for study and uh he was talking about reading He he called it long-term sermist sermon preparation. And he says, you plan ahead and you know, okay, I'm going to be doing a series on Jeremiah next year. So I start right now reading the book of Jeremiah once a month. And I read everything I can get on Jeremiah. between now and then. Before I ever start writing the first message, he says I read uh and he talked about some series that he did and how many books he read in preparation for those and I'm like, forget it, I'm done. I'm like, okay, yeah, uh just shoot me now. Uh it's not happening. But uh he's a prolific reader. He was increasing in his knowledge to study the Word of God and to know more about God. You know we'll never exhaust the depths of these pages. And so we need to be uh learners, readers, and learn about God. Uh you know, honesty is a good work. 1 Peter 2, verses 11 through 12 says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers. They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation So the good works that they're going to see us do, he's saying, hey, honesty. Being honest in our conversation. You know, when the Word of God describes and speaks of conversation, it's talking about your lifestyle. So obviously we should be honest in our in our words. That's the beginning, that's the foundational. thing. I mean, w we need to be very careful about what we say, about that we're communicating honest things. That we're not just making something up. But also in our lifestyle, we should be honest. We should be honest before men. Our conversation. How we're living. Does it direct and point people to God? Honesty in your life before men. Beloved, this world is not our home. This shouldn't be where we feel at home. You know, you you you walk into some places and uh you just like, oh no, fine, I can't I can't be here. I can't stay here. I took the boys to uh Top Golf and right next to if you've ever been down there down in Baltimore there right next to Top Golf is the uh uh casino. I don't remember what's is it Harris? I mean Horseshoe. Horseshoe. Oh thanks, John. I asked the boys, I'm like, hey you wanna you know uh go to go stop at the casino while we're here? We're we're parked right here, uh just joking with them. But those kind of places, you know, a Christian shouldn't feel comfortable in those places. This world's our not home. That's not what Christianity is about. And and we ought to be looking for a way to get away from that stuff. There's so much of the world that we have to be around in in the process of our day Why would we go seek it out? Why would we want to go spend time in it? You know, let's go hang out in the in the pig sty for a little while, you know, in the hog slop. Let's just do that for a little while. That's what that's like. And uh a Christian should not desire to be in those places. Our actions, beloved, and our our where we're at should direct people to God, not to the world. It's sad that many Christians fit so well into the world that their life has no value beyond today. What I'm saying is they're living for now, they're living for today. And we're not pointing anybody to Christ, we're not pointing anybody to heaven or the future considering these things. So we need to live lives that are honest, in line with the Word of God, and away from the world. That's what glorifies God. As we think about this idea of work glorifying God, the last thing I want you to realize is how Jesus Christ glorified God. In John chapter 17 and verse number four it says, I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work thou gavest me to do. I finished the work thou gavest me to do. So God, Jesus glorified the Father by taking the work that God gave him to do and finishing it. Just finishing the work. The the last point that we're going to get to here in just a couple minutes is going to be glorifying God through your death. Ultimately, we're going to reference back to this because you can glorify God through your death by finishing the work that God gives you to do Work while uh the day is here, because the night cometh when no man can work. The time will come when we have no more opportunity to work. So we've got to get done what God gave us to do while there is time, while we have light. Well we have life. So sixthly, uh John fifteen eight. John fifteen eight So you guys tell me how are we going to glorify God according to John 15, 8? Mm? Bear fruit branding said it. I know many of you are reading it. You're just Herein is my Father glorified that she bear much fruit. We glorify God when we bear fruit. To bear fruit is an essential part of the Christian life. This should be a normal practice. This should be something that's present in every believer's life. There should be fruit evident in your life. That's one of the ways in which you know you're saved, that you know that you are a child of God, that you're bearing fruit in your life There are many types of fruit, and we've taught on this before, but you know, you have the fruit of the Spirit, which should be present in your life. It is a byproduct of walking in the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is present. And you should begin to start to see some of that fruit being evident in your life. Not all of it in one day and boy look I'm saved so now I'm Mr. Patient and now I'm Mr. Temperate and now I'm you know no it's a process. It takes time. But you should be able to look at your life and say, wow, I can see where I was, and now I can see the fruit of the Spirit being borne out in my life. I can see the change that God has wrought and how I I I know that I'm not what I should be, but I praise God I'm not what I was. And that's the fruit of the Spirit being brought out in our lives To bear fruit is vitally important. Psalms 92, verses 13-14 says, those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. So that means it doesn't matter how long you've been saved, you don't ever get to the place that, oh well, I've done or I've already done that I already accomplished that. I already bore all the fruit that that was asked of me or was my responsibility. So now I'm kind of in the in the coasting stage. No, we're we're r no matter how long we've been saved, we should still be bearing fruit. It is fruit that brings honor and glory to God. Philippians 1, verse number 11 says, being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and the praise of God. The fruit of righteousness being brought out in your life brings glory to God. Righteousness is seen in our actions and in our attitudes. The fruit of souls should be something that's part of every believer's life as well. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. It's sad, but there are some Christians that spend the entirety of their life. And never once have the privilege of bearing fruit, the fruit of souls. Being used of God to bring somebody else to Jesus Christ, whether that's through a gospel witness or a or a gospel tract or uh John and Romans or exhorting, encouraging somebody to come to the house of God so they can hear the the message of the gospel of Jesus and put their faith and trust in Christ. It ought to be a burden on our heart. Just like last Thursday night, uh Brother Greg was saying that, hey, listen, it ought to be something on every believer's heart that we ought to have somebody we're praying for. somebody we're working on to get to church, somebody we're talking to about the gospel, somebody that's on our heart. We're saying, hey, I want to see them saved. He they go forth weeping. That is, you've got a burden, you've got a heart for it, you've got a desire to see fruit. And if you have a desire to see fruit, God will give you fruit. God will open the doors of opportunity. You'll have divine appointments that you'll look back and say, man, look what God did. He'll put you in the place where you're right there with somebody who is ready and wants to hear the truth of the gospel, but you've got to have somebody that's desiring to see souls saved, that's prepared and ready to be a witness. Or God will send somebody by that he needs to see saved, and you're not ready. We ought to be bearing fruit, producing fruit in our lives. That glorifies God. And lastly, tonight, we see that we glorify God in death. In John chapter 21 and verse number 19, it's kind of an unusual verse, but Christ was talking to Peter. And he tells Peter, he says, this spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. So Peter Jesus was talking to Peter and he says, Peter, you're gonna die. We're all gonna die. But Peter, you're going to die a death that's going to glorify God. Ultimately, you're going to be martyred for your faith Peter, you're going to die a martyr's death. And it is through this death that you're going to glorify God. And I don't think that you have to be burned at the stake or hung on a cross upside down to glorify God in your death. And that's where I was saying I think that, first of all, just being faithful to the end glorifies God. If you can just be faithful to the end like Jesus Christ said, I have finished the work that thou gavest me to do. And if you can just continue to keep on keeping on and keep bearing fruit and keep glorifying God in your life until the day when you breathe your last breath. You'll bring honor and glory to God even in your death. By just staying faithful, by just keeping on. Well, wasn't Mrs. Green a blessing? Ninety years old? And still just plugging away. I I mean pushing forward and and just doing God giving her uh health and and the ability to do so much still and she's just doing it. She's just going and going and going. I heard Miss Trudy offered her a ride up from downstairs and she says, Nope, you don't use it, you lose it. I'm taking the steps. I mean two flights of stairs, you know. Uh when they arrived here, I was down in the kitchen and they arrived and Mary walked in and They walked all the way down to the kitchen and I told Mary, I said, you should have drove around back and dropped them. I mean, you just had them hiked down, you know they got to go back up. Two flights of stairs, but Miss Green's like, oh, it's okay. Uh, you know, just amazing, just continuing on. Doing what she can for God, being active and serving God and loving people even at 90 years old. You can glorify God if you just stay stay at it until the end. I want to say this lastly here is you also can glorify God by getting buried instead of burned. Now, don't start throwing stones yet. I've taught on this. I've done an entire lesson on what does the Bible say about cremation, and you can uh look in the Word of God, you can look on sermon audio and listen to it if you want. Here's the thing. I don't believe that getting cremated is a sin. I don't have biblical, I can only be dogmatic where the scripture is dogmatic, and I don't believe the scripture defines it as sin, but we do have the examples in the scripture. Historically, as you walk through the pages of Scripture, you will see that Christians were buried. Every example in the Word of God given to us, Christians were buried. Romans chapter 6 describes the Christian as being planted together in likeness with Jesus Christ's death. The idea of taking the body. in planting it in the ground. Why? Because we believe in the resurrection of the body. Throughout the Word of God, historically, there was only two times that people's bodies were burned. First of all, they were burned if the body was consumed with disease. And there was they they had to stop the disease. They didn't want the infection to continue. And so when there was present active disease they would burn the body. Then the second thing is uh when they were pagan, when they were wicked. Um then then bodies would be burned. And so I mean sometimes they're burnt as punishment as far as crime and whatever, but I mean generally as far as people laying their own family down, it was practiced that the the pagan families burned their dead. It is still very prevalent in foreign cultures that they burn their dead. And it's not just a matter of convenience, it is a matter of belief. If you go to Thailand Uh and countries like that, where the family doesn't care if you profess Christ while you're living, for them, the number one thing is at the end of your life, the family gets to burn the body Because they believe in reincarnation. And if they do not burn the body, they will not come back. And so basically that in effect is denying everything you said you believed beforehand. And if you burn the body at at at death. Okay, so here here's what I'm saying. If if Please understand if you or somebody you love or a family member decides that they want to be cremated. I'm not mad at you. I don't think you committed some great sin. Uh that that's not what I'm saying tonight. Um I understand it is ridiculous the cost of funerals today Average cost of a funeral is about ten thousand dollars now. For a basic just to bury somebody is about ten thousand dollars. It could easily be fifteen or twenty. I understand people don't live with that kind of money. And and so what what are you gonna do? And so Uh I understand the dilemmas this facing you. Some of you you may want to consider uh buying your entire funeral right now. Mary's grandfather, I think it was twelve hundred dollars. Do you remember? I think it was twelve hundred dollars. Back in the eighties, he pre-paid for his entire funeral casket Services, rental of every every three papers, entire funeral was like $1,200. Well he just died a few years ago. And the the people when they were doing the paperwork, they were like, oh my goodness. He's getting all this for twelve hundred. I mean you can't even buy a casket for that. And uh so what I'm maybe you know things are just gonna continue to get more expensive. So maybe you wanna free pay for your funeral right now, but what I'm saying is that here's an opportunity if you have the capacity to glorify God in your death. It's a picture of saying we believe in the resurrection. Do you know it is the practice of all cemeteries in our country to bury the body? Facing the east. I'll bet you a lot of the people in cemeteries that bury the bodies don't even know why they do that. The reason is because when you awake, you're facing heaven, the east, when where Jesus is going to be coming back I performed a funeral one time for a uh person that died. The family asked me to do it. They weren't part of our church, but they needed a Christian because a Christian young man had married a Muslim uh young lady. The Muslim family wanted to have a uh Muslim funeral, I think it was Muslim, was it Mundu? Yeah, Muslim, and then they wanted a Christian funeral. And so both of us were there, me and their high priest. And when I stood, uh always uh when so When when I'm perf doing a funeral, uh I'll walk up even like at the graveside and the funeral director will ask me, Do you need any dirt? Do you need any holy water? Do you need any you know, he asked me this stuff, I'm like, no, I don't need any of that, you know. Uh and uh they're like, okay. And then they'll always direct me to the head. To where where is the head of the person buried? And the speaker is supposed to stand at the head of the body. Well, I performed this funeral and I was standing at the head of the body, and of course the body is facing east. Well, when I concluded I stepped down and the Muslim got up and began to speak, but before he spoke, they took the body and faced it the other direction. Because they don't believe that Jesus was the Messiah. They don't believe he's coming in the sky. And they faced him the other direction as a clear picture of their unbelief in that. And the the tension in the air in that funeral was one of the most uncomfortable things I've ever been in. And you talk about seeing a group of people without any hope. It gave me the most clearest picture of the Bible about how the Bible says we sorrow, but sorrow not as those that have no hope. Because the when he began to speak, there was literally ladies falling on the ground weeping, falling down, just just crying, just weeping. It was just they were they were loud cries of mourning and uh you know just hard. But what I'm saying is in death you have one last opportunity maybe to glorify God. And so you can do that uh if you can get buried. Please understand. I've had many conversations with church members that are close to death. And I said, listen, I'll still do your funeral. I'm not mad at you. Again, I don't think you're sinning. I can't say you're sinning. Personally, I believe it's an opportunity to glorify God. If you're not able to do that, I'm not upset at you. So don't please don't go away saying uh I Said more than I did. Okay, I can only be dogmatic where the scripture is dogmatic. And the scriptures are pretty clear that Christians had that opportunity to glorify God. Lastly, you can glorify God in your death by remembering him by remembering him. And what I'm saying is uh over the years it has kind of shocked me Now I never ask for anything for a funeral, especially church members. I've never asked for anything, don't don't need anything. I'm here, I love you, and and I would do it for the family, don't need anything. But occasionally they'll they'll give me some type of I don't know what they call it. Usually it comes from the funeral home, you know. It's a hundred bucks 150 bucks. Uh, you know, but I've had families sometimes they'll you know they'll write a check to the church uh for five hundred dollars, and that's a blessing. But then I'll hear later that the family gave 25,000 to hospice. That's what I don't understand. A church that loved you and cared for you, God who saved your soul, a church that walked with you through your life. cared for you up and down through sickness and health and all the good days and the bad days and all of that. And through all of that, you know, you'll you'll give the church 500 bucks and then hospice who was there for the last two weeks. You write a check for $25,000. You remember them in your reel or give them $100,000. I uh Listen, if you got a couple million dollars and you want to do that, that's fine, but I just think you ought to remember God. You ought to remember God. And it's an opportunity for you to send a very clear message to anybody that knows you that God was first in your life and God's gonna be first in your death. And you're remembering him. Listen, you can't take it with you. And let me encourage you, the Bible says that we should leave an inheritance to our children. And I'm all for that. It's wise financial planning and I believe that you should prepare so that you can leave something to your kids. Now let me put a qualifier on that. If your kids have walked away from God and they're going to take that money and spend it out in the world and do all kinds of things with it That in your life, when you were living, you said, I'm not going to fund that. You're not going to take my money and go do those things. Well then why would you leave it all to them when you pass when you pass away? That doesn't make sense. So just think about that. Remembering God. You can glorify God in your death if you would remember Him. So in conclusion here, we're very clearly told we're to glorify God in our bodies. Really, in his body. Because you're not your own. You've been bought with a price. It's hard to glorify God in our body when we're doing or practicing the wrong things. We're not living holy, right lives. So what about you tonight? Is there something in your life that is defiling the body? Or are you glorifying God? We know it's our responsibility. We're supposed to do in everything we do, we're supposed to bring honor and glory to God. Are you glorifying God in your body? Does the world know whose side you're on? Or are they wondering? Are they not sure? There's a story that during the Civil War there was grandma and grandpa that were living in a small hut and uh soldiers We're coming up the drive. Grandpa didn't have any weapons, but he grabbed a frying pan and he started walking out and his wife said, Honey, where where are you going with that frying pan? You ain't gonna win the award for the frying pan? And he says, no, but they'll sure know whose side I'm on. Does the world know whose side we're on? Does our life hold high the banner of the cross so that there is no question? People know you're a Christian. And you're going to honor God and glorify God in your life. Well, you have breath to breathe. You're going to do all that you can to glorify God. I hope so. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?