Amen. Well we've got some ground to cover. It's been a fun service, been uh a blessing, what a joy to see these babies dedicated and uh privilege to honor someone who has been faithful all of these years and we just praise the Lord for for that. It's time to get into the Word of God. This morning's message is going to be applicable to uh the spirit and idea of the day. It is Baby Dedication Day and as Christian parents we have hopefully all committed our hearts and minds to maintain a Christian home. Uh a Christian home is of vital importance. Can I tell you that a Christian home is not just something in name only? A Christian home is a home that has saved members. The family members that are saved, that they know that they have uh put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, that God has forgiven them of their sin and that because of God's precious gift, uh because of God's forgiveness, they have a home in heaven. We know that not all kids are at the age of accountability and the time will come when they hopefully understand and they trust Christ, but the goal Is that everyone in the home would be saved, would know for sure that their sins are forgiven and have a relationship with God. It also is surrendered Surrendered members, this is family members who have surrendered their will and their their mind and heart towards God To let God lead and direct them, to do what God says that they should do, understanding that we're fulfilling the roles that God made for us as husbands and wives and children. And so it takes a surrendered person to do that And so it it surrendered. The Bible says, uh submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God, that that fear of God is present, and therefore we fulfill our roles and duties as parents and Where surrender also is selfless. A Christian home is a home where there are selfless family members. They esteeming others better than themselves that they would rather their brother have the ice cream than them. Amen. Uh they would rather dad have the golden grams instead of them. You know, they they there's things growing up, there's some things you know that dad enjoys and mom bought it. For dad. And so the kids know unless Dad says that that that's off off limits. You can't have that. That's for dad, you know. Like the Tillamook ice cream. Amen. Oh no, I would rather them have that. I'm esteem them better than myself. It really is a matter of being selfless and I think selfishness is one of the biggest causes of hardship inside the home. And a Christian home is one where we, through the power of God and submission to God, overcome that human nature of selfishness and we live for one another. This is not what I'm going to be dealing with today, but beloved, the Christian home really should be a little bit of heaven. Home should be that place you long for and you look to go to get an escape from this world. To get that place of refuge, and that ought to be a place of refuge for you and a place of refuge for your husband and for your children. That's what a Christian home should be. And the responsibility to make it that lies upon us and ultimately, really, upon the Father. It is the duty and responsibility of the one whom God is going to hold accountable. So this morning, if you would, turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter number 16. In 1 Samuel chapter number 16, we're going to read about a father who took his responsibility seriously. This father raised eight sons. And if you know the story here, in 1 Samuel chapter number 16, is where that boy named David gets called upon to be a king. Can I tell you that Jesse did not know when he was raising his boys that one of them was going to be a king one day? But Jesse was raising his boys in such a way and instilling into them uh the right kind of heart and preparing them in the right kind of way that when the day came that God through the man of God came and said, You know what? I'm gonna have this boy be a king. He was ready. It's Jesse didn't get to go back when Samuel showed up and say, oh, wait a minute. He's going to be king? There's some things I need to teach him. There's some things he needs to know. No, that that was already done. It was already in the heart of David, and I believe in the heart of his other boys. But the fact of the matter is, as God looked down and he chose David specifically, but I want you to know this morning, beloved, I want to ask you or maybe exhort you on how to raise a king. How to raise a king. We all have children in our home, and are they king worthy? Would you look with me at chapter number 16 beginning in verse number one? And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing, I have rejected him from reigning over Israel Fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. I ask you, beloved, are you raising a king? Are are the hearts and minds and bodies of your children being prepared in such a way that they would be a king, that God would look down and say, Okay, they are worthy. They could fulfill this role. Listen, parents, we only get one chance at this. We don't get to go back when they're 17, 18, 20, 21 and say, oh wait, there's some things I wanted to teach you I remember when Matt and Tiffany stood on this platform August 23rd, 2015. Stood here on the platform with Tiera as she dedicated Baby Jeremiah. Stood on the platform with Evans and Doreen as they dedicated Baby Glorious. And at that time, Matt and Tiffany were dedicating Matthew Jr. He's not a baby anymore. Matthew Jr. Well they were dedicating him in 2015, so he's got to be at least 10, maybe 11 years old. It passes quick. My wife always says the the the the days sometimes feel long, but the years pass fast. You you mothers know what that's like. Seems like the day just like is this day ever gonna end? So there's so much going on and just you've had all you could take. The days sometimes feel feel long, but can I tell you the years pass quick and very quickly they're no longer a baby, and can I tell you that every day counts? Every attitude counts. Every service counts. Every Sunday school lesson counts. Every song you sing with them and scripture verse you teach them. It all makes a difference. You can't you can't drift for four or five years and think, well, it's gonna be okay because beloved, then it's too late. I want to teach you how to raise a king this morning and we'll try and go quickly. First of all, we are going to jump down to verse number seven and we We see this, but the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. Can I tell you if you're going to raise a king, you need to get eyes given to you by God where you can look down into their heart Where you can see the heart of the matter. Too often, as parents, we are concerned about the outward. We're concerned about how our kids make us look. when we're in public and they don't act the way that they should. Can I tell you your kid will will do things in public that you never thought they knew how to do Things you've never seen before in your life. When there's a crowd, your kid's gonna do it. And you will be so embarrassed that you're like, what in the world? Where did they learn that? How did they do that? Well I know where they learned it. They learned it at church That that they learned it from other kids. They learned it from who who knows, but they'll grab a hold of that. You've never seen it before. Your kids are gonna embarrass you. And the problem is so many times we're ready to deal with the outward. We're like, this a this needs fixed. You know, don't act like that. You're embarrassing me. But what's important is what's going on in the hearts. You see, their actions are a window into their heart. When you have two kids that are sitting on the floor and they're fighting over a toy. Oh, you see, fairness says who had it first? Justice says they get equal time. But a parent with insight will look beyond the action and realize the problem, the heart problem, is selfishness. And the selfishness is what needs to be dealt with here. So ask God for wisdom and say, okay, Lord, I need to see the heart problem in this situation. And Lord, teach me, show me how I can help them overcome that. Now I don't have time to get down into all of this. Obviously, you're going to teach somebody not to be selfish. You need to teach teach them to give and maybe it'd be a good thing if your selfish child gave his toys away. Say, what? He needs to learn to give. You need to overcome it. You need to see the heart of the matter. You need to address the heart of the matter. A young girl doesn't want to help her mom with dinner. She talks about how she's got other things to do where she's You know, whatever it might be, she she doesn't want to help Maud. You know, maybe the heart problem is a lack of gratitude Where she doesn't realize how blessed she is and how much mom does for her every single day, that the very least that she can do is help make dinner. We need we need eyes to see into the heart and beloved that I believe is a gift that God gives parents, but if you aren't careful, you'll shut your eyes to those things and just deal with the problem on the surface instead of get into the heart of the matter. You need to see the heart. You need to prepare the heart. Proverbs 23, 26 says, My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. You need to win and keep the heart of your child, and I've preached the entire message on winning the heart of your child, and you can look that up and listen to it on sermon audio. But listen, what I'm telling you is you need to look at their heart, you need to try and win their heart. Can I tell you this? The whatever has the most time with your child will have their heart. That w which has the loudest voice in your child's life Is that which they spend the most time with. And for some that may be video games. You know video games have more of an influence in your child's life than you do? Because they spend many more hours on those video games than they do with mom or dad. What has the loudest voice in the heart of your child? The most important relationship in their life should be mom and dad. But that takes work on our part. That takes effort. That takes sacrifice. And too many parents are content with letting their kid have an iPad if you'll just play with the iPad and stay out of my hair Then that's okay. But do you realize that iPad is grabbing a hold of the heart of your child and you as a parent are losing it? The time's gonna come when you're gonna say, Why won't why won't you listen? And they won't listen because they've been listening to the iPad, not listening to you. You need to uh spend the time children spell love T I M E You need to spend the time with them to win and keep their heart so that you can reach that heart and guide it It is our responsibility to guide their heart. Proverbs 23:19. Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thy heart in the way. Beloved God has a way that He wants us to live. And the Bible says we're to train up a child in the way that they should go. Train up 22 6. Proverbs 22. 6. Train up a child in the way he should go when he is old, he'll not depart from it. You know, on Friday we went to Ledue Gardens. And they've got all kinds of sculpted uh uh bushes there and and some amazing stuff and they have these vines that they have growing and they take these vines and these vines are grown in different shapes And Miss Kathy looked at Steve and says, Can you get me a natural arch like that at our house? And uh Steve was not that excited about that. Not not sure I could do that. But you know, I couldn't help but look at that and with this morning's message on my mind and think they trained those vines. And we could dig down into this and talk about how they trained them through restriction. How they train trained them through correction. Right. You got a vine that's growing off this way? No, no, that's not the way you're supposed to go, and they take it and they bind it back, they hold it over here so that the vine will grow so that you end up with this natural, beautiful arch. That did not happen naturally at all. And what I'm saying, children are as a hand as an arrow In our hands, and can I tell you where your chin children end up, if you let it happen naturally, you're gonna be you're gonna have a broken heart. Our goal is to point them in a direction. And to correct them when they're wrong, we should guide them in the way that they should go. Guide their heart. That they may keep it. We need to guard their heart too. That word keep, Proverbs 4. 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. That word keep literally means to guard. It's our job, as I challenge these fathers up here, to protect the home, to guard the home from anything that would hurt the mind and the soul of these children. Parents, that means you might have to tell them there's some friends you can't hang around. There's some movies you can't watch. There's some things on your phone that you're not going to have access to. Just my own opinion, this is not Bible. I'm not upset at you. If you do whatever you guys think, you're the parent, this is your child, you do what you want. I think you need to be very cautious about giving a child a cell phone. Right. If you're gonna give them a cell phone, it needs to have every possible lock and restriction and parental control on there you can get a hold of. If you're willing to pay for a phone, then be willing to pay for phone monitoring so that you know what where that phone is going. Listen, the horror stories you think it's not going to happen to my kid, but the horror stories of children that have been drawn away, kidnapped, molested, hurt because they got connected with somebody online. I know we think it won't happen to us, but listen, don't let's let's not be ignorant of his devices. Let's be sober, be vigilant, because we have an adversary, the devil, who walketh about as a roaring lion, m seeking whom he may devour, and he wants to devour our kids. If they're gonna have a phone, it needs to be locked up. Your kids shouldn't be having any Snapchat. There's only one reason for them to have any app like that, and I know there's a bunch of different ones, is because they don't want mom and dad to see what they're doing. And that should not be. If your parent has a problem, or if your child has a problem with you deleting Snapchat off their phone, you've already got a bigger problem. They shouldn't have had it on there in the first place. Now I'm just telling you if you if you give your children phones, be careful. Why? Because it's our responsibility to guard them, to protect them. And we don't want to be negligent in our responsibility. There's some things they don't need to be watching. There's some places they don't need to go. We need to move on. Secondly, we see in verse number twelve that he says here, and he sent and he brought him in Now he was ruddy and withal of a pleasant countenance and goodly to look. And the Lord said, Arise and anoint him, for this is he. Now we dealt with the heart already, and I believe the heart is the most important, but I want you to understand that that's not all God deals with. I know a lot of people like to say that. Well, God looks on the heart. That's what matters. We don't care about the outside. That's not true. God made a point here to to to mention some things with regards to this boy. First of all we see that he was ready of countenance. Well he was ready, not not his countenance, but he was ready. Now that Bible scholars say means he had red hair. Uh very likely he was uh sunburnt. I believe you could take it a little further and say the implication is that he probably worked outside, that he knew what labor was. that uh he was physically strong, he was ruddy of countenance, he was robust, he he could he could he he he was a man even though he was a boy. He knew how to work. He didn't spend his whole day on the couch. Mom shouldn't be out there mowing the grass while the teenage boy sits on the couch. Or dad out there mowing the grass. Now I mow the grass occasionally. It's because I enjoy the break. Now it takes about five hours and about an hour of it I'm done. That's enough break for me, amen. So I'll I'll mow for a little bit because I just don't have to think. I can go out and ride the mower And then I say, Okay, I'm tapping out, Caleb, your turn. You know, I turn it over to him. Uh listen. But the thing is is your your boys and and your daughters ought to know how to work. I could chase that for a long time, but listen, he says he had a beautiful countenance. Well, this doesn't mean he was pretty. The countenance has to do with your with your outlook on life, with your attitude, with your spirit. You know, the countenance of a man, you can see right away if somebody's angry. Like, ooh, don't talk to him today. He he got up on the wrong side of the bed. Why? Because you saw their countenance. This is what he's speaking of here. He says, boy, he had a good countenance. He had a good spirit about him. He had a good attitude. He was pleasant to be around. Listen, please, please. Control your children's attitude. They should be pleasant to be around. And let me tell you something. This happens when they are infants. You can't wait till they're 14 and say, you need to fix your attitude. You should have been fixing it as a father and as a mother when they were three. Then you wouldn't have the problem of them sitting in the corner and pouting and and not getting along with anybody when they're 14. It's our responsibility. He says he had a pleasant countenance. He had a he had a good spirit about him. He knew how to talk to adults. He could he he was pleasant to be with. He had a good attitude. He didn't listen, if your kid is only happy when they're doing what they want to do, there is a serious problem. You need to find a whole list of things that they don't enjoy, and they need to start working down through the list. Least Miss Trudy thinks so, amen. Hallelujah. Listen, you gotta do something to adjust that attitude before it's too late. We want them to have a good countenance. We want them to be able to get along with others. We want them to be able to good spirit about them. And not and not just be you know, whining and complaining and upset. They're gonna have a rough life if they're only happy doing what they want to do. How many of you wanna get up and go to work tomorrow? No, most of life is you doing what you have to do, and occasionally you get the blessing of doing what you want to do. And you know what? When you understand that, you really enjoy and you appreciate, you don't take it for granted when you get to do something that's fun, when you get to do something you enjoy. Kids that are what they call spoiled. They live their life doing what they want to do. And they haven't been made to do things they don't want to do. And so they're only happy when they're enjoying themselves. We see here that he was goodly to look to. So maybe he was pretty. No. I I don't think he was pretty. But I think the the the implication here, the idea is that, you know I mean I understand. I think he was good looking, but here's what I do know There's nothing we can do about the face we've been given. You know, I mean that's that's a done deal. You know, Theodore may grow up to be a handsome young man and he may grow up to be like his father. I I don't know. We we don't know, that's nothing we can do about it. But but he was goodly to look to. Listen, we we can't do anything about For to make a worldly term, you know what we've been dealt. But the fact of the matter is is we can take what we've been dealt and do our best with it. Teach them to brush your teeth. You know, they shouldn't walk in the foyer and everybody like, you know, oh my soul. Teach them to take a bath. Teach them to iron your clothes. By the way, they should iron their clothes. Listen, by the time I was a teenager, my mom was done doing laundry. I did all my own laundry and ironed all my if I wanted a shirt without with that was ironed, I from the time I probably turned ten, certainly by the time I was a teen, I ironed all my clothes until April twenty-sixth nineteen ninety-six, hallelujah. Thirty years ago, a week ago, hallelujah. Now occasionally I iron a shirt Because it's not done yet and I'll grab it and I want it. And Mary always like, Oh, I'll get that and I'm no don't worry about it. I'll I'll do it. But mo ninety percent of the time I never even have to think about it. It gets washed and it's magic. It gets hung back up in the closet. That's hallelujah, what a blessing. But you know you need to teach your kids how to do their own laundry. Don't let your kids run around. Listen, you want to see something scary, go down to Walmart and just look at how people come to go out in public. I mean, what in the world are they thinking? Do they not have parents? The problem is some of them are the parents. Teach them just to dress like you're not going out in public like that. Put some clothes on. Look decent. You know, make yourself look presentable. I know in society by and large today everybody dresses down and the whole world's casual. You even have CEOs. It's It's no longer casual Friday. They they got rid of everything a long time ago. They they just wear T shape and jeans all the time. Thanks Steve Jobs. You know what? When you're as wealthy as Steve Jobs, you can wear jeans and a t shirt too. Until then, look sharp. You don't have you don't have the money to wear whatever you want. You know, it seems like people that really get a lot of money they start dressing real goofy, you know. They they just like they don't care anymore. Or maybe it's fads that I haven't heard about, which is very possible. Uh certainly I'm not up on all the fad, but uh it seems like sometimes people they just get enough money and they they just start dressing really, really weird. Teach your kids to dress right. This is all practical stuff. We need to we need to hurry up. We're only on three of seven points. Prudent He was prudent in matters. We'll move quickly through these. Verse number eighteen. Then answered one of his servants, and he said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse. The Bethlehem, that is cunning in playing, a mighty, valiant man, and a man of war and prudent in matters. And a comely person and the Lord is with him. We see he was a valiant man. He was willing to fight. We know the story of David. We know that he uh was able to stand up and to uh fight off a lion and a bear as a youth. He did this in his youth Listen, mom, your boys need to skim their knee once in a while. They need to smash their finger once in a while. And they're gonna be okay. They're gonna be the better for it. They don't need you to kiss away every boo-boo they have. Now I know it's real cute when they're three, but the problem is is when you continue to treat them like a baby, they're still a baby when they're fifteen. You can't fight every battle for them. You need to let them endure some hardship and know some pain. They you you need to Can I get real honest with you? No. You aren't gonna like this at all. You know the reason that you do that? The reason you run to them and you grab them and you pick them up and you you nurture them in that hour of pain for them, that's for you, not for them. Because you like it, you bask in that child needing you And crying and holding you and grabbing you, and oh mommy, I need you so much, and just that. You give you you you thrive on that. Listen, if it was for them, you would look at them and say, Grow up. And I'm not talking about a 15-year-old, I'm talking about a four-year-old. The five-year-old. You need to look at him and say, grow up. Dry it up. I know you're bleeding. You're okay. You're gonna live. You see, show me you you listen to your kids scream and holler over the smallest little boo-boo. Do you know why they do that? Because it gets your attention. Yeah. When the kids got hurt and they were little, we would look out of the corner of our don't even look at them. Just look out, make sure they aren't dead. You know Make sure they're not dead and then ignore them. And you know what'll happen? In about a second, all the crying's done and they're back to playing. But if you would have gone over there, oh, oh, what what happened? Oh, you hurt yourself, all of a sudden 15 minutes of tears. Now listen, I come by this naturally. When I was like four years old, I fell sixteen feet off of a uh off of a barn. Turns out I broke my arm, but I was unconscious. My dad checked my vitals, put me on a cot, and told the other kids, let me know when he wakes up. I'm not saying you should be that hard, okay? You don't need to be that hard. But we are way overboard on this baby and our kids. Right. And we're uh boys and girls and we're raising them up to the point where they they they they can't take any correction. They can't take a boss looking at them and saying, listen, you shouldn't have been late today. What? How dare you tell me, speak to me like that? You were late. Somebody needs to look at you and say you were wrong. The problem is mom and dad hasn't done it for your whole life, and now you can't handle it. The fact of the matter is, is we need to he says he was a man of war, he was able to fight his own battles, and that happens as parents is we train them to fight their own battles. That means we're not fighting every battle for them. We could spend more time here. We see he was prudent. That literally means uh developed or separated out mentally. It means you had mental development. Can I encourage you to push your kids to be intelligent, to learn, to use their head? Don't let them play dumb. Your kids are way smarter than they're giving on. They're just acting dumb because they don't want to do the work. Push your kids to do the work. Push your kids. Now I don't uh I'm not all big on education. I I think education is important, but this world has it all flipped upside down and education is the end-all, beat-all. Give your kids an education above everything else. Listen, you can have an educated kid that dies and goes to hell That's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that they know God. They have a relationship with God. That when they die they're going to go to heaven. Then secondly is that they live in accordance with the word of God so that they're moral and clean and upright and do what God wants. You can have an educated crook that didn't do any good. I'm going to move on. We see in verse number 18 that the Lord was with him. Then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen this son of Jesse the Bethemite. He was cunning and plain and mighty and valiant man, a man of war, prudent in matters and comely in person. And the Lord is with him. The Lord was with him. Teach them to walk with God. How do you teach them to walk with God? You walk with God. You be an example. You be in church. There's many of our bus kids come to church faithfully and and uh a lot of bus kids over the years have been there so many times where mom and dad are like, you want to go to church? You know, it's up to them one way or the other. I'm wondering do they ask him on Monday, do you want to go to school? Yeah, you want school today or not? You know, it's up to you, whatever. You know, you see they put much more value on their education down at the schoolhouse than they do about learn about God They shouldn't be asking that. It's never been a question in our home whether we were going to be in church or not. Church ought to be a priority for you You want them to know God, walk with God. Church should be a priority. Be in God's house. Be an example. Have family devotions Have a time where you read the Bible or read a uh a missionary story or you you you read some biblical principles, you just spend a couple of minutes and then you pray together. And I taught on family devotions, I'm not going to run down that, but Listen, you want to have a Christian home, it needs to be Christ-centered. Spend a few minutes looking at the Word of God and spend time pointing towards God. And those can be very precious times for you and your family if you'll take the time to do it consistently. Get them a Bible. We gave these children a Bible up here, but you need to teach your kids to learn and love and respect the Word of God. They need to carry their Bible with them to church. They need to learn that we don't throw the Bible. We we we we have We treat it with respect. We keep it in a special place. We know where our Bible is. We turn to it, use it, and read it. Uh by the way, I'll throw this out. Make them stay awake in church. If they're going to be in church, they ought to be awake. If you let them sleep, what good did that do them? All you're doing is training them, do you hear me? You're training them that church is not important. I know they may be struggling. Listen, there was many days that my kids stood through the whole service. You're like, what? Yeah, they weren't gonna sleep in church. If they couldn't stay awake, they would stand up. And there were some times that they would fall asleep standing up. But you know what that is? That's a problem on mom and dad. Because mom and dad didn't get them in bed in time so that they would have the rest that they need so that they could stay awake in church. So who needs corrected there? You know, put a priority on those things. Keep them awake. This is I hope you guys are having fun. Right, we we've only got a couple more. We see that he performs his responsibility in verse number 19. He says, Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse and said, Send me David, thy son, which is with the sheep. Everybody knew where David was. You look at David's life and you'll see several times they're like looking for David and where are they? He's with the sheep. Dad wanted somebody to go take some food down to the to the other boys that are in battle and he says, go get David, he's with the sheep. David knew his responsibility. Teach your kids responsibility. Give them a job in the house and make them do it. You've got to inspect what you expect. You have to make sure they're doing the job and they're they're doing it right. Cleaning the room is not just pushing it all under the bed. Cleaning the room is putting everything where it's supposed to go, but that's training. You train them, you show them this is where this goes, this is how you do this. You train them. And listen, you you don't have to discipline For things like that, you train, you show, instruct so that they understand, they know what needs to happen. Give your kids responsibility. Let's move on to the last one. We see that he was a pleasing servant. Saul asked for him. Saul said, get me David. I want David here. I wonder if at the first job that Theodore has, if his employer will say, man, I want 10 just like him Or if you'll say that was a terrible hire. Preparation for that day starts now. Teaching them responsibility, teaching them to have a good countenance, teaching them all these things that we talked about so that they could be a pleasing servant, so that they could be used in a most magnificent way. God has a plan for all of the kids. We want them to be the most useful young people that they can be for the honor and glory of God. It doesn't just happen. You can't let it grow like a wild bush. You have to train it. Point it in a direction. And listen, I wish I had more time to teach on training. You need it you need to train. This starts when they're two. As soon as they start having understanding, you start giving instruction and teaching them, training them Many of you have started doing this, but all our kids learn to say please and thank you with sign language long before they could talk. That's training. Do you know why your kid throws a fit every time you put him in a car seat? Because you've trained him that if they throw enough fit, they can get out of the car seat. If you make a purpose that I will never take you out of that car seat unless you're calm, cool, and collected. There's times that we got home from a two-hour ride and that one of our kids was throwing a fit and they stayed in the car seat until they stopped Bring him inside. They stay in a car seat for another two hours. You say, what? I'm not taking him out of that car seat and giving him his way. Here's another thing. I never picked up my child in the crib when they were crying. Because that's training them that the way they get what they want is scream. With all of my kids, if I walked into the room, now they can only cry, they're infants, and I know you guys are like, this is nuts. Listen, you're training them. I I w they can only cry. That's their way of getting attention. And we had a monitor. We didn't you know we knew they were crying. That's how they get attention. I understand that, but when I walk into the room, they would stop crying. They got my attention. I'm there to address the problem. They would stop crying and I would pick them up. If they didn't stop crying, I wouldn't pick them up. I'd say you need to stop crying. Okay, that's enough. You need you need to stop. Okay, if they keep crying I'd walk out. You know you do that two or three times to a two-year-old and they learn. And now when I walk in the room, they stop crying and hold their hands up. And then I can pick them up. You see, a lot of times what we're training them to do is to make our life miserable. And they're that way because we've trained them to be that way. Now, I need to close. But here's the thing. How how are we going to raise the king? The important thing is we need to realize it starts when they're infants. Yeah. It's not just gonna hey when they're fourteen we need to do this, or we need to adjust this, or we need to fix that. You're gonna have enough to deal with when they're fifteen.