Alright, well let's get started tonight. Just a couple things. So I I there's a lot I have a pretty decent memory about some things, about numbers and dates and things like that, and for some reason it's never really stuck in my mind uh uh the day that I got saved. Uh it's it's never really something that I've just had pronounced. Uh and you know, I know I know where I was, I remember the situation, I remember that it was on a Monday when I was driving to work. I have these long the these memories of it, but the date has never always l uh stood stood out to me. But uh as I was looking at uh the Bible that I used for for Bible Club this year. Right in the beginning I did end up writing that down and I looked at that yesterday and so this week is when I celebrated my born-again birthday. So it was August 13th of 2007 and so I figured I'd share that with you. It's been a lot of years, but praise the Lord for his goodness and for his love in that. As the the Lord uh brought brought uh us along, uh the we we had different opportunities and during junior church, there was a time or not junior church, it was a Thursday night class. uh we had opportunity to teach on this on a series that I called the giant series. And there were different giants that we talked about. uh throughout the the course of that of that study. And this year we during Bible club I took that and I I built off of that what we built uh several years ago and uh focused on a couple areas, a couple giants uh that these kids face. And with that, you know, we'll share some of that tonight, but this again, in your mind, we we talk about giants and as you see the graphic for tonight, uh it's gonna resonate as a particular story and we're not going where you think we're going. Alright? It's it it's somewhat uh connected but uh I'll I'll tease that out a little bit for you as we as we prepare for that Uh but again this year during Bible Club we navigated many of the giants that we f that folks face. And so this stems from that lesson. And again, this is not necessarily a continuation of the messages for the how-to messages. This is just how I ended up titling the message this evening. But as we go, I want you to turn to 2nd Samuel. 2nd Samuel is what we're going to look at tonight. 2nd Samuel. And feel free to turn to chapter 21. In 2 Samuel and the questioned or the title tonight is How to Be a Giant Slayer Alright, how to be a giant slayer. That's what we're going to talk about tonight. uh giants has been to give the kids lessons and truth from the scripture that's going to help them in life. And uh as I studied and as I was uh really reading in my devotions this year, again, this study stems from something that that was done years and years ago Uh but this year as I was reading through the scriptures and my devotions this passage really just jumped out at me and uh uh God really spoke to me about it and so I just wanted to share it with you, just building on on that thought. and the giants that we face. And so hopefully it'll be a blessing to you tonight. And uh so in 2 Samuel chapter 21 We'll read this passage and then we'll pray. We'll read in 2 Samuel 21, beginning in verse 15. And we'll read, you can read along as I read it for you, chapter fifty or chapter twenty-one, verses fifteen, and we'll go to the end through chap verse twenty-two. Moreover, the Philistines had yet war again with Israel, and David went down and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines. And David waxed faint. And Ishbai Banab, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass in weight He being girded with a new sword thought to have slain David. But Abishai, the son of Zariah, succored him, and smote the Philistine and killed him Then the men of David swear unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel And it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines at God, then Sibbachai the Hushethite slew Saf, which was of the sons of the giant And there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines, where Elhanan, the son of Jair or Ragim, a Bethlemite, slew the brother of Goliath the Gittite. the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. And there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great stature, and had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes four and twenty in number, and he also was born to the giant. And when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shimeah, the brother of David, slew him. These four were born to the giant in Gath and fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servant. Why don't we pray? Lord, we do love you and we thank you for the day and again, Lord, I just pray that this uh this time around your word would be a blessing uh that we would learn from it and that we would uh look learn from the scriptures and and apply it to to our hearts and uh lord just some of the lessons that you've uh shown me and I pray Lord that you would just help us uh as your people uh to to see in your word what you would have us to see and we'll thank you for it. Lord we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Now when we think of giants, we we think of something that is big. Obviously, when we consider the the scriptures and it talks about David and Goliath. uh this uh little image that you have in front of you on the slide is a little bit out of scale, uh but it gives you the idea that giants are something that are big, that are scary, there are they are bad guys And in 1 Samuel 17, it's the most famous giant story in all the Bible the story of David and Goliath, the story about a big guy versus the little guy. And it's the story of an underdog winning over those who thought it was gonna w w should be the victor. Uh but this iconic story, understand that even lost people would reference it and know about the idea of David and Goliath. It's a metaphor used by believers and non-believers alike. So this young man, David. Vanquished, a proven warrior, and this idea gives you a very uh good explanation of what is called in the military asymmetric warfare And so asymmetric warfare, the idea of that is not that your forces and your weapons are going to fight it out based on their skill and their tactics tactics and their techniques That's not what you want. What you want is to be so far and further advanced than the adversary or who you're going up against that it's not even equal. And so you don't want it to be close to equal. In terms of asymmetric warfare, the idea is to be more advanced or better or larger, have better weapons that are much more advanced than the enemy. And so when you consider this story of David and Goliath, that's very much the case. You have Goliath, who was this warrior, who we see and the Bible describes him in 1 Samuel 17. how tall he was and not just that, the amount of weight and the armor that he carried on him and it was huge. And to think about this man that was was not just tall in stature, but strong and carrying all this weight of metal on him as his helmet, as his coat of mail, as his bean, or as his staff, this man was was large. It was not even close. But what we don't want to miss in the scriptures is, especially as we refer to this uh this this passage and this story about what David did is we want to remember that David conquered Goliath because of God. And so when you look at the passage, you you think about it, and it almost, if you read it very passively, it seems like David just showed up and he just said, you know, had that anger within him aga because of what was being said about the armies of Israel and that he just went out and whooped Goliath. And that's not necessarily the case. The idea there is you have to remember the things that David said and the things that he spoke and how he said that this victory was not a victory of his hand, but it was a victory of God's hand. And so we need to remember that. And so when we think about understanding that we can conquer giants, it always brings to mind to me the passage in Jeremiah. Uh in chapter 32 there's this this interesting passage where it's it's almost a dialogue and back and forth where where God In one sense is uh it was one is talking to God, but then God speaks and and gives a quote, and so I'll share some of it with you. In thirty-two, verse seventeen of Jeremiah, the the the prophet writes He says, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee. And then if you go on in that passage at the end, verse 27, it's God speaking, and he's reiterating this thought. And he says, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? And so when we look at that passage and we look at what God is saying there, understand that the giants that we face are nothing compared to God. And so when we go back and again thinking of this idea of asymmetric warfare, then it may be completely unmatched between David and Goliath. But then if you take that one step further It's completely unmatched because God is so much greater than Goliath. And so there's no match there. There is no contest. So as we look at this passage tonight and as we look at 2 Samuel, we're going to look at a couple perspectives of this account. And we'll look at it from David's perspective and then from the other giant slayers. But we have to understand that God can help us through the challenges that we face. When we talk about giants, many times we use that as a metaphor, as these challenges, these things in our life that are struggles or that are difficult And over the course of the summer in Bible Club, we went through some of those. One of them was dealing with the giant of fear or of anger, of loneliness. uh of of excuses, of complaining. These were the things that we were talking about, and we we give them truth from the scriptures because there's things that the Bible says on how to counter or how to combat those giants that we face. And so first off what we'll do is we're going to look at the giant slayers. Who were the giant slayers? Alright, so let's look at these giant slayers. You see them in this passage, and they're named here. We see the four giant slayers that we're talking about is Abishai, who was the son of Zariah. We have Zibichai, who was the Hushithite, Alhanan, who was the son of Jairor Ragim. And uh in another passage, there is a parallel passage in the scriptures in uh 1 Chronicles chapter 20. There's probably a cross-reference in your Bible, but if you're taking notes you can just make a note of 1 Chronicles 20, which is where this there's a parallel passage to this. And here, El Hainan, they call him the son of Jair. So that's a lot easier to say than this what what this name says. But Alhanan is a Bethlehemite, alright? So one that was uh uh from where David was from. And then Jonathan, the son of Shemea, who is uh David's brother. So Jonathan, this Jonathan that we're talking about here is David's nephew. So David was King David was this young man, Jonathan's uncle. And as you look at these giant slayers, there's certain things that we see that we're going to look at, but then I want to also point out these giants. Alright, these giants as well. Ishbai Banab is mentioned. He was described as one of the sons of the giant. Alright, the next one that's mentioned is Saf in 1 Chronicles 20, verse 4. He is called Zeppai, Zeppai, uh again, which was one of the sons of the giant. Alright? And The next is the brother of Goliath mentioned here, and in 1 Chronicles 20 verse 5, he's given a name. His name is Lamai. In 1 Chronicles 20 verse 5. And then we have this unnamed giant who stands out in the scriptures because he had uh he had six uh fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. So if we name them, well as I was studying for this, someone named him Exodact an Exodactylus. All right, if you want to write that as his name. He suffered from what's called polydactyla. So he had an extra finger on each hand and an extra toe on each uh on each foot. So these were the people that we're talking about. And so again, the Bible points them out. The Bible shows them to us who they were. But next what we're going to do is we're going to learn from the giant slayer. Learn from the giant slayer. Alright, first we looked at the giant slayers. Who were these giant slayers? Of course we know David, but we're introduced to four more here. And then we're going to learn from the giant slayer. That's the next step and the it it I want you to see especially as we're looking at David. David is going to be this why why we make it a a singular here giant slayer. And as you look at this passage, all right, there's some people that believe that David was older, uh maybe in his uh 50s or 60s at this point in time. And so David, understand, if you take a moment and as you go into 2 Samuel and you think about that, here's David, all right, and David's uh in into his 50s and into his 60s uh perhaps and he's going into battle. Alright, that says something about David. He was, he continued to fight. And he continued to fight. Why? Because there was a still an adversary. All right, and throughout the life of David you see that the Philistines were the the The same enemy that David had to face on and on throughout time. He continued to fight the Philistines. But David, understand what we learn from him is that he was a fighter He was a warrior. He was a long history of he had a long history of fighting. Now, as an aside, This passage says, mentions one of them as the brother of Goliath. Alright, so let's take a step back and let's let's think about that for a moment. Alright? When David faced Goliath, one of the objections that Saul had was that Goliath was a man of war. Goliath had seen a lot of battle. He was proven. He was battle-proven over and over again. And the objection to David was that David was but a youth, I think is what the scripture says And so when you think about that, it's not that David wasn't uh, you know, we think of it, and maybe we think he was just like a really young, you know, young lad. uh maybe had that had never seen the battle, but that's not what the scripture says. It says that he had fought a lion, that he had fought a bear. So David had some fighting experience, but not to the extent of Goliath. So Goliath, maybe in our mind we would think, is a lot older. Alright, a lot older than David. Perhaps he had several years on him. So here we also take a step and we think about again, this is just a consideration. It's not anything that the scripture says us says to us specifically, but the Bible says here that it was the brother of Goliath. Alright, so when we think about that, uh the brother of Goliath was probably uh up in years as well. He was probably very likely uh maybe close to David's age. So if David is fifty or sixty, as some people believe he is, then that means that the this giant is maybe the same age. Maybe it was Goliath's younger brother. But He might have been older than David. And this giant was still fighting too. So take a moment and think about that as a as we apply it to our lives that the adversaries and the giants that we face, they they don't let up. They don't stop either. And we have to continue fighting as we get even in our years, as years pass on, and as we grow older. And yes, that's understandable, because our adversary does not let up either And so we have to consider that and we have to remember that. But I want you to also consider as we think about David and the type of warrior that he was and how older how older he was in this situation. Stop and think about David because you're not going to have these types of victories if you don't stay in the battle David had years and years of battle, which is one of the reasons why he could not build the temple, because he had seen, he was a man of war And this was something that David did for years and years and years. And understand that that's very, it's an important trait that we have to appreciate. that he was steady and older when he continued in battle I uh just was at uh VBS a couple weeks ago for Pastor Gardner in Loyola. And I was just talking to him and uh he was communicating about you know some of the people that were in his church. We were just walking around and uh during different things we were talking. And uh Brother Gardner's been at that church, he was telling me, and he was because he was communicating that to to someone in his church, he's been there for 24 years. It was the year 2000 that he uh that he uh uh went and became the pastor of that church. And so Brother Gardner, as we were talking, he said, you know He said even among churches are, you know, that are our type of church, you know, the average tenure is about five to seven years for a pastor. And that really surprised me. You know, you you think about that and maybe in in different types of churches, uh but in in in a in a strong conservative uh independent church For that to be the case, that was that was surprising to me. So that reminded me of, you know, when we were many of you Weren may not have been here, but uh at the time when we were looking for a pastor uh several years ago, uh I was part of the pulpit committee with a couple of others and as we were looking at that You know, we we many people sent their resumes and over the course of years sending us their their information and there were several steps. One step was the initial questionnaire, which was just like the disqualifying questionnaire. Like if if there was an answer that was off on this, it was it you wouldn't get to the next step. And then after that there was another questionnaire, and we would ask for sermons and uh recordings and things like that. Uh and so there was a a person who I I I remember that now that obviously got through the first step and so we were in the second step of the questionnaire. We had asked for several recordings for a sermon and things like that And uh uh again, I mean, seemed solid doctrinally, it didn't necessarily seem to work out. Uh and and but one of the things that was interesting to me is As time passed on, we, you know, I we noticed uh or I noticed in his resume just uh just you know If you hire people, sometimes you notice like this job for two years, this job for two years. And so those things kind of bring up questions like, okay, well, you know, why is this person bouncing around a lot, right? And uh, you know, there was this one person that th that you know, they they were at one church and they said, Hey, you know, I'm I I'm thinking I'm I'm I'm gonna, you know, get out of this situation and and that's you know certainly obviously I didn't know the details or anything like that But years later, you know, I looked, or it wasn't too much longer, I looked, and that person went and pastored that church. And then a couple years after that, you know, I just happened to look the person up and that person was at another church already. You know, it had only been a couple years And so really you're talking about probably in the course of, it's been 10 years now that we've been looking, that person's probably been at like four different churches. And so I say that just as we're considering, you know, David, that he just stayed at it. He stayed at the fighting. He stayed at the struggle. And there's a I have a lot of respect and admiration for somebody who sticks around. Regardless of when things get tough. And I hope that you understand that as well, that in your life, you know, this is something that we've You know, I've you know th thankfully we're we're starting to see some of, but as we look at the bus ministry, all right, there's some kids that we used to pick them up when they were like ten. Now they're twenty and we see them and they they have their own kids, they have their own family, or they have their own place now. And you know, one of the things that you know I was burdened about is Just asking the Lord to help us to be, you know, people that they still see in the area, people that are still faithful. Yes, we're still picking people up. Yes, we're still, you know, the church is still here. And you know, we're still, you know, the same. You know, there's still a lot of the people, the same people that that were there when you came, a lot of your teachers. You know, all those things, just being able to see people continue at it, to continue to fight the battle. And there's a lot of the that that that's very inspirational. It's important for us to look at that and consider that. But again, we don't want to lose sight that understanding that there was a lot of fight in David, but David's victory was through God. You know, the Bible talks about the weapons of our warfare. They're not carnal, but the Bible says they're mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Our weapons, the weapons that we have for the spiritual battle that we face are those that are through God. And so again, it goes back to this idea of asymmetric warfare. There's no match. There's not, you know, our adversary is already vanquished. There's not any similarities or any evenness about that battle. Our God is greater. Our God is greater than any giant or any problem that we face. But I also want to point out here, there's an interesting phrase that we see in this passage as well, and if I can uh point it out in verse 15, it also says that David waxed faint. And we learn from that, you know, David was just human. David was just human just like anyone else. And so we learn from that he he got tired as well. In that in the battle. And so again, we we get tired, but I want you to see as we look at this next portion There's hope there. There's things to look forward to. And the last point that we're going to look at is to leave other giants layers. This is where we really need to focus in on. We've seen things, learned some lessons from David's perspective, from David's point of view, things that we're going to learn. uh from David's character and how he acted in these situations, but we're also I want you to look at the giant slayers that are mentioned in this in this in this uh passage These men were similar and they did what David did. But understand that David multiplied here. Alright, David was just one. But at the end of this chapter, we find that there's four giant slayers. And that idea is, the idea that we need to learn is that we need to multiply. We need to, you know, again, going back to, we mentioned it a lot of times, that discipleship program, that mentorship, you know, just being able to help someone along and mentor them, show them, and multiply yourself Multiply yourself not just in uh in uh uh as you're uh leading someone to Christ and you're we're we're we're multiplying that way, that's important, but also again the Bible talks about teaching them. Helping them to grow, discipling, bringing somebody along. And that's what David did. The Bible doesn't say whether he set out to say, like, okay, we're gonna we're gonna multiply you guys. But it still happened. It still happened anyway. I want you to see in this in this passage that Especially specifically for one of them with the first with the first j uh giant uh with Abishai. As you look at that passage, it starts, we talk about in verse 16, Ishbai Banab, one of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed 300 shekels. Now this passage, when we think about it, it sounds very similar to what it was in 1 Samuel 17. But the comparison is different, all right? Goliath, the I think it was a The weight of his spear was 600 shekels of iron. And so here, Ishbai Banab, his uh his the weight of his spear was different. It was 300 shekels of brass. So there's a difference in their weaponry, but what happened? Then you see you you you There's this battle that takes place where Ishbai Banab has a new sword, and the thought that he had, that the Bible r uh relays to us here, is that he was fully intent on killing David. That's what he wanted to do. But Abishai, the son of Zariah, succored him. That means he helped him. He surrounded him. And he smote the Philistine and killed him. So I want you to see. A lesson here that we glean from that, Abishai didn't ask David if he needed help. He didn't stop and say, do you want some help over here? He just reacted He just surrounded him. He helped him. He just went out there and helped. And that's something that, again, it's something from within. And if you he just he reacted to the situation and went to help David. I also want you to see that that that passage goes on in verse 17. Then the men of David swear unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel. They took some responsibility and they took care of protecting David. And that was responsibility that they took on themselves And they saw that there was this was an important thing to do. They needed to protect David. He was getting older, he was getting tired, and he needed He had a role and responsibility in the kingdom. And again, it was something that they just took on themselves. They just reacted. They learned from David. They had courage. They were prudent, had wisdom to deal with these situations, and said, this is how we're going to handle it. And so they talked to David and talked him out of going into battle because they needed to protect him. But we see that, and understand it's very interesting there because That's that same spirit that David had. If you recall what happened in uh in 1 Samuel 17 David runs to the battlefield, he goes, and he sees what's going on, and nobody asks him to step in. Nobody said he's like looking around at his brothers and the rest of the army of Israel and he's like, is someone going to do something? Shouldn't somebody do something? And David, that's that same spirit. David reacts. And he responds in wisdom. He he would he had wisdom when he was given the the the armor of Saul and Saul says here take this and go into battle and he said I have I haven't proven it I'm not confident that I can use it. That's wisdom. And then he says, but My sling, I I have proven. I know how to use this. And that idea there, he used wisdom, and then again, he relied on the Lord. And so as you look at this passage, David had courage, and his proteges had courage. We remember the story of David and his conquering the giant, but we don't often remember the story of his proteges. And this really helps us to understand the idea, like I said already, of making disciples, multiplying yourself. And that should be our desire to have that spirit, take responsibility upon ourselves. React. Do something to move things forward. Do something to face that face those giants. Do something so that We face and get into those battles. But it goes back to That longevity, that time. What was most what stands out most Is that here's a man, King David, who for years and years and years, his testimony was that he was a warrior. And these proteges of his picked up on that and said, hey, I'm gonna be a warrior like David. I'm gonna slay a giant like David. And they did. And the same thing is true that as we have these battles and these giants that we face There's nothing wrong with talking to your brother and saying, hey, I've seen that you've you've you've had victory over this giant. Can you help me out with that? That takes courage. Or the other way around. You see that there's a brother that's struggling with someone or with something and saying, hey, I see that you're struggling with this. Through God's grace and through God's help, I've slayed this giant. Let me help you. This is how God helped me And that's something that's missing, and that's something that I hope that we learn that again it's not just about, you know, the David. Being the giant slayer, it's about him having proteges, multiplying himself so that there's more and there's like a next generation and a next generation of giant slayers And that's what we're aiming for. Amen? All right. Well that's why don't we close in prayer? And we'll just take a minute of for for the invitation. Let's let's pray. And uh if you feel you wanna use the the altar, you're certainly welcome to do that