This evening I'm going to preach on how to comfort the grieving for the next few weeks. I'm going to do some simple how-tos. Uh I think there's 38 uh messages on how-to, just practical things on sermon audio. uh just different things over the years that have come to mind and we said, okay, well how do you do this? Or maybe answered even a question that somebody had. And just recently is something that I've dealt with a little bit, answered some questions, talked to some people. uh about uh the grieving. Possibly next week I will deal with how to go through grief. I'm not a hundred percent on that, but I would encourage any of you to take Grief Share, even if you're not in that place, but to take it and uh just it would really help you. I I can only touch on some things here. You're talking about 13 weeks of an hour and a half each week of material that can be beneficial and helpful to you. We are going to just kind of give you some smattering of some thoughts, things that I've learned from there, and things that we've covered or talked about in the past. But uh in 2 Corinthians chapter number 1, I am going to give you a lot of different Bible verses tonight. But our you know just to begin here as we're talking about comfort, comfort for the grieving. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 3 and 4. He said, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of all mercies, and the God of all comfort. Who comforteth us in our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. So the fact of the matter is, is God uses the situations that we go through in life to prepare us to give us the tools that we need to be fed by His Spirit and comfort by the Holy Spirit so that we at Some later date we'll be able to comfort others in the same way we were comforted. And so we ought to be learning from those experiences, the things that we've gone through. We ought to be able to not just sympathize, but empathize with with others as as we experience life and we've walked through some of those uh hard roads we can really walk with others and bring some comfort to them. There's a desire in every man to comfort those that we love and care for, especially at a time of great loss. when grief is strongest. It motivates us to strive to do all we can. Sometimes in an effort to be helpful people are actually hurtful. Uh it just happens. It's not on purpose, uh but occasionally in grief share when we're talking some of the comments, some of the feedback that will be shared and you're kind of thinking, wow, I can't believe somebody said that to you. One individual said that her Uh husband had passed away and it had been just like three days. She had just come home from the hospital, and her neighbor came over to ask, What are you doing with his car? I know you're gonna have to figure out what to do with this car. Could I take it off your hands? I mean three days after her husband passed away, that's not what she's worried about. And so we want to be a comfort, not a hurt. We don't want to be miserable comforters like Job's three friends. You remember his friends that came on the scene and uh you know they were they were gonna be they they said they came to comfort in Job 2 verse number 11. Uh they came to mourn with him and to comfort him And yet, in chapter 16, Job answered and he said, I have heard many such things. Miserable comforters are ye all. And sometimes there are people that you look at and say, boy, you are a miserable comforter. You are not helping the situation at all. You're not giving me anything that I need. You are just a miserable comfortable. And we don't want to be that kind of person. And so there is some wisdom that we can use to help us be a better comfort. Job goes on and he says, I've heard many such things. Miserable comforters are ye all. Shall vain words have an end? Or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest? I also could speak as ye do, if your souls were in my soul's stead. I could heap words upon you, shake my head at you. But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips would assuage your grief. He said, I could stand in accusation as you are I could stand there and shake my head and point my finger at you as well, just like you were doing to me, but understanding, of course, Job having gone through what he went through, he says, if I was, if these roles were twitched I would be using my lips to bring comfort to you instead of bringing accusation to you. So we don't want to be miserable comforters. And this is going to be pretty practical thoughts here for you tonight. But first of all, some things to avoid. Some things to avoid. I know that they come to mind quickly, but Pat answers should be avoided. The simple things that come to mind like just turn it over to Jesus. It's if you know you just say just turn it over to the Lord. Or time heals all wounds. Just give it time. You'll be okay in time. That's not what people want to hear. I know just how you feel. Okay, Pat answers uh are not sufficient in complex situations. So you want to avoid those things, although they might come to your mind, you want to be careful not to just say those things. Irrelevant experiences bring little to no help. You know, um it's I heard one guy talking one time and he says I was telling I was telling somebody in the airport, you know, that like they came up and they were talking to me and uh I was telling them that I was from Texas and he's like, Yeah, I have a brother in Louisiana. Like Okay. What does that have to do with with anything? Uh like that has no implication. I mean I mean it's one thing if you say my brother lives in Texas. I mean that is uh a correlating responsible what you got somebody in Louisiana uh okay, fine, good good to know. Thank you, see ya. I mean so what I'm saying is that type of thing where you just you know Oh, I had a dog pass away once. You know, to correlate those two is not going to help. So avoid those those fat answers, those simple things. Avoid saying too much. I know a lot of times our desire, especially the men, we want to fix it, right? We want to provide an answer. We want to say something. And I think one of the hardest things sometimes is just to be still just to be present and we're we want to try and say something, there's really nothing that you can say that's gonna fix it. And so you know, avoid stating too too much. In Proverbs 1019, in a multitude of words, there wanteth not sin. So the more you say, the more likely you're going to say something you shouldn't have Something that, and here's the thing, and I always tell the people in Griefshare, I said, you know, this is a two-way street, and you need to understand that people want to help you. You are viewing everything that they say through your pain. What you need to do is view it through their eyes that their desire is to help you. They're not trying to hurt you. Now, yes, their words may have hurt. And you say, how could they be so inconsiderate? Well it was their consideration that caused them to even show up. That caused them to even try and say something. Now you're mad because they desired to help. So you need to view it from their perspective and sometimes they say the wrong things, and that's because we're all human and we make mistakes So there's there's the other side of it that I try and encourage those that are going through grief to be careful how they view the help that they're receiving. Uh but for tonight we're talking about how to avoid or being offensive, how to be Comfort to those that are going through that. So don't say too much. Don't strive to provide an answer or a reason for it. As Job's friends did. They sat back and evaluated and they said, boy, he must be in sin. There's a reason. This is this happened or that happened because of this. You know, you guys know that in our own lives, many times we don't know the why. How would we think that we could determine the why in somebody else's life? And we are going to be miserable comforters indeed if we are throwing out whys that uh Maybe in our mind we look at it and say this is what it is, but the truth of the matter is we don't know. And so we need to let God deal with that. You know, sometimes especially people that, well, if you would have been in church, this wouldn't have happened. You don't know that You don't know that. And you may want to take that opportunity to try and encourage them back to the Lord, but that is not the time or the place. You want to encourage them to do right, but throwing out whys like that are not going to help the situation So some things to avoid, also lastly on things to avoid is avoid going into the pit of despair with them What I'm saying is don't encourage a pity party. They're in the dumps, they're going through it. But our goal is not to affirm and support them in their pity party. Our goal is to get them to stop. Pitying is when we look at ourself and our own situation and we feel so bad about what we are enduring. What we want to do is try and get their eyes off themselves and get their eyes on God. So we don't want to say, oh, this is okay, and yeah, this should have never happened to you, and life is so hard, and no, we want to do is point them to God Get them to get their eyes on God and off of themselves to help them. Our goal is to help them through this, not solidify them in it. And the fact of the sad fact is sometimes, especially with something as powerful and as strong as grief Loss, a type of loss, can become an individual's new identity. That is now what they're known as. Through life, our identity changes. I was a son. I became a college student. I got married, I'm a husband. I became a dad. You know, our identity changes. Those are all good things. But sometimes when we get law, we experience loss, we say, oh. Now I am the individual who lost their life's mate. And everything in life is defined by this new identity And we get stuck on that identity. Here's the only identity that never changes and will never change, and that is we are a child of God. And that identity will carry us all the way through into eternity And we need to look at who we are in God and understand that God is in control. So don't allow them to stay in their pity party. You want to try and encourage them, help them through that. So some things to acknowledge. Some things to acknowledge. You want to acknowledge their grief. Okay? Let them know it is okay to sorrow. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Matthew 5. 4. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. He says, hey, there's people that mourn. There's people that are in great sorrow. We sorrow But not as others that have no hope. And especially when you're dealing with somebody who might be a young Christian, who who is maybe not as strong in their faith, they may feel like, man, if I really had good faith or if I really was close to God, I wouldn't Feel so empty. I wouldn't be sorrowing so much. I maybe I'm not as good a Christian as I thought I was, because I otherwise I wouldn't feel so bad. I must not trust the Lord through this. You need to encourage them and understand that this is normal. Jesus Christ himself sorrowed. And it is okay to sorrow. We don't sorrow as those that have no hope because we have hope in our sorrow, but we're still separated from them. And so let them know that it's okay to sorrow. We know that For David, a man after God's own heart, he cried out to God in Psalm 61. He says, Hear my cry, O God, and attend unto my prayer. From the end of the earth I will cry unto thee. When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. So it's okay to sorrow, but let's look to the Lord So we need to acknowledge the grief. And we need to acknowledge that grief is not linear. Grief is not linear It's not a point A to point B to point C, and if you can get through, if you can work through these steps, you're going to be golden. That's not the case. Grief is a roller coaster. It is a tornado of emotions. And there was, and I've even taught on it before, the stages of grief. And here's one thing that grief share really helped me to understand is that viewing the different emotions that people feel during grief as stages. is faulty thinking. Because that lends itself to the implication that, well, if I have passed this stage, then I should no longer feel that way. And what will happen is somebody that's going through grief, they they will reach the stage of fear and they feel like in in next week they're like, man, I I I'm not as fearful as I was. I must be doing good. And then two weeks from now they're going to have several days of overwhelming fear and they're like, oh no, I must be going backwards. That is the circle. In in grief share it's really it's pictured or described as a as a ball of uh a rubber band ball And just the layers upon layers of of these rubber bands that are on top of each other and you peel one back and then there's another red one. And you're like, oh well, I thought I'd just done with red. And you finally you take that red one off and you go through green and purple and blue and yellow and orange and you you you take those off, but then there's more and you feel it it they're all intertwined and And sometimes you may be experiencing several of those at the same time. And then sometimes you may be doing really well, but then you're going to be going back to it again. So understand or acknowledge the fact that it's not linear. It's not something that, oh, they've progressed to this point, so they must be doing okay. And then next week when you find them, you'll see their mess again, and you're like, oh no, that's normal. And it's okay. And they need to understand that that's okay. So that they're they're not really discouraged by their their what are normal feelings, okay? Acknowledge that grief is not linear. Some of the emotions that that grief uh brings uh initially, the first emotion or first thing that people deal with many times unless it's There are situations maybe it's not as much, but most of the time it's shock that it's finally here, that this has happened, that they've lost their loved one. It is a normal response. It is God's given way of dealing with traumatic things. That shock is a is a anesthesia for the body, for our emotions. It allows us to kind of put up a wall, a barrier that somehow we're just able to deal with things and and it and it keeps it from really getting down inside. And uh many times People will look at individuals who are at a funeral or going through loss and they'll say, well, they're holding up really well. When the fact of the matter is, is it hasn't even hit them yet. Because what happens at times of loss is immediately you have all of these things you have to do and you have to go there's a lot of paperwork to be done, a lot of meetings to do and everybody's coming over and all the phone calls and then the cars and then all of the you know viewings and and uh you you're laying your loved one to rest and and all of these things are happening and it's so it's so busy and you're you've just kind of put yourself in in this mode of of of shock And so many times people are dealing with things in that function or that mode all the way through the funeral. Brother Sasser, when uh went and had lunch with him, probably a month after he lost his wife, month and a half, he said this. He said, My boys looked at me the other night and said, Dad, it feels like mom's just on a trip and that she's gonna walk through that front door any day. Because they were very used to being gone from mom because they were missionaries and mom was in Israel for six months at a time, or they were in Israel and mom was back here, and so there was periods of time where mom wasn't in the house and they had come accustomed to that and so they said it just it feels like she's on a trip and And it it sometimes we have to like go no she's not coming back, you know, and and it's just uh working through that and talking talking through it. So you deal with this shock, you deal with very strong emotions. God made us to weep, God made us to sorrow, these things are normal. But your emotions are going to be amplified during the time of grief. Barbara Smith Another individual in Grief Share described her ability to concentrate or to not concentrate on even very simple tasks as grief brain. She said it's grief brain. I I can't even concentrate. My my brain's not functioning. I can't think about things and um she said your your brain just stops functioning. And uh so those emotions that come and take over and keep you from even be able to just do simple tasks. Um then depression uh often comes accompanied with overwhelming loneliness, fear, uh Guilt. Guilt is a very strong emotion that comes. A grieving person tends to blame himself for many different aspects of a loved one's passing. There's all of the what-ifs. We could do deal in the what-if land and you know that they're dealing with that. You guys have all done it. Any time any situation happens uh of tragic accident or uh it doesn't even it doesn't even have to be the loss of life. It could just be you got into a car wreck and totaled your car. And i I mean unless you guys I don't know maybe your mind doesn't work that way. In my mind I'll be like, man, if I would have left ten seconds later, I would have missed that accident. Or if I would have, you know, been five seconds sooner, I would have been through that intersection and that wouldn't have happened Or if if I would have stopped and answered that phone call or if or if, you know, you think about all those things. If and one of the problems wi with me falling off the roof is I really don't know why and I don't have any ifs. If I would have done this different, I don't know what happened. I still think Brother Glover pushed me. But I don't know so I don't have anything to just describe and say if uh if, you know. Uh but we do that. We think about it and what we have to encourage them to do is you can't dwell in the land of if, you have to dwell in the land of what is This is where we are. This is what is, and this is how we want to view this. And they'll feel guilty about it, you know, if I would have called the doctor, or if I would have got them one more treatment, or if I would have got them a little bit sooner, or if I would have, you know. Uh one guy, you know, said if I I wouldn't have let my sixteen year old take the car that day Uh my sixteen year old, I mean I I I typically normally wouldn't let him drive, but that day I thought, well, I'll I'll let him. You did. And what is, is he passed away, and now you're dwelling in the land of what is, so the what ifs they lend they lend to uh guilt. There's guilt that comes later. Maybe there's guilt for even feeling relieved. Especially in long-term care situations. So now your loved one is fast and gone and you're you're sorry they're gone, but then you have a moment of relief like uh oh my days are not completely filled up with this care that I was doing and I I don't have to and then all of a sudden you feel guilty about that. About now now I feel guilty because I feel good. You know, y oh I had a good day, I didn't cry today, and now you feel guilty because you feel like you're forgetting them And so these are emotions that people that are dealing with grief are going to go through, especially in the weeks and months to come. So we need to understand that and and try and help people go through that. There's anger that comes, there's apathy. Don't care about anything. I'm just gonna shut down. Life's not worth living. I just want to be left alone. People deal with uh major grief or sorrow in different ways. Some people want to be left alone, some people want to stay busy They want to just say, I I need to work. I need to go do this. I need to be out. I need to be busy, busy, busy, busy, because then I don't have to think about it. And somebody else said, I want to be all alone because I don't want to answer any questions. So we need to understand people deal with grief in different ways, but we also need to remember our goal is to try and help them get through this. So they don't need to be stuck in this situation. If you take an infected wound and say, well, I'm just going to cover it up. It's not going to get better. It has to be dealt with. It has to be opened. And you have to treat it. And that's uncomfortable. And it hurts. And you put that peroxide on there and it stings and you put new ointment and you wrap it again and you you have to continue to do that and you feel like it's pull the band-aid off every time. That's one of the benefits of grief share because it's for 13 weeks and every Saturday they're they're hit square in the face with having to deal with this. Because a lot of times people just want to cover it up. They don't want to think about it. They just want to pretend it didn't happen or that life's just going to get better. And the problem is they haven't dealt with the source of the hurt. They haven't grown through that yet and and and God hasn't fed their soul, their spirit to the point where they've had some healing. What they've done is they just covered it up. And what'll happen in those situations, it's like a spring that you just keep pushing down, pushing down, pushing down, pushing down. At some point it's gonna it's gonna pop. And so a person going through that, sometimes you as individuals maybe have been on the receiving end of that. You may have said something like, boy, isn't it a nice day today? And bam, they go off. Like, what in the world? Why? Because that had been suppressed and suppressed and suppressed. They've been pretending like it wasn't there, and then all of a sudden it just they lose it. And most of the time those that do that they'll lose it at inopportune time. But we need to understand what just happened And then and then help them with that. So ultimately they can grow through this. They don't ever get over it. They don't ever get past it. But they learn how to live with it. Because their loved one is gone. Their mate is not coming back. That's not something that's ever going to change. But you learn how to live. In the grace of God, in your life as it is today. And that's ultimately, it's a slow process, but our goal is to try and help them get to that place. So there's some some things to acknowledge or understand. And then lastly tonight, some things to accomplish. Some things to accomplish. In John 14, 16 he says, I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. that he may abide with you forever. We have the Holy Spirit that is our comforter and God has called us. The Holy Spirit comes alongside us and God has called us to come along and to comfort one another. The word comfort simply means called alongside to help. We're just there to be able to help, to stand with, to strengthen, to strengthen them. Ecclesiastes four verses nine and ten says two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor, for if they fall the one will lift up his fellow, but woe unto him that is alone when he falleth So being a friend, just coming alongside, being there when they're ready to fall, uh, we reach out and help. Um I can't tell you how many people have told me over the years, well, I wanted to help, but I didn't know what to do. So I did nothing. I've been there. I wanted to call, but I wasn't sure what to say, so I did nothing. I wanted to stop by and visit, but I wasn't sure if I should, so I didn't. I've been there, and you have probably been there. Here's the thing. Some things to accomplish, reach out to them. Reach out to them. If they're going to be mad, let them be mad because they know you care. And not because you didn't call. Not because you didn't stop by. Reach out to them as soon as possible. Sooner is better than later. And I know sometimes you're not sure what to say I know sometimes you're not sure what to do, what you can do and can't do. You just reach out to them as soon as possible and make yourself available. If they're going to be upset, let it because let it be because you care and not because you are a coward One of the ladies in uh Grief Share told us about uh Her story is told in Griefshare where one night she she had been sober, she had been clean, drug-free for a long time. And then she lost somebody that she loved and she was at home. She was all alone. And uh she was sitting on her steps. Thinking about going out and getting drugs. Quite possibly would have destroyed her life that night When a friend showed up at her door with two blankets and two pillows and said, uh we're having a sleepover. And she said, that one thing changed the direction of my life. So I'm saying when the Holy Spirit speaks to your heart and says, give them a call. Stop by and say hi. You're apprehensive, you're not sure what to say or do, but you have no idea what God will do through that. You just making yourself available and letting them know that you care. Help them to face their grief, to work through it. Understanding that it's moving forward. It is not moving on. I mean we've had people in Grief Shares say, well my kids look at me and say, Mom, you just need to move on What am I supposed to do with that? It's moving forward. We need to try and encourage them. It's not understand, Lee Lee Patterson said. Moving forward is taking something with you. Moving on is leaving something behind. And there's something wrong with that for an individual like Lee who had lost her life mate. And she said I I v you know, I looked at that like that like moving forward I could probably do Because I'm taking him with me. All of our memories, all of what we have, what we shared, I'm taking that. I'm going to move forward. And that's our goal is to try and help them to move forward. So reach out as soon as you can. Communicate. You say, I don't know what to communicate. Let me give you some practical things. Communicate the promises of God. Communicate the promises of God. Let the word of God speak for you. This is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word hath quickened me. So communicate the promises of God. The promises of God provide encouragement and hope. Romans 15, 4 says, For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. The comfort of the scriptures offer hope. And so we communicate we communicate the promises of God. We communicate that it won't be like this forever. Again, a promise of God. There's a time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, a time to dance. Life has different times in it You are currently in a time of mourning. That's understandable. God says that this too shall pass. It's not going to last forever. It's not just going to be better tomorrow, but I just want to encourage you that it will get better. And I'm here to help you every step of the way. I'm with you. I want to encourage you. I want to help you. Remind him that God has a plan. Psalms 139, 16, Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned. When as yet there was none of them. God from the very beginning, when there was, when you didn't exist, when God was forming your members, God had a plan for your life. God knew. So focus on those the promises of God. Satan hits those that are grieving very, very hard, and they need to be caused to turn to God, not away from God. So communicate the promises of God, communicate precious memories that you have. I've had several people tell me, thank you. For talking about her. Thank you for talking about him. Those that I've had opportunity to know sometimes in the church here There may be a message that is shared or there might be something and I'll come down after a service and uh I'll say boy I know that your wife would have really enjoyed that message today. She that topic she really enjoyed hearing and uh I she always would say something about it every time if I if I covered that or talked about it, you know And you sometimes we're afraid to mention it, but you understand they haven't forgotten. They're living with it. And it means something to know that you haven't forgotten. And so as opportunity arises, share the precious memories that you have of that individual. I remember when she said this or when he did that and and oh it meant so much. And they were always an encouragement to me this way. whatever you can do. Um share the precious memories you have. Ask them to share the memories with you. Tell me what would she do in this situation? What would he do in this situation? Just letting them know that they're not forgotten. Share positive news that you know. Positive news that you know. Understand, beloved, this world's full of negative news And they're already dealing with lots of heartache. So the goal here is share positive news. Let them know about good things that are happening Second Corinthians seven seven. And not by this coming only, but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you When he told us your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me, so that I rejoiced the more. He says, boy, I was going through this situation, and he came and he told me about how you were thinking about me. He told me about what was going on. He told me how You guys were praying for me that I might rejoice the more. You was going through this, but you know what? After he shared that, I was able to rejoice. Let them know the positive news you can share is that you are praying, that others are praying that you're available, that you're there to help, or that you can or will do this, or just things that are going on in the church that God is God is working, share positive news. Another thing that you can accomplish is just listen. They may just need your company, not your wisdom. Be willing to just listen. Understand that they may very well forget what they shared with you the last time you were there. They're in the middle of shock. They're going through all this and and especially around the time where they're saying goodbye to their loved one, they're talking to so many people. They're talking about all the same things and they may forget that they told you that story yesterday. It's okay. Understand what they're going through and just listen. Let them share the story again. Let them let 'em tell it l let 'em tell it to you again. That's what they need. What are you listening for as you're as you're listening? Listen for signs that the person is coming to grips with the reality of what has happened. Listen to see if they are leaning upon the Lord for strength. I remember uh Brother Brian Nazarenko We spent a lot of time together after the passion of Judith, and he was really struggling. It was some months later we were sitting at a restaurant over there by his house somewhere and uh he said to me that day, he said I just came to the realization of how good God was to me to give me 38 years with her. And now he's taken her home. But he gave me thirty-eight years. And I'm so thankful for that time. And that was a change. That week was a transition in how Brian was dealing with and how he was viewing Judah's passing. And I I don't believe that he would mind me me sharing that. He's told me again m since then how thankful he was and is for the time that he had. But that's something that in his mind he had to come to, that place. Where you had to realize that. And so you're listening for those things to see how they're dealing with this, how are they, and asking God for wisdom on how to try and help them to deal with it. Listen for laughter. Laughter is a good sign. Can they laugh at all? Can they smile and not feel guilty about it? Obviously you're talking about overtime of being with people. Give of yourself. Christ did not just send a card or flowers or financial contribution. He traveled to Bethany. He said, I'll be there. And he went and he was there. He wept with them at Lazarus' grace. He was present. By and large, in our society, this is something that's going by the wayside. Okay, let me just encourage you. This is your church family. We rejoice with those that rejoice, and we weep with those that weep. And if at all possible, you should be present. At the homegoing service of anybody in your church family. It's shocking to me that in the last 10 years, I've preached 20 funerals. A few weeks ago I was standing in the foyer in the hallway back there by the office and I was looking at one of the anniversary pictures. And at a cursory glance, I counted seven people from Hunt Valley Baptist Church that are in that picture in the hallway that are now home to do with the Lord. Seven of them. I I feel like that's that's a lot. I mean just to me it seems like a lot and you know There's people that are going through grief. And we as God's people need to be there for them. Grief share takes a lot of time. But the Bible says a brother is born for adversity. If there's any time that you're going to be available for somebody, that you're going to be there for somebody It is in their hour of need that you ought to desire to be there. That you say, man, I'm going to do what I can to make myself available. There are some people at the church you're gonna be there at the funerals. Uh but sadly there are many, many people that don't ever show up. And this is your church family. You ought to be present. You ought to be there for the weddings. You ought to be there for the funerals. You ought to be there for people's hour of need. Showing up. I mean I a card is nice, but I just want to exhort and encourage you to be present. Give of yourself Lamentations chapter one and verse number six says, For these things I weep Mine eye, mine eye runneth down with water, because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far from me. Boy, I'm weeping because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far from me. My children are desolate because the enemy has prevailed. We need to help with our prayers. We need to help with our presence. Even a small gesture can mean so much. You don't even realize how much something small when somebody is going through something or you you are aware of it and you just stop and put your hand on their shoulder, you know For those of you that are huggers, if you want to hug them, you know, uh you you you know just a small gesture. It doesn't you don't even have to say anything. You know, you kind of do the the the man hub kind of like a little bit away but just embrace a little bit, you know. Just something to say, I'm here, I care. I'm I'm with you. A small gesture can mean so much. Bringing them a uh coffee is terrible stuff. If you know what coffee they like, you just show up and to church one day, hey I brought you this coffee. I just have been praying for you, thinking about you. Uh you know, just a small gesture. Standing with them. Psalms 55, 18 says, He delivereth my soul in peace from the battle that war against me, for there were many with me. It means a lot when people are going through things to have some people with them. And so that means you have to be present. It'll help to have your physical support. To be there. Look around to see what you can do. Obviously you need to be careful. Don't just take over. Again, one lady in grief share talked about how her children wanted to help. Well she was away with some ladies. Her children went into their house and Cleaned out all of her husband's stuff. They wanted help. That wasn't the way to do it. She was not ready to take that step. She was not ready to let go of those things. You've got to communicate and and the thing that I tell people going through grief is I say you need to tell people what you want. They want to help you. And if you don't say anything, they don't know what to do. And so they're standing there twiddling their thumbs, and it's it's very hard. They want to try and help, but they don't know how to help. So it's easier if you communicate, even if it's just, you know what, this week has been really hard. I don't really need anything right now, but if you can just pray. They can respond and say, okay, I'm gonna I'll be in prayer this week, I'll check back within you next week and see see if there's anything I can do There's been people talk about how somebody just showed up and mowed their grass and that was such a help. Just one little thing that they would normally have to take care of that all of a sudden here in the middle of all this stuff they're doing like oh Somebody sh somebody mowed the grass and got that done for me and I don't have to even think about it. And that that was such a blessing. So if we just are thinking, how how can we help? What little thing that can can we do that's not too intrusive uh and communicate and and talk to them about it. Don't forget that they're going through this after the funeral as well. You see, the thing is a lot of times the funeral brings all the hustle and all the people from out of town and all the visits and all the cards, and then the next week, everybody goes back to their life. And they go home to an empty house. And so it's very, very hard. That next week is much, much harder than the week of the funeral. And that's when some of the church family need to be available to give a call or to stop by or say, hey, can I take you to lunch one day? Would you feel up to going to lunch? And and give them room to say, I don't feel like it. I I I can't do it right now. I don't feel I mean one lady was saying I just felt She said, I I thought, well, I need to do this, so I'm gonna go with some people to lunch. She said, then as soon as I walked into the restaurant, it was like, what am I doing here? I cannot be at this restaurant without my mate. I cannot be here and sit down and pretend like everything's okay. And she just began to cry. That's the emotion that's what she's dealing with. She just said I can't just act like it. So you gotta give people room in in their grief. People deal with it differently. We weep with those that weep. So I would encourage you to just strive to uh to be that comforter. I think if we prayerfully seek how to and have a heart to, um You can be a comfort. And obviously we have at least a couple funerals a year. based off the last ten years. Um and it would be great. If we could go the next three or four or five years and not have any, that would be wonderful. But there are also extended family and and people have, you know, right now, I mean I heard from Nancy today, you know, her she her sister's very close. And uh very very weak. And she's just hanging on, so that that's not going to be long. And I don't know if we will do the funeral or or what, but we are her church family. I will be there unless they tell me not to be a little bit more than a little bit. You know, you o you ought to make an effort to be present, to provide comfort. That's what a church family's for. It's not just Sunday morning. We love one another in the good times and and the times of heartache and struggle. And I I think we have a church that loves that way, that's compassionate, but I'm just reminding you of that truth. All right, let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Tonight was a lot of teaching. I don't know. Maybe you want to uh pray for somebody you know that's going through grief. Maybe you want to pray and ask God for wisdom on how to how to be a help. Um but uh we'll just take a moment of invitation here. uh give you opportunity to talk to the Lord before Pastor August comes for our prayer request tonight.