Glory. It's been a joy to be with you. I've been blessed to be with the church today, and uh so glad to have had the opportunity to spend the day with you. Let's go to Acts chapter 20 as our text. We'll be in Acts chapter 20 and verse number seven Of course, we pray for your pastor, pray for his safe return and that missions group as they come back. I'm sure they'll have many stories to tell and a lot of testimonies to share. Thank God for a missions-minded church. We need more of that in our day and age So we praise God for that. Your testimonies tonight bless my heart. Praise God for the work of souls, whether it's in the prison or on a doorstep or just personal one-on-one. Our churches need to be back out back at the at the at the soul-winning work and praise God for a soul-winning church. Acts chapter 20 is where we are. We're going to pick up in verse number seven. And if you will, please, out of respect to the reading of God's Word, let's go ahead and stand if you can I'll read a few verses here, we'll get through this text, we'll have a word of prayer, and then jump right into the message here tonight. Acts chapter 20 And verse number 7, the Bible says, Upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued his speech until midnight. And there were many lights in the upper chamber where they had gathered together. And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep. And as Paul was long in preaching, he sunk down with sleep and fell down from the third loft and was taken up dead. Well, that's a problem in the church, huh? And Paul went down and fell on Hebrew and embraced him and said, Trouble not yourselves, for his life is in him. When he therefore was come up again and had broken bread and eaten and talked a long while, even until break of day So he departed, and they brought the young man alive, and notice this phrase, and were not a little comforted. Father, we come before you tonight. You've met with us this morning, spoke into our hearts. God, thank you for the ministries that have taken place today. For those who have served and labored, I pray a special blessing on each one who is given of their time or their tithe or their talent. God, I pray that you bless them for it. I pray, dear God, for this great church. I pray you strengthen it. I pray this sermon tonight would encourage it and fortify it. I pray that it would shore up Maybe somebody who's just feeling distant, somebody who's feeling like they're falling away, maybe it would give some instruction to others, Lord, to watch out and to be in cur concern and care and watchful prayer and edification for one another. And Lord, I pray that this church and many other churches will be blessed by the testimony of staying faithful to the work of God. And I pray that you bless, Lord. I need your help tonight. I need you to fill me with your power. God, give me boldness as I ought to have as I preach. Lord, I pray your sp your people as well, be Holy Spirit-filled listeners. Ready to receive the Word of God, and I pray it would sink deep into good soil and bring forth in some 30 and some 60, Lord, even some a hundredfold in their lives because of the message tonight Thank you for all that's gone on already. Lord, we praise your holy name. You're worthy of praise. You're worthy of all the glory. And we thank you for being so good to us. Bless us now in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated. Acts chapter 20 gives an account of Paul who is in his journey and as he's coming back, the Bible says here that he's come to the city of Troaz, and he's abode with the disciples. for seven days now and they come together and uh let me just say I see some uh I see some Baptist tendencies some Baptist uh Baptistic theology going on in these people who gather together. First of all, you say, why do you see that they're Baptists? Well, they're not seventh-day Adventists. They're getting together on the first day of the week, amen. The Bible says that's when the disciples are gathered together. Some people ask, well, shouldn't we be worshiping on the Sabbath day? on the Saturday, the time that the church should gather together? Well the Bible says the Lord came up out of the grave on the first day of the week. Amen. The church began to call that the Lord's Sabbath. That's when the church would get together Paul instructed the church to bring their tithes on the first day of the week. This is the day the people of God came together. And by the way, we don't go to church We are the church. The church is a gathering together of God's people. What our young ladies over here describe, the Christian fellowship and encouragement, is what we ought to feel among God's assembly when we come together. Want to come together to edify one another while it is called today. Amen. And not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together, as the manner of some is Brother, I'm knocking on doors more and more. I knock on doors and people say, Pastor, I'm embarrassed. I have to tell you, I haven't been to church since COVID That's 2020. That's a long time ago. I had a dear lady say that to me just a couple weeks ago. I knocked on her door and this old saint came forward. She said, Pastor, I'll be honest with you, COVID scared me to death. I haven't been back to church. Since then and I ought I know how to get back into church. I said, man, let me tell you, I'm a pastor. I've got degrees of pastoral theology to my name. I'd be terrified to think of where I'd be a month from now if I fell out of church I don't know about you, but I need church. I I don't need a building to come to. A lot of people come to a building and walk back out just to as dead as they came in. I need the church, I need the assembly, I need the family of God to challenge me, to edify me, to encourage me. And so these people came together on the first day of the week. Why else you say You think they're Baptist, Pastor Wagner? Well, I see that you get a group of people together on a Sunday and they gotta eat something. Man, they were breaking bread. Praise the Lord. The tailors took me out this afternoon with the stars. We had a good meal and had some fellowship, broke bread, and had a great time. Praise God. You get Baptists together, enough of us together, and they're going to eat something. I came back the church and somebody said, Pastor, you ought to have a cupcake. I mean, I thought they were going to try to feed me to death this afternoon. Baptists just get that way. I mean we just eat food It's Baptistic, it's a Baptistic philosophy, I guess. And uh you say, oh pastor, you're not very intelligent. They didn't call him Baptists back then. I know this is before the Waldenzies and before the Donatists, and they didn't call people Baptists or Anabaptists Even at this point. But they did call a man by the name of John a Baptist just before this. And I'm telling you, these people got together, they started eating food. They got they're breaking bread. Look at this. Not only did they break bread, but they got a group of people together and they started preaching at them. You ever notice that about Baptists? We can get a little group together. Somebody's going to stand up and just start preaching at them. He's got a crowd to preach. I say this, and I love your pastor, but he's one of us. We preachers are a weird bunch, man. I'm telling you what You go to a pastor's fellowship and you've never seen so many strange birds gathered together in one place. I mean we are ah. The Bible says this. He said, look after your calling, brethren. Not many wise Not many noble are called. You go to a pastor's fellowship and you'd be convinced of that, brother. And now some of them see four, five, six people get together and they got to give last Sunday sermon point for point and alliterate it to you. Brother, they just can't help but preach. That's Baptist. Boy, they they get some people together. They start preaching to them. You know what else that he looks baptistic? They don't know when to stop. This midnight Paul's still preaching. Man, he can't let go of this thing. He's like, phew, bless her back and let her go. I know they didn't have a clock back then put on the wall And the sun had already gone down, it was midnight, and uh and Paul was still preaching. Uh the brother said this morning, so I hope Pastor Wagner didn't preach that long Uh one of the fellows said in the all in the foyer, he said, all you gotta do is get a base hit, brother. You just get on base. Our preacher's gone. You can just get a base hit. That's all we need out of you today. Amen. Hope hope I can at least not foul out. Amen. But we get Baptists together, we start preaching, and they don't even know when to cut the thing off. I've seen pastors circle in circle looking for the runway, trying to figure out how to land this thing And uh that's Baptist brother. They just they get together and they start preaching and eating and don't know when to shut the thing down. Uh but I want to say some things tonight. My heart is broken as well. And I I I enjoy having a good time in church. But I've titled the message tonight How to keep from falling out of church. How to keep from falling out of church. I'll be honest with you, as a pastor, I'm tired of seeing people fall out of church. It breaks my heart. One of the wor one of the things I think just I mean grieves my soul the most when I come out on Sunday and I preach at my church is to look at empty pews. I I hate an empty pew. I'd just rather pull the thing out and let nobody let their I just think it's a terrible thing to see an empty pew. I want to see somebody sitting in that pew. And as a pastor, many days I remember who used to sit in that pew. I remember people used to come sit in that pew Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, get involved in the bus ministry, come out soul wing on a Saturday I mean get involved, sing in the choir, uh play on the instrument, and be excited, and give a testimony in church, and get get I mean just fired up for the Lord, and then all of a sudden something happened For brother, something didn't happen. Some of the silliest things I've ever seen in my life are reasons people leave a church. Somebody said something to them or somebody didn't say something to them. Somebody noticed them or somebody didn't notice them. Somebody stopped by their house or somebody didn't stop by their house. I mean they just seemed to find some reason I had a guy years ago. He left the church, he said, he came to me and met with me. Pastor, God wants us to leave the church I said, that's funny. He didn't say anything to me about it. But they said, Pastor, God wants me to leave the church. And I said, Well, can we talk about it? He said, No, no, no. It's already decided. God's already let us know. It's time for us to leave. And Pastor, I want you to know My wife and I have been praying for two months for a reason to leave this church. I said, What come again? I said, You said you've been praying for a reason to I could give you one in fifth fifteen seconds. I mean if you're looking for one, I'm shocked it took you two months, Brother Pastor Gunn. I'm just surprised it takes you that long. You want to be offended. It doesn't take you very long inside a church to get offended You ain't gonna pray for a reason. You ought to be praying for a way to stay. How do we stay in this thing? How do we stay in the fight? Well, I just don't like church because there's hypocrites in church. You trying to tell me there's not hypocrites out of church? Well, those people in church, they're liars. Have you seen politics lately? Man, don't tell me they're better outside of church than they are in church. I mean it's a mess out there everywhere. And I'm gonna tell you, uh we we need to learn how to be faithful to church. I want to say this. Your pastor and I were talking about this a bit ago. I believe pastors ought to learn how to stay too Now I know that God will move us, and we're a servant, we're not the master, we're just a tool from God. We're a gift to the church to preach to you the word of God and to challenge you and provoke you very much in love For the word's sake, I mean that's our job to do. Amen. But I believe pastors ought to get some grit in the crawl and stay a little longer too. The national average among our Baptists, it's fluctuated up and down over the last many years Uh for a while, for a while it was as low as almost two years is all they stay. It it got a little better for a bit, they said, well, almost six years that we were staying I think it's fluctuated back down. And the last I heard, somebody gave an estimate of three and a half years that a pastor stays at a church. You can't even get your feet wet. You can't figure out hardly the layout of the building in that many years. You don't get to know the mayor or the police chief or the or the people down the road. You don't even know what's going on in that amount of time. I mean, it just, I think our preachers need to learn how to stay a little longer in a church. No doubt about it. And so too our people need to learn how to stay in church These are people that have come together and they're excited, and whether they're in, they're not out, they're staying until the thing is over, I mean until the last amen, until the last testimony is given They want to get in and yet right in the middle of that they see a young man fall right out the window. I want to help you tonight. I I I want to help you. I I have a pastor's heart. I love churches and I love God's people and I love pastors and I love the work of God. I've been saying this to my people over and over and over. I want to keep saying it. The greatest thing going on in the world today is the church. I mean there's nothing better than church that's going on in the world today. Nothing is more eternal has more eternal value, nothing is as powerful, nothing is as wonderful, you won't find something better in the elk Club, you won't find something better in the Moose Lodge, you won't find something better down at the BFW. The greatest thing going on in the earth today, Is the church. It's our hope in America. I mean I pray for the elections and you ought to register and you ought to vote as an American. You ought to vote your convictions And I know sometimes we gotta hold our nose and and plug that ballot and get that thing going. I know it's a mess. I know it is. But I'm gonna tell you this The hope for America is not in the White House. The hope for America is here in God's house. And we need to get ourselves straightened out so we can be a better light to this world. Here in the text, we find these people have gathered together. They don't have a building of their own. Not yet. of this day and age really have a place to meet. Some of them have a house where they'll meet, where a wealthy man has a big enough place to invite people in. But most of them are gathering sometimes at a river, sometimes in a rented room. This is likely just an upper room, like when Jesus rented an upper room. For the Last Supper, these Christians have probably rented this upper room and it's a third story up, and they've all gone up there to hold services and and boy they're preaching and worshiping and praising God and having a great time and things are wonderful. Until they're not. I want to show you a couple things that will help you stay in God's house. First of all, let me just say This church building, this edifice where we gather together, where God has drawn the body of the church together, is a place where God's people are. Point number one, if you were taking notes tonight, is that God's people are in church. God's people are here in church. These are God's people. We belong to the Lord. I didn't say perfect people, no sir. Nor would I say everybody who comes into church is God's people. I think sometimes the devil sneaks in a few snakes that just want to be contentious. They just want to be troublesome. They just want to criticize. You know when the children of Israel came up out of Egypt, they weren't all Israel Israelites The Bible says a mixed multitude came up among them, and that mixed multitude was the first to say, we're sick of this manna, we want flesh. You look up the text, you'll find out. It wasn't God's people that were complaining first. It was the mixed multitude that came up. In fact, I dare say if you take some time and study your Bible You'd find out that the average person who is the source of criticism is not even saved If criticism starts with them and all they've ever got to say is criticism, you check up on it and you'll find all through the scripture, that may be that may seem like a bold statement But you remember when Mary came and broke the bottle of Smiknard on Jesus? Remember she anointed him for his burial? The Bible says that, well, if you study it out, it was of great cost But we find in history that it was almost a year's wages worth of money invested in that one box is five. You didn't ever pour that stuff out. You doled it out little by little. I mean just a drop here or there, a little spray or a spritz. That stuff was valuable. But she poured it out on the Lord for his burial. All the disciples were dense enough they didn't catch it when Jesus said, I'm going to die. But Mary caught it after sitting at his feet. And she lavished love on the Lord. And you know what you'll find in the text? You read one gospel, and the Bible says, Then said the people, why was this waste made? It might have been sold and given to the poor. Let me just tell you something. Anything you spend on Jesus is not a waste. Anything you spend on your bus ministry, anything you spend on your prison ministry, anything you spend out soul winning Anything you spend on the work of God, anything you spend for the ministry of God and God's people is not a waste. But you check another gospel and you know what you'll hear. Then said the disciples Why was this waste made? It might have been given to the poor. It might have been sold for a great amount and given to the poor. But you keep reading your Bible, you're going to find another account of the gospel that'll say, then Said Judas. Why was this waste made? Might have been sold and given to the poor. And God gives us a little insight into Judas' heart. This he said not because he cared for the poor, but because he kept the bag and he was a thief. That man was a devil He never was regenerated. He didn't get saved and fall out and lose his salvation. He never was saved. Jesus said, have I not chosen 12 of you? And one of you is a devil That's what the Bible says. You go through the scripture and you'll find time after time after time when God does something great, heals a man. Remember the man let down through the roof by four of his friends Brought down into church, couldn't get in because there were so many people there. Some of that crowd sitting sitting right up on the front row were were, I mean, they were Pharisees. And when Jesus said, Thy sins be forgiven thee, they got all huffy mad Who can forgive sins, but God only? Well, great observation. Just so happens God only is standing before you but to heal that man. I mean I'm telling you you'll find the source of criticism often isn't even saved, brother You better check up on yourself if you're the one always complaining. You want to stay in you want to stay in church You want to stay on fire for God? You want to stay plugged in for the Lord's work? You you better check up here. God's people are in this church. These kind of churches are right where God's people are some of the greatest people. on the face of the earth. The greatest givers I've ever seen have been God's people. Somebody gets into a problem and trouble and difficulty and there is nobody like a church that can raise money to help out with something. You look at the monies that go out for missions, and I know you you do all the stats here in America and I understand we spend more money on Halloween costumes for our dogs. Factual information. Halloween costumes for our dogs. America puts more money into that than missions. But if you get into the heart of a true church, you'll find it it'll be a missions-giving church. You'll find widows and young people and men, and you'll find people just sacrificing and serving and giving so that the same blessing that they've had to hear the gospel preach Can be given somewhere in Africa or somewhere in Asia or somewhere in the Arctic or somewhere down in the jungle. Somebody else can hear the gospel just like they did. People sacrifice and serve. God's people are giving people They truly are. I've been so blessed to be able to be around God's people. They're the greatest givers I know. They're the most faithful servants. I mean they're faithful. I've seen people just faithful, uh not year after year. I'm talking about uh just just uh Decades and lifetimes of service going out and working for God when nobody else notices and nobody pats them on the back and nobody sees what they do. God's people are serving people. They're here in the church. It's true. They're the most faithful servants. Don't think people are okay outside the church There's some sweet people that are outside of church. I've met some very kind lost people, and I've met some saved people that needed to get right with God, but here in the church is where the greatest things will go on. Our greatest work will be done collectively, joined together. You know when God tried to give victory to the children of Israel, he said, here's what I'm going to do for you. If one of you will stand up for me, I'll let you drive out a thousand men. Now you want to feel pretty big. Walk out on a battlefield someday, draw a sword, and see a hundred men hit their heels running away from you. You'd feel like a pretty big man. It would stand to reason that if one puts a thousand to flight, then two puts two thousand to flight. That'd be still pretty good numbers. We'd still be doing all right, but God said that's not what it's going to be. If two of you will join together, if two of you will take your power of putting 1,000 to flight And join it together. There is a synergy to the work of God, and you too will put 10,000 to flight. No wonder when the world saw Paul and Barnabas, they said, These men. They've turned the world upside down for God. And they've come to us. And if we don't deal with them, they're going to turn our lives upside down Would God we would understand the power of a church joined together. Behold, how beautiful it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. And it's wonderful when God's people are in God's assembly going forward for the work of God. They're great people. It's God's people in the church. The Bible says the number of the disciples had gathered together in this upper room on the first day of the week, the Lord's Day, and they were there to have church. Amen. Can I tell you what else is in the church? Watch in verse number 8, our text, Acts chapter 20, verse number 8. And there were many lights In the upper chamber where they were gathered together. Help me out, Pastor Gus. Why did God mention the lights in the building? Do you ever go out of a church building and say, man, did you notice how many lights they had in there? You almost don't always notice it. I mean maybe you notice it. They're light, praise God for light. Sometimes you've been in a church you say, I see how dark it was. I couldn't even see my Bible in there. But you don't know s I mean when did when did God ever mention, ever any other time, other than maybe the tabernacle where the menorah is, when did he ever mention how many lights were in there? He didn't say when they let the man down by the four friends. He didn't say, oh yeah, by the way, there were 57 lights in that place. He didn't even notice it. No record of it. There's no other place in the scripture. I think God's trying to teach us something about the church gathering together. He said there were many lights in that upper room. Let me tell you something. The church is a place not only of God's people, it's a place where God sheds light into our lives. This is a place of light. 1 John 1:5 says, God is light. This is the message we've given unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Our God is a God of light. In a dark, dark, dark world. We have a God of light. He gives light. He is light. And he shines into our lives. He is the light of the world. And we praise God for him. We saw that light. He is the you know this is scientifically proven just recently that at conception, every one of us at conception, there's a flash of light that happens at that moment of conception. It's been recorded. You can see it now. The internet's got it recorded. You can see the flash of light that happens at the moment that a human being comes into the world. And God has already told us He is the light that lightens every man that cometh into the world. God is light. God is light. He is light. I tell you what, there's a lot of churches, there's a lot of edifices, there's a lot of buildings in our country that are darkness. But where God's where God is, there is light. Not only is he light, but he says this. His word will lighten us. The word of God will lighten us. Psalms 119:105, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. I I don't always know what God has planned for me. There are many times I try to look down the road and see what God has planned for me in my future, and I have no clue, but I do know this: God will show me enough light for the next step A lamp to my feet, a light to my path is shining right here, and he'll guide and direct me, and he'll show me, and you know how he shows me often right out of his word. Sister, if you're not spending time in God's word, you don't have the light that you need from God. Brother, if you're going day after day after day, not reading your Bible, not spending time in the book. You do not have the light that God intends for you to have for that day. I need the Bible. You need the Bible. God is light. His message is the word of God. And it is light to our path. Let me tell you this: what else? is light and the church is God's preachers. Thank God for men of God. I'm going to tell you church, I'm going to say this for Because it's not my pulpit and I'm a little bit, I get to be a little more of a uh uh free to be able to say some of this stuff. You'll never know the burdens your pastor carries. And I'm not trying to make you feel his burden. God has put a burden on his heart. God has placed a uh a burden on his soul. He carries a weight that you'll never quite understand. Uh you can care for him and you can care about him But there, I'm telling you, there's a burden that you'll just almost never know until you step into a pulpit as a pastor. The burden, the man of God carries. It'll just about drain his soul. He has given his life to God and God has given him a charge to preach and he carries the message of God with great weight to the pulpit to try to deliver that message to you Because he loves you, he loves God, he loves the word. And in Hebrews chapter 1, 7, he maketh his angels ministering spirits and his And his uh his pastors, his preachers, his men of God, his ministers, a flame of fire. You know what a flame of fire does? It gives light. It gives light. You ought to thank God for a Bible preaching pastor that sets behind your pulpit. You got somebody to faithfully give you the word of God Sunday after Sunday. and pour out his soul to you. You want to thank God for the light that God gives you through. I'm telling you, there have been times in my life that my preacher stepped up when I was a teenager at very critical times in my life and preached the message. It changed my direction and save my eternity. I mean, I'm telling you, I thank God for the preachers He's put in my life. Those men of God that have come along And and spared me from sorrow and hurt and much woe. They've come through God's men, shining the light of God into my life. But didn't he say in Matthew chapter 5, 14 through 16, Ye are the light of the world? A city that is hit on a hill cannot be hid. Tell me, brother, why is the church trying so hard to look like the world today? The world is dark. The world is evil. The world is deceptive. The world is wicked. Why is the church watching its movies, listening to its music, uh paying attention to its fads and fashions, and trying to be as much like the world as it possibly can. We're supposed to stand out in contrast to the darkness of the world and be light in a dark world. And if the light that is in thee be dark, how great is that darkness? Man, if what is supposed to shine in this region is dark, you can complain about how dark the world is But you know what darkness is? It's nothing more than the absence of light. That's all darkness is. Darkness is the absence. Of light. If this region is dark, it's not because the darkness of man, it's because the lack of light from God's people. And we ought to be light in this upper room, in this building, there was God's people, there was God's light. Not only that, let me tell you this, God's people were in that building, God's light was in that building, but a God also left windows in that building. I don't even know why. Let me just be honest with you. Sometimes God and I don't always agree. He is always right, but I don't always see his ways. But I'm going to say this. Every one of us who come to church come of our own free will. Well, not my wife and kids. They have to come to church, but everybody else comes to church because they want to. You're allowed to come into church? You're allowed to not come to church. It's your own free choice. God's giving you free will. God let Adam and Eve sit in that garden and choose between a fellowship with God Walking in the cool of the day, or the knowledge of the good and evil uh that that that Satan had intent tempted them to go to, and they had the option. I don't know why God put that tree in the garden. I wouldn't have I don't know why God let Satan come into that serpent and slither around through the garden. I'd have chopped that thing's head off. I mean if it was my creation, if it was my people, I wouldn't have done as God did. But God is always right, and He gives us a free will. You know what God knows better than I know? Is that give only chosen love, only love that is given by choice is the only one that matters. He could have made us all robots He could have all made us mindlessly come in and sit in a pew and do the ministry and do the work, but what it what where it really counts is when you look at you look at the world and rather be there, but you know it's better to be in God's house. Well you go contrary, as the Bible said, our spirit is contrasting our flesh and they fight with one another. They are contrary one with the other. And the spirit lustet against the flesh, and the flesh against the spirit, and they're fighting, they're battling. And in the midst of that battle, when I choose to feed the spirit and starve the flesh, I find great power with God. That's more valuable to God. The trying of your faith is more precious than of gold that perisheth. Wow. I'm telling you, God's put a window in the church. There are places in every church where you can just fall right out of church I don't suppose maybe this upper room would look much different than this upper room. I don't know of its size or how big or how wide it was, how deep it was. Uh but I'm sure just like this where we've got windows along the side of the building, there were probably openings there. Only their windows wouldn't have been quite like ours. Uh we're we're a little more concerned about keeping the heat out We don't like bugs flying around in our churches. And so we've got this window sealed up with glass And we've got rubber seals all through it, and nothing comes in, nothing goes out, but the windows of that day would have just been an open spot in the wall. And I don't know why Eutychus chose to sit up there. Well, yes, I do. I was a boy once. Euticus saw that window and boy it looked fun to sit up there. Like any boy. They always like to be right on the edge of danger. And probably after everybody had been up there for so long, singing and praying and testifying and preaching, it got warm in that upper room, and there by the window was a nice cool breeze coming from the outside. I wish it wasn't this way. But sometimes the smell, the scent, the breeze of the world feels fresh to young people who've grown up in a church. I'm a church kid. I was in church as soon as I was born. No, I was in church before I was born. My mama came to church, and she was a Sunday school teacher, dad was a deacon, and all I've ever known is church. That's all I've ever known. I haven't known anything but church. It'd be the weirdest thing for me to not be in church on a Sunday. To miss a Wednesday night prayer meeting, I've never known what that I mean. There have been a few times I've been sick and couldn't go to church. Usually I was thick enough that I had one time as a boy uh that I didn't really want to go to church on a prayer meeting night. Uh but mom and dad said, get ready for church And I said, I don't really want to go to church tonight. I tell you what, dad dealt with me, and I never ever ever said that again. We were going to church whether you wanted to or not. So you might as well want to because you're going. I mean, we just that's how I grew I grew up in church. And you know what happens to young people who grow up in church? Sometimes they catch a scent of the world. Sometimes they catch a breeze that comes from other another place and it just feels interesting and intriguing and unique to them and they long for it. And old Eudychus, he gets up in that window, and I'm sure it felt fresh to him. And by the way The preacher was going long anyway. It is kind of boring. And I'm sure he got up in that window and started looking out that window and see what was going on, like any little boy does I got a problem in my church. We're out in the country and the way our windows are set up, every once in a while deer will come out in the field and all my hunters go, wah Okay, boys, I'm up here. Come on now. Let's we're preaching up here right now. We're not preaching out there. We're in here and try to keep their attention. But you know what happened to Eudychus when he sat in that window? His attention got divided And I'll tell you this, pastors will see it, pastors will see it, sometimes staff members will see it, sometimes godly women will notice it, godly men can be in tune to this as well, that when a young person just starts getting right there with a divided attention, you can just almost always see it. They're not as excited about church as they once were. If they could get out of church because of some reason, they would. I mean I I grew up in a family where it's church time. The family, our family, my dad's family still had uh family get-togethers on Sundays, and they just knew if you planted on a Sunday, we weren't there. We were with the family of God in the house of God. You plan on Saturday if you want, Friday night, any other night of the week, except for Wednesday night You can plan on other nights, we'll be there, but you plan that on a Sunday, and we're not going to be there. I'm always concerned as a pastor when people begin to find reasons to not be in church, rather than find reasons to be in church No eunuchus, everybody else is here. The people on the front row are paying attention to the Apostle Paul. They're excited about the preaching. Keep giving it to us, Paul. Oh, amen. That's good. Preach it, Brother Paul And Eudychus is over there kind of, yeah, he's kind of in, but he's kind of out. He's sort of paying attention to what's going on in here, but he's sort of paying attention to what's going on Pierce And I'm sure the breeze felt nice in that window, but along with that breeze was a grave danger. Remember what David saw out a window? Remember what Solomon saw outside a window? He looked out my window out through my case when I saw a young man of the youth He was a young youth. He was in the youth group. And he was void of understanding. Brother, that's the problem when young men are void of understanding. When young ladies lack wisdom and character What's the problem? And he went by her house. He went down the street to her house. He went along her way. And you don't even have to wonder who that woman is. We already know And she caught him and kissed him with an impudent face, said unto him, I've been looking for you. I want to let you men on it in a little secret. It's going to hurt your feelings though, so brace yourself. Put your seat buckle on and just if you've got to suck your thumb, suck your thumb. But I'm going to say something might hurt you a little bit. You really aren't that good looking, man. All this all this sexualized advertisement that's out to get you, you really aren't the God's gift to all the women. They really are gonna Amen, I know it was gonna hurt. I see see men already got a poochie lip sticking out. There's something about men. They think they're the best looking guy in the room. That's just the way they are. Man, they feel like everybody ought to look like me. No man ever yet hated his own flesh. nourisheth it and cherish it, doesn't he? Well I tell you what, I'm just telling you, women aren't really going to fall all over you with your looks. I'm just telling you When our hair starts looking like carpet, it starts looking like maloleum, brother. I'm telling you, they aren't falling all over you. And when they're bragging up how big and strong and handsome you are, and they've been looking for you, the Proverbs says. You dumb cow? Well, it doesn't say exactly like that. It says it like this. It says, he goeth after her straightway like an ox to the slaughter. My interpretation is that's dumb cow. You really aren't so awesome. She's just after something. That kind of woman, the Bible says the adulterous woman will hunt for the precious life So she'd been looking for you all right, but it ain't because of how handsome you are. It's because of what she can get out of you. Heard way too many stories of young men that went online, playing around, getting on the chat rooms and thought they were alone with some girl only to have that thing switched around and some guys involved and says, Now if you don't give us one one up my way, you don't give us six thousand dollars in the next hour We have all your contacts and we're going to share what you've been doing online to everybody. Young man almost committed suicide. For shame and embarrassment for what he was involved with. She wasn't really all that interested in him. It was a game, by the way, but he wasn't playing, he was being played. Thank God that's not all women, but I'm just telling you this. This plastic surgeried of w woman of today that isn't a genuine, true, godly woman. She isn't what you should be looking for. And when she's excited to see you, you ought to wise up. Brother Starr will know he's a deer hunter. Maybe no I don't know how many other hunters might be in here. But but I'm telling you the easiest time to kill a smart old buck. is when he gets his head looking for girls, and I'm telling you what, he could be the wisest thing in the woods till he sees a pretty dog go by and it's Curtains for him, brother. I mean, if you can be ready for that day, it doesn't matter what it is, he'll lose all sense and sensibility. And you women would be surprised at the power that a woman has over these young men. It's true. They flutter those long eyebrows and lashes, boys look at you, and guys just go and uh their brains fall right out their ears or something. I don't know what it is it is. Young men just lose all sense and sensibility. I don't know that that's what Eudychus saw out the window. I'm making some s uh some uh presumptions here for sure, but I tell you this: there's no young man that ever sat in a window of a church that didn't have his attention divided between the world and what was going on in church. I I don't I don't understand how this goes. Sister Trudy, I don't know. I I don't know how Belsk grew up. I grew up with a mama that didn't put up with anything. If I'd have sat up on a window on a third story, you wonder why I'm bald, she'd have grabbed the top of my head and had me by the hair and drugged me back in it. She didn't put up with stuff. She just didn't put up with And I'm telling you what, I don't I don't know how it is that sometimes we just allow things to go on that are obvious within the church. Something's happening, something's going on, God's already there, his people are there, God's light is in the church. All of a sudden we see somebody just drifting out the window. It was dangerous. Did anybody else see it? Probably Probably there was some grandma sitting in the back saying, Well, I wish that young man wouldn't sit in that window like that. Probably there were some men while they listened to the preaching. Caught out the corner of their eye, Eudicus sitting there, bobbing his head, starting to fall asleep, and they thought, well, I wish that boy wouldn't sit there, but nobody took the time to go talk to him Some of you, some of you in this room, no doubt, no doubt there are some Christians in this room that could show scars for what the world's done to you when you lived in sin. No doubt you've got emotional scars, even physical scars, and all kinds of other things going on in your life. You've got your regrets for when you lived in sin and wickedness And praise God you're washed. Praise God you're redeemed. Praise God he brought you up out of that horrible pit. But you remember what it's like to be in the world. Boy, it'd be good to tell some of these young people that. I'm gonna be honest with you, they just don't know. Had a man tell me the one time, he said, you know, when I was in the world, he said, Pastor Wagner, you know, you know who was going the hardest and the wildest? Do you know the kids that drank more beer than everybody else? Do you know which kids were up on the table, dancing around, losing their minds, going the hardest? He said it was the kids who grew up in Christian church. So the rest of us who grew up around alcohol, we weren't deceived by alcohol. We knew what it was. We knew the heartache, we knew the sorrow, we knew you wake up with a headache. We knew it didn't have a whole lot to promise you. We just didn't know any better. So we knew we when we saw drugs, we saw our parents on drugs, we saw the effects of drugs, and we did that we did it because we didn't know anything better But these kids who grew up in a Christian church have been sold a lie that there's something great out there. You ever ask yourself why the why the young man went prodigal son why he went into a far country? Could he not find women in town? Could he not find alcohol in town? Could he not find righteous living in town? Oh, sure, he found it there, but he didn't find what he was looking for, because what he was looking for is not reality It's a fantasy. It's something that's not true. And he had to go to the next town and the next town and the next town and the next town and drink more and do more and get more wild and be more wicked. And he just never found it till he fo Founding yourself in a hog pen And realize, you know, I don't think this world's got what it said it had. Some of you have been there, and you start to see that long-off look in a young man's eyes, but you don't say anything It's dangerous. God will let you fall out of window if you sit there. By the way, brother, you're gonna fall the way you lean. If you learn to lean on the everlasting arms of Jesus, when you fall, you fall into Jesus. But when you're leaning towards the world When you when you have a longing in your heart for what's going on out there, what's happening out the window, and you're looking, brother, when you fall, you're gonna fall into the world. And the world's going to chew you up, spit you out. Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you. Church, it's time, high time we pray for our young people. Because the devil's outside this church licking his lips, just waiting. Man, you talk about a trophy. If he could get one of these young ladies, one of these young men in this church that's singing your choir, that's singing your from your pulpit that serve in your ministry. He's licking his chops. Boy, he'd like to have them. He desires to have them. He'd take everything good from them and leave them with the chaff Boy, he wants them. With all of his heart he wants them. They'd be a trophy for him. Would God the church would pray for them. Would God the church come alongside them and put their arm around them? Eudychus could have been spared from some heartache and some scars and some sorrow. If somebody would have caught him in that window. But nobody said anything. So when he finally went senseless and fell asleep spiritually, out the window he went God has left some windows in the church because you get to choose which way you're going to go. And when you have divided attention, brother, I'm telling you, you're on your way out the church. You're on your way out to church when you're critical. You're on the way out to church when you don't find joy in serving Jesus anymore. You're on the way out to church when nobody can seem to please you and satisfy you. But I want to tell you something great, and then I'm done. I don't even know how long I've been preaching. Probably too long. It's not midnight yet though. Uh-uh I'm done with this point. You know what the name Eutychus means? It means, you look it up, it means fortunate. Man, if I saw a kid fall out a window, I don't think I'd name him fortunate. I'd name him unfortunate. But the Bible calls him fortunate. Favored. Blessed. Do you know why Eudychus was blessed? Because he was at least in the presence of a preacher. And if you've got a preacher to preach to you, you are fortunate. Wouldn't it take God any more effort Having put your spirit at this time, at this place, in this area, he could have just as easily put you in the Middle East. You could have just been just as easily been wearing I don't know what that outfit is. It looks like a ninja suit, you know, a little eyeballs poking out. You ladies could have had that much of a that much to look through and everything else covered. And if you get caught with somebody other than your brother or your husband, you could have your You could be stoned or have your head cut off. I mean you could be punished in ways you can't even imagine. God could have just as easily put you in in a drunkard's home where you were beaten and didn't know anything about God. God could have put you in a place in the jungle where there was no Bible preaching church and you didn't even know the name of Jesus. But if you've got a preacher to preach Jesus for you, you are fortunate. You ought to thank God, you ought to praise his holy name, you ought to be blessed that you got a place you can come to. Because I know people out west who drive four hours to get to a church. I didn't even say a good church, just a church. Most of you don't drive 40 minutes, probably. He's fortunate, you know why? He had a church family. I say first point was that God's people are in church. Second point was God's light is in church. Third point was that God left windows in the church and forth and I'm done. God's rescue crew was in the church. Soon as Eudychus made a wreck of his life, and boy, it was a mess. They ran to him. You've always been impressed by first responders, haven't you? You ever come upon a really bad wreck? And I've been on a few. I've watched kids get thrown out of cars on the highway and boy it just makes your stomach sick and it's a special kind of person that runs to that rather than run from it. It's a special kind of person that runs two problems rather than throne problems. And I'm telling the church when Eudychus fell out the window They didn't just say, well, there went that one. They ran down three three flights of stairs to get down to Eutychus, to get down to him, to try to find some help for him. And watch what they did. They got to him and they brought him back up. Now he was dead. But they brought him back up anyway. They brought him back. Well, we need to come to church that brings people back in rather than drives them out. Seems like the Christian's army is the only army that shoots its own wounded. They went and got the kid and brought him back into church. Somebody went and wrapped their arms up under him and picked up his broken wreck of a life. And walked him back up to church back to the man of God and tried to encourage him. It was over for Eunicus. If it hadn't been for the rescue, you crew coming down and scooping him up and caring about him and bringing him and he had a man of God that would put put on just lay himself down on Eunicus and pray. Boy, if we could have a church that knew how to pray. I mean all things are possible if you believe. He laid on that boy like the prophet of old and he prayed, God bring his spirit back into him and Paul said don't be troubled trouble not yourself his life is in him what a miracle what a miracle I've seen some people that look like they were gone gone gone You know they've never been helped by gossip. Never, never, never are you going to start gossiping about somebody who's fallen and got broke up and have wrecked their life and you start sharing all the juicy gossip about what they've been doing. Never are you ever going to help them by doing that. Not going to happen. Imagine them old gossipy women getting down there to Eudychus when they finally get Oh, they're excited to get there to the wreck. They'll be the first on the scene. Huh! His leg is broken! And you know how a telephone game works. Before it gets to the back of the crowd, he's lost his leg. It's gone. Ember broke right off. Bleeding out his ears. Boy, he's gone or he's dead, boy. And we got to tell them about what happened to Eutychus. Every gory detail. You will never help somebody like that. Boy, did you see what they did? You heard where they're at? Did you see what's going on? You aren't helping anybody. You're sharing your juicy gossip around. That's not helping that young man. Well helped him is somebody who cared enough to stoop down and pick him up off of the sidewalk there off the stone. Lift his body up and start carrying him back up the steps, up those ascension psalms. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. How good and pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. And boy, they brought that boy back up the steps, and they brought him to the man of God, where the man of God was able to get a hold of God Himself And God said, boy, I church like that. I like seeing what they're doing. You because you sure are a fortunate young man. And you may have some scars you carry to the rest of your life. But boy, I tell you what, you you are fortunate have a church cares for you. Church, I wonder if right now, while I'm preaching, God's not putting on your mind, in your heart, some young person who just needs somebody to wrap their arms around them. Go ahead, stick your nose up in the air and think how much holier than you are. Let me tell you something. But by the grace of God, there go I. You aren't better than anybody. Given the same upbringing and circumstances, you might be in the same mess. We need to be the kind of church where people don't fall out. But it's gonna happen. How are we gonna treat when it does? Huh? And we just watch them go He's gonna make I mean it interrupted the church. I want to close with this thought. They brought him up, the Bible says, here in Acts chapter 20. And they brought the young man alive. And look at this phrase, and I'm done. And we're not a little comforted. You know what a blessed church? When you see somebody that looked like the devil had them, and God gets them back. When God gets a hold of somebody's life and He turns everything around, how many He'll bless the church. And I want to say this to every one of you, because sometimes you feel like nobody even notices me. I feel like I'm the invisible person. You matter to the church. Your life matters. Your life far too many people have committed suicide thinking nobody cares about them Your life matters. You matter to God. You matter to the church. Your testimony matters. Your life matters. And we ought to care about one another enough in life. I'm blown away how many people will go to a funeral But they won't show up while the poor fellow's still alive. We'll go memorialize them when they're dead, but we won't show up when they're alive. Something's messed up about that So let's get busy on this thing and start doing the work of God. Let's stand at our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The Bible says we ought to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. I don't know where you are. I know of Hunt Valley Baptist Church as a corporation. I know of you. I've prayed for you for years. I know your pastor. But I don't know your stories. Pastor didn't update me on what anything going on in the church. I don't know what's going on. But I know churches. And I'm certain God sent me with this message today to help somebody. Maybe you are the one that's about to fall out because you've got divided attention going on. Your part out in the world and part in the church, God is calling you to get into the house of God. Get out of that window. Get away from and brother our cell phones, our entertainment, our our social media is a window to the world that's destroying a lot of young people. It'd be good for you to get out of that window and get into God's house. And then maybe for some of you, God's burdened your heart for somebody who you just know. You can just see it. They're just drifting. They're just I mean they're in a dangerous spot And you need to put some time in prayer and encouragement edifying. Why don't we come to this altar and mention their name before a high and holy God? Father, we come before you on this beautiful day. What a wonderful day. What a wonderful church What a wonderful time we've had together around your word. Now I pray that you would minister in the invitation. I pray, God, that what needs to be accomplished would be accomplished. Would you let somebody repent and turn to you and get their heart right with you? Would you let somebody get determined not to let another eudychus fall out the window without at least trying to put their arm around them and encourage them back into the way? God, do a work that only you can do. We pray for your power in this invitation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Piano's playing, heads are bowed, and eyes are closed. The altar is open, and there's a young person you need to pray for. Maybe you need to pray for yourself. Maybe you need to come and spend some time with the Lord. Say, God, I need to get out of this window that's drawing my attention away from you. My heart feels divided. I feel feel like I'm not all in. I feel like I'm not really everything I ought to be. And God, I want to be everything for you. I can see what's going on in the church. Now it'll be more in there. Must you come commit? Get that heart closer to Jesus