Proverbs chapter number twenty, we are going to be looking at a few different passages of scripture. I don't know if I do uh you an injustice by uh not waiting for you to get to the scriptures. A lot of times when I'm preaching I get into a a a rhythm or a pace And I just want to read the text and go on to the next thing, and I don't wait for you to turn or get there in the Word of God. And I do believe it's vitally important that you see the Scripture and Obviously we always get to the text and to the beginning and opening that, but I I use a lot of scripture usually in the message in different points and I think sometimes because I I want to get through all of what I want to say that uh maybe I don't give time to to get to the Word of God and and probably ought to adjust that a little bit so that you guys can see it in the Word of God and and be looking at that. But the Bible says in Proverbs chapter number twenty, verse number twenty-seven, the Spirit Of man is the candle of the Lord, searcheth all the inward parts of the valley. Tonight I want to talk to you about or ask you the question, how's your spirit? How's your spirit? You know, it's amazing how God works. Because uh I have to tell you That yesterday was a real test for me of how my spirit is. You see we came from the retreat, just an amazing coup you know, day there and and all of that that happened. I mean I mean, just really successful retreat, good spirit. Everything went really well, and we're driving home and enjoying ourselves and and Mary and I are fellowship and talking. Of course, we've got a lot to do in the next twenty four or thirty-six hours because we're supposed to leave on you know this trip that we've had planned uh for a long time, you know, uh supposed to leave Monday morning and I've got to prepare to preach and And we just got a lot on our plate for the next twenty-four hours and we pull in the driveway and Mary looks and she says, Uh, I'm gonna have to find out why there is no laundry on the line. I gave that job to Melissa to get the laundry on the line. So we pull in and Mary goes inside and she's like, Melissa, how come there's no laundry on the line? And I wasn't in there, but somehow she heard the response from one of the people in the house that uh well we don't have any water. So we don't have any water? So she comes out and lets me know we don't have any water. Something's wrong with the well. We don't have any water. I do not need this right now on Saturday when I need to prepare for Sunday when I've got to get ready to leave on a trip. Six hours later. Out in the cold, troubleshooting this well, it's definitely something in the ground You know, three sti three trips to the store to buy parts and doing different things and replacing things, it's definitely something down in the ground and we still have no more wall we still have no water. And I have to say, you know what I can't we're just gonna have to be without water because I've got to go to the office and study. The problem is is that at the same time You see, we were supposed to leave Monday morning for this trip, and we had done all the research and we had found out that we could take a home COVID test And they would accept a home COVID test. And we actually looked at the test we had, and it was the right kind, it was the right brand, and all that. It was acceptable. And online it said you could take this test. And in my mind, I'm thinking, how do they know who took the test? This makes no sense to me that they're going to accept this. But it says right there, they'll take this test, okay, praise God, on Saturday afternoon Or Sunday afternoon we'll take the test, right? So we get home, Mary gets in, signs online, begins the process, and after she begins the process, she finds out that Well, yes, they'll accept this test, except you have to do it with a telehealth online video conference call with a doctor. And you have to set that up in advance So here we are thinking we're going to be able to take this test and go on this trip, which we've already paid the money for, which we're not going to get back. Our flights, the cost for our lodging down there at that point, we were like we're going to lose all that if we can't take this trip. We can't do that. So she I said can you keep looking? She gets online, she looks some more. She finds a place locally that you can walk in and take your test. I'm like, okay, awesome. Let's go just go do it. So now it's like 7. 30 at night, and I still have to study for today. Now now this message was already prepared. I had this message done a week ago for tonight. So in my mind, I am just preaching this message over and over in my mind. And we go to the we go to this doctor's office down in Timonium. And uh we walk in and they're like, Oh yeah, you can take the test here, great. So we go through the process of getting registered and filling out all the paperwork and We go in to sit down to take the test and she goes, Well, there's a problem. We don't take your insurance. I said, that's all right, we'll just pay cash. She says, No, you can't. I said, what? You don't take cash? I mean who doesn't take cash? She's like, no, you can't. You can't pay with cash. It has to be through insurance. Are you kidding me? So we get back in the car and drive home. Still no solution. Get back online, start searching again. I'm like let's just do let's just get online, let's do a telehealth, let's Somebody is somewhere that California, they gotta be awake, you know. Let's get let's get with some doctor somewhere. Let's do telehealth. Let's just get it done right now. We'll take the home test and make it happen So she gets online, we go through the process of trying to register this test and get it done online and get down into the pages and find out with the telehealth people that Even though you're taking the test at home and you're the one testing, you have the results in front of you, you won't get a copy of that from them for two to three days. How is it what two I took the test? It's right here. I have the results in my hand. How can I not get the results for two to three days? So that's not going to work. We're leaving Monday morning. And and here I am in my mind, like, okay, how's your spirit? How's your spirit? I've told you before, my dad, my dad used to love to ask me, uh got the victory? You know? And he always loved to ask me that when it was obvious to him. When it was abundantly clear that I did not have the victory and did not want to be asked about it, he would look at me and say, son, you got the victory No, I don't have the victory. Are you kidding me? I've supposed all this stuff to do for tomorrow. I'm gonna be up all night tonight and we're supposed to leave in the morning and now we can't. We're gonna lose the plane tickets, we're gonna lose all the money spent for this trip and And and God's like, I know. I know what's going on. Is it gonna be okay one way or the other? And I I just like Lord I just gotta give it to you. I gotta study and get ready for the morning service. But I want to ask you tonight, how's your spirit? Beloved, your spirit reflects on far more than just today's situation. It literally reveals the state of your spiritual condition. Your spirit reflects on far more than just the fact that you can't get somebody to give you a COVID test. It really reveals the state of your spiritual condition. The Bible says in Proverbs 17, 27, you're in Proverbs, you want to turn there, Proverbs 17, 27. He says, He that hath knowledge spareth his words, and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. That word excellent means bright, means cheerful. Why would a man with understanding have an excellent spirit Beloved, I believe it's because no matter how bad things are, he realizes they could be worse. He's a man of understanding, he's got a little bit of spiritual depth about him, and he he realizes I mean If the worst thing that happened is we lost six hundred dollars on plane tickets, which by the way was all points. I didn't actually pay six hundred dollars for it, so it's just points I'd be losing. It's not that big a deal. And you know, I mean I I had to resign myself. I looked at it and said, literally God knows, and if it doesn't work out, there's some reason he doesn't want me flying to St. Thomas. And you know what? That's okay. That's all right. I'm I'm fine with that. If it doesn't work out, it's all right. What we'll have a good time and in my mind I'm like we'll go sledding on Monday with grandpa You know I mean we'll go have fun. We're gonna do it's gonna be okay no matter what. We're gonna have a good time. It's it's gonna be fine. Because the man of understanding knows that no matter how bad it is, it could be a lot worse. The man of understanding knows that whatever it is, it's only temporary. It's only temporary. I mean we can all look at different situations in our lives and we realize that it passed. We got through it. No matter how bad it was, that circumstance, that situation was ultimately only temporary. We didn't find our means or our way through it. And sometimes, yes, we need extra grace. Sometimes, yes, we need an extra friend. Sometimes we need a little extra prayer. But praise God, it's only temporary This too shall pass, amen. A man of understanding realizes that God is in control. And that God is on our side. That God's on our side. Ultimately I could comp I could and believe me, I did complain against our government. But but you could complain about the government system, the whole you know, all this COVID registration and and you know the sin I mean Why would you not have on the very first page we accept the home test with a telehealth health observer? Why do you have to start the registration process before you learn that? I don't understand that, but that's typical. Uh anyways, you ever been to the the the D M B okay you know what I'm saying. All right. Yeah. What I'm saying is ultimately whatever the circumstance I know God's in control. And whatever happened or whatever came about, if we ended up not being able to go on this trip, God's in control. And it's going to be alright. You remember the Bible tells us about Daniel that Daniel had an excellent spirit. That he was preferred above the other chiefs because he had an excellent spirit, right? You know that an excellent spirit is preferred by everybody. And the one with an excellent spirit enjoys life so much more. The king saw Daniel, and the king set him above the whole realm because he had an excellent spirit. It's so much nicer and better to be around someone with an excellent spirit. May I encourage you, if you've had a hard time with your spirit, ask God to help you. Ask God to help you to change it. Listen, if you have a bad spirit, you're hard to be around. And it's not because you're a bad person It's because you have a bad attitude. And that can be adjusted. It can be fixed. You know somebody that had a good spirit Dr. Keller. Dr. Keller had a great spirit. He had an excellent spirit in him. No matter what was going on, no matter the cancer that was all through his body, and you know it was testified over and over again in the funeral. How like Brother Rich said, he had a smile that would light up a room. I mean he just you saw that picture of the hospital just uh in the care facility while he's on hospice. I went to visit him and And I didn't know they were gonna put that up. I just sent it to his to to his daughter and said, Hey, you just left your dad. We had a good time together anyways they put that picture in there of me visiting him and you saw him there just smiling as big and and full and happy as could be. He had an excellent spirit. You know why I loved I loved visiting him? Because he encouraged me. I went there to encourage him and he would say, Pastor, can I have a word of prayer with you? And he would begin to pray and he would say, God, this this man right here, he's got so much to do, and I'm just humbled that he would come and sit by my bed and talk to me. Lord, would you give him strength? Would you help him as he leads this church? He needs power. I mean he would just pray and I would I would just w feel about this big, you know? Just talking to the Lord. He had an excellent spirit. He's preferred. Everyone knew it about him. I hope that it would challenge you to have that kind of a spirit. I hope it would provoke provoke each and every one of us to consider ourselves and how our spirit, not just today right now, but how does your your spirit generally. You generally have a pretty good spirit? I'm preaching to myself tonight. You guys know me. You know my wife, she she's usually has a pretty good spirit. I have to work on mine a little bit. You know, someone who has an excellent spirit, they can endure just about anything Someone with an excellent spirit usually will rise to the top. You think about Daniel? He was preferred. He was put over the whole realm. He had an excellent spirit and he he kept rising. You think about Joseph. Think about all that Joseph went through, yet in every situation he he would rise to the top. That the kind with the man with an excellent spirit is the man that the boss is looking for. He's the one the man will go to, the boss will go to, and he's the one that'll that'll continue to rise through the ranks because he's got an excellent spirit. And it's evident in his life. Someone with an excellent spirit doesn't get offended easily. This is the kind of spirit that God wants us to have. You know Psalms 119, 165, great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. That verse is so dogmatic and straightforward. It doesn't leave a lot of room for us in all of our petty offenses, does it? Nothing shall offend them. You know, two Christians lose their job. One looks for a new one with an anticipation of what God will do. And excitement about what he has ahead. The other one sits at home bitter because life is not fair. How's your spirit in your situation? Do you have a cheerful spirit? Are you happy? We need to have a cheerful spirit, amen. We need to have a good spirit, an excellent spirit. Not only do we need to have a cheerful spirit, but beloved, we need to have a contrite spirit. In Psalms 34, verse number 18, the Bible says The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as have a contrite spirit You know, the world looks at the idea of a broken spirit as a bad thing, but God does not. You see, somebody with a contrite spirit is somebody that has a humble spirit. A humble spirit. It's not somebody that's lifted up or full of pride, but somebody that's humble, somebody that their spirit has been if You look at the meaning of the term really, uh the idea is squashed. A spirit that has been uh brought to a place where it realizes it's not all that and a bag of chips. Okay, it's not God's gift to mankind. The spirit that realizes, hey, God's given me some skills and gifts, and I can use them where I'm where I'm fit, but I'm not the answer to everybody's problem You know, it's a spirit that's come to the realization of some of those truths. And sometimes there's some young, especially men that need to learn that. You know, they are not everything that anybody and everybody needs. They're too full of themselves. We to have a contrite spirit, a spirit of humility Somebody with humility doesn't spout off with the mouth, is not quick to inject interject their opinion into everything. They they they just they almost think or feel like, well, there's people here with a lot more wisdom than me. I I don't need to say anything And then somebody would ask them, well what well what do you think about it? And they'll say, oh no, you know, talk to Brother Taylor. I mean get somebody with some some wisdom. Ask ask them and And they'll say, no, we were wondering about what you what you thought. That's a contrite spirit. That's the kind of spirit that we should have. Especially the younger you are. Kids Young people, the younger you are, you gotta have a contrite spirit, a spirit of humility. Not ready to jump in and let your opinion be known. That's contrary to a lot of what's being taught today. This is completely different from a wounded spirit. A contrite spirit is one of humility before God. This is not a wounded spirit, Proverbs 18, verse number 14. Proverbs 18, 14 says, the spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity, but a wounded spirit who can bear? Listen, sometimes your spirit gets wounded. And that's hard. That's hard to deal with. Things happen in our lives. Trials come, tests come. Sometimes it's actually many times. It's from somebody that we're closest to. Because those are the wounds that hit the hardest. Those are the cuts that go the deepest Somebody at the store yells at you and you're like, who are you? I mean that don't matter, right? I mean you're never even gonna see them again. But somebody you love yells at you and it hits you all the way to your heart. And it can wound your spirit. Do you have a wounded spirit? You know, when your spirit's wounded, it's hard to have a right spirit in other areas of your life. Because that wound is fresh and it hurts. The Bible says a cheerful heart doeth good like a medicine. You need to ask God to help you to bring healing to that wounded spirit because God wants to heal it. God wants to bring uh the salve of his spirit into that situation and heal your spirit. and get you to the place where you can let that wound go, where you can let that wound heal and not be carrying around. You ever had a real deep bruise? I mean a real deep bruise. My wife bruises really easy. I tell people that, so when she has bruises they don't think no, just kidding. No, she doesn't she bruises, I mean, she it's amazing. Little things she'll get a bruise. But Sometimes when you get a deep bruise, I mean if somebody just touches it, it's like, oh, it's it's sore. It hurts. Don't touch it, you know When I was visiting Dr. Keller one day because his cancer had gone into all of his bones and everything, I was gonna leave and and There is power in touch, and there's you know, I wanted him to know that I was with him and I was there, and so I just reached up and I just laid my laid my hand on his ankle, probably about like this. I just laid my hand on his ankle and was going to pray. And he goes, Ah, you touched me! I said, Oh, I felt so bad. And he says, Oh, it it hurts. It hurts. You know, sometimes a wounded spirit's like that. Somebody else can do the smallest thing and you're offended. But it's because you have a wounded spirit. You've got something inside, something that happened that's wounded you and it's deep and it hurts. And other things that really aren't that big, other things that aren't that much of an issue, now they hurt. And they really shouldn't. You need to ask God to bring healing so that you can get get through that, get past that, so that you can have a right spirit with all people in all situations. Wounds, sometimes they go deep. Proverbs 18, 8 says, the wounds of a tailbearer are as wounds, and they go deep even to the innermost parts of the belly. Sometimes wounds go all the way to the inner parts of the belly. I mean they hurt you all the way down. But God can heal that. God can bring you healing if you ask Him. Let him heal you. A broken or a wounded spirit can begin to be a disease In your heart. That verse, the merry heart to it good like a medicine, goes on and says, but a broken spirit drieth the bones. It drieth the bones. A broken spirit dries the bones up. And everything begins to hurt. You know, sometimes it's easier to deal with a lost sinner than a sinner. spirit sick saint. Because sometimes the spirit of a saint gets wounded and they just start getting sour. They just start getting where every little thing is it rubs them the wrong way and every they just can't get past it. I want to I don't know where you're at or how your spirit is, but maybe you need to ask God to heal it so that you can have a right spirit. We need to have a cheerful spirit, we need to have a contrite spirit, but we also need to have a controlled, controlled spirit. What I want you to understand, beloved, is a lot of times, and especially the mentality of this world is this is just how it is or or these are the circumstances I'm dealing with and this is just life and that's why I I am this way. But beloved, we are to be in control of our spirit. Not circumstances in control of our spirit. We are to be in control of our spirit. Proverbs 25, 28. Would you turn there? Proverbs 25, 28. Proverbs 2528 says, He that hath no rule over his spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. You see that? He that hath no rule over his spirit. Do you understand? By that verse right there, that is saying you and I are in control of our spirit. Or you're not. It's saying you can be, but maybe you're not. And if you're not, you're like a city that's broken down and without walls. You have no protection. Against offenses. No protection against hardship. Listen, don't let Satan bring you down You have control of your spirit. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. Listen, yesterday was a battle in my spirit I had to decide if I was gonna have a bad attitude and take it out on the kids and take it out on my wife and or maybe my mother-in-law since she's in town, you know. I had to decide what I was gonna do. Man, if anybody had a reason to have a bad day, I had a reason yesterday One thing after the next, and too much. I mean, I'm supposed to be getting ready for Sunday. But the Bible says that you can be in control of your spirit. Right. And we like to say, No, I can't, I had a flat tire. That's no reason to kick your car. You know, that's no reason to Throw throw a rock through your window or no that was smart, wasn't it? Yeah, that helped a lot. Good job. You feel better? Now you gotta fix your tire and your window People do that. They have no control over their spirit. It's just ridiculous. You see people doing this dumb stuff and you're like wow You know, I've told you before I still remember like I was yesterday I told you the story. You know the reason I can control my spirit is because my dad beat it into me or beat the bad spirit out of me. I got whipped so many times. And the reason I know that verse, great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend me, is because my dad quoted it to me like a hundred million times, you know He I mean I got so many spankings for for not being in control of my spirit. But one time I told you I got mad, you remember in my living room? I don't remember what happened, but I kicked that eight foot octagon glass table And I can still see that eight foot sheet of glass rising out of the table at a little bit of an angle. And I just all of I mean it was like it was slow motion, just And I'm watching it and I'm like, please, please. And the glass comes down and shatters. Oh. Yeah, that wasn't worth it. I mean I was so mad I just wanted to kick something and the table was closest You need to be in control. It hurt later, I'll tell you that. You better believe that. Yeah. God's help you can be in control of that. You can have the victory over that and still have the joy of the Lord. Don't let Satan lead your spirit. You be in control of your spirit. An uncontrolled spirit is going to destroy you. You open yourself up to great harm, like a city whose walls are broken down. No protection When your when your spirit is controlled by all these circumstances or by what somebody says or what happens or what you know. It's rough. It's a rough life. But if you're in control of it, those things don't hit you that much. Let me just encourage your parents. Just like I told you my dad beat it out of me. This this is taught. You need to teach your kids to be in control of their spirit. Now my problem was a temper when I was a kid. I really had a temper and I I wanted to express myself in any way possible. And I was the youngest of the three boys, so you know, I always had to throw something or kick something. I mean I had you know, I couldn't do much. So I always had to get a bigger stick, you know. But I don't I don't know, there's it's not just throwing a fit. What about sullen quietness? There's still not being in control of your spirit. And like, well, they're not throwing a fit, but they're sitting over there in the corner pouting. You shouldn't allow that. They need a spanking for that. They need to be able to drop their ice cream cone and not cry about it. I know they're disappointed. I mean who's not disappointed about losing ice cream, man? I would still be disappointed about that. Especially the cost of ice cream today But whatever it is, whatever happened, they need to learn, you know, to be in control of their own spirit. To not go sit in a corner and pout We had some college students here a few years ago, a group of them, and all the college students wanted to go over and ride four-wheelers, but one of them didn't And this particular college student, they could have gone out. They didn't want to ride forwarders. That's fine. They could have said, oh, no worries, let's let's go, or I'll watch you guys. Oh let's go, I'll I'll sit on the porch and read a book. No, no problem. Let's go. I want to you guys have fun. Yeah, let's do that. They could have had a good spirit about it. But instead They didn't want to read a book. They didn't want to get engaged in anything. They wanted to sit all pouty on the porch. Wait waiting so the other college kids would feel bad about having a good time And come over to them and talk to them and feel bad for them because they're not enjoying themselves. It's a twenty-one-year-old, six-year-old. Okay? I told the individual, you need to get out there and have a good time. Because of your bad attitude, you're making it so all the rest of them can't have a good time. And you are glad about that. And that is a wrong spirit. But you know how that 21-year-old got that way? Because they had an indulgent mother and father that babied them. That didn't look at them and say, grow up. Get over it. Stop pouting. I'll give you something to pout about. Yeah, you you want to cry about ice cream? Let's go. I'll give you something to cry about. Ice cream is not something to lose to lose it over. You need to teach them how to be in control of their spirit. By the way, you can't teach them very well if you are not. So it starts with you. And listen, with the power of God, any one of us can be in control of our spirit. So I ask you tonight, how's your spirit Proverbs 16, 32, he that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh the city. You're stronger than a guy that takes the whole city if you can just control your spirit. Can you smile even though you had a bad day? Can you rejoice that Miss Nola got a new car? I don't know, did you get a new car? No. Not yet. Can you boy can you bad the rejoice that John got a new car? Uh you know, can you be happy for somebody else even though you had a bad day? Can you be in control of your spirit that much? God wants us to be. How's your spirit tonight?