But you take your Bibles tonight and turn to the book of Matthew. Book of Matthew. We'll be getting into this. I don't remember what month next year we'll be hitting uh the New Testament, but I think probably it's around uh March or April we're getting into to the New Testament next year. Looking forward to that time and reading through the Gospels, going through those as a church family. enjoyable. When I was reading this passage, a chapter of the Bible, as I was studying for this for a devotional topic for an Now the story that's in Matthew chapter 14, the the big story, is the story of the feeding of the five thousand. We are familiar with that story of how there were the five loaves and the two fish and the disciples didn't know how they could feed everyone and Jesus said, Well, um just have people sit down and there's a lot of neat things uh in that story. One thing is that they were in a desert place. And Jesus commanded the disciples to have the people sit down on the grass. And we serve a God that can find grass in the desert. And that's something neat that I enjoy seeing in that passage of scripture. But what's neat about this miracle of Christ is it's actually recorded in all four Gospels. Matthew records it, Mark records it, Luke records it, and John records it. Now that I believe the reason I hadn't noticed this detail before is normally when we look at the par not the parable, the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000, we usually go to John's Gospel. Because that gives us a lot more details about how the miracle was performed and what was done. And we can find a little lot more information there. But as I was reading this in Matthew, what really stuck out to me was the context. What was going on in Jesus' life? Look with me in Matthew chapter 14. If you'd stand, if you found your place there for the reading of God's Word, we'll read verses 13. Verse 13 and verse number 14. This is leading into the miracle here that he was about to perform The Bible says, When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart, and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. And Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude. And was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for today and for the time we have to be in church. Another opportunity to sit under the preaching of your word, Lord, and pray you touch us with the thought that we have in this message. Message tonight, Lord, that you would uh challenge us from it. Help us to be uh the Christians and the people that you want us to be, Lord. Pray you'd uh bless this time as we look in your word. We ask this in Christ's name, Amen. Thank you, may be seated. How many of you could finish the statement, hurting people? Hurt people Hurting people hurt people. It's it's something uh of a cliche, something that's said and people are aware of the idea of the context When I was sixteen years old, um my dog was hit by a car. It was actually my uncle. Uh we were driving down our driveway. My parents live on in a very in a very rural area. Our driveway is over a mile long. And so we were heading out the driveway. I was with my uncle in the truck and uh my dog was if I remember right, thirteen or fourteen years old at the time. So he was not and he was a he was a purebred, so those don't usually last as long. Um so he was really getting to the end the end of his life, his His hearing was going, his eyesight was going, which must have caused him to get off balance and get hit by the vehicle. So as we're driving out the driveway, we hear a a bump we feel a bump and we hear a squeal of the dog as as he feels that pain And I we've stopped the truck, obviously. I jump out and run around to look at him, and there I see uh my dog viciously attacking his back leg and his tail. assuming happened is the tire rubbed against the very very his very back end um because he became paralyzed in his legs and we had to put him down. But he he got hit right there in the back end of the tail and what he was feeling was he was feeling pain And in his mind, something was causing him pain, and he was trying to get it to stop. So what he was trying to do is he was trying to attack the thing that was giving him pain. Pain. Well from my perspective, on the outside looking in, I could tell that he wasn't helping himself. He was only hurting himself. So out of great concern that he would continue to to further make his injury worse, I ran up and I grabbed his collar to pull his head away from where he was he was already bleeding from where he'd been attacking himself. And when I pulled his head away, he felt something new enter the scenario. And he turned around and he latched onto my arm with 190 Psi of bite force. Um grabbed onto my arm really good right there in the in the meat. Thankfully I was wearing a heavier jacket, so didn't break skin, but it did bruise up pretty bad. And as my dog, he never attacked anyone He'd never bit me. He'd never growled at anybody. He was a very calm, very friendly dog. But in that moment when he was hurting, he lashed out. And he hurts someone else. And this is kind of what we see with people when they're hurting. When people are hurting, they tend to lash out at others. And that's why the phrase has become to be known, hurting people hurt people. People, we also say that misery loves company. Often, when people are hurting, they lash out at those who are closest to them and those who are trying to help them Now there are many reasons from the for this. I read a long uh article last night on why hurting people hurt people, and some of the things that they brought up was the fact that hurt people are usually dealing with anger and bitterness, and as they internalize the anger and the bitterness That causes them to have some very very bad emotions going on in their heart. And so when someone comes close to them, they're reacting in anger as well as in fear and lash out at those who would be getting close to them. Hurting people will also desire to be alone. And so they'll push people away and not allow people to get too close. But at in pushing people away, they begin to feel isolated. And so they feel alone. They feel like nobody cares because they put Hurting people will also evaluate other people's words and actions through their pain. Misunderstanding the intention of the person behind them. thinking that everyone is out to get them as the person that had hurt them was doing. Hurting people continue to hurt because they never deal with past pain. Like a wounded animal, they are distrustful of anyone that is getting too close to their pain. This behavior is natural to us as people, but I'd like to put to you tonight that this this is an aspect of our old nature. I believe we can understand from the Bible that God doesn't want us as Christians lashing out, no matter what's going on with us, lashing out and hurting others. That's not the the um what God expects or requires of a Christian And as we see this passage here, I believe we find Jesus at a point when he's hurting. And we see how he treated others. in the time that he was hurting. Now before we get into this the context, I'm going to give you here of how what Jesus did and why he was hurting and what was going on in this passage, I would like to make a differentiation here about hurt. Obviously as we are are in prayer tonight for the Sharp family, Brother Sharp is hurting right now. And it's not at this point, uh at a point of severe loss that I'm expecting him to act as some type of super Christian that is going to go about serving people. So when we look at this idea of hurting, I did read a couple books this afternoon on the idea. This is One called Why Life Hurts, a very good book, very simple biblical truths about why bad things happen, why God allows pain, suffering, evil. And then another book, this one's called Don't Take My Grief Away. This one's An okay book, not a great one, but I read these this afternoon, just kind of getting into the to the mind of a hurting person. These were both written by people who were very familiar with people who had hurt and were dealing with with pain. And I understand that there are times that we all go through when we suffer and when we hurt. And it's at those times that we need our friends and our family to come around us and to be a help to us and to comfort us during those times. But as we come to this passage of Scripture here, what really stuck out to me was the context of what was going on. If you look back at what we read in verse number 13, it says, when Jesus heard of it. When Jesus heard of it, there was something that Jesus got news of. What was that? What did Jesus hear about? Well, if you back up just a few verses. We see in verse um verses nine through uh twelve it says, And the king was sorry, nevertheless, for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at the Meat he commanded it to be given to her. And he sent and beheaded John in prison. And his head was brought in a charger and given to the damsel, and she brought it to her mother. And his disciples came and took up the body and buried it and went and told Jesus. And when Jesus heard of it, Here in Matthew chapter 14, we find Jesus at a time when he was hurting. Jesus had just received word that John the Baptist has been killed. What was his response? You see there, when Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart. Jesus left. When Jesus got news of John's death, he left. He left to go somewhere where he could be alone And I believe we get a glimpse here into the the heart of the Son of God as he's dealing with grief and he's dealing with loss and he's facing a time when he is hurting. As he takes this time to go and be alone. The Bible records two times that Jesus wept. Once was over the city of Jerusalem, and the destruction that would befall her because she rejected him. The other time that we're more familiar with is when Lazarus died. As he wept, those who were standing by commented on how much Jesus loved Lazarus. Now the Bible does not tell us that Jesus wept when he heard news of John the Baptist's death, but I would not be surprised if he did. In losing Lazarus, Jesus lost a cro close friend. But in losing John the Baptist, Jesus lost a friend. He lost a co-laborer in ministry. He lost a family member as John was his cousin. He lost a spiritual influence, John had baptized Jesus, and had initiated him into his ministry. When Jesus gets news of his death, and I guarantee you he was hurting. When I was writing this passage a few weeks ago, it was the first time that I made this connection to Jesus. withdrawing himself because of the news about John's death. And I believe, I think that for this reason, sorry, um The reason we usually look at this miracle from the Gospel of John, I said that does not include this detail. This is included, of course, in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, but John doesn't tell us about John the Baptist's death leading up to this miracle. But it's amazing to see how Jesus handled himself from his while he was hurting. And from his actions, I believe that we can take some lessons that we can apply when we're hurting as well. So we see there again, when Jesus heard of it, he departed by thence uh part departed thence by ship into a desert place. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on Now the people hadn't heard that his cousin had died. They had just heard that Jesus was gone. And so what did they do? They went to go be with Jesus in a time when Jesus wanted to be alone. Jesus had needs, people came to him hurting and having needs. And so when Jesus sees these people come, following him out and put out of the city, in verse 14, it says, Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude. And was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. Jesus had been with these people for months at a time as he was dealing with them and he was dealing with their needs, he was meeting their needs, and here Jesus just needed some time He would have been perfectly justified in saying, you know what? Not right now. Not right now. I can't help you now because right now I'm hurting. I can't I can't do I can't meet your needs now because I need something. someone to meet my my needs. But that's not the reaction we see from the Son of God. When Christ was hurting, he saw hurting people. When Christ was hurting, he helped hurting people. And we get an example there for us as Christians that when we've been hurt, that enables us to be a help to others in a way that we couldn't have been before. As we said already, this idea of hurting what Jesus was in the immediate context of hearing about a close friend and family member's death And it's not at that time that I would look to any Christian and expect them to have this type of reaction. It's at that time that they do need help. If you have if you're hurting, you've suffered some type of loss or Or you hear of someone in our church or another extended from our church, family member, they're hurting, they've suffered some kind of loss. That's the time that we as a church need to gather around them. And that's this first point about hurting people. Well, hurting Christians have other people. Hurting Christians have people. In Matthew 14, verse number 15, we see that Jesus' disciples were with him In verse 15 it says, When it was the evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and they go on from there to talk about the multitude. But even though Jesus left to be alone, Jesus still had his disciples with him His disciples were there, and his disciples could be a help and a comfort to him. And in fact, every gospel records the fact that the disciples went with him In verse in Mark chapter six and verses thirty and through thirty-two, the Bible says, and the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus and told him all things Both what they had done and what they had taught, and he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place and rest awhile, for there are many coming and going, they had no leisure time. such as so much as to eat. And they departed into a desert place by ship privately. So Mark describes how the disciples went with Jesus when he went into that desert place. In Luke chapter 9, verse number 10, the Bible says, And the apostles when they returned, told him all that they had done, and he took them and he went aside privately into a desert place. belonging to a city called Betheda. And in John chapter 6, verse number 3 it says, And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. What I want you to notice from all these passages is that at the time when Jesus was hurting, God took time to record four times in Scripture that Jesus had his disciples with him. Him. When you're hurting, let me let you know that you have people. You have people. God's plan for Christians is that we become part of a body. This body is your local church. And as part of that body, you have people to help you. when you're hurting. Just as Jesus was there and he was in that desert place and he was hurting, he had people there with him. He had friends that cared about him. He had friends that saw the pain that he was suffering, that he was dealing with As I heard it in Christian, there are things that we need to understand. First of all, I want you to understand that you're not alone. In Proverbs chapter 18, verse 24, the Bible says, There is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, obviously talking about the friendship This is repeated in Hebrews chapter 13, verse number five, where it says, For he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. At times when we're hurting and we feel like nobody else knows what's going on, and we feel like we're all alone, we need to understand We're not alone. Christ will never leave us. He's always there for us. He's always there when we need him. When we're hurting, Christ is never far away. He's always right there. But it's not just Christ, because Christ has given us a truth And as part of a church family, God's given you a body that you can be with and s to let you know that you're not alone. Verse number two, the church is commanded, bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So as a church family, when you're hurting, understand that you have people. You have people that pray for you. You have people that love you. You have people that want to be with you. When you need a friend, when you need someone to talk to, you have someone there because hurting Christians have people. You are not alone. As we walk through this and look at this idea of hurting, you can look at it from both sides. First you can look at it from the person that's hurting and understand that you have people. But then we also need to see it from the perspective of the church, that when we have someone hurting, we need to be there for them. That's something that God expects of us as a body, that we would not let them be alone in their hurt. You also need to understand that your situation is not unique. Often when we are hurting, we feel like no one else knows. No one else understands. In 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, the Bible says, There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful that He will not suffer you to be tempted above that year able, but will with the temptation make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. And often someone else in our church has dealt with the same thing that you're dealing with. Maybe not exactly. Never are the circumstances identical. But if you're dealing with something, God has put people in your life that have dealt with it that will be able to comfort you. So you're not alone and your situation is not unique. This leads into our third point where we learn that other people know how you feel. We see first of all that Christ knows how we feel. For we have an high priest, have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was all in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. No matter what you're dealing with, the Bible says Jesus was tempted in all points just like us. He was tried in everything that we face trials with. Anything that you're going through, Christ experienced You know, Christ didn't have this when he was in heaven. He didn't experience loss, he didn't experience pain. He didn't experience suffering. He didn't experience hurt. But he came to earth and he took on the body of man and he lived the life of a man. So he could experience the hurt that we feel. And we have a high priest that whenever you go to him hurting, you understand he knows how you feel He knows what you're going through. He's been there. He's gotten the victory. And he cares about how you feel and what you're going through. Other people know how you feel also in 2 Corinthians 1, verse 4, your church family. There are people who know how you feel as well. Says here, who comforteth comforteth us in all our tribulation that we may be able to comfort them that are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. We'll get back into this passage a little bit later, but what it was being said there by Paul is that the reason I go through trials is so that God can help me. Because I'm going to meet people that are going to go through trials, and God can use me to help them. The same comfort that I found from God, God's going to use that in my life to help. someone else. And so in in our church, God's put people here who've gone through things, who've hurt, who've who've suffered loss, who know what it mean knows what it means to feel Pain. And at a time when you're hurting, there's people that know what you're going through. And they love you and they care for you. They want to be here for you. You're not alone. First John 4, 7 and 8 says, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. We have a command of God, obligation from God, and a responsibility to one another to love each other. We see this over and over again in the Bible that we have this obligation to love one another. 1 Peter 1 22 says, Seeing that you love one another with a pure heart fervently. That idea of an unfeigned love that's not fake. It's real. The love that we have for one another in our church is a love that's real And it should be a love that we have with a pure heart, and it should be a fervent love that we have for one another. So when we see someone who is hurting, our heart should break for them. That we care for them, that we love them, that we want to help them through their hurt. It's why we as a church family can gather around someone who loses a loved one. It's why we as a church family weep when we hear of one of our missionary and the loss that they suffer. It's why we want to extend and send our pastor to be with them and send the monetary gifts to meet some of their needs. It's because our heart in Christian love breaks for them. Also understand that other people want to hurt with you. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 26, the Bible says, and whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with you. If you've ever gotten a splinter. I remember one time in college I got a splinter um from giving somebody a haircut. Uh I gave a guy a haircut in the dorm and I got this thing in my finger that was just festering. And I couldn't concentrate on my schoolwork, I couldn't concentrate on my date, I couldn't concentrate on my meal, I couldn't go to sleep because that finger hurt because one of them little hairs got in there under the skin and got infected. and it was driving me crazy. One member was suffering, and my my work was suffering, my school was suffering, my relationship was suffering, my friendship was suffer suffering, my sleep quality was suffering, my wh Whole body was suffering why cause this little member had a problem And as a church family, we are part of the body of Christ. And the way God has set it up is that when one of us is suffering, the rest of us are to suffer along with it. We hurt when other people hurt, and we want to be a help to them. We also see from Romans chapter 12, we're commanded to weep with them that weep. When you're hurting, your church family wants to hurt with you. But there are some things that you need to do in order to allow your church family to be a help to you. Often when we get to that place where we're hurting, we tend to isolate ourselves. We want to deal with the problem ourselves. We shut ourselves off the world and push other people away. That's not the way God wants us to live our lives as Christians. He's put us into a body, He's put us into a family So when you're hurting, please allow your church family to be a help to you. Have the humility to communicate your I remember talking with Pastor earlier this week as uh he had been talking to Brother Sharp and he told Brother Sharp, Is there anything that I can do for you? And Brother Sharp said, Could you could you come That meant a lot to him, and we as a church wanted to make that happen, that Pastor could be there for him at that time. But it was it was Pastor's desire. It had been very easy for Brother Sharp in in a in a spirit of pride to say, no, no, it's okay. I know it's a long way to Texas. But what he was had the humility to do was say, you know what, I I do need something. I need you to be here. And he had the humility to communicate that need where so often we we're too prideful to tell our church family that we're We want to keep it inside. We don't want to let anybody know. We want to keep a smile plastered around our face when we're at church. When inside we're all torn up, have the humility to communicate to your church church family. family that you have a need, that you're hurting. When somebody says, hey, is everything okay? Yeah, yeah, I'm fine. Ha have we're part of a family. We love one another and we want to help each other when we're hurting. Be willing to communicate our needs, be willing to accept help. A few years ago I had a conversation with my dad and obviously as he's he's gotten older and uh um all of his kids are out of the house, he's got more money. Um seems like that happens with parents. When your kids get out of the house then they can uh add the extra room and get in a get a pool and a new car and uh I guess kids are expensive or something like that. Um that you see parents, well he was at a new stage in his life and and he talked to me, my my dad raised me to be very independent and and to meet my own needs. And very early on in my life I I was trying trying to start meeting my own needs and paying my own way through school and things of that nature. Um and my my dad communicated with me and said Would you be willing or would it be okay if if every once in a while I did something to help out your family financially? Would you would you have that willing and what I told him was, well, if you'd have asked me about two years ago, I'd have told you no. Um why? Because I'd have been too proud to accept him. I actually needed help more two years ago than I do right now. But if you want to do something for me, I'd be willing to let you have that opportunity. I would have the humility to accept help where often we get to the place where no no no I can't have somebody help me. I can take care of myself. We have that pride and we're not willing to accept help from our church family. So be willing to communicate your needs. When you shut somebody off from giving you a blessing, you're not just hurting yourself, you're hurting them as well. Because God would bless them if they had the opportunity to make you your needs. But when you shut them off and don't let them do that, you're keeping them from getting a blessing from God. You're keeping them from the joy that they would have if they were able to help you. Jesus was sung about in the song. They're looking for happiness, and they find that happiness when they help you, but if you won't let them help you, you're denying them of that happiness. So as a church family, we need to be willing to accept help when we need it. And also don't push away the people that you need to be close to you. So when we're hurting, we need to allow others to help us because when Christians hurt, they have other people. If anyone could have handled grief on their own, it would have been God in the flesh. It would have been Jesus Christ. But when he was hurting, he kept his disciples and his friends close to him. He brought them with him when he went alone in a desert place. He said, Hey, you guys come with me. Now if he was meeting their needs, they were tired as well. And he said, look, we need to get away. But when Jesus was hurting, he didn't say, you know what, you guys stay here. I'm I'm gonna be gone for a couple days. I just need to process this myself. No, he kept he kept those close to him. Even though it wasn't what was easiest, it was what was best. When you aren't hurting, this is the point for those of us that aren't in that, I mentioned already, when you aren't hurting, pay close attention to those who are. In first John chapter 3, verse 17, the Bible says, Whoso hath this world's good and seeth his brother in need You can't say that you according to this verse, you can't say you have the love of God in you if you can see if uh another brother or sister in need And you shut up your provision to yourself, saying, Well, I'm not going to help them. For whatever reason that you have there, whether they've looked at you the wrong way, they didn't shake your hand, they should have known better and gotten themselves into that situation in the first place If we're shutting ourselves up, we can't say we have the love of Christ in us, because the love of Christ, as we talked about in Sunday school, is something that causes us to sacrifice of ourselves for the benefit of others And just as we saw in Sunday school, the fact that Jesus Christ sacrificed himself for those who were who were murdering him on the cross, his enemies How could we not sacrifice of ourselves in love for our church family, our brothers and sisters in Christ, those that we love and care about, and that love and care about us? In Romans 15, verse 1, it says, We then that are strong ought to embear the infirmities of the weak and not to please ourselves. It's in times in your life as a Christian that you're strong. And you're doing well. And it's at that time that you need to find a brother or sister in Christ and put your arm around them and help them through the time that they're hurting. Because there's going to come a time when you're not strong. There's going to come a time when you don't know what to do When you face the trial, when you're hurting, and you need someone to come along and put an arm around you as well. We need to be paying attention to the need We have a biblical responsibility to other members of our body that we fulfill by hurting with those who are hurting. So hurting Christians we have people. Secondly tonight we see from this story that hurting Christians heed people. Now moving beyond the immediate point of hurt, or the immediate loss of a loved one, to a time down the road where God can use the Pain that you suffered for you to be a blessing to other people. He knows what it means to suffer. He knows what it means to have pain. He knows what it means to suffer loss. And he begins to uh see A typical fleshly response to dealing with hurt is to curl up in a ball and never come out. The temptation is to wallow in self-pity. When we're hurting, the temptation is to become completely self-absorbed and pay no attention to others because we need to take care of ourselves This isn't what Jesus did. He got where he was hurting in the verse number fourteen it says, Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude. What did he see? He saw a bunch of people that had needs. He saw a bunch of people that were hurting. If we continue to read, the Bible says he was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. When Jesus was hurting, he took heed to the needs of those around him. He saw that others were hurting too. He saw that they had spiritual needs. This is what Jesus saw every time he looked at a multitude. He saw they had physical needs because later we see that they're going to But he also saw they had relational and emotional needs. Notice there in verse number 14 it says he healed their sick. It doesn't say he healed the sick. Instead he healed their sick. That means that the pe there were people in the multitude who brought their sick with them to Jesus. These were people who were hurting. These were people who were facing loss. That if Jesus didn't intervene, they were going to lose a loved one. And Jesus saw their hurt as well. Again, I'm not saying it's wrong for us to hurt. Hurting is part of being human. Jesus hurt, everyone hurt. It's not wrong to hurt, to grieve, or to weep. These are natural responses to trials that we experience in life. And also again not saying that when the time you're hurting is not the time for you to go and fix everyone else's problems. I understand that you're not Jesus, and we discussed already that when you're hurting, it should be the time that you're letting But when a Christian hurts, they shouldn't become so self focused that they cease to see the needs around of those around them. Gabs. Um the reason I picked scabs is because scabs turn into scars if you pick them. And that's what my mom warned me about, and that was the goal that these scabs would turn into scabs into scars. But uh a hurt that we we don't we we stay self-absorbed with is like a scab that you keep picking. And a picked scab never heals. And so if we stay focused on ourselves, we're not going to find that healing and that recovery that we need to have, just as was sung about in the special, that I couldn't find happiness by doing things myself. I found happiness when I started looking at others. And when I started seeing how I could be a help to those around me. In a context that dealt with consolation, comfort, love, mercy, fellowship, and unity, Philippians two verse four says, Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. This is a great passage of Scripture in Philippians chapter two, but that verse, look not every man on his own things. But I mean also on things of others. Right there in that passage we see these ideas of comfort, of love, of mercy, of consolation, of fellowship, of unity. If we want to have that as a church, we want to give that comfort, we have to s stop being focused on ourselves and focus on others. We'll be able to carry our hurt better when we stop being so focused on self and start to focus more on others. Hurting Christians are more prepared to take heed to other hurting people. Recently I saw a commercial where two guys were working on a construction site. And as the one one man spread out the blueprints with his hand, the other guy noticed that the hand was wrapped in a bandage. And we saw in the hand wrapped in a bandage, he pulled his hand out his pocket and showed that his was wrapped in a bandage as well. And he asked the question, Wood or metal? And the guy answered metal. Well then the scene cut away to the first man back at home uh sitting down at the dinner table. And the wife set out the product that was being advertised, and the husband reached for it, and the wife got him with the metal spatula So this man who was hurting, he was able to identify the hurt and the other one because he'd gone through the same experience. A few weeks ago when we were replacing the roof on Pastor's House, Pastor Gus's dad uh came out and helped us quite a bit uh during that project, and it was a big blessing uh for what we're what we were doing. Uh it was a lot of work and it was tiring and it was uh hot uh while we were up there on the roof and got kind of stiff and sore from working up there. And uh one of the church services where he was at, I could tell um he was walking a little bit stiffly And I asked him how he was recovering from working on the roof. You know, I was hurting from the work that we did, and as a result, I could tell that he was hurting as well. He just wasn't complaining as much as I was. about the hurt. But the fact that you've gone through pain, you've gone through hurt, it enables you to take heed to other people's hurt in a way that other people might not. You know, I'm not very good at one of my um one of my weaknesses is probably in the realm of empathy. I'm not very good at the spiritual gift would be that of mercy. I'm not really good at seeing when people are not doing well. That's something that God's given me a wife for. She can help me see when other people, hey, did you talk to so-and-so? They don't they didn't look like they were doing too well today. What I didn't notice. Um that's something that I need to something that I need to work on. But we need to be paying attention and taking heed to those rounds. But when when I've hurt, when I've gone through pain, I can spot it in someone else. When I've dealt with something, I can see when someone else is going through the same thing. They have that look and you say, you know what, I know what that feels like. I've been there. So sometimes God allows us to go through hurt so we can take heed to others who are hurting. There's a very interesting verse about Jesus in Hebrews chapter 5, verse number 8. The Bible says, Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. Well this verse is saying that while Jesus was here on earth there were things that he learned. And he learned these things through his suffering. Now it's hard for us to understand how an all-knowing God could learn things. The best way I could explain this is i if you look at it and distinguish between knowledge and experience. See, I know what fire is. I know fire is the rap rapid oxidization of an often carbon-based material that produces I know that. I've also been burned. So I know a lot more about fire after getting burned than I know from reading that definition of what fire is. And Christ, when he suffered here on earth, he experienced things that God had never experienced before. When Jesus suffered the loss of John the Baptist, it might have been the first time in eternity that he had lost someone close to him. You know, any other time that Christ lost somebody close to him in the past, somebody like Abraham or Moses, he didn't lose them. They came to be with him. But when John the Baptist died, Jesus wasn't going to see him again. Until after his resurrection when Christ went to be in be in heaven with the Father again. He felt suffering. And I believe this caused him to see the crowd bringing their sick to him a little bit differently. He saw and understood the loss that they were facing if their loved ones were not healed. His suffering helped him see the suffering of others. God wants us to do the same with our hurt. Allow it to help us take heed to those who are hurting around us. So hurting Christians heed people. And lastly, this evening, hurting Christians help people. Jesus didn't notice just notice the need around him. He did something about it. He did what he could do. He encouraged the disciples to do what they could do. He encouraged the people to do what they could do. He had the people sit down, he had the disciples pass out the food, and then he did the miracle. He used his hurt to help others. It says in our verse that he was moved with compassion. The word compassion carries the idea of being able to suffer with someone. It's seeing someone and seeing them in pain and saying, you know what, I know how you feel. I've been through that as well. And that's the that's the heartbeat of compassion. And that's what Christ felt when he saw them. Look, these people they're bringing their sick to them. And if I don't do something, they're going to lose that loved one just like I just lost John the Baptist. Because Jesus had suffered, he could suffer uh with these people. Because he had help in the midst of his suffering, he could help those that were suffering. See, God uses hurting Christians. I cannot tell you how many times I visited someone who's caring for a loved one who's dying or who has died. Or someone who's in the hospital facing serious health health conditions. I never walk into one of those meetings knowing what to say. I always come in, God, I don't I I don't know what to say. How can I be a help to them? But every time, and everyone that I've spoken to that's been in one of these situations, every pastor I've spoken to say the same thing. When I go in, I get encouraged. Because God has helped them in their hurt. And when I go in to try to be a help to them, I end up getting help from them. Because God can use hurting Christians to help others. Usually I don't have to say anything. I just go in to be a blessing to them and they end up being a blessing to me. Often it's the Christians that have hurt the most then hurt the most that can help the most hurting people. I remember one time I went down to preach at the mission several years ago. I was really burdened about w the message I was going to share and what message I could give to these men who lived a life completely different than mine, of my life of growing up in church And uh having a mom and a dad that love me and that love God and and a Christian home. What what could I relate to these men? Obviously I know the Bible is relatable to everyone. No matter who is preaching, the Bible has a message for them. But I wanted to give them something that So I actually shared the friend, uh the story of a close friend of mine who was hurting and who had hurt in his life and had come through that hurt and seen God give him the victory. And that that story and testimony of that young man's life is a very good thing. Life meant more to those men because here's someone who was hurting the way they did and was able to come through it. And you can pass through life without suffering. You're living a life better than the Son of God. God uses trials to build us so that we can build others. I have another pastor friend who at one point in his life went through an unimaginable tragedy. But since that time he's used uh his testimony to help many families that have gone through the same tragedy as a result. I give countless examples of how God has used hurting people to help people. But I wanted to show you that it's not just practical, it's our biblical responsibility. In 2 Corinthians 1, verses 3 through 6, the Bible says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father is of mercy, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. So where does comfort come from? It comes from God. Says there, who comforteth us in all our tribulation. We can find, when we're as Christians, we can find comfort in God. He comforteth us in all our tribulation. That we, why? Why does he do this? Why do we suffer tribulation? Why does he comfort us? That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. So God puts you in a bad situation. And God allows you to get hurt so that God can help you. So when someone else is hurting, you can take the help that God gave you and you can help someone else For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, and so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. Whether we be afflicted, it's for your consolation. He says, When I hurt, God's hurting me for you. And that was the attitude that Paul had toward hurt. And which is effectual in enduring the same sufferings which we also suffer, or whether we be comforted is for your consolation. So hurting people, hurting Christians, hurting Christians have people, hurting Christians take heed to people, and hurting Christians Help people. It's our responsibility that we have from God. If you stand with me with your heads bowed and eyes closed as we close this evening, a few questions for you. Are you hurting tonight? God can give you comfort. Also, God has given you a church family to hurt with you. It wouldn't hurt to take someone by the hand and ask them to pray, come and pray with you and for you at the altar. We're here to hurt with one another. Are you paying attention to those around you who might be hurting? Is there someone that you need to pray with or for tonight? Have you used your hurts and trials in the past to help someone else that is going through something similar? Similar. Hurting Christians don't hurt others. We help each other. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for this simple lesson from the life of Christ. The example that He gave us, Lord, even as we looked at Lord, but you help us do it. Lord, we know as as people that That we we generally are are coming out of a tragedy or heading into another one. Or we know what it means to hurt. And Lord, often with the temptation is to get wrapped up in our hurt and to close ourselves off in the world, but that's not the job you've given us as Christians You've given us the job to take that hurt that we've experienced and use it to help those around us. I pray our church would be a church that loves one another, and that would be very evident, that would be very clear as we help people that are hurting, Lord. Pray use this message in our hearts. Pray if there's someone here tonight that's hurting Hurting Lord that the church family would gather around them and love them, uh, Lord, and hurt with them at this time. Lord, we as a church are hurting for the Sharp family, and we continue to lift them up in prayer that you would meet uh their needs as a family, Lord. Lord, during this time. Pray be with pastors. He's down there hurting and weeping uh with Brother Sharp in the midst of this trial that he's experiencing, Lord. Practicing what was being preached tonight about being a help. in times when we're hurting, Lord. God, I pray that you use this message somehow, some way, in each heart and life tonight. We ask thus all in Christ's name. Amen