To Colossians chapter 3, that uh will be where we'll spend our time tonight. I'm uh thankful to be here and I'm excited to be able to have uh several days and have the theme of the home and family. Uh I'll be here for work night tomorrow night. Somebody's got to take down the Christmas tree. It's February Uh I know you notice that right away. And uh so wow um what a joy. Thank you for the accommodations. It worked out that I was in this region And I wanted to uh uh come here and and uh Pastor allowed me to be here and I had a couple days between meetings. Sunday I was down at DC and then I had Monday, Tuesday. And so what a blessing to be able to stay here uh Tuesday night go down to the uh Baltimore mission and to enjoy the fellowship here and now uh Just let me just say a couple things right away. When Mother's Day comes And I would preach at our church in Oshkosh on Mother's Day. I was keenly aware of the fact that sitting right there was the gal who was married, who could never have children, and Mother's Day wasn't the greatest day for her There was a lady that sat in that section halfway back. She'd come every Mother's Day, but she'd had two abortions before she got saved. And Mother's Day was always a reminder to her. Seated in the front center, there was the family. who had had a child, loved their son, but at nine years old he was killed when a car hit his bicycle. And Mother's Day wasn't such a good day for him. And always, always, always, when a pastor stands up to preach on a subject in the Bible. I'm reminded that there are those who might be having a tough time right at that time. And I think of a pastor, he's got the responsibility to declare the whole council of God. He's got to teach the people creation and how to tithe. The history of Israel and how to tithe, how to pray and tithe. Right, it's a thick book. And the pastor has a huge responsibility to teach the people of God. And so no one sermon, no one message, no even one week series can cover all that's in that Bible or all the needs that the people have. And I get that. But look, um I went down here, what's the name of this this restaurant down here that has the big sandwiches? Jake's is that what it was? I went there to Jakes today and they were kind of slow and they had extra meat. And I walked up there and I says to the guy, hey, I'm from Wisconsin. I was here a couple days ago. I want to try your beef. He opens up the grill. He says, How do you want it? And I said, medium rare. He grabs a hunk, I'm not kidding you, a pound of meat. He brings it in, slices it, hands it to me Listen, I didn't know if I should eat it or rub it all over myself. And But I'm saying I ate that sandwich, but I didn't eat it all in one bite. Right? I took my time and enjoyed it. And it's that way with the scriptures. Nobody can cover all in one thing. But I'm reminded of a man that came to our church. And he sat there across from my desk in my office. He said, Brother King, I'm not coming anymore on Father's Day. I said, well, why not? He says, I'll tell you why not. He says, because on Father's Day, you always holler at us and rip our faces off. And tell us what rotten fathers and husbands we are. And at the end of the service, you give us a book. But he says on Mother's Day, oh thank God for mothers, oh the love of a mother, and oh nobody, and we can't do enough for our mothers. We're going to give them flowers and you give them a box of chocolates and let's all pray for our mothers. He says, I'm coming on Mother's Day, but I'm not coming on Father's Day. And so I got to look again at my sermon notes, he was exactly right. That's what I did on Saturday every year. You know why? Because I'm passionate About the church helping the men to lead their families. But I'm aware That sitting there might be a guy whose wife left him and he'd love to leave his family, but she's not there I'm aware that there are guys who wanted to be married and yet the right one hasn't come along yet. I'm aware that there are men Who have wives that they lived with for 40 years, and now she died of a brain aneurysm, and he's seated alone, and he'd love to do all the Bible says about being a good husband. But hear me carefully. If you're in one of those circumstances, you understand it's still best for our church to have strong families It's still best for our church to help the husbands, to help the fathers. It's still best for our church to emphasize our support for the family. The best thing, the best thing. that ever happened to a godly family is a Bible-believing church. We're not competing in any way. We're allies. The best thing that happens to a church is when whole godly families join and support it. And the best thing that happens to the family is when a church will exhort the parents, teach the children, love the family. We're friends. We're allies. We're supporting one another. But I've been saved since nineteen sixty-nine before some of you discovered America. I've observed, I've invested, I've poured my life into homes and families. I'm happily married forty-five years this month. Six children, nineteen grandchildren, one of the great miracles that God can take a retarded son-in-law and still give you a perfect grandchild. It's just a miracle of God Almighty Teasing. But I'm just evinced as I am breathing That we need good husbands to support and lead their families. And that the best thing I can do for the family Is to help the husbands. Now, it's kind of a known observation that one of the biggest problems is when the church will have a couple's retreat. And they'll have some expert come and teach how good husbands should be And after the couple's retreat, the wife goes home and criticizes and complains and compares. And how come you're not like that? And they said you should be doing that, and you don't measure up to that. And she makes him miserable to where he wants to flee Nothing, nothing that I'm gonna say tonight is meant to give a lever of criticism for or anybody. Could you agree we all could do better? Right? I'm talking to husbands tonight. I'll be talking about child rearing on Sunday. I'm not going to have a session. about wives. So ladies, you lucked out this time But please understand, I believe if the husband will do his godly role and the wives will do their godly role and the children do their godly roles, that's what God wants for our homes and families. But I'm not going to walk away from the challenge to husbands. You'll see in our Colossians 3 passage, the Apostle Paul, he's going to deal with everybody, hey, husbands, wives, children, servants, and it's all about interpersonal relationships. Remember, when Jesus was on earth and he said to the apostles, Look, if you'd have the faith as a grain of mustard seed, you could move mountains. And they said, Oh, praise the Lord. They came back rejoicing and they said, even the devils are subject unto us, praise the Lord. And then they said, How many times do we have to forgive our brother? Till seven times And Jesus said, till 70 times 7. You know what they said? Lord, increase our faith We're going to need help with that. I can move mountains. I can cast out devils. But if you're expecting me to get along with him or her, I'm going to need help for the ad. To live above with saints we love, oh that will be glory. But to live below with the saints we know, that's another glory. story. We need the grace of God to grease the wheels of interpersonal relationships, or we'd all just disintegrate. And kill one another. And so follow with me here, Colossians 3 down to verse 12. Put on, therefore, this is Paul writing the church at Colossae, but let's say to us tonight Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms, and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord, and whatsoever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. That's hear me for a moment Listen, that's how we get along with one another. Love, mercy, charity, longsuffering, goodness, humbleness of mind Let each esteem others better than ourselves in honor, preferring one another. That's for all of us. That's the Christian life. Now he gets specific. Follow with verse 18. Wives Submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord. Verse 19 is what we're going to focus on tonight. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers provoke your children to anger lest they be discouraged. Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with high services as men pleasers But in singleness of heart, fearing God. And whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men, knowing that of the Lord you shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. A couple things. Notice the words that are used. Put on bowels of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. Forbearing and forgiving, verse 13. Charity, verse 14. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, verse 15. Be thankful. 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. But I want you to notice also in verse 18. There's a factor there, and that is that God's keeping the records on all this. Wives, submit your husband unto your husbands, verse 18, as it is fit in the Lord. 20. Children obey your parents in all things. This is well pleasing unto the Lord. Servants obey in all things, verse 22. But it says, fearing God. Verse 23, as to the Lord. Verse 24, ye serve the Lord Christ. Verse 25, we're going to give a day of reckoning to God. And I'm saying, folks, I'm reminded of Henry that went to the Baptist church for the first time. He was a hog farmer in Arkansas. He says to the pastor afterwards, you mentioned the word tithe, Pastor. I never heard of that. What does that mean? And the pastor says, Well, you know, Henry, it's an Old Testament concept. The first roots belong to God, a tenth of all that Israel had belong to God. So he said, if you had a thousand hogs, Henry, why a hundred of them would belong to God. He said that that that makes sense That's fair. He says, or if you had a hundred hogs, why ten of them would belong to God. You'd just give those to God. He says, yeah, that makes sense He said, or if you had ten hogs, he says, you hold it right there, preacher. You know I got ten hogs. All the preaching in the world. Listen, it does no good at all if you have no intentions of doing what it says to do. And so I'm challenging you. Listen, verse 19: husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them In Ephesians 5, husbands love your wives. He says also Christ also loved the church. Most marriages fail because of the husband. Now listen, I know there's exceptions and all of that. But God made man to be the initiator and woman to be the responder And most often, if the men initiate love in the right way, the woman will respond to it. Don't don't get mad at me for saying that. I'm saying the way it is, men ordinarily who will love their wives, that's the first thing. Husbands, love your wives I had a guy in our church. His wife came to me and she said, We're about to get a divorce. We we he doesn't love me and I says, well, sure he does. I'm sure he does. He sits beside you. You live together. Oh, he doesn't love me. And I said, well, bring him here. So we came and we met and I said to the husband, I says, do you love your wife? He says, Yeah, no, I sure do. I said, well, she doesn't think you do. He said, listen, I told her the day we got married that I love her. And if it ever changes, I'll let her know he had said it one time Well, no wonder she might have some doubts about whether or not he really loved her. And then he said something that I'll never forget. He said Of course I love you, because God commanded me that I had to. What kind of message does that send? Hold your nose. Okay, I'll eat it because they told me this tastes good. Why would the wife possibly have the impression that he didn't love her? Right? There are ways to communicate love. And I just want to do three things and we'll be out of here by nine. nine o'clock in Hawaii. Um don't get mad, I was kidding. It's important for the relationship, husbands for you to love your wife. It's important for the sake of the woman. The bride at the altar said, let's see, I'll take better, richer, and mm in health. No, we make a commitment, right? For better or for worse. Two pastors were talking and one says, man, it was really embarrassing. I was doing a wedding and I used the wrong last name when I pronounced them husband and wife. And the other pastor says, man, I was doing a wedding and I didn't have written in my notes. I didn't know if the guy's name was John or James, and so They were there at the altar. It was time for the vows. And I leaned over and I said, Are you John or James? And the guy says, James. And the bride leaned over and said, your name is John. And so sometimes I don't know if he was trying to get out of it. Or if he really forgot in the moment, but hear me carefully. The woman Is a gift from God. Adam's single. He's got all the animals, and there's Mr. and Mrs. Giraffe, Mr. and Mrs. Elephant, Mr. and Mrs. Rhinoceros, Mr. and Mrs. Chicken. And it says, but Adam, there was no help found, meet, or appropriate for him. And God made the woman, and the Bible says, brought her unto the man. When whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing Uh what did the Socrates said, by all means get married, young man. If you do, you'll be happy. If you get a good wife, you'll be happy. If you get a bad one, you'll be a philosopher. But hear me. The secret to a happy marriage, keep both eyes open before and one eye closed afterwards. The guy who says on his wedding night, hey, uh honey, listen, now that we're married, I feel like I could be honest with you, and there's just some of your flaws that you have, some character weaknesses and other flaws, and I just feel like as we start in this marriage, I should point them out to you. And she just smiled and said, go ahead, sweetheart, I know all about him. It was those flaws that kept me from getting a decent husband It takes a good deal of humility, folks, to get along with one another. There's nobody, it's not a 10 slumming with a five. It's two pretty evenly matched sixes down here. Thank God that anybody will put up with us. A woman is God's gift to man, and God intended it for our happiness for both of us. the husband and the wife. My wife and I often laugh about this. Isn't it something That both of us found somebody who'd put up with us. I have enough weaknesses to destroy any marriage, and she does too And God put us together so we can just put up with each other and we're so glad that Guy comes to the pastor and says, I'm falling out of love with my wife. I'm thinking of getting a divorce. I can't stand it. And the pastor says, Listen, Think through the things your wife is complaining about and try to fix those one at a time. He says, well. I come home dirty and grimy and sweaty after a long day's work and I usually go to the refrigerator and get something to eat and then I plop down in the chair and I just watch TV until supper time and Then I make my way migrate to bed and just collapse there. And he said, so I did what you said. And Pastor I took a change of clothes to work and I showered and shaved and put on clean clothes And on the way home, I stopped and bought a bouquet of flowers. I bought a box of chocolates And instead of just going in the back door in the garage, I got out and went to the front door and rang the doorbell. But he said, my wife came to the door, took one look at me, and burst out crying. And I said, Honey, what's the matter? And she says, I'll tell you what's the matter. Our son fell off the banister and broke his leg, and I had to take him to the hospital, and he's in a cast The washing machine broke down and there's water all over the basement. The meal burned in the oven. The house is a mess, and now you come home drunk Listen, listen, it's important to a woman That she can look up to and trust and respect her husband The woman says, I had a terrible nightmare last night. There were some husbands for sale at an auction for $1,000 and some for $10,000. And then there was one that sold for a million dollars. And the husband says, Well honey, what did husbands like me go for? And she said, that's the problem. They were putting them all in a bundle and selling them for one dollar a bunch We laugh about it, but listen, it's important that a woman respect her husband, that she can look up to him, that she can trust him, that she has loving companionship. Sometimes husbands can be real ogres. The one guy got saved, he went to church, found out the way he's supposed to submit to him as we read here. He comes home and he says, honey, I'm the boss around here, and I'm gonna do what I want to do. When I come home, I want you to meet me at the door. And you're going to give me my robe, you're going to bring me some lemonade, I'm going to sit in the recliner and watch television. You're gonna go in and fix a five-course dinner and bake pie for dessert. Then after supper, you'll go draw a bath while you do dishes. I'll soak in the tub And then when I get out, I guess you know who's going to dry me off and comb my hair. And she said, Yes, I do. The Undertaker Listen, I'm for loving leadership. But don't get this arrogance that you're some kind of special. It's a miracle of God that anybody would put up with most husbands. Thank God for your wife and her love and her kindness. It's not just important for the wife, it's important for you as a man. Notice it says, be not bitter against them. Alice McPherson said this, men have the tremendous privilege and responsibility to take women seriously, to call forth all of their gifts. I read something that helped me my whole married life. And the guy wrote, he said, no woman expects a man to 100% understand her. Sometimes she doesn't understand herself. But she does expect her husband to 100% try. Listen, she does expect that her husband will one hundred percent Try. There's a way to communicate that you love her, that you want to be with her. I ask all the time at couples retreats If I asked your wife in private conversation if your husband could be with any woman in the world. For one night. Who would that be? Would your wife say He'd pick me. My wife, if you said that to her, if Randy could be with any woman in the world and with with a face like this, I I could. You know the feeling, brother. Um But my wife would tell you, Randy would choose to be with me. You know why? Because it's true. Because it's true. I find her intoxicatingly beautiful. I love her company. I enjoy her companionship. I respect her as a person. I admire all the things she's a accomplished in life. I have a great deal of regard for her perception, her child rearing, her godliness, her love. I don't have a person there's not a person on the planet that I enjoy being with more than my own wife. And she believes it because it is true. Because I communicate it to her. I reassure her of it over and over and over again And so I just want to challenge you, husbands. Listen, the tyrannical husband that was constantly demanding and hollering and complaining Eventually got divorced. And several years after the divorce, the wife remarried But this time she married a different man who loved her, who exalted her, who respected her. who dwelt with her according to knowledge. The Bible says giving honor to the wife as unto the weaker vessel. That's not weaker in capacity. It's here's a beer mug, that's the man, and here's a crystal goblet, that's the lady. The weaker vessel is what we put in the place of honor. In our China cabinet. This is what's esteemed and valued and precious, fragile. And we honor it. And this woman, after she'd been married the second time to a second husband, She ran across in the bottom of her dresser drawer the list That her first husband had given her of all of the things he demanded. He had written down: you will do the laundry, you will do the ironing You will clean the house. You will care for the children. You will pay the bills. He had a written list of demands And she took out the piece of paper and she laid it on the dresser. And she read through it. And you know what she found? She was doing every single one of those things for her second Husband. And he had never demanded one of them. Why? Why? Because She was doing it out of a heart of love, out of a heart of respect, out of a heart of appreciation. He didn't have to give her a list. She wanted to please him. She enjoyed his company. She respected him. She was treated with dignity. Now I want to just say It's important for the wives to know that they're loved. It's important for the husbands to know. Hey, don't don't use this. Oh, I'll tell you what, if you don't play your cards right, I'm going to go find somebody who will Don't ever try to provoke jealousy. Don't ever compare. I heard a guy, my dream boat turned into a barge. Hey look, us guys aren't exactly, you know, what made the girls say, wow, was all behind us now? I mean, hey, the older you get, gravity wins. You'll get that when you're 66, I promise. But listen to me. The idea the idea that you can disrespect a woman and expect her to be happy Is is just a lie from the pit of hell. They deserve the respect and the love and the care It's for the husband's sake. When you have a wife that's happy by your side, the Bible says the heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so he shall have no need of spoil. You don't have to go outside the marriage. Because she's happy by his side. She loves to be with him. She's proud of him. She's not at all angry or bitter But I want to finish tonight with this, you need to love your wives not just for her sake and not just for your sake But for your children's sake, the best thing, the best thing any man can do for his children is to love their mother. To love their mother. You set an example of intoxicating love, romantic love. You set this example in front of the children, you can be married and happily married. You don't have these aren't mutually exclusive. Well, I'll either be happy or married. You can be happy and married. Some you look at me. How is that possible? It's possible. Hear me carefully. The dead works hard And they plan a family vacation to California. He lives in Michigan. They get out the maps and the calendar, the brochures from the Chamber of Commerce, and they're going to go from San Diego up to Sacramento. They're going to go along the California coast, see the Pacific Ocean, they lay out, they're going to Disney World or Disneyland, they're going to go here and there and here and there, and they lay out a three-week vacation. And the children are excited, and we're gonna drive here, we'll go see the Grand Canyon on the way, and we'll start down south, then we'll drive up along the coast. And he plans it all out every day, where they'll sleep, where they'll stay, how long they'll be, everything down to the smallest detail. Then The week before they leave, he tells them, Hey, my boss called me in I can't go. They've canceled our vacation. They've got a big order. You're gonna have to go without me Everyone's discouraged. The wife says, hey, the kids have been looking forward to this. I'll just have to do the driving. She drives across the United States, gets to San Diego And as they're going from the first stop to the second, they're driving along the highway, and there is the husband with a knapsack hitchhiking. He'd been planning it all along. And they drove past, and the kid said, Mom, that was dead. And she stops and backs up, and with a grin on his face, he said, I just wanted to surprise you. And he spent the three weeks with his family. He had that vacation all along. Why? Why? He wanted to make a memory. For those children, that he was somebody who was spontaneous, someone who had plotted and planning things, someone who enjoyed time with his family. Well hear me. My wife and I, when we got when we met each other, I had a motorcycle. She loved riding on the motorcycle. We had a wonderful time. But wow, in order to afford an engagement ring, I had to sell my motorcycle, the ultimate in freedom for the ultimate in box. We got engaged, we got and married, little kids came along, we don't need a motorcycle. But for Our tenth anniversary. I borrowed a guy's motorcycle. I found somebody at church who would babysit our children. It's a summer afternoon after Sunday night church. I said to my wife, hey, this guy's got his motorcycle here. And he said we can take it around the block. You want to do a spin around the block? And she said Sure. Now I had done a few things. I had made a reservation at a beautiful bed and breakfast a hundred miles away. I had made arrangements for my children to be babysat by somebody for several days. I had packed clothes in the knapsack of the motorcycle. And I went around the block, but I kept going. And she's beating me on the back. Randy, Randy, we've got to go back. What about the kids? I said, look, uh uh we're we're not going back. I found some big babies and Randy, Randy, we're in Sunday clothes. We're not dressed to ride motorcycles. That's all right, I got a change of clothes. We took off for several days. My wife still talks about that. We're married 45 years this month. And she still talks about it. When we had our 20th anniversary, we went to the Philippines and to Hawaii. Our 25th anniversary. I went to the hotel where we had our honeymoon night. I reserved the room a month ahead of time. My wife It's grieved that we can't do anything for our 25th anniversary. We got too many other things competing and she's mad about that. And I said, well at least let's go back to the hotel where we spent our honeymoon. Now it was $100 a night in 1973. It was $400 a night. Twenty-five years later. And so we pull up in front of the hotel and I said, hey, let's just at least walk around. You remember we got Chateaubriand and had breakfast and bed and all the wonderful things, the balcony overlooking in the honeymoon suite. And geez, how that was really romantic and the snow was falling. And I said, um, why don't we Go see if they still have that in how the honeymoon suit's decorated. She says, Well, Randy, probably somebody's in there. But I'd reserved it And I said, well, I'll just go check. And so I went in the front of the hotel. I got the keys. And I come out and told her, I said, hey Lori, the desk said there's somebody in there, but they think they're at a supper right now, and so we could quick peek in the room. Randy, I feel squishy about that. I don't think we should do that. I get there, I open the door, I carry across the threshold like I did. It was harder And I throw her on the bed and she jumps up, Randy. They're gonna know somebody was in here Hear me. Husbands love your wives is not Not just make believe here. There are ways to communicate love. They're not all expensive. But husbands, if you wanted to, you can put your brain power to planning a hunting trip. You put your brain power on how to get that Ford pickup truck. You put your brain power put your brain power. To doing something romantic and loving and kind for your wife. Listen, your children should know My parents are nutty as two pet coons, madly in love. I'm not talking about doing inappropriate things in front of them, but they should know that you enjoy each other's company. One man said, and I think it's a great observation, twenty years from now When someone meets your child who's an adult and says, Did your parents really love each other? A smile should come across your son's face. It gives them hope. You can be married, you can be happy, you can have a secure marriage. Listen to me. One of the most wonderful, wonderful things is to watch a godly son treat his wife in a special way. One of the most precious gifts as a dad is to watch my daughter lovingly, graciously, kindly. Be a companion for her husband, her mate. Listen, take the long look at it. Have we ever had challenges? Sure. Have we ever had fights? Yes, she was wrong several times. I'm begging you, husbands love your wives. When I pastored, I was a man's man. I want to spend time with the husbands. Every marriage has some challenges. Every man has his flaws. And I would just plead with the wife, please Be patient, be kind, be long-suffering, and let me please help your husband so he can lead your family. I don't want to be your guru. The Bible says if a woman have questions, let her ask her husband at home. I don't I don't want to be the the the pastor that led me to Christ said, Randy you'll either be a hero to the women Or a hero to the men, but never both. I'm a man's man. I want to spend time with the men. I go where they work. I take them out to eat. I spend time with them. When I ask them, hey, what do you and your wife fight most vehemently about or most frequently about? Look, the husband, I never say, do you know your wife is mad about this? He knows his wife is mad about that. She's told him 781 times It's just a matter of how thick he is upstairs. But husbands always know what her main complaint is And he's been unwilling to change and address it, or incapable Without the help of God. A charge, one of the most sacred, sacred responsibilities, is to protect those wives. To protect the future happiness of those children by helping the husbands be all they ought to be on behalf of their family. The guy that's his hunting buddy maybe can't rebuke him. The wife, the children are not in a position to correct him His friends, he might steamroll over or bamboozle or fool, but a godly pastor with the power of the Holy Spirit and the authority of the Word of God. Can look him eyeball to eyeball and say, you're thinking wrong here. You're doing wrong here. It doesn't It doesn't have to be this way. Wives, pray for your pastor. Understand, husbands' lot is at It's more than just you and your happiness. You want your wife happy? You want your children to have a successful future You want the church to be blessed. You want the nation. Blessed is that nation whose God is the Lord. The best thing we can do as a church is to help our homes and families. I wouldn't hurt you men for anything in the world, but somebody has to have the role of teaching. Here's how godly husbands act. And that's the wonderful privilege of a pastor. Husbands, love your wives Isn't that a wonderful thing? What a joy. Let's pray. Lord, we love you. Thank you for your word. Give the hearts of these men a love for their wives more than ever before. Help them to be devoted to the happiness and success of their marriage. Lord, I thank you for this good pastor, this good church. May the homes Be an example of the love of Christ, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen