Yeah. Amen. Well, so you know the passage already. We're going to be in John chapter number eleven. And uh we are dealing with this morning, the last or the seventh of the I ams of Christ. And he has one other that is pretty uh clear and sometimes people include it in the list where he says, I am the Son of God. Um But that is a declaration of of himself and who he is. So some people don't include it where these other things are are definitions or descriptions. saying I'm the son of God is is a declarative statement. Um so some people don't include that in the in the list. Um then there's other places, but this is the last of the seven. Then I have a plan for next Sunday morning, Sunday school, what we're going to look at. And uh looking forward to that as well. But here we are this morning in John chapter number 11. Now this context of this passage is familiar because this is the story of Lazarus And uh so I think that most everybody is should be familiar with this passage of scripture and Jesus raising him from the dead, but that is what kind of sets the foundation for why Jesus s makes this statement. Um You know, and as we have looked at the different uh I ams of Christ, as we've considered those, Um you know, uh the I am the bread of life, I am the light of the world, I am the door, I am the good shepherd I'm the way, the truth, and the life. I mean think about it, what kind of an individual or a person? I mean you have either the fact that he truly is God And everything he declared is true, or he's a madman. Because I mean who what person in their right mind would declare themselves listen, everybody here? I'm the way. I'm the truth and I am the life. I mean what kind of a person would declare themselves to be that uh outside of either just a complete lunatic or Truthfully, God in the flesh. And we of course know that he was God in the flesh. I mean, in our text here this morning, he says, I am the resurrection and the life. I mean, think about somebody just Don just saying that, Don, just like, I am the resurrection and the life. You know. Everybody would say, well we need to pray for Don. I mean because he just declares that he has power over death? Uh what in the world? Well it's because he's God God in the flesh. Let's start in the beginning of this uh chapter number eleven and kind of lay the foundation and and I'm gonna for the sake of time we're not gonna read all twenty-seven verses, but let's read verse one down through verse number five, I believe, then we'll skip to ten. to 15 and then skip to 20. He says, now a certain man was sick named Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary, and her sister Martha. And it was that Mary, which anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. Therefore, his sister sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, whom thou lovest is sick. When Jesus heard that he said, This sickness is not unto death. But for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus Now skip down to verse number 10. He says, But if a man, uh verse number 11, sorry, verse number eleven, he kind of takes a brief description there and talks about going to see Lazarus, but in verse number eleven we pick up the story. He says, These things said he And after that he said them unto him, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth, but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep. Then said the disciples, Lord, if he sleep He shall do well, basically saying, hey, if he's just asleep, there's no problem, Lord. Howbeit, Jesus spoke of his death, but they thought that he spoke of taking of a rest in sleep. Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. I am glad for your sakes that I was not there. To intent ye may believe, nevertheless, let us go unto him. Now skip down to verse number twenty, and they go down to see him in verse number twenty. Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, Went and met him, but Mary sat still in the house. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. But I know that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection in the last day. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection. and the life. And he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die Believest thou this? I mean, consider that claim. If whosoever believeth in me Though he were dead, yet shall he live. Whosoever believes in me is going to live forever and never die. Believest thou this? Certainly Jesus was declaring himself to be God in the flesh. To have the power to restore life. Death has always been man's greatest enemy. It has always been a tragedy. That brought with it sorrow and loneliness. One of the hardest things that we face is we say goodbye to those which we love and care for dearly. Man, in light of this coming tragedy, has worked hard to stay alive as long as they can. To stave off this tragedy as long as possible. But Jesus here declares the power to restore life after death. What a claim to make, except that he be God in the flesh. It's important to note that Jesus did not deny Martha's statements In verse number 24, where she says, Oh yeah, I I know that he's going to rise again in the last day. See, Jesus didn't say, No, there's no resurrection then. Jesus didn't say that that's not going to happen. You see, the Jewish people believed in a resurrection that was going to come. They believed that in that, and she she declared that to be so when she said, Oh, I know He's going to rise in the last day. But like you and I know that when we say goodbye to our loved ones, we know we'll see them again. We know that we will be caught up together in the air someday, but we still miss them. And she was there saying to Jesus, if you'd been here, he wouldn't have died. And he says, No, he's going to live again. And she's like, oh, I know he's going to live again someday. And Jesus did not contradict that. That is a true statement. But he says, no, he's going to rise, he's going to live again, because I am the resurrection and the life. He transformed this doctrine. So I want us first to consider the tragedy of death, the tragedy of death that we all face. Death is a disappointment that comes to everyone, and here it had entered into the life of Mary and Martha. Death certainly is devastating. It's that the finality of it, I think, that many people have a problem with, that it's we've reached that place, that time. Of saying goodbye. It is indeed one of the most painful things that we as humans go through in our life. Having to say goodbye to the ones that we love and care for dearly. We also know that death is delegated by God. You see, God is in control of the hours and the days that we're going to live. He knows our time. But it's appointed unto man once to die. We know that God is in control of our days and that our days are numbered, and we don't know how many days we have left. But we know that God is the one who determines when it's going to come. Even though we know it's coming, most Are surprised by death. For most, it sneaks up on them. I mean, here was Lazarus, he was just sick He was too young to die. He he was just a few days ago dealing with a cold or or maybe a low-grade fever. And if Jesus had come, he wouldn't have had to die. But see, we don't know the appointed time. We don't know what God is doing. God determines the day and the hour. There's a story of a man who made an agreement with death. And he says, okay, I won't fight it when my time comes. I'll I'll be I'll be happy to go and I'll go with you. You know, the Reaper, he came and made an agreement with him, said, I'll go with you whenever my time comes. And the Reaper said, okay, and the man said, but uh you've got to give me a warning. That's my only qualification. I I won't fight it, I'll go happily whenever my time comes, but you've got to warn me that it's coming. And the reaper said, okay. So the days turned into weeks and the weeks into months and the months into years, and one cold, bitter winter night, death came knocking And the man said, whoa, wait a minute. You didn't keep up your part of the bargain. I'm not ready to go. You were supposed to warn me. And he said, sir, I have kept my part of the bargain. He's like, what? He says, I have sent you warning after warning that your time was drawing nigh. And he says, what do you mean? He says, sir, would you stand and look in the mirror? The man stood and made his way to the mirror and looked. And he says, Sir, you notice how close you have to get? Your eyes have long since grown dim, haven't they? And he says, Sir, do you notice that I have to talk a little louder for you to hear me? Your ears don't quite hear like they once did. If you can see yourself in the mirror, sir, do you notice that where you once had a full head of black and full hair? Now it's pretty slim. Not much left. Do you notice, sir, how you have a hard time standing all the way erect and straight I have long since sent you warnings that your time was drawing nigh. And yet still the man was surprised when death called. That just goes to show that in our minds we don't like to think about it. We like to put it off and say it's not not for me, it's not today, but we know that it's controlled by God. We know the Bible tells us to boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. The rich fool in the Bible thought he had all the time in the world. He says, I'm going to tear down my barns and build bigger ones. And God said, Thou fool, tonight thy soul shall be required of thee. The plans that he had were for naught because his life was over. There's a story of a Family that moved to a small town. They were, of course, visited like we here, go visit new move-ins in the area. Just give them an invitation to the church, tell 'em about well, this fan moved moved into the town and he was just down the street from the church, and the pastor and one of the men of the church stopped by and visited him. And said, Sir, we would love for you and your family to come be a part of our church. We would be excited for for that. And uh they began to try and tell them about Jesus And the man said, you know what, I would love to come to your church, and I'll come. I'll come to your church just as soon as I get things straightened out. Well, some weeks and months went by, and they hadn't heard anything of the man, and so they stopped by. The pastor stopped by again one day on his way home from the office. He stopped in and said hello to the man. invited him to church and say, we just want you to know we're still there and we'd be glad to help you and your family minister to you. And the man said, Oh, oh, wait, preacher, I told you I'll get to church as soon as I get things straight. Just as soon as I get straightened out, I'll be there. Well it was only two weeks later that the man passed away. And as he did, the wife came to the pastor and said, Could we hold the funeral in the church? And he of course said we would we would be glad to. There he was in church and laying in the casket in front of everybody. And some of the church members, some of the congregation came up and said, Pastor, was he a Christian? He said, to be honest with you, I don't know if he ever trusted Jesus as his Lord and Savior. He said, the only thing I know about him is that he was a man of his word. And they says, What do you mean? He said, Well he said as soon as he got straightened out he would go to church. He got straightened out. And here he is. That's all that I know about him. You know Tragedy of death and other tragedy comes into our life at the direction of God. This was God's plan. God knew that this was going to happen. You see, the disciples said, oh, if he's asleep, he'll be okay. And Jesus said, no, you guys don't understand. I'm talking about it like sleep because I have power over life and death, but Lazarus is dead. God knew that this was the plan, and God brings These things into our lives at times may be unexpected for us and when we certainly don't want them and we would like to put them off. But we know that God is in control. And he does it why? He tells us why he does it in verse number four. He says, when Jesus heard that he said, This sickness is not unto death, but what? For the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. God brings tragedy into our life, and sometimes even this tragedy, the tragedy of death, which is One of the hardest things we face. But it too is for the glory of God. But because of Jesus Christ We see that he transforms this doctrine, the doctrine of the resurrection. He transforms the doctrine. The living Savior takes this dry doctrine and turns it into something that you can See, something that we can feel. The Jews believed in the resurrection that would take place someday, but Jesus said, No, I am the resurrection. He brings it into our lives. Weirsby said it like this. He said he transforms this doctrine in a way. He took the doctrine out of the book and put it into a person himself. I am the resurrection and the life. Well, we thank God for what the Bible teaches. And Martha did as well, that of the Old Testament doctrine of the resurrection. We realize that we are saved by a Redeemer, Jesus Christ, not by the doctrine of a book. When we know him in and through faith, we need not fear the shadow of death. You see, when you're sick, you want a doctor Not a book. When you're in the middle of a legal battle or or uh you're gonna be sued, you want a lawyer. Not a law book. And when we face death, that greatest of tragedy, we want a Savior. Not a doctrine. Jesus became the resurrection and the life for us. That we would have a Savior. The truth of the doctrine is there, but He makes it personal for us and brings it home where we can see it, feel it, and know it. When you face that greatest of enemies, you can know the resurrection personally He brings hope personally for each and every one of us because you can have a personal relationship with him He brings hope presently as well. Even in this life today, I know that one day that we will experience the resurrection, but Jesus brings hope even presently. In our life, day by day, Galatians chapter 2, verse number 20 says, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. for me. Even the life that we now live, we live in and through the power of God, the resurrection. He brings hope to Our destiny one day because he is the resurrection, but he brings hope to us presently as well as we walk through the tragedies of this life because he is the resurrection. The giver of life. We do it through the power that He gives us. When we rely on God's promises And through faith, it releases God's power in our lives. Do you see? Not only does He transform this doctrine and make it real and personal for us, But I want you to see the triumph of deliverance that comes through it. Jesus claimed to possess power over the grave. He claims the title as the resurrection. and life. Jesus continually in the scriptures gave examples of this. He he he claimed that power, but he had already Set the standard. He had already given illustrations of his power and his ability. He had already put it on display for all to see As he raised from the grave Jarius' daughter, as he raised from the dead the widow's son, and here Lazarus. He had given and showed and put on display his power over death several times. That when he came to the place that he claimed I am the resurrection and the life and he asked the question Believest thou this? You see, our hope and our faith is not in vain It is not an empty faith without any evidence. We have the evidence that Jesus Christ gave us, and the ultimate evidence of his power over life and death is when he gave up his life And after death he took it up again. He gave his life freely. So not only did he have the power to raise others from the dead as he was there, but he had the power over death to take his own life back. So our faith and belief in Jesus Christ is not in vain and it's not empty. We have the evidence of His own resurrection That his declaration of being, the resurrection of life is certainly true. And one day Jesus promised to raise you and I His followers, believers in Jesus Christ, to raise us from the dead. And we will be raised in like fashion. And we can have faith in that The requirement is that you must believe. He posed the question there. He says, believest thou this? And that's what we as a church and hopefully you as individuals as you talk to people about Jesus Christ and share your faith in God, you're telling them about the Savior, about the resurrection and the life. You say he has the power to forgive you of your sins, to cleanse you, to wash you, and make you clean. He has the power to take you to heaven when you die, to fulfill that resurrection in your life. Believeest thou this. The qualification is that you must believe. You've got to believe in your heart and confess with your mouth that God hath raised him from the dead and thou shalt be saved. The promise is clear if we believe. Good works will never get the job done. Turning it over a new leaf is far from sufficient. Religion, even the most stringent of religions, falls short. But belief on Jesus Christ. Christ fulfills the requirement. Belief on Him, the resurrection, and the life Bruce Larson in his book, Living Beyond Our Fears, tells a story about a judge in Yugoslavia who had an unfortunate accident. The judge was in the restroom and was getting ready to take a shower, and the light bulb above the shower was out. So he Standing in the water reached up to change this light bulb. And as you know would have it, was not GFI, was not GFI protected He was electrocuted. His wife came home to find him there. Sprawled out on the floor in the bathroom. Deducing what took place, he was pronounced dead, and in Yugoslavia they had a uh uh um tradition that they would take the deceased and put them underneath the church or underneath the mausoleum as it were the the there and put them under there for twenty four hours. And then they would hold the funeral services and then he would be committed for burial. Well, in the middle of the night, the judge woke up. He had been shocked, knocked unconscious, and was unconscious for a number of hours, but he woke up in the middle of the night realizing where he was. And what his family had to do is he he ran quickly to the edge and and was going to warn the the guard. I mean, hey, hey, I'm not dead. The guard promptly ran off. And he thought, well, uh I at least need to call my wife and let her know that I'm okay. So he picked up the phone and he called his wife and all he got out was, darling, it's me. And she fainted and dropped the phone. So he went to the home of some of his friends. And they wouldn't let him in for fear that he was a ghost. Finally, he called one of his friends in a distant city that hadn't heard of his death yet. Who was not shocked to hear from him? He says, I need some help. I'm alive and nobody believes it. They all think I'm some kind of ghost He said, I had an accident, and he explained it, and his friend came and kind of entreated for him and worked as a mediator to get him back accepted with everybody. They didn't believe that he was actually alive because he had been pronounced dead. What I'm saying is, do you really believe it? Do you really believe that we're going to raise again? Do you really believe that one day he's going to part the eastern sky? And those that are dead in Christ shall rise first, and then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the air. God is going to do it again. The question is, if do you believe thou this? Or are you gonna be shocked? What? Uh uh. Oh I didn't know this was gonna happen. Oh my goodness Do you believe it? You see, there's the story which I know that you've heard, but it just so clearly illustrates this for us of the boy and his dad who were in the car and they were driving to go to a funeral This boy was deathly allergic of bee stings. And he knew if he got stung by a bee that it would mean his death They're in the car and they're driving to this funeral and on the way a bee got into the car. And this bee was flying around in the car and the boy was frantic and disturbed and screaming and and and the dad reached out and grabbed the bee. Oh man, that's good. And then the boy calmed down, but then dad let the bee go. And the boy went crazy again. He said, son Don't worry about it. He said, Look. And he looked in the hand of his father, and his father's hand was starting to swell, and around that started to turn red, and there was the stinger from there the bee. And he says, I took the stinger for you. That bee can't hurt you anymore. That bee doesn't have any sting left And that's what God the Father did for us. He took the sting out of death. We just go through the valley of the shadow of death, and we don't have to fear evil. Why? Because He is the resurrection and the life. Believest thou this? I hope so. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and for your love. We thank you, God, that we have a a hope of eternity and we have a present hope today, living in and through the power of the resurrection. We thank you, Lord, for these truths that we can rely on and that you have taken this step Out of death. We pray, God, that you will be with each and every heart here, and may they be encouraged by these truths. Lord, we pray that anyone here that is not sure of their eternity and their home in heaven That they would settle that today, that they can know personally the resurrection and the life. And we'll thank you, Lord. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.