Amen. Well, we have been going through or started last week on a series. of lessons on the I ams of Christ, the seven I ams that are found in the book of John. And we began last week talking about or dealing with the I am, the bread of life. And uh this morning we are going to move on to I am the light of the world. Now I have a handout that uh brother uh Wilson has back there. If you did not get the handout, uh raise your hand, he'll get it to you. Um so there's a few there that would need one. Now I'm not actually going to cover that or teach on that. That's extra stuff from my study that I'm just giving you giving to you to look at and thought would be interesting for you. But I'm not going to be getting into the majority of that this morning. I just wanted you to have it to be able to look at it. And I included in that list the The uh seven I am's. We talked about those last week and how as Christians we should know those or know what they are and I included there for you the seven Iams and I think the references. Are the references on there with those? The reference Brad, yeah, so I've included the references there for you as far as where those are located. You have I am the door, I am the way And uh I am the door to enter thereby, I am the way to walk in, I'm the bread of life, uh to be fed upon, I am the shepherd, uh, to guide you, I'm the light to follow, I am the true vine to abide in, and I am the rest of the life. resurrection to wait for. Just some thoughts there with regards to the I ams of Christ and where they're found in the Bible. I just wanted you to have that. Uh you may want to look at those passages and read them in preparation for the coming weeks. Uh just uh you'll get a lot more out of the Sunday school lesson if in your mind you've already read the passage and have a working knowledge of what takes place in and around the particular stories that we are looking at. So you want to turn your Bibles this morning to John chapter 8. John chapter 8 and John chapter 9 is where we find Jesus saying, I am the light. of the world. That's where we find that reference. So in John chapter 8 and in verse number 12, we're going to read a few verses, but verse number 12 is where we see him say that statement. John chapter 8 and verse number 12. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light. Now turn to John chapter 9 and verse number 5. John chapter 9 and verse number 5, he says, As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Jesus says, I am the light of the world. Now we looked last week at I am the bread of life, and we talked about the correlation, the application of the I the picture that is given between the bread of life and between the uh principle of found in the Old Testament of manna, that God had given uh manna to his people. And that that manna was a picture and a type of Christ. And we talked about that. Now, um Hastings says this with regards to this passage which we are encroaching upon today. in introduction so that we understand the context of it, he says, now Christ has already made two distinct allusions. To that which took place in the wilderness journeys. In the sixth chapter, which is what we looked at last week, he said, in the sixth chapter, he spoke of the manna which God sent down from heaven and said, I am the bread of life. Then in the seventh chapter, he spoke of the water which gushed from the rock, as if to say, I am the rock from which the living water flowed. He said, if any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. So that is not one of the I ams of Christ, because he didn't say it specifically, but pictured there in the story that he gave us. in the seventh chapter he says, Hey, if any man thirst, let him come to me. So the manna was pictured, and then water that came from the rock that was given to the children of Israel was pictured. And then here in this text he said, Then spake Jesus again unto them. implying that he was taking up again this same subject for which he had been teaching. And he said, I am the light of the world, alluding to that great symbol of the Exodus, the pillar of fire by which Jehovah guided his people. Through the wilderness. So it is clear that our Lord is referring to Himself as the fulfillment of these great Old Testament types given to us there. So this is the context of this. Statement that Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Jesus understood that this world is in spiritual darkness. That darkness permeates all of mankind. And man needed a light, and he came to be that light for the world. Amen. So I want to give you a couple of truths here as we look at this. teach through this passage of scripture. This is a lesson in which uh it just continued to grow and continued to grow and and ultimately I just had to stop. But You understand this principle and the idea of Jesus being the light is very central to what we are as Christians and what God calls us to be. So there's so many areas in which this principle touches our lives that my study began that's why I just printed a bunch of stuff off and gave it to you, because I don't have time to even get into all of those things. I have several other pages that I just actually these pages here, this is study that I'm not going to touch, I'm not going to get into any of this We're going to stay away from that. So there's a lot that deals with the light in the Christian's life. But I want us to understand this passage, what Jesus is saying about I am the light of the world. And then we'll touch some on how it applies to us. But first of all, the truth of the light. The truth of the light. You see, he is the light. Turn to John chapter 1. Back to John chapter 1. This familiar passage of scripture in in John where we see Jesus coming on the scene, and uh in John chapter one He says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light. Of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for a witness to bear witness of the light that all men through him might believe. I want you to see the correlation between belief and the light that is found in the scriptures Continually, uh the idea of believing is accepting or seeing the light for what it was. John the Baptist came on the scene and he was not the light, but he was to point people That was the plan, and that's what God wanted for him to do. He wasn't the light, but he was the source, or he was the To point to the source of that light. Now, I have here, for the sake of illustration, a candle in which we are going to light. Now, Jesus was the light of the world. And being God, he always was and always will be. So we're going to let that light burn. Hopefully. It is burning. I'm not sure if you can see it back there, but um with all this light in here. But it's burning. Um so we're gonna let that light burn and just let it represent the fact that Jesus Jesus is the light of the world, that true light. One little boy uh was in a play, a program with his, you know, like we have our Christmas program and he stood up to say his lines, he stepped to the mic and like you know happens, his mind just went blank and he's standing there. He's like and of course after that awkward silence carried on for a minute, his mom goes, I am the light of the world. And he proudly says, My mom is the light of the world. So He said his line, but he didn't quite say it correctly. Now he probably felt his mom was the light of the world with all the light that she brought into his life. But Jesus is that light. Not his mom or anybody else. He is the true light. The Bible says that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Jesus is the picture of that light. And Jesus is God in the flesh. Now, Jesus made it very plain that whosoever believeth in him receives spiritual light. And if you read through John chapter 12, you see that taught, that principle. Principle, that idea. In John chapter 12, verse number 46, he says, I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. So we see again that tie, the connection between receiving or seeing the light and believing on Jesus Christ, that true light that came into the world. Jesus, that light of the world, is available to all. He says in John eight, verse number twelve, that we read our text this morning. He says, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, What's the next phrase there? Then spake Jesus unto again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. All of the world. He is the light of the world. And he is available to the world. He's available to all. It's not something that is hid. It's not something that's only available to a select few. It's not something that only a small group of people have a corner on. If you don't uh uh know them by chance, you have no reason to uh or able to accept Christ? No, he is the light of the world. He is the light, always has been the light, and always will be the light He in the beginning was the word. And before man ever was, God was. And he said, let there be Light. Before there was ever light, before anybody could even comprehend the idea of light, there was God. And at the end of days, in the new kingdom and the new heaven, Jesus is the light. There won't be a need for any other light because of that light that is there. Jesus is the light of the world. In John chapter 1, verse number 9, that he that we just read, he says, that was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. The true light. Jesus is the true light. He is available to the world. He's also available for your walk. We know the Word of God is a lamp to our feet and a light into our path. Jesus Christ is the Word of God personified. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He is the light to our path for our walk. In John chapter 8, verse number 12 again. He says, Then spake Jesus unto them again, saying, I am the light of the world, that he that followeth me Shall not what? Walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Jesus is available for your walk. To give you light to know what you're supposed to do, to know how to walk through this light. You don't have to walk in darkness. Jesus is available to you that ye might walk in the light. Amen That's exciting. He is available to us. He's available for our walk in this light. We don't have to walk in darkness. We can see Because of the light that He brings to us. Any man who comes to Christ has a new walk. It's not a walk of darkness. It's a walk in light. Matter of fact, in the context of this passage of Scripture, this woman in the first few verses here is the woman who is caught in adultery. And I'll tell you what, a lot of people love this story today. They really like this story because they like to grab a hold of that for those phrases like where Jesus Jesus, he he he got down, he knelt and he wrote in the sand, you know. Now we don't know what he wrote, but he wrote something in the sand. And then he then he he you get to the point where these these men who were his accusers You know, he says, well, why don't you the first person that's without sin, or the one that's without sin could be the first person to throw the stone, and of course we know that a kid accusers realized they were sinners themselves and turned and walked away. And Jesus says, Where are thy where are thine accusers? They left. And Jesus said in this passage of scripture, which people like to grab a hold of, he says, Neither will I condemn thee. They like to say, see, even Jesus didn't know what Jesus what they need to understand is Jesus was talking about the law, and in order for somebody to condemn somebody else, they had to be an eyewitness. Jesus was not an eyewitness of that. So he says, I cannot condemn thee. But he did not condone her sin. He immediately says, go and sin no more. He called what she was involved in sin. He didn't say, Oh, you're okay. We love you. Everything's fine. No, he said, go and sin no more. He called it sin. And said, don't do it anymore. He drew a line in the sand and said, Hey, now that you're in light, don't walk in darkness anymore. Don't go and sin no more. It's a new walk. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. Jesus Christ gives light to our life. And we should walk in the light of his word and his life, not in the darkness. The fact that Jesus was the light of the world is authenticated here in our text. Is authenticated by the Word of God. Look at verse number 13. He says, The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself. Thy record is not true. Jesus said I'm the light of the world and they said you just said that about yourself. So that's not true. I mean I could say I'm a billionaire. That's not true. I'm not a billionaire. Jesus said, I'm the light of the world. And they said, Well, you bear record of that yourself. That's not true. And verse number 14, Jesus Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true, for I know whence I came and whither I go, but ye cannot tell whence I came. I would just see that his record, his authenticity, authentication of his fact that he is the true light was given here in this text by the word of God himself. Jesus was the word. There is nobody else that can Authenticate that God is and was and always will be. He is God. He is the very Word of God. And He authenticated His presence as the true light. There is no higher authority. You know, light bears witness of itself. Light bears witness of itself. The other day, Bob and I were in Lowe's. And uh we were looking for some different stuff and we had to trek all over the store 'cause I didn't know where it was. And so we're walking through the store and we walked down one particular aisle. Now I don't know how many of you know this, but Bob can see strong contrast. A real strong contrast between light and dark, he can tell the difference. And we're walking down one particular aisle, and there was probably 30 fluorescent lights up on the right hand side, and they were all on. And it was really bright. And I said I said, uh Bob, can you see all that light that's up there on the right? He's like, oh I can I can see that it's very bright over that direction. You know, he can notice that that is light, the difference between light and shadows and darkness. You see, light bears witness of itself. A blind man knew that the lights were on. Right? Light bears witness of itself. When the lights are on, you don't have to say, oh, that's not true. The light is there. And it bears witness of itself. And Jesus Christ was bearing witness of himself that he was the light of the world. It was also authenticated by where it came from. By where it came from. In verse number 14, he says, Jesus answered, and he said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true, for I know whence I came and whither I go, but ye cannot tell whence I came and whither I go. Ye judge after the flesh. I judge no man. And yet, if I judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and my father, and the Father that sent me. You see, he knew the source. You know, the source is important where something comes from, where something came came from, you know, sometimes somebody might you know, a kid brings you an unwrapped open piece of candy. Here. And you're like, uh where did that come from? Like, how long has that been in your pocket? I think I'm gonna I'm gonna pass on that candy. Thank you very much, you know Or sometimes children, they might be talking and one of the kids will come up to me and say, Daddy, this and this and this and this, whatever it might be. And I'll say, uh, I'm not so sure about that. Where'd you hear that? And they'll say, well, Caleb told me. Okay, well But you know, if they came and they said that Bob Gamble told me, there's a big difference in that source, right? Where little Caleb or Bob Gamble, like if I'm questioning the authenticity of the statement. And I ask about where where did you hear that? Oh, I heard it on the news. Well then it must be true, right? Hey, the source is important where something comes from, and Jesus himself tells us, hey. I do bear witness of myself, but I also know the source. And that's the Father. And I and my Father are one. And I came from the Father. So he talks about the fact that the light was sent into the world by the Father. The source, the true light, has always been with us. Look at uh down in verse number 42. Verse number 42. We see the source here of John chapter 8 and verse number 42. He says, Jesus said unto them, If God were your father, ye would love me, for I proceedeth forth, and came from God. Neither came I of myself, but he sent me. Why do ye not understand my speech? Even because you cannot hear my word, ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he spake a lie, he spake of his own. for he is a liar and the father of it. He th he says to these, the Pharisees and and uh those uh accusing there that continued to debate with them about who he was, he says, If you knew the Father, you wouldn't even question this. You would love me, but you don't know the Father. The matter of fact, you're standing here and you're looking at the light of the world and you cannot see Him. Why? Because they did not what? Believe. You see, the correlation between seeing the light is believing Accepting him as the light of the world. Now, Jesus is the true light. I want you to see the tragedy, the tragedy of darkness. The tragedy of darkness. We live in a dark world. That's because much of the world is without light. They're living in darkness. We could turn over to 2 Timothy. Chapter number three, where there is there the description of the end times and what it's going to be like. And the Bible talks there about how men are lovers of pleasure, uh more than lovers of God, and how their murders and and and uh the perilous times that will arise and the description there. And certainly there's a very descriptive and accurate explanation of what it is in our world today. All you have to do is turn on any news station today. Pick any news station you want, and what you have there is darkness on display. Because bad news sells. And just continually, that's what it is. You have continually the darkness of this world put in full HD living color for you to see. We live in a dark world. Sometimes we sit there in awe and think, how in the world could somebody do that? How could the world be so dark? I saw this week. four young men between the ages of fourteen and nineteen that went out into a gas station and they grabbed a young boy fourteen years old. Dragged him out of the gas station and proceeded to stab him nineteen times. It turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. But they thought that this boy was a boy that had taken a picture with one of those four boys' girlfriend So because it ended up not even being the right boy, but even if it was the right boy, because somebody took a picture, a selfie, with him and a girl that was a girlfriend to one of these boys, the These gang members went and killed him. Took his life, and you think, man, how in the world can the world be so dark? We could spend the rest of the day talking about the darkness of this world, but I think you know and understand we live in a dark world. You see, darkness, I want to spend just a little bit and talk about why it's so dark. Why is it so dark? Turn to John chapter 3. Verse number 19. John chapter 3 and verse number 19. You see, darkness is preferred by the sinner. In John chapter 3 and verse number 19, he says, and this is the condemnation that light is come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light, because they're You know, people love their sin. They love their sin so much many times they would rather be a good idea. die and go to a sinner's hell than to trust Jesus Christ, the light of the world. I can't tell you the number of times that I've stood with somebody on their doorstep or at a gas station or in the mall or in the airport and I've sat and I've talked to them and showed them the entire plan of salvation and I've asked them, Do you understand you're a sinner? And they said yes And I say, do you understand there's a penalty for sin? And yes, and does that make sense to you? Yes, it makes sense to me. There's a penalty for sin. Do you understand that the penalty for sin is that you have to spend an eternity in a place called hell? And they'll say, Yes. And I say, do you understand that Jesus Christ came and he paid that penalty for you? All you have to do is accept him. And they'll say, yes. And I'll say, would you like to accept him right now? Who wouldn't? And I can't tell you the number of people that said no What? Why? Why wouldn't you just said you understood all of these things, so what you're telling me is you would rather choose your sin than the Savior And that is the fact. Because they understand that to get saved and trust Christ is to turn their back on darkness. And they don't want to give up that sin. And many times it's been said very clearly, they say if I do that, I'm going to have to change my friends or if I do that I gotta stop being uh you know stop drinking. If I do that I've gotta give up going to the nightclubs. And I'm not ready to give that up yet I try and tell them, well, let God help you give that up, get saved, and He'll give you the strength to do that, and they say no. Why? Because men love their darkness. In Ecclesiastes 2, verse number 14, he says, But the fool walketh in darkness. Who is the fool? The fool has said in his heart There is no God. What they've said is the light of God that He could bring into my life. I reject that. There is no God. And therefore they walk in what? Darkness. They walk in darkness because they've rejected the light. Now Proverbs chapter 14, verse number 19. Says the way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Have you ever tried to walk around darkness? Have you ever uh you know gotten up in the middle of the night and thought, well, I'll be okay, and you tried to make your way to the uh you know, kitchen or the fridge or something and and y you stub your toe on the you know, inn table. You hit your knee on the corner of the couch or something The other night I was out working in in uh the trailer that I got to put the four-wheelers in and I ran some power and I have power out there and there's some LED lights that were on sale at Walmart. Really good price if you want some. And uh these LED lights that I put up, they're they're bright. And I was in the trailer and I was working and it was like about midnight. And I got all done working, and I'm in the trailer, and all my tools are around, and there's a chair that I was using to saw on and There's wood stacked in there and all kinds of stuff. And uh I I was in the trailer and I hit the light and I started and immediately it was like blackness. I mean I could not see I could not see my hand Out there behind the barn, no other lights on. It was a dark night, and I my it's like the light that I'm looking at right now, and then all of a sudden no light. And I I mean I stopped because I knew if I continued I was gonna like just f fall over something, stumble. You see the people in this world, they prefer their sin. They're walking in darkness and they're stumbling, they don't know why. Because They don't have the light. The tragedy of darkness is that you cannot see. And therefore you stumble. I mean we see it. We look at the mess that people sometimes, without the light of the glorious gospels shining in their life, that they're making of their life. We look at the heartache and the turmoil that they're creating and causing, and we see it and we say, Why would you do that? You realize the heartache you're heading for, but they're blinded. And they just continue on and stumble in the darkness. Not only is darkness preferred by the sinner By the way, let me just throw this out. I don't know. There's no way I'm gonna have time to finish. Uh we as Christians, we're still sinners. Even though we're saved and we've got the light of Jesus Christ inside, we're still sinners. And we still have the tendency and the desire For darkness. Because our deeds are evil. It's a whole another point that I don't know if I'll get to, but I just want to throw that out. Uh not only is it dark because men prefer their sin, but uh it's also because it's promoted by the devil. Darkness is promoted by the devil. In Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11 and 12 says Put you on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. You see, Jesus said, it was the power of darkness that caused those that came to arrest him. He said, Ye came in the power of darkness. Saying they didn't even approach Jesus in the light of day. They came in the power of darkness, and it was the power of darkness that caused them to give their life, to take his life. Many people are not saved because the devil keeps them from seeing the light. The Bible tells us in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 3 and 4, but if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe. Believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them You understand the devil promotes darkness. The devil wants things to be dark. The devil blinds the minds. Just like we would say, somebody, why would you reject or turn away from the light of God? Because the devil has them blinded. And they can't see the darkness that they're in. The light of the glorious gospel can't reach into their heart. It hasn't shed any light on their situation because the devil has blinded the light from them. I have a flashlight here. It's a little work light I use. Is that bright? The devil You say, man, that's a bright light. You could see everything with that. I don't want to use that. That would be bad typecasting. I'll use this book here. Start devotional. That's not very good either. But the devil blinds them. The light is shining. It's there, right? But the devil blinds it and they can't see it. That's what the devil does. He promotes darkness. It's promoted by the devil. Jesus warned of the many false prophets that would promote darkness. God placed a curse on the false prophets. And he said, woe unto them that call evil good and good evil and put darkness for light and light for darkness and bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe unto them. Many times in the Bible, we're not going to spend much time here, but many times in the Bible it's pictured by the blind man. The darkness is pictured by somebody that's blind. And Jesus in our text here in John chapter 9. He gave a blind man's sight, performed a great miracle. With many of these declarations of Jesus saying, I am, he performs a miracle that teaches the presence of God. Principle, like he fed the five thousand in chapter six, and he said, I am the bread of life. Here he healed a blind man and used that to picture because we so vividly see and understand. understand uh just like uh if technology reached a place where Bob could go and have surgery And could get his su sight restored. Just as real as that would be, bringing him to the place where he could see. We understand that Jesus giving somebody light is Is just as vivid, just as real, and that picture is something that we can understand. So many times Jesus gave physical sight to blind people. Illustrate the fact that he is the light of the world. Now I want you to see the triumph of the light. The triumph of the light. And I don't have time to even finish But I then spake Jesus unto them again, saying, I am the light of the world, and he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. But shall have the light of light. Despite the attacks of this world, despite the onslaught of the devil and all his angels. Despite the mockery of this world of Jesus Christ, he still is the light of the world. And he still is shining bright today. When somebody accepts the light of Jesus Christ, their life is changed from an eternity in darkness to an eternity in darkness In the light of his presence. That's good stuff right there. Spending an eternity in a place called hell, which is described as utter darkness, outer darkness. Change from that to an eternity in heaven in the presence of Jesus Christ, where you are in His presence, the light of the world. In Acts 26, verse number 18. eighteen says to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them. Are sanctified by the Father, or by faith that is in me. In Colossians 1:12 and 13, giving thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us unto the kingdom of his dear Son. We're delivered from eternity and darkness to an eternity. in light. Now the saved duties the saved duty to the st saves that's not a word, is it saves But saved duty, does that you guys awake? All right. The saves, so we see the saves deliver deliverance from eternity and darkness. Now the saves duty to dispel darkness. It is our job as Christians. In Matthew chapter number 5, Jesus is the light of the world, but in Matthew chapter number 5, he says, Ye are the light of the world. And do you understand what happens when you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? Ye are given the light. And we are given the job, the task of dispelling that darkness. Now, this candle is not the light. This candle is an instrument that is carrying the light And when you and I trust Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, we are not the light, but we are the instrument that is carrying the light. And it is our job to dispel darkness in this world. And this is where it gets real and it gets practical for the Christian, and probably where I should have spent most of the time this morning. Because it is our job to dispel darkness. If this room was dark and not a light was shining and I lit this candle, it would dispel a lot of darkness. Last night we were burning some of the uh uh scrap wood and stuff from the set that that didn't get that wouldn't fit in the dumpster And I went out there last night and the burn barrel had burnt down. There was nothing in there, just little coals in the bottom, and it was dark. I began to throw pieces in there, and before long I had a nice raging fire. And I'm going to try and put this out. Before long I had a nice raging fire, and I could see an area as big as this half of the auditorium with ease. Why? Because it dispelled darkness. That is the job of the Christian, to dispel darkness. There's so much in this. You wanna Do you want to know the effectiveness of your light? Ye are the light of the world. Even so let your light shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Do you want to find out how effective your light is? How are you at dispelling the darkness? You see, when I come up to somebody and I'm out witnessing Hi hi preacher, how are you? Is smoke coming up behind their head, you know? They got a beer can here and they take that and they set it they set it over here and they're like oh how how how can I help you How effective is your light at dispelling the darkness? If people around you can continue to talk like the world talks and not get uncomfortable, your light's not shining very bright. They ought to know. They ought to get uncomfortable. You see, people don't like the light shined on their darkness. We're just getting to the meat of this, and I have to dismiss. I'm already three minutes into the next service, or to our break time here. So I'm going to close, but I'm sure we're going to come back to this because this is the heart of this as Christians. Where it applies to us. Jesus is the light of the world and he saved us gloriously and given us that light. Praise God. And we like to sing a little s little song, uh, Let Your Light Shine, but Let's get practical about it and say what does that mean? And we'll look at that another time. I've got to dismiss. Lord, we thank you for today and this time in Sunday school. I pray God that you would uh use the morning service, be with Brother Ramus as he brings the message this morning. All right, you're dismissed.