We have been studying the I ams of Christ, and we have looked thus far at several of them. This is the descriptions that God gave to Himself. He said, I am. then he told us about himself. He told us what he was like, his personality, his character, what attributes uh are appointed unto him. And Jesus in the flesh said, I am, and told us about Himself. We talked first about the bread of life, that bread that satisfies the hungry soul. No matter where you're at in life, no matter what you're going through, our soul is Built with a thirst for God. It has a emptiness when God is not there and that hunger is there. And many search for it in a lot of places and a lot of ways, sadly never finding it. But that hunger that is there is satisfied with the bread of life. Then we talked about the light of the world. You think about this world and how dark it is And how men are born into darkness. They live their lives searching for meaning in life, searching for direction, searching for where to go and what is it all for. And Jesus, the light of the world, gives them that. He see he gives direction and and meaning and purpose to the life. And then we looked at I am the door. The door, the access to God. Jesus is the door. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He is the door. We've looked at that, and today we're going to be looking at the idea that I am the Good Shepherd. Now John chapter 9 and chapter 10 go together. Now we're not going to read those in their entirety, but we are going to read the beginning part of John chapter 10, which is the part pertaining to uh what we looked at last week with I am the door because they they kind of go hand in hand. These passages go together. Jesus is just kind of continuing Continuing on because have you ever told somebody something and they didn't get it? And you had to explain a little further? You had to, well let me start over. Let's do Let's look at it this way. And you say it another way. Well, the Pharisees didn't get it. So Jesus went on again saying unto them So follow along with me in your Bibles if you would. We're going to read John chapter 10 in verse 1 through 21, and then our text or context of what we're looking at today is verses 11 through 21. twenty-one, but all of this goes together. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same, is a thief. and a robber. But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the porter openeth, And the sheep heareth his voice, and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. You see how this all goes together with what we're talking about today? I mean this is the talking about the door here, but this This is all ties together. Verse number four. He says, and when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers. This parable spake Jesus unto them. But they understood not what things that were which he spake unto them. Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in The thief cometh not, but to s for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life, and that they might have Then he continues on here talking to the Pharisees. He says in verse number 11, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep, but he that is in hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming And leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. The hiring fleeth because he is a hireling, and he careth not for the sheep I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and have known a mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep And the other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and they shall be onefold. and one shepherd. Therefore doth my father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me But I lay it down myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received. There was a division therefore again among the Jews for this thing. And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad. Why hear ye him? Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind? So the reason I read all the way to verse number twenty-one is to show the context of how this ties in with chapter nine. You know, in chapter nine, uh where he healed the blind man. And he gave sight to the blind man. So you can see this comes to the very end of this statement that Jesus was talking unto them, the Pharisees there, and he says, hey. This man is not of a devil because can the devil give sight to a blind man dealing with the same people and the same situation that he was dealing with in chapter number nine? But he gives to us this morning the statement, I am the good shepherd. He calls those that were not the shepherd, uh he calls them thieves and robbers. I'm not going to teach this this morning, but I can give you an outline the four figures of the fold. The four figures of the fold, there's the shepherd. In verse number 11 and verse number 14, you may want to circle those. There's the shepherd in verse number 11 and 14. There's the sheep in verse number 3 and verse number 4. There's the stranger. In verse number five, and there's the scatterer in verse number twelve. And I'm not don't know if I'll have time to even deal with those, but those are all found right in the text. The shepherd, the sheep, the stranger, and the scatterer, the four figures that you see. in the fold there. But unto those that were thieves and robbers, he, you know, he he looked at them and he he was speaking directly to the Pharisees. He was calling them thieves and robbers. You know, Jesus was pretty pointed with his preaching. He got pretty straight. And those people that want to say Jesus was all love and compassion and didn't ever draw a line in the stand? It's because they're not looking for any lines. Because Jesus put some lines down. He said, You're thieves and you're robbers. He's saying, uh listen, you're trying to set up your own door. You're trying to provide your own way. You're trying to to provide it your own system. And I am the door. I am the Good Shepherd. A man in Australia was arrested for stealing sheep And when he went to court, he pleaded his innocence. He said he was not guilty, and it was his word against the other guys, and the judge was trying to determine how to solve the case So he asked for the sheep to be brought into the courtroom. They brought the sheep into the courtroom, and then they sent out the accuser into the hallway and said, Call your sheep. The accuser went into the hallway and called the sheep, and the sheep did not move. Then he switched and he said to the plaintiff, you go out into the hallway. And he went out into the hallway, and as soon as the man lifted his voice The sheep started marching towards the door. The judge said, he knows his sheep and the sheep know him. Case dismissed. You see that they wouldn't hear the stranger. And as Christians, we're not to hear the stranger, but to look to the shepherd. I am the Good Shepherd. As we sang our song this morning, I asked Gus to sing this specifically because it so clearly pictures for us The fact that he is the shepherd, Savior, like a shepherd lead us. Much we need thy tender care. In thy pleasant pastures, feed us. For our use, thy folds prepare. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, thou hast bought us, thine we are. Blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, thou hast bought us Thine we are. You know, some of the greatest people in the Bible that we look at as far as characters, Are were were shepherds. You look through many of the patriarchs were shepherds. You look uh through uh Moses was a shepherd, and David was a shepherd. This character trait or description was given to many people in the scriptures. And if you see them, even today in the Holy Land, you'll see them. Shepherds caring for their flock. You know what is noteworthy is the Jewish people didn't uh raise their flocks to slaughter them, except for the Occasional necessary sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins under the law, but they raised them. Listen to this, they raised them that they would produce That they would produce wool and that they would produce other lambs. That's why the shepherd did that. That's why they cared for their sheep. They knew their sheep. And they raised them for that purpose There are many references in the Bible to other men or the people that are pictured as shepherds. Can somebody think of another example of somebody that's pictured as a shepherd in the scriptures? Please speak up. David, as an individual, now I'm thinking about a position or a type. So as somebody a a position that would be called or referred to as a shepherd. I'll give you one in the Old Testament. Many times kings are referred to as shepherds. There are several other in the scriptures. Anybody think of one? Pastor. Pastor many times is referred to as an under-shepherd. So the pastor is many times referred to, uh oftentimes prophets are referred to as a shepherd. So uh Jesus, though, is called the shepherd, and there's three times specifically in ship in in the scriptures where Jesus has given a uh descriptive character trait with regards to being a shepherd. Here we obviously have the one I'm the good shepherd. Does anybody know of the other two instances? where Jesus is called something and what they are. All right, let's look at them. Somebody uh don't everybody turn here. Let's let's let's find both of them. And uh so first of all somebody go to first Peter chapter five verse number four and somebody go to Hebrews thirteen twenty. Let's see the other two instances where Jesus is called a a shepherd and what the descriptive character trait is that he is given. And somebody has us uh let me know. What is he called? Let's say what is he called first of all in first Peter five. Yes. And when the chief shepherd shall appear, he shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. the chief shepherd. So he's called the chief shepherd in that passage of scripture. And then what is he called in Hebrews 1320? John? Great shepherd of the sheep. He is called the Great Shepherd. Now that most familiar of all Psalms, Psalms 23, starts with what phrase? The Lord is my shepherd, the key word there being mine, because he is Lord, regardless. He is a shepherd, regardless. The distinctive difference is, is he your shepherd? The Lord is my shepherd, and that is the starting point with this entire lesson this morning that is that is crucial that everyone must have settled. At some point in your life, you have got to have recognized him as Lord, trusted him as your Lord and Savior, asked him for forgiveness of your sins. And made him your shepherd. Not everybody born into the world is in the family of God. Not everybody born is part of the fold. And so you the question that goes out this morning to you, are you sure that he's your shepherd? I hope you know that, beyond a shadow of a doubt. Two men were reciting the psalms in a poetry contest. One man who was gifted with eloquent tongue Who had given much of his life towards performing in front of audience got up and began the resignment for the day, which was to quote Psalms 23. And he got up, and in his eloquent and gifted way, he quoted Psalms 23. And my the crowd stood and cheered for him and clapped, and they were so thrilled with his performance. Then the second guy got up and he quoted the text, Psalms 23. Nobody stood and clapped As a matter of fact, there were some in the audience that were brought to tears. And all sat in somber worship Of the shepherd. The first man stood back up and he said, The difference is that I know the Psalms, and he knows. The shepherd. Is the Lord your shepherd? He is a shepherd, and he is Lord, but is he your shepherd? If he is your shepherd this morning, you can be thrilled, you can be excited and and and glad, and much of the following lesson is going to encourage your heart, and I hope that he is, that you have that settled. The word shepherd in the text here in the Hebrew actually means owner, manager. Is he your owner? Are you letting him manage your life? Some of us have have given up ownership. We want salvation, but uh we're still doing some management, aren't we? We're still kind of uh steering our own way. Let me give you a couple of thoughts this morning about the shepherd. First of all, he's a caring shepherd. Look in verse number 11. He says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. I mean he was a caring shepherd. He cared so much he gave his life for the sheep. Isn't that uh you know no great a greater love hath no man than this than a man lay down his life for the sheep I mean you wouldn't expect any greater sacrifice from anybody, and he gave us his life. He laid it down, and by the way, Scripture says there he had the power to lay it down and take it up again. No man took it from him, but he gave it. He gave it. And he did that for us because he loved us. You can cast all your care upon him. Why? Because he care of you. Because Have you ever tried to tell somebody something and it was just obvious they didn't care? I mean, you're like trying to tell them and you're like, do you have someplace to be? Or or uh do Do you need to do something else? Because I don't have to share this. You know I mean Listen, when you come to Jesus, it's never like that. He careth for you. Cast all your care upon him because he cares for you. He is the caring shepherd. He cared so much, he gave himself a substitute for you He became your substitute. He died on the cross for you so that you didn't have to. You know, under the law, the sacrifice was made. To God, under grace, God Himself became the sacrifice. He gave himself a substance for you. You know, under other any other type of uh means of attaining grace that's established by man, other religions that are out there, do you know that they require sacrifice? That's why it's okay to strap a bomb to your body and go kill a whole bunch of people? Because then you are guaranteed a position or a place. In what they would call heaven or glory, why they sacrificed themselves for the cause and then they have attained that. But God wants us to live for him. Because he died for us. He died for us. It tells us here in this passage in verse number eleven, in verse number fifteen. He says, as the Father knoweth, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. In verse 17 and 18, therefore doth my Father love me because I lay down my life that I might take it up again. He gave himself for us. He gave himself in all sincerity. Look back in verse number 12. He says, But he that is a hireling and not the shepherd. Who owns the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf catches them, and scattereth the sheep. You see the the the character trait trait is given here or the the uh the difference is given between the shepherd and the hireling. Somebody that's just been paid to do a job. You know, when the road gets rough they're like, hey, I ain't paid to do this. I I'm not I I haven't been paid enough to to sacrifice my life or I haven't been paid enough to put in this kind of job Time. I haven't been paid enough to endure this, but Jesus loved us in all sincerity, and he gave himself as a shepherd. You know, ownership makes all the difference in the world. He's not a hireling. He's not just filling a position. He loves us. He gave himself for us. He bought us with his own blood. And because He owns us. He loves us enough to keep going. Philip Keller explains in his book, Shepherd's Look, at Psalm 23. How many of you ever had an opportunity to read that book? It's a must-read for a Christian. I think. Do we have that in the books for? The Shepherds Look at Psalms 23. Okay, well we can put that on the list because we need it. That's that's a good book, especially in light of this study. Uh that uh you need it's very easy to read, small, a shepherd's look at home. Psalms twenty three, he was uh born and raised a shepherd. He was a shepherd by trade, and he looked at Psalms twenty-three from the eyes of a shepherd. Anyways, he in his book, he said, If you look closely, you'll notice that each sheep has Its own peculiar traits. Everyone has its own little marks. One may walk a little sideways, one may have some bowed feet, one may be missing a small patch of wool on its back or have a black spot under its eye These sheep are not just sheep, they become limpy, blackied nose, and patch. To the to the untrained eye, we look at them and they're all the same, right? We look and they're it's all sheep. But to the trained eye, every little difference and nuance and character traits, you can, out of all those sheep out there, you can pick that one out. Jesus knows his sheep. He knows his sheep. He is sensitive to them. Verse number 14: I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep, and I am known. of mine. He knows his sheep. What does he know about his sheep? Well first of all he knows your name. Look at uh verse number three, back to verse number three. To him the porter openeth the sheep, hear his voice, and he calleth his own sheep what? By name. God knows your name. You're not just a number, you're not just one of the many thousands or millions of Christians down through time. He knows you by name and he loves you. He knows your particular character traits. You know, uh not only does he know your name, but he knows your nature. You know, all sheep have certain characteristics that are uh typical of all sheep. There's a nature that all sheep have, but every sheep has its own specific character traits and its own specific ways. And he knows your nature. Because he knows your nature, he knows your need. He knows you, so he knows what you need. You know, I think about my kids and and the fact that you know that they're with you all the time and you know them and you learn them. And you begin to see what they need. What areas they're weak, what areas that they need to grow, what areas they need to have have more strength, and their particular character traits come out Those of you that know my kids, you know that Timothy is a go-getter. He will he will step off the edge every time. I've got to keep Timothy back from the edge. Those of you that know Andrew, you know Andrew's a little more cautious. I gotta say, Andrew, get up there. You say, no, I'm okay here. I say, no, you're not, get up there You're gonna do this, especially when he was younger, pushing Andrew, because he was content to be reserved and to stay back and not to push himself. Now, Timothy, I had to hold him back. And God knows your nature. He knows what you need, and he brings things into your life for the purpose of developing you and growing you and building you into what you need to be for Him. And because he knows you as an individual, he knows exactly what you need brought into your life, and sometimes what God brings into our life, we say, Lord, why? And God says it's because it's what you need. It's what you need. Because he knows his sheep. And he is a good shepherd. As the good shepherd, he provides us with leadership He leads us in and out. Psalms 23 leads us to green pastures. He provides us with an example. 1 Peter 2, 21. First John 2 6. He gives us an example to follow, and he provides us with an under-shepherd, the pastor, to help us. Because he knows Your need. He is a caring shepherd. Not only is he a caring shepherd, it's exciting. Don't you see this one in the time we have left? He's a conquering shepherd. You don't think about a shepherd as being conquering. You think of a shepherd maybe being a little more meek and and uh timid, but uh it's exciting when you see the text here, and I know you've seen it already. But I'm going to give it to you anyway. He's a conquering shepherd. First of all, he conquered division. Look at verse number 16. And other sheep. I have which are not of this fold. Now, if you remember last week I talked to you about the fact that there was three different uh sheep mentioned in the beginning of John, John chapter 10, you remember there's the three different sheep. If you see, first of all, verse number one, he says, Verily, very I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into to the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same as a thief and robber. So you have that that sheepfold mentioned there. If you remember we talked about the fact that that is talking about the uh people of Israel. The nation of Israel, the Jewish people. And Weirsby said this: the fold here is Judaism. But there is another fold. That is the Gentiles. You see in verse number sixteen he says, And other sheep I have which are not of this fold. He's talking about the fold of Israel, the Jews. He says, Other sheep I have, aren't you glad that God didn't leave a division there between the Jew and the Gentile? He extended salvation to all and he broke down the division. And there's no place in Christianity for any type of division. There's no place for any type of uh uh what's Segregation. What's the other word? Uh discrimination. There's no no no no room for that in Christianity. God broke down the division. And God loves all people equally. He overcame that. Between the Jew and the Gentile, and as an example to us, between all nations. There is one flock and one shepherd, he says One flock and one shepherd. Not only did he conquer division, but he also conquered death. Amen. He conquered death. Verse number 17, he says, Therefore doth my father love me because I lay down my life. that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have the power to lay it down, and the power to take it a again. He conquered death. He laid down his life, but he laid it down That he might have it again. You know what wouldn't have done any good as the Good Shepherd. His death would have been in vain if this if the story ended there. You'd say, Man, that's amazing. The shepherd gave his life for the sheep. But now they're shepherdless. They don't have a shepherd. If the story would have ended there for us, it would not have been a success. It would not have been what we have today, and that is a risen Savior. A shepherd for the sheep. He is the good shepherd, and he had the power to conquer death, and thereby he is the example for us. And he, the Bible says he's the first fruits Because he rose from the dead, he will one day raise us from the dead as well. Not only did he conquer death, but he also conquered the The wolf in this passage right here, you know that's talking about the devil, right? The wolf that cometh. The scripture says Beware of false prophets which cometh to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are raving wolves. This wolf that would come in and attack the sheep. It tells us three things here about the wolf. If you would look down in the passage, somebody tell me what what verse is that where it talks about the wolf? 12. Verse number 12. So he says, But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep or not, seeth the wolf coming and leaveth the sheep. And fleeth. And the wolf, what does he do? He catcheth them. So there's three things described here that the wolf does. First of all, he comes, he catcheth. And he scattereth the three things that the wolf does. It is the desire and the ambition of the wolf to scatter the sheep. He would love to come and take you from ever being in the fold. He would love to come and to catch you and keep you from being fruitful for the fold. And if he can't do anything else, he's going to scatter you. Get you scattered where you aren't in or part of the fold. You know, when you're not in the fold, you're outside the protection. That the fold affords. That's why it's important that, do you know that sheep flock together? They they they flock together and I don't know I've got a whole nother point and I'm not gonna have time to to deal with talking about the characteristics of the sheep, but the sheep flock together, that's their characteristic. Sheep are supposed to Gather together, forsaking not the assembling of yourselves. What? Together. We're supposed to get together. That's what gives us strength. That's what gives us protection from the devil. That what gives us what we need to do. stand in a wicked day is when we gather together, when you're in the fold, when you're part of the fold, you have the strength from the shepherd and the protection from the shepherd. But when you allow the devil to scatter you And he will do all he can to scatter you, to try and get you out of the fold. Then you're without protection. You're out on your own. The last point here, which I don't have much time about, is I want you to see the careless sheep, the careless sheep. So the shepherd, he's a caring shepherd, he's a conquering shepherd, but also you see the careless sheep in uh Philip Keller's book. He talks about the characteristics of sheep, and he says sheep require more care than any other animal to herd. Sheep are near-sighted. We have a tendency to be nearsighted. We like to look at today, our immediate circumstance. I preached a message one time, Miss Kim will remember this. And now and later. Now and later. I preached the now and later message. I gave away now and later. Our problem is we don't keep later in mind. We're just looking for them now. And I talked about kids how you could say I will give you twenty dollars next week or I'll give you two dollars right now. Most kids would be like, I'll take the two dollars You know, why? Because it's now it's now instant gratification and satisfaction. Oh, I'll take the two Hey, you might not be here next week, you know, I'm gonna take it now You know, maybe he's spiritual. And he says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest now what day they bring forth. Maybe he maybe he's that way. But uh hey The problem is we're nearsighted and we don't keep later in mind. And the devil disguises and hides with the results of that sin that he pulls us into And we don't see where we're going to end up in the destruction of our life and the turmoil we'll have to endure. He hides all that and makes it look pleasing and appealing. And we go after it. And one day we regret it. The shepherd wants to destroy the sheep. We're nearsighted. The sheep are stubborn even to their own demise There could be a cliff right here. And the shepherd will be like, no. And the sheep, no, and the sheep. If he walks off that, he's gonna die. And the whole time the sheep keeps pushing towards the cliff. And the shepherd ultimately sometimes will have to break the leg of the sheep because he's going to destroy his own life. That's the characteristic of sheep. Sheep are easily frightened. Sheep have no means of defense. You know, sheep have no homing instinct. They have no means to find their way home without the shepherd. Unlike any other animal. You know, one time our dog when we were kids was stolen from our house. We don't know how many miles it was taken. taken away our our dog and her little pup. And five days later our dog came trotting in into the into the uh driveway. About seven hours after that, the pup came behind her. Mom didn't want to wait for the baby. She's like, you know where I'm going, come on. We thought the pup was gone and then seven hours later there there comes the pup. A homing instinct. Sheep don't have a homing instinct The Bible says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. We know that in the scriptures there's joy in heaven over one sheep that repents. Friends, we have a good shepherd. There is no doubt. There is no concern in our hearts or our minds or even any thought to the fact that we have a good shepherd. For us, the question should be: first of all, is he my shepherd? And secondly, am I following the shepherd? He is a good shepherd. He cares for the sheep. Am I following him? Am I the kind of sheep? That I ought to be in following the shepherd. Do I know his voice? Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today, and we thank you for your love for us. We thank you, God, for being a good shepherd. One that cares for us and has the power to conquer death. And give us victory over the devil. To give us, Lord, the abundant life you talk about here, that you came, that we might have life, that we might have it more abundantly. Thank you, Lord, for being a good shepherd. I pray we would be sheep that follow you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.