Tonight I want to share one verse from God's Word, and if you don't mind standing up for the reading of the Word, Romans chapter number one, verse fourteen. Romans chapter number one, verse number fourteen. And I'm going to be preaching on the first three words, but I want to read the verse number fourteen just for the sake of context here. And the Bible says in Romans 1. 14, I am debtor, both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. Let's pray together. Father, I pray tonight that your Holy Spirit, Lord, will do the work that I can never do. And I pray, God, that you would fill me and help me May I just say exactly what you want me to say, God, and Father, I pray take away every distraction. God, may you move in our midst, God, and change us as we leave this place, Lord, to be different than when we came in here God, we thank you that you're a great God, you're a good God, and all our job here in this world is to glorify you. So help us, Father, tonight. Meet with us, God, we pray we need you, we need your presence more than anything else And thank you, God, for this missions conference. Thank you for the missionaries. Thank you, Lord, for the church that has a heart for mission and the pastor that has uh put a burden on these people, Lord, reminding them of what an important thing this is And tonight, God, through your word, may the work be done. And we pray, Lord, that you will be glorified in everything that's said and done here. We love you and give you praise and thanks. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. As you look at um Romans chapter number one, the Book of Romans is a fascinating book. Samuel Coleridge said the most profound work in existence, the book of Romans is. It's an amazing book of literary uh work that was ever done. Uh as far as uh the writing of this book is uh is to be noticed But as you uh look at the background of the book of Romans, Paul here didn't start this church, of course, we know that, but Paul is burdened Burden to meet and go to Rome and visit this church and see what God is doing here in Rome. And uh with that burden Paul is praying, but uh he's never going to make this journey uh you know in a in a good in a good way. Uh it's prison, imprisonment that's going to take him to Rome. And it's not easy, but Paul says, it doesn't matter how I get there, I just need to get there. And I want to uh be reminded and when I think about Paul and r and this book that he's writing, I'm thinking about Paul being a Roman citizen, I'm thinking about what's going through his mind Of course, before Paul's salvation, we'll be talking about in just a minute. I'm going to give four things that I want to talk to you about tonight. And one of that is Thinking about Paul's background, we'll come to that in just a minute. But uh if I was Paul, I would never want to go to Rome. You say, why is that? Because when you look at Paul's life Uh Paul got saved and uh boy after that Paul was on fire for the Lord Jesus Christ and he had seen uh what God had uh you know what they had done to his Savior And what he had done to his saviour, and he said, Man, I don't want these people to go to heaven. You know, think about Jonah When Jonah saw the Ninevehes and you know God told him go preach uh you know salvation to them and uh give them an opportunity to to be redeemed, uh Jonah didn't want to go there He said, These people hurt my people. They're not the ones I want really to see saved. God do something for my people. And uh you'd you'd imagine why Jonah took the wrong ship. Okay? He bought the ticket. It wasn't an accident. He made sure he was going in the wrong direction. And God had to redirect him. So tonight when Paul looks back and he thinks about all the things that the Romans have done the cruel invention of the cross and the bitter uh you know beating of the Lord Jesus Christ before he died forty times he was beaten with a Roman whip that was embedded with steel and uh you know with bones. You'd imagine what it did to Jesus' body. You couldn't recognize him. And uh yet for all Paul, you see Paul's heart here. I believe this is a glimpse of Paul's heart in the book of Romans It's the most amazing work because the whole book of Romans is talking about justification by faith. And so as we look at this uh this passage of scripture, I want you to notice This phrase, first of all, and then we'll go into the message. In verse 14, he says, I am debtor. And the very first word that Paul uses is I. You know, it's a personal thing. And when you get saved, you say, Well, praise God, I'm saved. Now I'm going to heaven. I can just have a good life. And you start cruising in life But you know what God says, Paul says, I am debtor. He says, God saved me. I could have been in hell, but God saved me. And then notice the present continuous stance. He says, am He says, I am, I was a debtor, I am a debtor, I will be a debtor tomorrow, praise God, within tomorrow to help another church reach some people. We are debtors. Paul didn't forget about, he says, oh, I used to be. I remember hearing somebody tell me, don't ever be a used to be Christian. I used to be a Sunday school teacher, I used to be a bus driver, I used to do this and that. I want to be presently serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Then he says, I am a debtor. That word debtor means we owe somebody something. And you ask yourself, how? Why me? Why am I a debtor? Let me give you four things this um this uh this evening. Number one, because of a personal relationship that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ. We're debtors You notice in verse number um verse number one, Paul says, Paul, a servant uh of Jesus Christ, actually uh let's wait on that one. But you know, uh because of a personal relationship, if you go down with me to verse number uh five It says by whom we have received what's the word? Grace. Paul experienced grace. And guess where? On the road to Damascus in Acts chapter number 9, while he was headed to hurt the people. And to persecute the church. You know, Paul experienced the grace of God. Well, God could have judged him and struck him dead and said, Paul, you don't have any right to do what you're doing to my people. God was merciful to him. And God spoke to him and said, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? He said, what are you doing? I know you've got zeal, but you're doing the wrong thing. And God had to open his spiritual eyes and he had to be born again. And when God Paul Paul got saved, Guess what happened? His physical eyes were blinded. Isn't that strange how God changes our vision? Before Paul was seeing with his physical eyes, now God blinds him and says I'm going to send you to a guy's house and later on he would see and the scales would fall off his eyes. Now he's going to see differently. He's going to have a new perspective on life and everything that he's going to be doing for the rest of his life And I hope to God that God has gotten hold of our hearts. When I got saved in nineteen eighty-nine, I was a wretch headed to hell. I thought it was good, but I wasn't. I knew deep down I was a sinner. And boy, I tell you what, when Ms. All of Britain told me about Jesus I didn't know. I said, Lord, why me? In the 1. 3 billion people in India, Lord, you sent a lady from Canada to India and she was there 45 years, but along her journey, somewhere along the way, God had my name. And God said, I want you to be at that campsite. I want you to go talk to that guy. And anybody in that campsite could have talked to me, but she walked down the side of the building and walked up straight at me and said, Richard, let me ask you a question if you were to die tonight. Where would you spend eternity? And I think about that to your as well. Oh flood, I mean flood my eyes. And when God brought us to America, to California I said to my wife, we need to go visit Miss Olive Britton. We'd call her Auntie Olive. I said, I want to go visit her. I want to go and just say thank you. Thank you for coming to India. Thank you for sharing the gospel. Thank you for caring about my soul. Because if you hadn't told me, I would have been in hell. And praise God looking back now, her life and legacy carries on through us. We have reached other people and we started the church and we led hundreds of little kids to Christ. And you know what? It all led back to a lady that cared. My father-in-law that ministered, he cared about souls. And we have a personal relationship with God. When God saves you, He didn't just save us to just cruise through life and just forget about Him. God saved us in Revelation 4. 11. The Bible reminds us God created all things for his pleasure. We're not designed to float around and do whatever we want. God says, I've designed you for a purpose that you alone can fulfill. And I want you to bring pleasure to my life. And boy, what an important thing that is. So in 1989, when God called me, I told the Lord this. Honest as I am tonight, I told the Lord, Lord, you're picking the wrong guy and no, I have nothing to offer you, absolutely nothing. But I said, God, if you'd in your goodness, in your mercy, in your kindness, would you please let me serve you? And I said, God, I cannot do anything. I was terrified to stand behind the pulpit. I was terrified to teach. I was terrified to do anything. But I told the Lord, I said, Lord, if you'll use me, I'll do what you tell me to do. And I didn't know what all that meant. But boy, God began to use us. We started a Sunday school under some eucalyptus freeze In India, I was so scared to talk to anybody, in front of anybody, that I told the p um I call I led a friend of mine to the Lord. I went on it went to his house every day, knocked on his gay. I mean b banged on his gate and I would call him out and I would share the gospel and uh I said, Listen, you need to go to heaven, you need to get saved And uh his dad would hear of me, he'd come out of the uh out of the house and he'd say, Don't come back here again and he was a drunk, he'd curse me out. I'd go back again the next day, the next day until I got him saved. Uh I mean the Lord saved him. And then I told him, I said, Do you have any family? Any little kids that we can go and teach Sunday school? And uh he said, yeah, I've got a couple. I said, why don't we go meet them? And I went there to the house and I said, could you let us teach your little kids about Jesus? And they said, oh yeah, we'll let you teach them. But I said, I can't teach right here. I'm too terrified to do that. I didn't tell them that. But I said, I can't do it here. But would you let us go right just A little ways there under those trees and we'll be right in front of your eyes, or we'll teach them a lesson and boy I was so scared to do it in front of anybody, teach anything And God began to help us, and those three kids got saved, and their mom and dad got saved, and their grandparents got saved. Four generations came to Christ. You know, it all started with a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And I realize I'm a debtor. Tonight I want you to know if God saved you. You are a debtor. You owe a debt not only to God but to every other person. We'll talk about it in just a minute. There was some preachers in England one time and uh they went up to Mr. Moody, he was uh living in a building there, in a little high-rise building, and they said to Mr. Moody, Mr. Moody, could you tell us what is the secret? To God using you in such a mighty way where people get saved when you preach. And these three clergymen wanted to find out the secret to his power and to his success. And Mr. Moody pointed them to a window and he said, go by the window and look outside and tell me what you see. And these three men began to describe. What they saw. They some of them saw moms and dads walking uh there, you know, playing with their kids and dogs being walked and it was just a park full of activity. And then one of the third clergymen said, But Mr. Moody, let me ask you this question. What do you see out there? And Mr. Moody said, I see countless thousands of souls that will one day spend eternity in hell if they do not find the Savior. You see, you and I when God saved us, He put in us a heart and a fire to reach people. The reason I cannot Get by in Nashville every day when I go out, I sit in my car, I stack every car with gospel tracts. I told our church, carry gospel tracts. If you don't have one, you can't give one out When you get out of the car, pick up that gospel track. Don't leave without it. I've done it so many times this past week too. I get up to the gas station and I release and I go pay for it and I'm like, oh I don't have a gospel. I'll be back in a minute. Then I run back to the car. You know? Uh make it a habit. To carry them. Because there are people out there that will never hear the gospel. And God has been gracious. The people that you saw in the video tonight Uh we reach them one soul at a time and I keep persisting and some of them as you know and you've tried uh boy they don't listen to good You share the gospel and they don't want to hear it. I go to my neighbor, Gil, and I tell him about Jesus and he doesn't want to hear it. I tell Brian about Jesus, I explained the whole gospel to him. I said, Brian, uh you know you do you know you're gonna go to heaven He says, yeah, I did something like that a long time ago. I said, no, that's not good enough. You need to make sure you know. And my heart's burdened for them. There is a personal relationship that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ, and that makes us debtors. Let me give you a second thing. There's a positional responsibility. Over here in verse number one, Paul says, Paul a servant of Jesus Christ. Called to be an apostle. separated unto the gospel. What a privilege it was for Paul, who was once a persecutor, to now be a prisoner of the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, God didn't imprison him God said, Paul, now that you became a Christian, I'm going to force you to do anything, you know what, everything I want you to do in life. Father, God never forces you to do anything. He didn't tell me to do anything when I got saved, but uh but the love that God shed in my heart, the things that God did for me, compelled me to serve him. I said, I want to do this one thing, and that one thing is to serve the Lord Jesus Christ with all of my heart. Well, what an what a burden it is. You say, Pastor Jacob, how does that connect uh you know relate to me? That's okay for pastors and missionaries. Of course, God's calling you to go and preach the gospel. Let me give you a verse in 1 Peter chapter number 2 and verse number 9. The Bible says in 1 Peter 2 9, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. You know what God's saying? Every believer is a priest. And the job of the priest is twofold. One, he brings the message of God to the people, and two, he takes the burden of the people to the Lord. And we as believers have that same responsibility of reconciliation. We got to be praying for people. We got to be taking people's names up to God. And we ought to be burdened every single day for every person that God puts in our pathway. They're not an accident. They're God's put them on our in our lives on purpose. And we need to pray and pray and pray that God will help us. We have a positional responsibility. Paul felt so indebted to God. He said, Lord, I want not just to be an apostle, which is a great title that you gave me the privilege to be. But Lord, I want to not just be an apostle, I want to be a servant. of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll do anything. What did Paul say in Philippians 1 21? He said, For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. Paul said, it doesn't matter life or death, Christ is everything to me. You know, believer, when you got saved, I wonder, you know, how many Christians have that kind of a fire? Say, Lord, I'm completely sold out to you. Whatever you say, I'll do. And uh God will do that in our lives. You know, we have a burden. We have to be, we have to reach these people before it's too too late. If you notice with me, the third thing that I want you to show you, want to show you here is in verse number 14. There is a people to be reached. Notice in verse 14 he says, I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise. and to the unwise. Paul says, I am debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians. He says, in other words, I am a debtor to every person that walks the face of this earth. And if you read and study the book of Acts and you travel with Paul, the places he goes, Paul always wanted to find a way to get into the hearts and homes of people. You are always have to be on sole patrol. You always have to be looking out for people that are not looking out for themselves. We have to have a burden. And boy, what a burden it is. When you walk, you know, into the gas station or the grocery store and you look at the person across the counter and you can't help but see their tattooed body and their pierced body. And uh you know they their face, there is no joy, there is no happiness, there is no uh peace in their lives, and you wonder what's going on. There was a time when our two dogs, we had two German shepherds, and they took off and they often did that and I often said, man, we call them sassy and shadow. Sassy was the female, but she was always sassy. And Shadow would follow her like a shadow. There's something wrong about this picture, right? So one day they took off and they were in an intersection. And uh I found that out later and a guy had picked them both both up because there was going to be a big wreck and a lot of cars going to you know be in a in a collision Because these dogs were running all over the place and people were trying to get in get them into their truck and they wouldn't go. They would run all over the place. And boy finally they got him in the truck and took they took him to the house And then we found the dogs and I went uh to their house to pick 'em up and I pulled into the driveway and I looked at this man and I I said, Boy, thank you for uh, you know, taking my dogs and bringing them here and he told me the story while all the things that happened. And I said, Well, I think this is not an accident, by the way. I know my dogs do this all the time, but I don't believe this is an accident. So what do you mean? I said, I believe God brought me here on purpose. Because I want to talk to you about Jesus And I use that as an opportunity to share the gospel with him. At the end of that story, he said, I don't know what it's all what this is all about, but he said, I'm in a very bad situation. I said, what do you mean? He said, uh right now I my wife left me. She took my kids away. He said, I lost my job. He said, the only thing that I have in this world is the thing that you see behind me. I said, what's that? He said, that's my house. And he started crying and there was a lady next to him and she started crying and I said, Well, you know, Jesus can change everything. Would you pray and accept Jesus and make sh make a difference? You know start today as a brand new day. God's going to reconcile, bring all things, make it all work out. But uh he prayed with me but he never showed up in church again. But there are people that are broken and bruised and ruined by sin everywhere around us. I want you to look at a passage of scripture in the Old Testament. Go with me to Genesis chapter number 18. In Genesis chapter number 18, we find a story. It's an interesting story because here the angels come to visit uh Abraham and they are uh telling Abraham and Sarah of course uh in the previous verses that they're gonna have a baby. Of course they're old and I you know the story so I'm not gonna go there but go with me to verse number twenty In verse number 20 it says, and the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great And because the their sin is very grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which has come unto me, and if I if not, I will know. And the men turned their faces from thence and went towards Sodom. I want you to notice here, uh right after the great news that they gave Abraham and Sarah, they were headed to Sodom and Gomorrah because they were going to destroy that city. And Abraham perceives it, and immediately in verse number 21 He says here, in verse number 22, it says, And the men turned their faces and danced and went towards Sodom, but Abraham stood before the Lord. While the other angels started heading towards Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham stops in the middle and stands right before God and he says, Lord, listen, I've got to ask you a question. And he begins to plead with God. Verse number 22, he says, and Abraham drew near and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? You know what Abraham's doing? He's saying, Lord, listen, I know you've come to judge. I know those people are wicked. But Lord, could you do something to help and save those that are righteous? Are you going to destroy the righteous people along the wicked? And as you study the rest of the verses, Abraham begins to bargain with God for that city. Abraham was so burdened. For those people in that city. And he goes from fifty to forty-five and he starts negotiating and then he drops it down by tens and then he says when God says if there are ten people, I won't wipe it down. And then of course uh Abraham ultimately stops talking about it and uh we don't know why he he didn't uh persist any longer but in chapter number nineteen you have another guy and that is Lot Who is in Sodom already? While Abraham was so burdened to rescue a whole city, here was Lot who didn't want to rescue one person. All the time he lived there. You know, uh in our lives sometimes uh we can live day after day, day after day, and not be worried about anybody around us. There are lost people around us. It doesn't matter where in the world. Around the corner, around the world, there are people in your neighborhood. In our city in Nashville, there are people that are lost and dying. We started a Bible club in the south side of Nashville on the last Friday of January. And uh we took a group of people from our church, we drove an hour, and we started, we went out and gave us some uh flyers and we said, hey, listen, we're gonna have a Bible study and a little story time. And we're gonna teach you some songs and have some great snacks. And we brought all these people in. They were out of the hundred apartments there, buildings there, ninety-five of them probably were Indian people. And guess who showed up? A lot of Hindus. And we taught them song, My God is so big, so strong and so mighty. We taught them all these Jesus loves the little children of the world We taught 'em all these songs, and I preached a message and I talked about God creating the world, God creating them, and God's plan of salvation for their lives, and I was very skeptical in my heart, even though I know the gospel has power, yet sometimes as a preacher, you're thinking, man, will they really believe? Because they're Hindus. They're not going to listen to my message. And I gave an invitation. I said, if there's anybody here, I don't want you to raise your hand unless you absolutely fully understand what I'm telling you. You're not adding another God to your religion. This is Jesus alone, no other God that stands alongside of him. He is the only way, the only truth, the only life. If you believe that with all your heart that Jesus died and rose again, then I want you to lift your hands and guess what happened? Six hands went up. And boy, I was shocked. I was so astounded. I said, Lord, I don't know what to say, but praise the Lord. But she was saved. She had come to church, but Two months before we had that meeting. And the first Sunday she walked into the church and we preached the gospel. She she got uh she got so excited and she wanted to get saved and So she talked to my wife, and my wife said, Are you sure about this? Do you want to accept Jesus? She says, Yes, absolutely sure. And she accepted Christ and then she said, Pray for my husband. And that meeting her husband raised his hand and got saved. There are people all around. Some of us can be like Abraham. Abraham was so burdened to rescue that city. He was Lord, don't don't destroy that whole city just because There are so many wicked people, but there are righteous people, Lord, save that city. Boy, Paul had such a passion to see people saved. If you study the life of Paul, you'll find that Paul traveled 10,000 miles in his lifetime. He got on ship, he walked many of those miles. He might have traveled on a donkey. He went places, his feet probably were blistered and bruised, his body was hurt and broken. Boy he had no clothes um enough uh in prison when he studied the last part of his life. While he was prison he says, uh listen, uh could you bring that cloak along with you when you're coming? It's cold here in the dungeon It was not a fancy prison like we have today where prisoners go and they have television, they have all these comforts. They dug a hole and just dumped you in that hole. And water, sometimes the water fountains would burst, and water would come off, you couldn't fall asleep. It was so cold and dark And they would bring you back up and it wasn't an easy life for Paul, but Paul realized even though uh his days were numbered, he was gonna die and he knew Nero would kill him Yet for all Paul was burdened for these people. He said, You say, Pastor, how do how do these how does Paul really want why does he want to go to Rome? Of course, Jerusalem itself, they were going to kill him. Uh now why go to Rome where Nero, this crazy guy, is uh killing people, all Christians and burning them at stake. But Paul had a passion. He wanted to see people saved, by life or by death Last of all, let me give you another thing here in verse number four. I mean the fourth thing that I want to share with you there for the praise of our Redeemer. If there's anything that you and I uh ought to be indebted to God, it's because we want to bring praise to his holy name. If you look, look at verse number five, he says, by whom we have received grace and apostleship. And notice the next two words, for obedience. to the fate among all nations and notice the last three words for his name. You know, we're not doing it just for our church. We're not doing it for the pastor. Of course you ought to love your pastor. But we're doing everything we need to be doing as a Christian for the l for the glory of God. If God has called me to serve him, if God has saved me and set me apart, my job is to do everything he's asked me to do. We have a young man in our church, Colton, was 19 years old. Colton was depressed. You wouldn't think that's going to happen, by the way, a lot of young people, teenagers. Commit suicide, one of the most highest ways of people dying in America is see teenage suicide. Especially among among the American Indians. Teenage suicide isn't the number one way people get killed And here Colton was depressed. He was taking medication for depression and anxiety. And um He began to go to atheist groups and agnostic groups and started to think that that's the best way to find some answer to his life's problems. And when everything else fails, you know what Colton did? He got in his car and started driving down Nashville, downtown, contemplating how he could end his life. A 19-year-old boy. Praise God for my youngest son Marcus. Marcus invited a girl called Piper. And Piper was too shy and too scared to come to church. Her mom had been watching our livestream for about a year during COVID. Praise God we had services and somebody was watching. We never knew. She was watching our services And so Piper called out to Colton and said, Colton, I want to go to the church because somebody's inviting me to church, but I'm scared to go there. And they would be scared if they saw Indians, right? Over there. And praise God. They both walked into church. Guess what happened? God saved Colton. Colton's life was transformed Colton couldn't believe it and Colton said, Pastor, I'm so excited, I'm saved, but he says I don't know if this is the right church for me. I'm going to an Anglican church in Clarksville and I'm coming here uh one Sunday and I go there another Sunday. I said to Colton, I said, Colton, let me tell you something. I said, I want to do disableship with you. Will you let me do that? I said, give me twelve weeks of your time. I'll do disableship. When twelve weeks uh weeks are done, I'm gonna make uh let you make a decision. You can go where you want, I won't stop you But I knew in my heart, if I planted the Word of God in in his heart, he wouldn't go. And uh boy about week three or week four Colton came for discipleship and he had a big old smile on his face and Colton said, Pastor, I made up my mind about church. I said, What do you mean? In my heart, while he was happy, I wasn't happy. I was like, what's he gonna tell me Maybe this is the last time he's gonna show up. And Colton said, Pastor, I decided that I'm coming here to church. I said, Why is that, Colton? What made you make up that decision? He said, because y'all teach me the truth of God's word. Boy Colton today, nineteen years old. Uh he's going to college. He told me uh a few months ago, he said, Pastor, I don't feel any passion for my computer science program that I'm in. I'm almost finishing it. I said, Colton, keep going. Maybe God's going to use that in the ministry alongside of what God's going to do in your life. And Colton's Colton loves the Lord. I told Colton we got to pray for your dad. He said, Pastor, pray with me because my parents won't go to church My brother won't come. I said, don't get discouraged. Just let's keep praying. God's gonna do something in their hearts. And a few months later it was Christmas and I invited them to Christmas for our Christmas program and they walked in. And then they started showing up once a month. And then they started coming every two weeks. And now they're there every Sunday. And I talked to his dad, I said, What made you all come? He said the first few weeks we saw Colton's life change, we didn't believe it. We thought he was faking it all. He's putting on an act. But he said when two weeks went by and a month went by he's still wanting to go to church on time, he still wants to be in Sunday school, he still wants to be in prayer meeting. He said we realize there's something different about this guy. What's going on here? So they said we want to check it out. And you know what the Lord did? The Lord changed their lives. You know God is working. God is working in the hearts and in the lives of people, and through Colton's life, I believe with all my heart God's going to call Colton to the ministry. My biggest fear as a pastor, I'm not I shouldn't be afraid, but my fear is maybe God's going to call him into missions He learn he knows Spanish. He's learning German. He's learning Hindi. Man, this isn't it's good science, but it's not looking good for a pastor because That's all signs of somebody you know some place he's gonna be in. Maybe India, I'm thinking all these different maybe Germany, you know, Spain, Mexico, I don't know where he's gonna go, but I'm like Colton, let's keep focused, okay? Stay right here for now But praise the Lord. We see God working in the hearts and the lives of people, and we can bring praise to God. as we begin to serve him. And every single day. And you notice here in verse number 14, Paul says, I am debtor. What an important thing it is. And then Paul makes another I am statement. Verse number 15 he says, So as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel. To you that are in Rome also. You see the passion, the fire. But let me remind us, you know, passion without compassion is no good. We can be all fired up and tell people you're going to go to hell and not have any ounce of compassion for their soul. Or when you have tears in your eyes and a broken heart for those people and you say, Listen, I'm burdened for you. I hope to God. That you will make a good decision about church. And it's exciting as a brand new church to see these young people faithful We were out in Denver last week, Colton and I. I told Colton, I'm going to go to a conference and say, Pastor, can I go along? And Colton never been in a church building. Can you believe that? He'd never been in a church building, in a Baptist church building And I took him to a church in Nashville to Spring Hill and the first time he walked into the building he said, Pastor, is this what a church looks like on the inside? I said, Yes. And then I told him I'm going to Denver for a conference. He said, Uh can I go with you? I said, yeah, I'll take you with me, Colton. I said, I want you to notice, I want you to go here because it's going to be exciting. You're going to hear a lot of good preaching. And but Colton's not used to being, you know, sitting in church for four hours. So the first Sunday first day we got there, uh boy there were two sermons in the morning. We started at nine o'clock and they preached. And then we got to twelve o'clock and the preaching Colton was tired. His eyes could look at his eyes going. And I said, Colton, I think maybe uh you need to rest. I'll go back for the service. Maybe you rest for this service. He says, Pastor, no, I can't do that. Man, the preaching is good. I want to go back. And for three days we said two and a half days we were there, we heard ten sermons And Colton said I've never heard that many sermons. I told Colton, I think, well, you know what, we won't go to church for a month because we've listened to ten sermons. We used to get eight sermons, right, in a month. So we can just take a break. She says, no pastor, you can't do that. You know. And it was Tuesday night when we got there and Colton says, I miss being in church, in our church. Praying. Boy what a joy it is to see God working in the hearts of people. I am ready, Paul says, to preach the gospel. Are we ready? Last of all, here in verse number 16, Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. There are a lot of reasons why one could be ashamed. What Nero was doing to Christians was atrocious What people were talking about, Christians, was not so good. And Paul told Timothy in the book of Timothy, he says, Timothy, listen, don't be ashamed of me or nor of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You might think I'm crazy, I get in prison and out of prison. It's because I'm doing something wrong, but no, he says, Timothy, I am serving Jesus and that's the reason I get imprisoned a lot. There's no reason to be afraid, to be ashamed. Tonight I want to just say to you, church family, do you realize that God paid a debt on my behalf and your behalf? There's a little chorus that says He paid a debt. He did not owe. I paid a debt. I owed a debt I could not pay. I needed someone to wash my sins away And what a wonderful thing it's been that Jesus stepped in and he came in to save me and you from eternal hell and eternal death. Tonight I'm going to ask you the question, is there anybody here tonight that doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ? There are four things, three things you at least need to do. Number one, you need to be sure you're saved. If you have the slightest shadow of a doubt, you need to make sure beyond a shadow of a doubt that you're saved But a girl that my wife is discipling, her name is Piper, and Piper uh had so much doubt. She said, I think I'm a Christian, but I'm not 100% sure. And through discipleship, Leah said, if you're not sure, you need to make sure. Let's pray and make sure about it And uh a few w there was a Sunday I wasn't wasn't preaching in church and my son preached a good message and the Holy Spirit of God got a hold of Piper in such an amazing way and Piper went up to the altar and she prayed and she surrendered her life to Christ. And uh my wife and I talk sometimes, say, man, this is not the same girl we met before a few months ago. Her life has changed. You can tell the difference is like black and white. What happened? So tonight, don't ever leave this building not knowing you're saved. See, most serious in that is don't leave life without Christ. Number two, let me ask you this question, if you're saved. This is something that we struggle with. There's got to be a day of salvation, but there's also got to be a day of surrender. So many Christians get saved, but they never surrender their lives. They live day after day because they're afraid that God might do something in their lives that they're not ready b ready for. That was me in Bible College. I was afraid to tell the Lord, Lord called me, because I didn't know where He was going to send me. I was afraid He'd send me some places. By the way, I didn't want to go to Nashville. When you start praying, I remember my father-in-law preaching a message he said, Don't ever say no to God. Don't ever say I can't go, he's gonna send you right there, you know. And so I would pray, Lord, please send me there. So he won't send me there, but that doesn't work either. You can't fool God. He knows your heart. And boy, God works in a wonderful way. So tonight, if you've never told the Lord, Lord, what do you want me to do in my life, Paul did that the very moment he got saved. He surrendered. He said, Lord, whatever you want, I'll do. And it's not a scary thing. When God's there with you, you never have to be afraid. Would you make a decision tonight and say, Lord, I'll surrender all no matter what you do with my life? I don't really worry about it. I want you to take a hold of my life. Last of all, let me ask you a question: What are you doing to serve the Lord Jesus Christ today? What are you doing? Is there, you know, you say, Pastor, I don't have a lot of abilities. God doesn't want your abilities. God wants availability. You say, Lord, I can do this, and that's all. Would you help me, Lord, by your strength, by your power to do what you ask me to do? And God will. I promise you, God will help you, He'll enable you, He'll equip you. to do the things that he's asking you to do. So if you're not saved tonight is going to be the greatest day of your life. Make that decision tonight. If you've never surrendered, like Pastor said, to write in our Bibles certain things, Write down the day of your salvation, the day of your surrender, and then tell the Lord, I'll serve you every single day of my life till the last day I live in this world. Everybody can do something. Everybody can. Well God can use you here right here in this church. There's so much you can do for God. In our church we have people When Colton first came, he said, Pastor, I don't know what to do. I said, what can you do? He said, I don't know anything, Pastor. I said, okay, let's start with the wires. Start rolling the wires. And he had to pick up the wire, start winding them. I said, Okay Colton, that's good, you got that now. And now he runs uh he stays and runs our sound. You know, he picks up a man, uh two hours away, I go in the morning, pick him up and bring him to church, and in the evening he drives and brings him back. I mean drops him off and gets home. Well there's every everybody can do something. What can you do to serve the Lord Jesus Christ? Let's take a moment