If we really grasp the importance of them, if we really grasp what they mean for us as individuals and as Christians, what God is saying to us as He tries to teach to teach his personality, his character, and who he is to each of us in Washington, D. C. In one metro station on cold uh January morning of 2007, a man stood, pulled out his violin, and began to play. Six consecutive pieces by Bach. For close to an hour he played continually. During that time, a little over 2,000 people passed through the Metro Station. And none stopped. After an hour of solid playing, he Stopped and began to put his instrument away and nobody applauded. Nobody said thank you. Nobody said, wow. They didn't realize that the man that stood there in Metro Station's name was Joshua Bell, one of the greatest musicians in the world. He played one of the most intricate pieces of music ever written on a violin worth $3. 5 million. Just a few days before, in a large theater in Boston, he packed the house out with the average seat costing over a hundred dollars. And these two thousand plus people walked by him without a thought, without any recognition of what it was they were hearing Of the blessing they were receiving. This stunt was put on by the Washington Post in a study on perceptions in our social society that we live in. But as I thought about that, I thought about us and as we study the IAMs of Christ. And if we aren't careful, we'll hear the statement. And it'll just pass by and it won't really sink in what it means to us. It won't really get down into our heart and and feed us and and give us what we need to make it through our life. You say, oh that's nice or that's quaint or oh look at that. You know that Jesus did this or Jesus did that. But it won't really reach down into our heart and change us. Because we don't let the significance of it touch our lives. So I hope as we spend time looking at these that you personally ponder and think upon the thoughts. Our text this morning, where Jesus Christ declares himself to be the way, the truth, and the life. When we started this, the seven Iams of Christ, I told you we would be looking at seven because I'm combining these together. Some people say there's nine because they split them apart, and certainly they could be an entire lesson taught on the way, the truth, and the life. You could split those apart and deal with each of those individually. I'm going to combine them together and give us a cohesive thought for the for the statement and hopefully be an encouragement to you and to feed your spirit this morning. Let's read our text, John chapter 14. If you turn your Bibles to John chapter 14, we're going to read the first six verses. Where this statement by Christ is found. This passage of Scripture has brought comfort to many. Many people who at the time of their life when they face the greatest loss that they'll face in this life, the loss of a loved one, have turned to this passage. And gain great comfort from it. It starts out, let not your heart be troubled. And we read this text in the hope of when we will see our loved ones again. You see, Jesus is saying, let not your heart be troubled, and he's not talking about the troubles that face us day by day. He's not talking about the duties of our life and the demands of our life that wear upon our soul, about maybe the debt that is hanging over us that continually uh is grabbing a hold of us. He's not talking about those things. He says, let not your heart be troubled, and what he's talking about is the fact that he Was going to be leaving. You see, back up, look at verse like number 33 of chapter 13. He says, Little children, yet a little while I am with you, ye shall seek me. And as I said unto the Jew, whither I go, ye cannot come. So now I say unto you. And then he gives some commandments to them, but he's preparing them He's saying unto them, he's saying, hey, I'm going to go away. And he had been preparing the disciples for a while, talking about the time when he would be gone. In Matthew chapter 16, verse number 21, he says, for that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into Jerusalem. And suffer many things of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed and be raised again the third day In Luke chapter 18, verse number thirty-one, he says, Then he took unto him the twelve, and he said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. And then in our text this morning, he talks again about the fact that he's going to be leaving and that they shouldn't let their hearts be troubled So look with me here, and let's read if you follow along as I read these first six verses of John chapter number fourteen. He says, Let not your hearts be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also. in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go, Ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas said unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. How can we know the way? He says, you know, doubting Thomas, right? He says, he says, Lord, you're telling us you're leaving, and we don't know where you're going. If we don't know where you're going, how are we going to know the way to get there? That doesn't make sense. Thomas asks. the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Jesus, the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. So Jesus answers Thomas' question there about where he was going, he's going to the Father And about the way to get there. And we're going to look at that this morning. Let me ask God to bless the lesson if you don't mind. Lord, we thank you for the privilege of ours to be in church today, to have scripture in our lap and to read I pray, God, that the scope and the importance of the statement that you have given to us here in the scriptures would sink home to each and every heart. We're so grateful for your love and the fact that you are the way, the truth, and the life. We ask you to feed us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus is going away. He's going to be departed from them. He's not going to be in their presence. And he says, don't let your hearts be troubled. Don't worry about it. It's going to be okay. I'm going away, but you can come and be with me. Much like a Jewish boy would tell his bride, I'm going away, but you're gonna come and be with me. You see, he knew the disciples would understand this idea when he said, I'm going to go and prepare a place, because it was a Jewish custom that before the wedding The groom would go and prepare a place for his bride to be. Many times, as a young man without many much substance, not having received his inheritance yet, many times he would go to his father's house, and they would have a section set off for them, or they would have a room set off for them. And they would say, the groom would say, I'm going to go prepare a place for you. And he would spend time and effort and energy and money preparing a place for his bride that he was going to go pick up. And bring her after the wedding. And he would go to his father's house to do that. This is where you get what's called room theology. Now, I don't believe that it's that there's room in the room theology, but some people teach that Jesus has gone to heaven and he's preparing many rooms. But that's not what the scripture says, does it? It says, I go and prepare uh many what? Mansions. Mansions. I don't know if you want to believe God's preparing you a room, great. I said, you know, maybe we'll get to heaven and we'll find out differently. But I think it says mansions, and I'm excited about the fact that he's preparing many mansions, places for us, for for his bride, the bride of Christ. He's gone to his father's house. He's gone to be with the Father. And he's preparing many mansions. But because of that Jewish custom where the the groom would many times go and prepare a room for his bride, some people teach that that's what Jesus is doing for us. He's preparing a room and we're all going to have a room in heaven. And you know what, either way, I don't think it's going to matter because a mansion's not going to be what's most important when we get to heaven. It's going to be that you're in the presence of Jesus. He's going and he's preparing a mansion. So I'm going to take these statements, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and answer a couple of questions for you. First of all, by Jesus' declaration here, he's answering the question of how can I be saved? How can I be saved He said, I am the way. Psalms 18, verse number 30 says, as for God, his way is perfect. Now God's way is perfect, but if you think about the fact that Jesus is the way, has there ever been anybody else who is perfect? On earth, Jesus was perfect. He lived a sinless life and died sinless, still not tainted by Adam's blood and the sin that comes with it. He's the only one. God, as for his way, is perfect. Now his way is perfect, but Jesus Jesus being the way, he was perfect. How can I be saved? You see, his way is the way to the Father. No man cometh unto the Father but by me He's the way to the Father. You know, Thomas said, hey, we don't know where you're going, and we don't we don't know uh how to get there. He said, I'm going to the Father, and I'm the way. I'm going there and I'm the way to get there. He's the way to forgiveness. You know, at Burger King you can have it your way. At uh at Starbucks you can have your coffee any of seven hundred different ways. You can uh McDonald's just gonna give it to you like it is. But we're talking about God's way, and if you want forgiveness, you've got to do it God's way. You see, Adam, all he had to do is follow God's way. Back in the Bible, in the in the Garden of Eden. If he would have just followed God's way and not eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, he would never have plunged the human race into into sin. But he did. And he didn't want to follow God's way. He didn't want to do what God said. You can have it your way in many other situations, but if you want to have forgiveness, you've got to do it God's way. You see, Jesus is not just simply pointing to the way. Jesus doesn't simply talk about the way. That's our job as we point to Jesus. We point people to the way, but Jesus is the way. Weirsby said, He is the way. In fact, the only way. The way, in quotes, was the name of many early Christians. As they were called Christians, or they were called people of the way. In Acts chapter 9, verse number 2, in 199, and verse number 19, and verse Verse number 23, in 22, verse number 4, and 24, verse number 14. They were called people of the way. Jesus. Following Jesus. People of the way. Jesus takes away all other proposed ways to heaven. Good works, religion. Ceremony, sacrifice, gifts, there is no other way except through Jesus Christ He is the way to live forever. You know many people today they talk about wanting to live forever? There's all kinds of movies about how people, you know, this extremely smart guy s dedicates his life to inventing a way and and he has done all this study to somehow reach immortality And then all kinds of things happen, whether it's a nuclear disaster or uh science uh chemical spill or lightning strikes the building and this super bolt of electricity comes through. There's all these things that somehow they've reached they found the way to defeat death. Well Jesus already defeated it. And you don't have to do any research. He's told us right here what we got to do. He said, Here's the way to live forever. You want to live forever? You want to you want to be in heaven? Jesus said, I am the way. Here's how you do it. Just accept the way. How can I be saved? How can I live forever? Accept Jesus. Accept Jesus as your Lord and Savior. You know, his doctrine teaches us our duty, but his deity paid our debt. our sin debt, and provided a way. He is the only way. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men, whereby ye may must be saved. So how can I be saved? Follow the way. Just do the way. You know the way of man has always brought Destruction, downfall, disappointment, discouragement. The way of man has always brought these things. And We just need to accept God's way. The prophet Isaiah put it like this. All we like sheep have gone astray and turned everyone. What To his own way. But we don't need to go our own way. We need to go God's way. And Jesus is the way. You know faith is worthless. unless it's founded in something secure. One night there was a man driving a pickup truck down a road on his way to Vicksburg, Mississippi. In this particular stretch of highway, there's a number of bridges that you have to pass over. All the people traveling on the road that night had faith in their vehicles that they would get them where they were going. All the people traveling that night had uh faith in the road that they were driving upon, that it was going to take them to where they needed to go, and that the bridges that they were passing across were sound and They were traveling in the dark of night and this gentleman who was following a uh another vehicle in front, and you know you see the tail lights ahead of you there, and he's driving along and Everything was going great, enjoying an evening ride, and uh it was a pretty pretty dark night. There was not many, not much of moon shining, a lot of cloud cover. And uh, you know, you couldn't see much, but you could see the lights in front of you and what your headlights would reveal and they were driving along that night and then all of a sudden in front of him the tail lights of the vehicle in front of him appeared to just melt into the road. And he not being aware of what happened, maybe he thought the guy's lights just went out or or you know didn't know what what, but he could continued on, and it was only a few seconds later when his eyes were able to grasp the facts that there was a gaping hole in the bridge that once was there. And he, unawares, drove off the edge. Falling down into the river below. Once upon hitting the water, he was still conscious. He unbuckled his seatbelt, busted the glass, got out of the car, and swam towards the shore Before he could even reach the shore, the next vehicle plunged off the bridge into the water below He reached the shore and he climbed up the bank and he ran to the road and he stood on the side of the road and he's waving at everybody to try and get them to stop. And people looked at him and paid him no mind. This all wet scarecrow looking guy waving like a maniac on the side of the road, and they just kind of went around him in faith, believing that the bridge was in front of them. And they drove right off into the gaping hole. The rumble of the tires. Gone for a few seconds before the splash of the water. You see, they all had faith that that bridge was there They had faith in the way that they were going, and there's many people in this world today who have faith in something else besides Jesus Christ who is the way. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me, and they might have faith in their religion, they might have faith in their good works They might have faith in what they're doing, whatever there's some ceremonial practices that they're trying to fulfill on a regular basis, but those will all be empty. It's a bridge that is out because there is only one thing that Spans the gulf that's between heaven and hell, and that is Jesus Christ. He said, I am the way. How can I be saved? Go the way of Christ. Now this is exciting too, because he answers another question as he He makes a statement. First he says, I am the way, and he says, how how to be saved, but then he says, how to be sure. How to be sure. You see, it's exciting that as a Christian, I can know that I'm saved, but I also don't have to wonder. I don't have to doubt. He said, I am the truth. You know, there's a lot of people in this world that would do what they could to deceive you. They would try and take advantage of you. They would uh deceive you in order to uh get profit or gain and and you know somehow uh better themselves and inflict something upon you, but Jesus would never deceive you. He said, I am the truth. How can you be sure? You can be sure because he's the truth. He would never lie, and he said, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go You can come unto me. He's gonna bring you. He is the truth. John Hess said, seek the truth. Listen to the truth, teach the truth, love the truth, abide by the truth, and defend the truth until death. And he did just that as he was one Day burned at the stake for his belief in the truth. Jesus is the truth You know, truth is his very nature. It is the very nature of God. Three times in the Bible, the Lord is referred to as the God of truth. In Deuteronomy 32, 4, and Psalms 31, 5, and Isaiah 65, 16, he's referred to as the God of truth. It's the very nature of God to be truthful. At least three times in the Bible, we see that the Holy Spirit is referred to as the Spirit of Truth. Even in our text here, look down in chapter 14, verse number 16 and 17. Chapter 14 he says in verse number 16 and verse number 17 he says, And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. That he may abide with you forever. Again, he's talking about going away, and he says, I'm going to send a comforter unto you, which we know is the Holy Spirit. Verse number 17. He said, Even the spirit of what? Truth. The Spirit of Truth. Now we know and we believe in the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, three in one, and yet all distinct individuals. And they are all truth. Jesus, his very nature, is truth. This is why the Scripture talks about those that are very educated. There are people who have spent their life in pursuit of knowledge. But the Bible says what? They are ever learning, but never coming to the knowledge of what? The truth truth because they do know a lot of things about this world which God created. They understand many, many things pertaining to maybe the universe. That God established. To the laws of nature which we cannot change or cannot break, which God set in motion. They know a lot about God's creation. But they don't know God. They are ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth. That's not that much of the things that they've learned are are not true. the studies that many people do in you know establishing the laws of gravity and the uh how things fall and and so on, uh that's true. But they don't know God. They don't come to the knowledge of truth. And that is knowledge of God, of Jesus Christ. His very nature is true. When God gives us a promise, we can believe it You know, many people choose not to believe the truth of Jesus. But I want you to understand that there's only one other option. There's no middle ground. You're not all alone. You either believe the truth of God or you believe the lie of the devil Is one or the other. The Bible speaks of those whose eyes are blinded, who who cannot see. The truth. So it's one or the other. Either you believe the truth that God gives us in His Word, or you believe the lie that's pop propagated and taught and promoted by the devil. And many would say, Oh no, I don't believe in that. It doesn't matter. What we believe doesn't change truth. What I say, if I said that this pulpit here is wood, and I believe it, you'd say, good, it's wood. But what if I said this pulpit is made out of fondue? You say, Pastor Caleb? That's not so. Nope, I'm telling you it is. I believe it. Look, I believe it so much I'm gonna take a chunk of it and eat it. Say Pastor Caleb, don't do that. You know what I believe doesn't change what wouldn't change the fact that this is what Right. I could I could be fully convinced in my mind that this was Fondue and you would think I was a quack. But it wouldn't change what the truth is, right? And so the truth of the Word of God does not change by what man believes and doesn't believe. The truth is still truth. And Jesus is the truth. You know, many are asking how they can get to heaven. Many are asking how they can know the way. Like Thomas, he says, We know not whither thou goest. How can we know the way? What can we do? How can we know the way to get there? The world is searching. The world is looking. People are searching. They want answers. And Jesus gave us the answer. And he is so truthful. He said, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so. I would have told you. He didn't just forget and leave something out. He didn't say, Oh, I forgot to tell you guys this Have you ever uh you know, told somebody, Well, we'll I'll meet you somewhere or something and you forgot to tell them where you're meeting? Or hey, okay, we're going to go eat, and then you forget where to say where you're going to go. Or you forget to give them directions and you call them back up and say, oh, I forgot to tell you how to get there. I forgot to tell you this. You know, Jesus didn't forget. He gave us the way. And he declares, listen, if it wasn't so, I would have told you. I would have gave you the answer because I am truth. You can be sure of it. You can know it. Nothing was forgotten. Nothing was left out. Nothing was left vague. Jesus is truth and he has declared that to us. He is the answer. God's word is sure. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. God says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God? Believe also in me. You know, you have to choose the way. In Psalms 19, verse number 30, we read, I have chosen the way of truth. Psalms 19, 30. I have chosen the way of truth. Are you have you chosen the way of truth? Maybe you're contemplating it, maybe you're thinking about it, maybe you're just trying to decide. Well, it's a choice. And you've got to decide to choose the way of truth. Like the psalmist did, I've chosen the way of truth. How can you be saved? Follow the way. How can you be sure? Because God is truth. And then lastly, how can I be satisfied? This life we live has so many disappointments. But how can we live our life and be satisfied? Jesus says, I am the life. Jesus says, the way, the truth. And the life. When we're following the way and living by his truth, we live a life that is satisfied, fulfilled, happy. Look at verse number eight. He says in verse number eight, Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it shall, and it sufficeth us. That word suffices means to be strong, to be content, to be satisfied You know, I've given this illustration before, but when we were climbing the Grand Tetons, And there was a hundred and fifty-foot drop that we had to repel over the edge and go down. And I've told you how that the guide threw his backpack over and the 150-mile an hour winds coming up the face of that cliff blew his backpack back up the cliff. And he said, well, normally we go down with two ropes, the first rope, you you repel yourself down on and we have a safety rope just in case, but we can't get our safety rope down, so we have to lower a person over when it's this windy. And I said, I'll go. And I got to the edge and I said, now this guy was small. I mean he was a little guy. There's nobody in here as small as this guy was, this guy I mean he was a little guy. And I almost told him, I almost said, I want my dad on the other side of that rope. And I thought, well, he knows what he's doing. I mean he's the guide, right? But before I would back over the edge, I said, I want to see you hold my weight before I go over. I'm not going to go over until I know you can hold my weight. So I leaned back on the first there's two two kind of ledges. I leaned back on the first ledge and he had an apparatus that he tied us off on a rock and he had this apparatus that the rope went through and he held my weight with two fingers He's like, I can let you go or I can hold you I can stop ya. I can let you go or stop ya. I mean real I said okay. So I backed over the edge. But I wasn't sa I wasn't satisfied to go over that edge till I could see that he could do it. Listen, when you live for live your life for Jesus Christ, it brings satisfaction. It brings satisfaction. You can be satisfied You know, only Christ satisfies. Riches don't satisfy. Religion doesn't satisfy. What an empty and futile pursuit Can you imagine giving your life to pursue some religion? To follow a set of uh ceremonies or to give your life in pursuit of uh you know, bowing down and and worshiping a a statue of some sort that will not satisfy It is an effort to fill the void that is built into each of us where we should have Jesus Christ. Because when he is there, men are satisfied. Can you consider with me, if you would, playing a game, a sport, playing a sport without a goal? We're playing basketball and we just run down to this end. And then we run down to this end. And you're like, what are they doing? And they run down to this end. For for what? There's no goal? There's no uh you know when we start playing a game, even some kind of like let's play uh phase 10, the first time you're playing, you ask them, okay, what are the rules? How do I win? What's the objective? I mean what what are we doing? What is the end game? What do I have to? I gotta get rid of this stack. That's what I gotta do. Or I gotta get the person with the most cards or whatever the goal is. What's the goal? Let's find out the goal because that's what I'm shooting for. Living life without Jesus Christ is like living a life without a goal Without without an end game, without a pursuit, without something to follow, and you you wake up in the morning and you wonder, what's it all for? Why are we here? That's why people believe and embrace so many philosophies and ideas of this world because they're looking for an end game. They're looking for a reason. And ultimately, the philosophy of the world is there is no reason. We all come from evolution and we're all gonna just go back into the ground anyway, so nothing matters. Just do what you want. And that's why our world is in the position that it's in. And men live miserable lives. They're not satisfied. Jesus said, Where I am, there ye may be also. It's a satisfying life to pursue Christ This whole the whole text of this is him talking about Jesus being gone, and he said, Let not your heart be troubled. Can I ask you, are you disappointed when Jesus is not present? When you don't feel his presence in your life? when you don't see him working, you longing for that, Jesus satisfies. We talked last week about the abundant life Jesus came that we might have life, but that we might have it more abundantly. The abundant life comes from living by the Word of God. It comes from living after the Spirit of God. The abundant life comes from living for the Son of God. And it comes from dying to self And living for others. Spurgeon said this: Christians should have such an abundant life that their circumstances should not be able to overcome them. Such an abundant life that in poverty they are rich, in sickness they maintain spiritual health And in trouble, they are of triumph. And in death, they have glory. Why? Because of Jesus. You know, just as much as eternal life is a choice, each step of this is a choice. Jesus said, I am the way. You've got to choose to you've got to choose to take the way. I am the truth. You have to choose to believe that. I am the life. God came that you might have life and you have it more might have it more abundantly, but it's a choice that you have to make. That you want to pursue Christ and live in obedience to his word and you can have abundant life. But it just doesn't happen, you've got to choose it. You've got to choose it. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Have you chosen the way? Do you believe the truth? Have you chosen the life that God wants for you? Let's have every head bowed, every eyes closed, if we're dismissed from Sunday school. Lord, we thank you for your love for us, and we thank you for the privilege, Lord, to learn of you. Of what you are to each and every one of us. I pray God you would help us to live our life in pursuit of you, not this world, not its riches, so many empty pursuits. But we might engage ourselves in the abundant life you would have for us. Thank you for being the way, the truth, and the life. Go with us now as we go into our morning service. May every heart be encouraged And Lord, may any that have not chosen the way to be with you, Lord, may they choose it today. We'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.