As I contemplated this uh you know, just in the last few weeks we've been looking at the IMs of Christ and I I thought of this way to try and get us to understand what it is that Christ is saying And uh, you know, i y i i it used to be, you know, dads and grandpas and grandmas would carry pictures of their children in their purse. They would have uh in their wallet. They would have the, you know, those little plastic things you slide the the wallet pictures in and you say, Oh, we want to see my grandson or you wanna see my son and my daughter Now we carry 'em in this and we've got hundreds of 'em, right? We can We could just look for uh infinitum at uh how many family photos we can carry. Uh but we carry 'em in this and we say, Hey, you want to see a picture of my son or my daughter or my granddaughter? And uh we show them a picture of what they look like. Well, Jesus, when he gives us the IMs of Christ, he's given us a picture of what he is. He's describing his character traits. He's giving us a picture, a glimpse into who Jesus is. And this morning we have this passage of scripture here in John chapter 15, which starts out with the statement, which is the I am that we're looking at this morning. He says, I am the true vine. So we're going to read down through verse number 8, the context of this lesson here, where he talks about this in the area that we're going to look at today It's notable that there's several very key words as we're reading through this. Watch for these words. The word fruit is mentioned six times. In me is mentioned five times, and as our song we sang this morning, uh constantly abiding, abide is mentioned seven times. in these few verses here. John chapter 15, we're going to read verses 1 through verse number 8. He says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purchaseth, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine No more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, ye can do nothing. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned And ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall ye be my disciples This morning we're looking at, I am the true vine. Jesus here, uh traveling. We don't know the exact location where he gave this lesson to the disciples. We know that it is somewhere between the Last Supper and the Garden of Gethsemane, where the time of his departure is at hand, where he knows he's going to be taken away. He knows very soon Judas is going to betray him and Peter's going to deny him and some of the disciples are going to go away. This is a time that's very intimate for them and their relationship as he discusses with them. who he is. That time of life where any of us value the input that we get from those that are passing on who are not long for this world. We look for the wisdom that they might have. Several times as I've had the privilege of Sitting with people in their last days, and I'll say if there's one thing you could tell your family after you're gone, what would you want me to share with them? What would you want me to tell them? And uh had the privilege of getting their thoughts to be able to give to the family in the days after their passing, which bring much comfort and help to the family. But Jesus here is at that time of his life where he knows his time is at hand. So he is sharing with them this truth about him being the vine and they need to abide in So, first of all, let's look at the participants of this story that uh Jesus gives to them as he teaches this principle and gives a picture, a glimpse into who he is. the participants. Jesus is the vine. He says, I am the true vine. Jesus is the vine. Now the nation of Israel often was called a vine. They were referred to as a vine. And Jesus knew who he was talking to. He knew he was speaking to some Jews here and that they would understand that And you know, sometimes people uh feel like they have a corner on God, or they have a corner on uh, you know, this relationship with God And God, uh, the truth of God's word is here and is available to anybody. Anybody can read it, anybody can know God, anybody can have a relationship with God. And uh it's not just the pastor or it's not just the deacon or the person that you look at the church and you see them and you think, you know, wow, uh they have a great relationship with God. But anybody can have that. And I think sometimes maybe the Jewish people got, well, we're we are the vine. We we are. And and that's us. And so Jesus knew who he was talking to. And he says, I am the true vine. And he knew that that would be something that would hit home to them, to those who he was speaking to. You see in Psalms chapter 80, verse 8 and 9, he says, Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt. Who did God bring out of Egypt? The nation of Israel. Yeah, he brought them. He says, Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt. Thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it. He cast out the heathen out of the land and planted the vine of Israel there. And uh in Jeremiah chapter 2, verse number 21, he says, Yet I had planted thee a noble vine. Holy, a right seed, how then art thou turned into a degenerate plant? A strange vine unto me But Jesus knew that they knew that they had been referred to or talked about as a vine. Hosea chapter 10, verse number 1. Israel is an empty vine. He bringeth forth fruit unto himself. In Isaiah chapter 5, verse 1 and verse number 7, he says, Now will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved, touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill. And in verse 7, for the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel. So over and over again, they were the house of Israel, the people of Israel, the nation of Israel was referred to as a vine, and Jesus says, hey, I am the true vine. And then he says, God the Father is the husbandman. Now the husbandman, I know that you understand, he that's the caretaker, that's the gardener, that's the one that looks after the vine, the one that is uh tending to it and giving time and effort. Energy and love to the vine. And then he says, ye are the branches. Christians are the branches. And he he tells us that. That's the participants that are involved in this story that God gives to the disciples as he gives a picture of himself. He says, ye are the branches, and as he tells them that they are the branches, he gives them the reason for a branch. And that is that a branch is to bear fruit. So let's see the production that you have here. We are all to be producing or bringing forth fruit. The word fruit is mentioned, as I said, six times in these eight verses. And uh I want you to see the progression of the fruit here. Look first at verse number two. He says, Every branch in me that beareth not fruit. So first of all, you have a branch that's not bearing any fruit, right? You've got no fruit. You have that. And uh I think at one point As we become Christians, we may be in that place, the very first step of being a Christian, we might be in a place where we're not bearing fruit yet, but we're not supposed to stay there. We're supposed to progress, and we're not supposed to stay as bearing no fruit. But then look, he says, he taketh it away, and every branch that beareth fruit. So you see first we have no fruit, then we have the branch that bears some fruit, right? Begins to be profitable, begins to bear some fruit. And then he continues on. He purged it that it may bring forth, what's the last two words? More fruit. So you got no fruit, some fruit, and now more fruit, the progression here in the in the Christian's life. And then look down at verse number five. I am the vine and you are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth what's those next few words? Much fruit. Now there's the progression is continuing on that we're to be bringing forth much fruit. And then look down to verse number 16. Um and we didn't read this far as we introduced here, but see, ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should what Remain. So you have remaining fruit. Every branch is supposed to be bringing forth fruit. Every branch has been chosen. To bring forth fruit. You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. God has chosen you to bring forth fruit. And every branch is to be doing that. We are all to be bringing forth fruit. Every Christian should be bearing fruit. in their life. Are you? Are you bearing fruit? Now there's several types of fruit. We could spend an entire lesson just on the fruit that as Christians We are supposed to have in our life, that we are supposed to be bearing, but uh one of the beginning things is the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long suffering, goodness, gentleness, meekness, temperance. Uh You're supposed to be bringing forth those f fru the fruit of the Spirit in your life. That's supposed to be happening as a Christian. And you know what? If you have any desire at all in your life to please God, if you are in any way searching for the Lord and say, you know what, God, the the Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak, and I want to please you, Lord, but there's a struggle, and there's this ongoing Christian battle in my heart with this world and the flesh. The devil, but God, I want you. We talk here a lot about the direction you're headed. And what I'm saying this morning is if you're at all headed towards God, this fruit is going to start to be evident in your life. It's an it's a byproduct of searching and seeking after God and being what God wants you to be. You might not even realize it, but the fact of the matter is, is when you start searching for the Lord and desiring to do what God wants you to do. You're going to find that you have love in places where you used to have bitterness. You're going to find that there's days that arise where you used to have lots of turmoil and there was lots of stress and problems and you just have this peace. And you wonder, like, how where'd that come from? How how can I be going through this and have peace through this? Before I used to be so tied up in knots over these things. But you've got that peace that's starting to come. You're going to find that you where you used to get angry and upset and you you didn't have any patience with anybody, that you've got some long suffering That will start to reveal itself. Sometimes maybe even to shock you, where you think, wow, I I I was patient with them. I didn't get upset about that. I was long-suffering with them. That's the fruit of the Spirit that begins to come out in your life. And it is a natural byproduct of being a Christian and desiring to please God. And if those pro those things are not starting to make themselves evident, you need to talk to God. Say, Lord, I I desire to bear fruit. These things should be part of my life. And the longer you're saved, The more those things should be a part of your life, the more you should see those fruits, the fruit of the Spirit, evident in your day-to-day life. Do you experience that? You know, you used to I was talking about Brother Value here being uh very disciplined in his Time schedule. He has to be for all that he accomplishes. Temperance. Discipline. You know, in your life you may say, Man, I used to waste so much, or I used to not be able to put this down, or I used to not be able to turn that off, or I used to not be able to to stop doing that. Have you seen God give you the victory in some of those things? That's the fruit of the Spirit. You can praise God that you're bearing fruit, the fruit of the Spirit in your life, because where you used to not be able to stop that. I remember testimony of Brother John talking about how he gave up smoking. And he just he said, I just you know, I I'm I'm gonna quit And and you know, God helped me and he took it away and he said, Well, wasn't you you tried it again and got sick? Yeah He he said he he said, Man, I used to enjoy this and he tried it again and he got sick from it. He said he said it just it used to be something he wanted and that and then he got victory over it. The fruit of the Spirit. We ought to be bearing the fruit in our lives, the fruit of the Spirit. Every Christian ought to, but we also ought to be bearing the fruit of souls. The fruit of souls. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. Proverbs 1130 You ought to have fruit of souls. We ought to have people. Proverbs eleven thirty. You ought to have people that you're praying for. You ought to have people that you're you're on purpose given attract to. People that you're witnessing to. Somebody that's on your heart. Somebody that you are reaching with the gospel, bearing fruit. The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that wineth souls is wise. That ought to be part of the fruit. The branches and the vine that don't bear fruit, they're removed. They're they're not doing anything. They're those branches are removed. They're of no use if they're not bearing fruit. Jesus in the scriptures there in Matthew chapter 21 he cursed a vine because it wasn't bringing fruit. He could he put a curse on it. So if Jesus is going to do that, let's look, there's our third point here at the pruning The pruning. None of us like this this part of it, right? The pruning. But it's a necessary step as Christians if we're going to progress as we saw the progression of the fruit. how we go from no fruit to some fruit to more fruit to much fruit and fruit that remains, if that's going to happen, there's got to be some pruning that takes place. in our life. This is a natural process through which we bring forth more fruit. More fruit is brought when you trim branches. There's some plants that just. thrive on being cut back, on being trimmed up. I mean if you let 'em grow, not not much is gonna happen. They're kinda get to this place and they just kinda sit there. But if you trim it, it comes back so much fuller and you trim it again and it comes back fuller and bigger and you trim it again, you're like, man, this thing won't quit growing. You've got to stop trimming it. You're cutting it back and it thrives in that. The purpose of purging is that we might, pruning is that we might bring forth more fruit The verse here or the word he uses is to purge in verse number two. Purge is to prune, to cut back that which is undesirable. A Christian is purged, cleansed, sanctified one way. He gives us here in verse number three. He says, now ye are clean through what? The word which I have spoken unto you. One of the ways that God cuts back, prunes, cleanses us, that we might bring forth more fruit is through his word. You say, man, Lord, I I I don't I'm not experiencing a lot of that fruit of the Spirit that Pastor Caleb was talking about. I'm not seeing that take place in my life. I'm not seeing that meekness and that peace and that love and Are you spending time in the Word? Because the Word is what cleanses us. The Word is what prunes us back a little bit. It's what helps that we might bring forth Much fruit. God uses His word to rebuke us, to chasten us, every Christian, that we might bring forth more fruit. The greatest judgment of God on a Christian would be that he would let us alone, that he would stop pruning us. You know on the property out there new property there's a lot of land and there are some plants that are on the edges of the property here and there that I know that they would thrive If I took a little time and cut away some of the blank branches that are blocking them from seeing the sun. There's some things that are in the way of allowing them to get the sun that they need. And I know if I went and cut that away that they would do much better. I know if I went and cleaned up around the plants a little bit and took away those things which are stealing the certain nutrients from the soil from that plant. If I cut those things back, that that plant would really thrive. But you know what? I really don't care about that plant. I'm not going to take time to go and work to try and make this plant do all that it can be. That's the saddest place for a Christian if they would get to the place where God says, I'm not going to prune you anymore I'm not gonna speak to your heart anymore. I'm not gonna try and change you anymore. You've resisted me so much We don't want to get to that place. We ought to thrive on seeing God work in our lives and and knowing that God is putting us back and God is speaking to us. When God speaks to your heart in a message at church, Don't get mad at the preacher. Thank God. Say, Lord, thank you for pruning me. Thank you for showing me that you love me enough to try and mold me, to try and shape me. to teach me your word and what I need to change in my life. Realize it's the love of God that's speaking to you. And the worst place to be would be where He stopped, where He stopped speaking to you. Weersby said, He cuts away the dead wood, that it might not cause trouble. Often, he even cuts away living tissue That would rob you from the spiritual vigor that you must have. Pruning does not simply mean spiritual surgery that removes that which is bad. It could also mean cutting away that which is good or that which is better, that you might have that which is best. That's the pruning process. And we're pruned that we might reach our potential. Our potential. Every Christian has potential. Verse number four. Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself. Except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. Every branch determines whether it will reach its potential or not. Proportionally To how well we abide in Him. Jesus was giving here the example and saying, just as a vine, a branch receives its sustenance just as the vine receives its moisture, just as the branch receives all that it needs to bear fruit from the vine. You, as a Christian, receive all you need spiritually to bear spiritual fruit. From me. And without me, you don't. You can't. You don't have the means or the ability to bear fruit if you take a branch and cut it off. and and stick it over here, it stopped receiving what it needs to bear fruit from the vine. And as Christians, if we cut ourselves off from the vine, the ability we have to bear fruit is gone. We determine if we're going to reach our potential or not. By how well we abide in the vine, constantly abiding, as we sang. Constantly abiding. To abide means to stay with, to remain attached to. Here in our text seven times. In verses four to verse number seven, there is the word abide or abideth or abide. We are to abide in Jesus. We're to stay with him. One of the ways we do that is stay in his word. Stay in close fellowship with him. Jesus was teaching. Your ability to reach your potential is directly connected to your ability to abide in me. Believers that do not abide in Christ, that cannot bear fruit, Are cast forth. Verse number six. If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch and is withered, and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. Jesus has given a very practical example of what happens to the branches that are cast forth. And they they trim up all the branches for the beginning of the season or whatever. They have a large pile of these these things. Typically, they take them and burn them. This is not talking about losing your salvation. This is not talking about this discussion here that Jesus is talking about, you have to understand, is not about salvation. He's talking about bearing fruit. So we have to look at it in context because some people would look at this especially because he says that they're cast into the fire. They'd say, see, if you're not bearing fruit in your life, you're going to be cast into the fire. Now, this is a real-life illustration of what typically happens to the branches. They're burned, but Jesus is not talking about us losing our salvation and being cast into the fire in eternal damnation. What he's talking about is the ability to bear fruit or not. If you're not bearing fruits, you're going to be cut off. It's like the illustration that Jesus gives about the salt that has lost its savor. Then he says, henceforth it is good for nothing. Right? Isn't that what he says? Is this salt, this lost the saber, is good for nothing. And it's cast out and trodden under the foot of men. They just say that salt's no good. They throw that out and it's trodden under the foot of men. Why? Because it's not doing what it was supposed to do. And the same thing that Jesus is talking about here is that if you're not bearing fruit, you're cut off. Your ability to bear fruit is cut off and it's burned up. So again, just making sure you understand, because some people would use this passage to teach that you might lose your salvation, and that is not what he's talking about here. He says, if a man abide in me, he is cast forth as. He's saying like, giving the illustration, the example, as a branch, just like that. Paul brought his body under subjection. Why? Because he feared being a castaway. G you see, Paul knew that if he wasn't bearing fruit, he he was going to be a castaway. He says, I don't I don't want that. And so he brought his body into subjection. And abided in the vine that he might bear fruit. So believers that do not abide in Christ. Don't bear fruit, but believers that do bear much fruit. You have the ability to bear fruit, and it's up to you How much you're going to bear by how closely you abide in Christ. So what is the purpose What is the purpose for this? Why? Why do we do this? There's several things that are given to us here as the purpose for us to abide. Obviously we want to bear fruit. But why? He says several things. Look in verse number seven. This is a promise to you. He says, if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Uh if you're abiding in Christ, your prayers will be answered. How many want your prayers to be answered? Amen. Your prayers will be answered. So our motivation to uh do this, obviously, we're gonna bear fruit, but we get a promise directly from God. If you're abiding in me. You shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. He's going to answer your prayer. We also get the privilege. Of bringing glory to God. Verse number eight. He says, Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. That you bear much fruit. Isn't Can you imagine a husband, a caretaker of a vineyard, that has invested so much time and love and energy and built this vineyard? That is producing the most magnificent fruit. Can you see his pride in the vineyard that he's carrying over? And a friend might come over and say, hey, how's it going? And he'll say, let me show you this. And he'll take you out and show you the vineyard and how it's doing. Herein is my father glorified. When you bring much fruit. His love for us, his care for us, and all he's done for us, and when old Slufoot comes up And is the accuser of the brethren? Can God do like he did with Job and He can say, Hey, have you considered my servant Don? Have you considered my servant Laura? Have you considered my servant rich? I mean, can God the Father look down and say, hey, I've got somebody that's bearing fruit and bringing much glory to me? Even though there's an accuser that would have you take that away. There's a couple other purposes for doing this. I know we all want to be happy, so why do we bear fruit? Look at verse number 11. He said, these things have I spoken unto you. What's the next sentence there? That. That your joy may be full. You want to be happy? You want to have joy in your life? You want to be thrilled about what's going on? You want to not walk through life down in the dumps? Bear some fruit. I'll tell you what, there's nothing like it. The joy of seeing that fruit in your life, whether it's the fruit of the Spirit, when you see that patience come for the first time, or you see that love come when it's not normal. When you have compassion on somebody that you wouldn't normally have compassion on, and you see that fruit of the Spirit, it brings so much joy. And then you see the joy of being able to bring somebody to Jesus Christ and change through eternal destiny. There's great joy in that, that your joy may be full. I think that tells us that you're not going to experience fullness of joy unless you're bearing fruit. It's just not gonna happen. You'll always always be a little bit shy of fullness of joy until you bear fruit Because that's what we're made to do. Look in verse number 17, the last purpose, the last reason that we do this. In verse number 17. He says, These things I commanded you that ye love one another. This is how we love each other with a Christ-like love. By abiding in Christ. These things, that phrase several times is here, these things. He gave us these things that your joy might be full. He gave us these things that you might love one another That you might have your prayers answered, and that you might bring glory and honor to the Father. Are you abiding in Christ, the true vine? Jesus said, I am the true vine. True vine, and ye are the branches. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and thank you, God, for giving us this glimpse. And teaching us the necessity of abiding in you, the sustenance and the source of our spiritual life, and that we might bear fruit, the fruit of the Spirit. And the fruit of the righteous. Lord, we pray that we would see that in our lives, that our joy might be full, that our prayers might be answered, that we would love the brethren. And that we bring honor and glory to you. And we'll thank you for it. Lord, be with us in the morning service. May you speak to hearts now. Because Brother Valuers He preaches, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.