And verse number twenty three will be our text, although we will be looking in a large portion of the uh chapter here to Teach hall that I would like to cover this evening. But from verse number 23 tones our title and the heart of the message. We dealt last week With it being baby dedication Sunday and uh two families dedicate themselves to the Lord to raise their children, the nurture and admonish the Lord and Sunday morning we dealt with raising our kids and And Sunday evening we dealt with restoring our relationship with our mate and just realizing how valuable and how important that relationship is. But the fact of the matter is, we're not going to be very successful at raising our kids for God or at maintaining a right relationship with our wife. If we don't have a right relationship with God. All of the things in life are secondary and they fall into place and Work in line with the heart that is right with God. What did you see? Our text this evening, Job 22, verse number 23. He says, If thou return to the Almighty. Thou shalt be built up, and thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles. If thou return to the Almighty, The title of the message this evening is If Thou Return. You know the story of Job. We have here in this chapter one of Job's good friends. Eliphaz, he comes to speak to Job and talks to him about his state. He begins the chapter in verses 1 and 2 and talks about the unprofitableness of man. He deals with Job's very slight and ign insignificant importance in verse number three. In verses four and nine, he four through nine, he directly charges Job with the number of sins and Says, you're you're guilty, you're guilty, Job, and verses 10 and 11 he declares the suffering that Job is going through to be the consequences of the sins in which He perceived Job to be guilty of. He reaches verse number 21 and he changes gears. He says to him, Hey, if you'll just repent. If you'll submit, you can be restored to God's favor. Now, you and I know that The accusations against Job specifically were not true. But the principles seen here in the text And the truth that is taught and the result of following those truths is the same, whether Job was guilty or not guilty. What is said is still true for us. So we can learn from this, although we look at this and say, well, Job wasn't guilty, so it doesn't really matter, but the the message tonight is not for Job, the message for us. And so the question is stated here, if thou return. I want you to know that under any circumstances and in any situation, no matter how far you may have drifted from God, you can return. And I would encourage you tonight, maybe you say, Well, I haven't drifted that far. Amen. Return right now. Return before you drift any further. Return before you go any further down that trail. Maybe you've been saved for a few weeks and the world has pulled you back in some way. Kind of got a hold of your heart and pulling you away. Maybe you've been saved for many, many, many years for most of your life. But tonight God would have you return to a passionate and powerful relationship with Him. We have that message from the prodigal son, which is very evident and clearly teaches this to us, a boy who had his inheritance and he desired it now. He wanted it now. He wanted to go and to take it and to live his life his own way. So he took that inheritance that his father gave him and went. And the Bible says that he wasted it on righteous living. Beloved, we've all been given a magnificent inheritance from our Heavenly Father. We've been clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. We have been given by inheritance that which is titled or described for us in the Bible as the abundant Christian life that's available to all. And I wonder how many Christians take those inheritances that are given to us by our Heavenly Father and take them and waste them living on righteous lifestyle. Well, our Heavenly Father is like that of the prodigal son, who stands waiting for us to return. So I challenge you this evening, don't wait till you get to where the prodigal was. Don't wait till you get to the bottom of the barrel. Don't wait till you get to the place where you've got nothing else to do and nowhere else to turn and you've found yourself living amongst the slop of society before you come back to God. Wherever you are on the journey, however far you've drifted, it doesn't matter if it's just a few degrees or 180 degrees, wherever you are, turn back. Turn back Want you to see tonight, first of all, the accusations. Now we know the accusations against Job were were not true, but Verses 1 through 20 can consist of all of that portion of it, but we see first of all in verse number 5. He says, Is not thy wickedness great and thine iniquities infinite What's amazing to me if you look at this and you hear him say, man, you are a wicked, wicked man, and your your iniquities are infinite. But then in the next few verses he begins to describe his iniquities. And as I read these, I thought, man, oh to be guilty of such small things. Oh, that that was the only thing I was guilty of. Boy, I I that I wouldn't be looking at that as sin. Look what he says here several times in these following verses. He uses the word thou. You can hear him just getting almost like putting his finger in his face and he says, thou, thou, thou, we see. In verse number six, he says, For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for naught, and stripped the naked of their clothing. He's saying you've taken something from somebody that didn't already that didn't even have anything. He says in verse number 7, thou hast not given water to the weary to drink. Thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. He's saying, you're a wicked, wicked man, and what you've done is You've not, what does the Bible say to a man that knoweth to do good and to him that doeth not? To him it is sin. He says, Hey You, God blessed you, Job, you had all these things. And Eliphaz must have surely thought that the reason God took them all away is because Job must not have been using them in the right way. Surely if Job had been generous with his things, Job had seen the plight of the needy, and had met those needs, then God wouldn't have done this to him. We knew it wasn't true about Job, but Eliphaz perceived it to be so. He says, Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink. Thou Thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. We see in verse number 9. He says, Thou hast sent widows away empty. Again, you didn't meet the need of somebody that had it. And the arms of the fatherless have been broken. Therefore, snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee. The accusations Over and over again, he speaks to him about what he has done wrong. I think of the prophet Who stood before David and described the situation? David not even realizing that it was him he was being talked about. David sitting there with his halo on his head, ready to pronounce judgment on this individual. And then the prophet says, Thou art the man. Thou art the man. And beloved, I want you to know that each and every one of us here are just sinners saved by grace. But sometimes we get to the place where we think of ourselves more highly than we ought to think. We think that besetting sin, or we think that that little known or or or less known sin, or that thing that we're we've got hidden in the background somewhere is not affecting our life, it's not affecting our family, it's not affecting our kids, and we can Hold on to that and we're gonna be okay. After all, nobody knows about it. We've got our halo on and we come into church and we got a Bible under our arm and we're ready to sing praises and we come up and And we pray and we we take the offering and we sing songs and we sing in the choir and maybe we teach a Sunday school class, but we're still just sinners We're just sinners and we need God to search our hearts, to look down into our very souls and see if there's any wicked way in us and say, God, would you point it out Would you show me where the sin is? Would you show me what I need to get right with you so I can be clean before a thrice holy God? We don't need somebody else to make an accusation because it really doesn't matter what Pastor Gus thinks. It really doesn't matter what Pastor Caleb thinks. Or what Brother Dave Hunt thinks, or what Brother Taylor thinks. It doesn't matter what matters and what God knows. What God knows about us Pastor Gus might think you're the greatest thing since peanut butter and jelly. But it doesn't matter if he thinks you're the greatest thing. What does God know about you? What does God know you're doing in the quietness of the night? What does God know you're participating in? There's an accusation being made, and it's not made by the preacher tonight, it's made by a heavenly father of God who knows exactly where you're at. Who knows exactly what you're doing? But he says, if that will return. The accusation is made, but I want you to know that if you return, there's some advantages The advantages of returning, beloved, we're talking about the lies of Satan in Sunday school and how he deceives us. so magnificently and he he he tricks us into believing that that pleasure of sin for a little season is worth all that we're giving up for God All of the blessings that God wants to bestow upon your life, and you're trading it for such a small, little, insignificant, stupid sin Look at the advantages. They're given to us here in verses twenty-three through thirty. Ten times he uses the word thou shalt Ten times he says, listen, if you will return to the Almighty, verse number 23, if you will return to the Almighty, if you'll just do this, he says, thou shalt be built up. Thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thee. You'll see ten times in these verses over and over again the advantages that are given to the person that returns. Verse number 24 he says, Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust. Verse number 25, the Almighty shall be thy defense. He shall be thy defense. Oh dearly beloved, I don't think we have really grasped How much we need God's defense. How important that hedge of protection is We you know we know the story of Job and how God was protecting him, and Satan says, Hey, does Job serve thee for naught? Look at what all that you've done for him. And God, for a moment of time, for a moment of time, he removed the hedge and allowed Satan to come in and to attack Job. And we see the vast destruction that was brought into Job's life. Brother, we can't afford for that hedge to be down for just a moment. We need him to be our defense. But when we step outside the hedge When we go our own way and live our own life and do our own thing outside of the hedge of protection that God has designed for us, we're saying, no, I don't need that. He says, but if you'll return, you can have that defense back. Boy, we need that hedge of protection. We can't afford to live without it. He goes on, he says in verse number 25, and thou shalt have plenty of silver. Verse number 26, and he says, Then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty. Amen. Shalt have thy delight in the Almighty. Some people wonder why is church so fun for you? Why do you enjoy church? I mean, uh it just doesn't make sense to me. I don't know why you bother going to church because their delight is in the Almighty. Because they're inside the head, because they're seeing God do great things in their life. Because they're in a right relationship with God and they delight in that. They have that fellowship with God. You go to verse 26, he says, thou shalt lift up thy face unto God, having fellowship with God. You know, just because you're in church doesn't mean you have fellowship with God. Just because you come into God's house or have a Bible under your arm doesn't mean you're in fellowship with the Father. There's been times in my life when I was a young man that fellowship between my dad and I was not the gro not the greatest. We're not in a good place. We might have been in the same car, might have rode to the same place and got out and sat together in some some event, this or that, but there was no fellowship there. As a rebellious teenager, I wanted to be anywhere else besides next to my father. The relationship wasn't right. Just because you're in God's house doesn't mean you're having fellowship with Him. You can if you'll return. If you'll return, you can. He wants to have fellowship with you. You can come back to him at any time. Verse number 27, he says, thou shalt make thy prayer unto him. You'll have power in prayer, praying and talking to him. And thou shalt pay thy vows Verse number 28, thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto you, having power with God. You know, there's some people that have power with God. They're in a position and a place to get a hold of God. Can I tell you when you get the call? Those are the people you look for. When you get the call that somebody's been in an accident and they're hanging on the edge of life and death, You say I I need somebody that can get a hold of God. I don't need somebody that's just playing church. I need somebody that has a relationship with the Father, somebody that knows him, somebody that has power in prayer, somebody that's a prayer warrior, that it that has developed that over time, and they they can go right to the throne. These are the advantages of returning. You can go right to the throne. You don't have to look for that person. You can be that person. If you'll return. You can have power with your God. He can lead you in your life and give you direction. As long as you're in a far country, he's not going to direct you. But if you'll return, he will. The Bible says a just man falleth seven times and rises up again. It doesn't matter How many times you've fallen. Doesn't matter how many times you've drifted away, you can turn back to Him. You can turn back to him. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. At any moment, at any time, if you say, I'm fed up with this sin, I'm fed up with this life, I'm fed up with doing this, I want to stop it, you turn back to God, He's right there He's right there. If you'll return, there is some great advantages available to you We know God had blessed Job immensely. One night in our family devotions many years ago, I think maybe Andrew, Andrew might have been ten years old. I asked who in the Bible had five hundred female donkeys? And Andrew, who is not the brightest of our children, Andrew says, Job And I said, wow, how did you know that? How'd you know it was Job? He goes, I didn't. I just know Job had a lot of stuff. I just knew Job was kind of rich, so I figured maybe maybe it's Job, you know. Might have been him. Just deductive reasoning there. God had blessed Job immensely He lost it through this great tragedy, through this trial, which we know was not because of his sin, but we also know that God gave it back to him. God give it all back and can I tell you God will restore you if you'll come back to Him. He will restore you When you return to him and you're in fellowship with him, you have the strength and you have the ability to help others. Look in verse number 29, Job 22, and verse number 29. He says, When men are cast down, thou shalt say there is lifting up. And he shall save the humble person. When you see that other men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There's a lifting up. You can lift up, you can encourage, you can help others. When you have been through this When you are in a right relationship, in a right place with God, you can help others come back to God. Many of you know of the RU program that's available all over the country today. Reformers Unanimous, you know, addictions program in churches all over the country and in many places in the world. Well, Steve Currington is the founder of R You. He grew up as a Christian, knew what was right, drifted and went away from God, got involved in the drug scene and Lived a life of of sin, everything that you would imagine, all of the wickedness that it entails. Steve Currington reached a point. And he says, I'm going to be done with this. And he turned back to God. He returned. And in doing that, God gave him a vision, a heart desire to try and help others who were living in that kind of lifestyle. And he said, there's a way back to God. And there is a way to have victory over that sin that's controlling your life. And with the help of his pastor, they began the RU ministry, which they began really just for their church initially. help some people in their neighborhood and people they knew and it began to grow and other churches took it on and they launched it nationwide and now worldwide people being brought back to God because One person returned. You have no idea what God will do with you if you'll return now So how do you return or what is the action that is required? We see that back in our text verse in verses 21 through 23, beginning in verse number 21. If you're going to return, he says, acquaint now thyself with him and be at peace. Thereby good shall come unto thee. Acquaint thyself with God. The first thing is you need to return to God. Turn back to him, acquaint yourself with God. Not just a matter of knowing who he is or where he is, but getting honest with God and returning to him and confessing your sin before him and forsaking him. We see this going a little further, if you're going to know God, you've got to spend time with God That's how you get to know him. Just like if I was gonna get to know anybody here tonight beyond the level at which we currently might know each other, it would take time. We've got to invest some time Sometimes there's people in church that they they go to the same church. They've been going to the same church for several years. Several years they've been attending the same church, sitting in the same auditorium, and they really don't know each other. I mean they might have met and said hi or waved or said good morning, but they don't know each other. Why? Because they haven't spent any time together. And many Christians know God. You know they know about God. They go to church on Sundays. But when are you spending time with God? When are you getting to know God? I mean really learning who He is and letting Him shape your life You know, you would never think of going home tonight and setting this down on the counter. And not picking it up again until Thursday. Why do so many Christians go home on a Sunday and set this down And don't pick it up again until Thursday. Because of what's important to them. Because of what they want to know. And if we're going to return to God and be blessed with the advantages that are available to us, then what we've got to do, beloved, is we have got to get acquainted with who God is. Learn him and let him, as Apostle Paul said, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. That is available to you to know that power, to let that work in your life. But it's not going to happen just because you happen to have a Bible or because you happen to sing some songs in church. You've got to desire and work to know him. We see the get acquainted Acquaint thyself with God, and we see receive the law of God in verse number 22. Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words. In thine heart. Beloved, we talk to God through prayer, and God talks to us through his word. We've got to receive the law of God. We've got to hear the words of God. We've got to hide God's words in our heart. Are you memorizing any scripture? I know it's hard. I know it's hard. Seems like kids they can say thing two or three times and they got it memorized, you know. Ready to quote it. And and for us, we we've said it 750 times and we're like, wait, what is it again? I understand. But the effort and the work, the the the the process, I believe is the pursuit of God that honors him. And that God blesses you for. I don't know it so that you can say, well, I've got 278 verses memorized. What did I earn? How many verses is not the important thing? It's that we're trying to know God. Amen. We're trying to hide God's word in our heart that we might not sin against Him. Beloved tonight, it doesn't matter who accuses you of anything. What matters is what God knows about you. But no matter where we're at, we can return to God. And there are so many advantages available to us if we'll just return. Just return.