Brethren. Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren. This is a phrase that's actually found seven times in the scriptures. Last year, when I was dealing with the study on the mysteries in uh Romans chapter 11, verse number 25. The Bible says, For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery. That phrase jumped out at me. And then in the process of my study, I came across this phrase. from or this statement from H. A. Ironside. He said, it has often been remarked that every teaching which the apostles prefaced with this expression, I would not have you ignorant, brethren. Would be found to be a line of truth which, after nearly twenty centuries of Christianity, the bulk of professing believers No l little or nothing. So Ironside said that and it just jumped out at me and I thought, you know what? That's a that's just If that's something that he found to be true, then uh I need to look into this. What does the Bible say that we're not to be ignorant of? And what are these statements in the scriptures? What what are the areas that we're supposed to be studying? We're not to be ignorant. Obviously there was the one that I was already looking at, and that was the mystery that I was studying and presenting to the church. But At that point, I began to study and look into this topic a little further. This is the closing program of Master Clubs These young people have invested the last year in studying the scriptures, in memorizing the Word of God. Not only do they memorize the Word of God, um I think several of the young people, uh I remember Caleb the uh uh verse that he quoted was the purpose of man. Right? Was the so not only do they memorize the verse but they they memorize like a thought that goes with it to understand what what is this verse talking about? What is how is it apply to me? And uh so they learn these things. And we as adults, many times we say, man, that's good. These kids should be learning the Word of God. And yes, they ought to be studying the scriptures. And that's good for the young people. Yep, they ought to let's let's get them working on those things. But what's good for the goose is good for the gander. Amen. I don't know where that phrase came from, but uh it came to my mind here. Uh it's good for them, it's good for us. And uh it's something that we can't just put off on the young people and say that young people should be learning. This this message this evening really kind of goes hand in hand with this morning and the idea of growth in our Christian life, but uh It also looks at it from another standpoint in the idea that these young people have invested so much time and energy in learning the Word of God and in in studying to show themselves approved, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. And a lot of times we look at the young people and say, that's great for them. And it is harder. The older you get, kids, the harder it is to put things into this brain. The harder it is to get something to sink in and to stay Soak it up while you can. You think it's hard right now? You ain't seen nothing yet. I mean it gets hard. You think I mean it's amazing how in comparison. Now I'm I was School was hard for me growing up, but in comparison to when I was younger, it is substantially more difficult for me to retain and to to gain and to get things and uh than it was when I was younger. So take advantage of it, young people, but uh adults were not out of the woods. You know, the Bible says to whom much is given, much is required, and the kids, of course, have been given a lot. Young people have been invested in and and uh you know you've been trained and taught and you've got a lot of scripture knowledge, you've got a lot of Bible knowledge. Uh hopefully you have the wisdom which takes that and applies it to your life. But to whom much is given, much is required. And young people you're going to be responsible. for the knowledge that you have, for the knowledge that God has entrusted you with, the scripture that you have understanding of Not just this year, but all the years that you've been in master clubs. I look all the way down from the youngest boys here. This team uh down here, uh, you know, if they continue on and they end up over here, you know how many scriptures they're gonna memorize? How much of the Bible that they'll have in their heart, uh how many principles and and areas of wisdom that they'll be able to draw from. But you understand that you're responsible for that And the the clincher is what happens many times is we say, well In that case, ignorance is bliss. Right? Like like I would just assume not know so much. If I'm going to be responsible for everything I know, then I would just rather not know, because then I'm not responsible for it. Well, the title of tonight's message is Ignorance is no excuse. Ignorance is no excuse. Ignorance might be bliss if you were eating chocolate cake and didn't want to know how many calories you were putting away Okay. You could eat that and be completely happy and not worried about it at all. Uh that might it be a blissful situation for you. Ignorance might be bliss if you had taken a group of friends out and said, Oh hey, I'll pay for dinner and had no concept or idea of how much money you just spent. You know, you could eat your dinner and enjoy and just think, oh, this is fun. We're having a great time until you get the bill. And figure out what uh happened there at dinner, what you know, the prime rib that your friends ordered. The Christian might be led to say, if I'm accountable for all I know, then I just don't want to know so much. I think there's a lot of Christians that have reached that point where they are almost Like you've seen the kids who uh the brother comes to his sister and says, Dad said that you're supposed to clean the living room. And they go, you know. Dad said you're supposed to la la I can't hear you. You know, they just don't want to like they don't want to be responsi like no, they didn't tell me. I didn't hear I didn't hear what they said, right? You ever see anybody do that? Okay. No? Okay. I mean it's just that idea and sometimes we think the truths of the Word of God and the principles of Scriptures were like, oh no. I oh I wish I didn't know that, because now I'm responsible for it. But do you understand tonight, beloved, that it's not just a matter of what you happen to have complete knowledge and understanding of? Ignorance is no excuse. The Bible says, I would that you were not ignorant. Through the inspiration of Scripture, God, through man who gave us the Word of God, but God gave us this, and He said, Listen I don't want you to be ignorant concerning these things. Now there's seven of them, and I'm not going to tonight take the time to look at those seven things in particular. I'm looking at the overall truth of the Word of God. And that we, as God's people, are not to be ignorant of these truths. Ignorance is no excuse. Ignorance might be bliss until ignorance comes home to roost. You can tell the credit card company that you didn't know how much the meal cost. But that doesn't matter. You still gotta pay. Right? You still got you still owe it I know that in a matter of something that's a little close to home for all of us, it's just a matter of speeding. If you get pulled over, you can tell the officer, sir, I had no idea that the speed limit here was forty-five. It's your responsibility to know. You're driving on the road, you're assuming the responsibility. Ignorance is no excuse Now the word ignorant in our the way we look at things and we we you know like to call somebody ignorant is kind of rude, right? Like man, you're ignorant. It's not really that bad, but that word carries some kind of like, you know, harshness to it, right? But uh it's not really, it just means that you don't know about something. It just means you don't have knowledge of those things. It's not necessarily hateful or or bad. It's just that you don't have an understanding of a particular subject. Sometimes we are ignorant because we don't know that there is a need to learn something. We don't know that there's a need to know that. There's nothing that has motivated you or put into your life say, man, I need to know this. I need to understand this. Such as in Acts chapter seventeen in verse number twenty-three. He says, For As I passed by and beheld your devotion, I found the altar with this inscription to the unknown God, whom therefore ye ignorantly worshipped. They they were worshiping an unknown God, but they were doing so ignorantly. They didn't understand. They didn't know that this was foolish and that, you know, a a a God made of stone or set up by man can't help you. Yet they they were they they didn't have knowledge of that and they were worshiping the worshiping this ignorantly They didn't know there was something that they needed to learn. In Ephesians 4, verse number 15 says, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. They didn't understand about God and Jesus Christ who had came and gave himself a sacrifice for them. Their understanding had been darkened. They just literally didn't know. what they should have known. First Peter verse one uh chapter one verse number fourteen says as obedient children not fastening yourselves according to the former lust in your Ignorance. He says that you you used to live a certain way because you were ignorant. Now, just saying that seems like real harsh, right? Seems like real you used to do this because you were stupid. You know. I mean that's kind of what it sounds like. But that's what the Bible's saying. He's what he's saying is you didn't know any better. And beloved, there's a lot of people out in the world today who are living a particular way because they don't know any better. They're they're practicing certain things, they're involved maybe in some false religion, they're they're participating in some things and Sometimes we look at that and we say, how could they do that? Well, beloved, it's because they don't know any better. They haven't learned, they don't understand that there's something that they need to learn They're ignorant of it, and therefore they don't know that it's necessary to know these things. There's no question tonight, beloved, that God describes those that are lost as ignorant. That is that they don't know. They don't understand what they don't know. They're ignorant of God and His love for them and the sacrifice that His Son gave on the cross for them. But, beloved, if this is the description of a natural man, the natural man unsaved as God's description is that they're ignorant Then the Christian should not be ignorant. We should not fit into that keyhole. We should not fit into that description. As God's people, we should study to show ourselves approved Yes, these young people have invested lots of time and studied lots of scriptures and and uh good on you, mate. You know you did good. You guys studying and and saying your verses and uh you know I know it's hard to keep them all in there forever Repetition is the key to learning and you've got it. And I'll tell you if you want to keep it, you've got to continue. There's no other way. You've got to continue to work on it because it'll it'll fade. But I was going somewhere with that. Ignorance is no excuse. And as God's people were not to be ignorant, is not acceptable. There is a lot of ignorance out there today, but Christian, can I implore you, don't get mad at them. They simply don't know any better. They don't know any better. They need somebody to lovingly come and share the truth of the Word of God with them and let the Word of God do its work in the heart of man and draw men unto Christ. They put their faith in Christ and in the Holy Spirit that guides them into all truth begins to open, remove the scales from their eyes and open their understanding. And the truths of God's word begin to make sense and they start that process of growth that we were talking about this morning. The Jews, being ignorant of the righteousness of God, tried to have their own righteousness in Romans chapter 10. This is a vast topic if you cared to study it. In Romans chapter 10, verse number 3, he says, for they being ignorant of God's righteousness. and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. They are unwilling to submit themselves to the righteousness of God because they're ignorant of God's righteousness. The righteousness that could be imputed unto them through Jesus Christ without them having to do anything at all, a righteousness given to them by the sacrifice of God. uh they could have, but they don't know it. And so they work and live their lives in such a way as to try and maintain righteousness. By doing such things as not pushing a button in an elevator on the Sabbath. You know, in in Israel, all the elevators on the Sabbath Stop on all the floors continually all day. They just go up and up and up and down and down and down. You just get in, and you have to stop at every floor on the way down because it's a sin to press the button on the Sabbath. Because that's a work. And you're not I mean to this day, right now, you go on the there on the Sabbath and the elevators run automatically on the Sabbath. It's a it's a work. They're trying to have their own righteousness. Because they were ignorant of the righteousness that God wants to give them. Most today are ignorant of how to get to heaven. How can one It continually amazes me how even in church, people come to God's house, they week after week, maybe year after year. And yet you ask them, how do you get to heaven? And they can't articulate it. They they are ignorant of what God says about how to go to heaven. I'll never forget it as long as I live. I knocked on a door in Lawrence, Kansas. An elderly lady came to the door, and she told me about how that she taught Sunday school in a Southern Baptist church for almost 40 years. And I just in conversation, I said, man, praise God, that's amazing. 40 years of investment. I mean at that point I probably was only twenty seven or twenty-eight, I it wasn't I mean I said, Man, that just I mean I felt like a kid talking to her and I said, That's that's praise God for that. Uh you know, I just rejoice that you know the Lord is your saving, you're on your way to heaven. She said, What? And I said, well you you know for sure you're on your way to heaven, right? She couldn't tell me that she knew 100% sure she was on her way to heaven. I'm not sure what she was teaching in junior church or Sunday school for forty years. Beloved, we're responsible for the things in this book. And our age does not take away or remove the responsibility We have a program here whereby we try and work with and instruct and give the young people principles of the Word of God and help them But you and I that are older are to get in the book and learn what it says. We're to study the Word of God. We're to take the messages, the things that are preached, and the and apply them to our lives were to mark our Bible and take notes and and let it sink in. How can we come into church week after week after week after week and Nothing impact our life, nothing changed the way we think, nothing uh I mean years ago you used to make all these notes, but now you know it all Years ago you used to mark in your Bible and soak it up, and the truths of the Word of God were fresh and new, and you thought, man, look at that, that's powerful, and and you were excited about what God was teaching you But somewhere along the line you just said, oh, no longer do I need that. And it's amazing how we can have people that have been saved for 20, 30, or 40 years. And they can't answer basic doctrinal questions. I mean I'm not I'm not talking about explaining the five points of Calvinism I'm saying basic questions like how do you know that you're born again? How do you know what is baptism for? Why do we observe the Lord's Supper? Why is church important? Do you know what you believe and why you believe it? Ignorance is no excuse. You should say, oh, I don't know. But you're responsible to know. You're a Christian. A self-professing believer in Jesus Christ. And beloved, 35 minutes on Sunday morning and Sunday night and Thursday night is not enough to learn this book. Amen. Amen. I've got a stack of messages that it's on my two preach list. I've got series that I've started that I haven't finished. I was talking to Pastor Derek the other week, and I said it's amazing how we really, you know, I've got all these grandiose ideas, but really we need to just get back to preaching the basics because people need to know them. They need to learn it. They need to be able to quote it. They need to be able to say it. They need to be able to share it. It can't just be something that, oh, I heard that once. But do you know it? Sometimes, beloved, we're ignorant because we choose not to learn something we know we need to know. We choose not to learn something we know we should learn. You know when I was in college, these guys will appreciate this. The college enjoys having volunteers. And they'll come by and they'll ask you things like, hey, do you know how to set up for the sustainers banquet? Nope. I don't know how to do that. Sorry. Um you know it's like uh there's there's this these things where d you know somebody comes to you and says, Do you know how to fix brakes Nope. I don't know how to fix brakes. Don't know anything about fixing brakes. Amen. Um you know, that kind of a thing. And you think uh I would just as soon not learn, because if I learn, somebody's gonna ask me to do it, you know. Sometimes there's people like that. I think sometimes there's I I think recently some situations that we've seen um where a mate passed away And the mate did a lot of stuff for their mate. And through the years, these are things that really both of you should know. But we just choose, you know what, I I don't want to know it. You know, he does that or she does that and I don't want to know about it. But then the time comes when you have to know and the the the arrangement is wow, what am I gonna do now? I was talking to it was somebody that was like 23 or 24 years old, and I said to them, Do you know how to drive? And they're like, no, I never really had any interest to learn. Like you're twenty-some years old, man. Is mama still driving you around? I mean I was driving before I had a license. Got in trouble once it worked its way for that. I wanted to drive as soon as I could. I know not everybody's that way, but what I'm saying is sometimes there's things that we should know. And we say, you know what, I don't want to know that. Because we know that makes means responsibility. Do you know how to teach a class? No. I don't know how to teach class, you know. Uh do you know how to do no Because we know that that needs more work, we need more responsibility, and we say, we don't want I don't I don't want to know that. The Apostle Paul said that he was getting given mercy because he sinned in ignorance In 1 Timothy 1, verse number 13, he says, who, 1 Timothy 1. 13, he says, who was before a blasphemer and a persecutor and injurious? But I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. He said, I I I obtained mercy of God because the sin which I was participating in, he said, I did it ignorantly. Now we know that he's not justifying his sin here. He's not saying, well, if you don't know his sin, you can do it and it doesn't matter. Because just a few verses later, Paul says, I'm the chief of sinners He knows that. Gill on this verse says this. This phrase describes the apostle's state, his condition. He was poor, blind, ignorant, bigot. An unbelieving and hardened creature. And so an object of God's mercy. Pity and compassion Because Paul did the things he did ignorantly. You know, it's not bad to be ignorant of some things. It's okay. You know, you might be a brilliant artist and could paint the most beautiful, picturesque landscape But know absolutely nothing about landscaping. It's okay. You might not know anything about sewing. That's okay. You might not know Anything about working on cars. I took the interns out to dinner last night and uh I invited Alicia so that Katie wasn't the only girl. I didn't want her to be by herself. And we were sitting at dinner and it was just getting to know the each of them a little bit. And uh Alec and I started talking about working on cars. And everybody else at the table like their eyes just glassed over. It's like uh no interest, you know. Uh especially Katie and uh Lisa, they were like, okay, the conversation just went south. So like they were not they were not interested at all in the conversation. I mean I was very I was palpable. I realized it so quickly we changed the the topic. But that might not be your thing You know, it's okay to be ignorant of jet engines. You know, you can make it your life and not know anything about jet engines, you'll probably be alright. You know, it's okay to be ignorant about who the number one draft pick is. There's a lot of things in life you you know somebody would say, man, you're you're ignorant of that. It's okay. A Christian were not to be ignorant of the things of God. That is not acceptable. As a professing believer in Christ, it is my duty, my responsibility, as admonished by God through the Apostle Paul, I would not have you to be. Ignorant. Beloved, God has provided the answers. We just need to ask the questions. You know the prophet Hosea tells us that my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. The people of God are destroyed because they don't have the knowledge, but God has given us the knowledge As I wrap this up, I want you to understand that ignorance is no excuse. And sometimes people find it hard to especially in light of the topic of salvation, like, well, how could somebody that doesn't know about Christ be held accountable for not trusting Christ if they didn't know Christ? And how could you and I be held accountable, maybe, or or held to task for things we didn't know or understand? Well, God has mercy. But the Bible is very clear that ignorance is no excuse. And the reason is, is you know, our communities, our cities, our our our government works very hard to try and inform us of the laws of the land. Right? They put signs everywhere. They put notices in the paper. They put uh you know, ads uh billboards up about sign, you know, law changes, new tax stuff you gotta do or or whatever. They worked very hard to inform you about the changes in the law or things that you're going to have to abide by. Well God has worked very hard to inform the world about his law. He's written the law in the heavens. Romans 1, verse number 20. He says, for the invisible things of him From the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. So that they are without excuse. Anybody looking at this world, now the devil has put together a masterful lie. Crafted the belief in this thing of evolution and given people something to grab a hold onto to try and explain how this all came to be But by God's design, this magnificent world we live in, we're supposed to look at it with awe. We're supposed to look at it and say, how could this possibly happen? And without Satan's masterful blow with evolution, men would look at the world and say, There has to be a creator. There has to be a God. How is it possible that all these things just work together? How does this happen? How does the sun continue to rise and the moon set and and how does the the the ebb and flow of the tide continue to function? This is just unbelievable And men would be drawn and caused to look heavenward and look for God. They're without excuse because God wrote his law in the heavens. Psalms 19, verse 1 says, The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. God wrote his law in the heavens, and God wrote his law in the heart of man. Romans chapter 2, verse number 15 says, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. Their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts that meanwhile accusing, or else accusing one another, excusing one another The law of God is written on the heart of man. And man has to work to ignore the law of God that's written in their heart. They have something in their heart that says there's a God. They have something in their heart that says I need God. They have something in their heart that says, this is sin and I shouldn't be doing it The conscience of man, God put it there. And they know it to be true. You can go to the farthest, darkest corner of the most remote jungle in the world, and you'll find men who understand right and wrong. Why? Because it's written on their hearts by Almighty God. He wrote it in the heavens, he wrote it in their heart, and beloved, he gave it to us so we could hold it in our hand and commit it to our minds. He gave us his law. This is still the best-selling book in the world. The law of God. It's been published and produced in more languages than any other book ever written. For someone to be ignorant of the things of God, it has to be willful ignorance. And beloved, ignorance is no excuse.