Turn in your Bibles to the Book of Psalms, and we'll turn to Psalm thirty-five. And we've been going through uh not really psalm by psalm. Uh sometimes we've gone through a grouping of psalms. Sometimes we've taken uh one and just really uh Dived into it and this will be one of those situations where we uh uh just go go over a couple. Um we'll we'll use the text to so that we can read and we can understand uh what it is that that we're looking at and why it is that this is called an imprecatory psalm. Uh but we'll use that to somewhat Teach uh uh a lesson on just these Psalms kind of as a whole. Uh what it is that they mean, and this is one of the ones that somebody uh uh had mentioned, like How do we uh how should we approach these? How should we look at these? Uh how do these these make sense in light of the rest of Scripture? And so I'm hoping that we'll we'll do a little bit of that tonight and we'll look at Psalm 35. That's where we'll begin. That was your homework to read 35 and also to read Psalm 59. And The picture that I have there on your sheet and uh on the s on the slides really is just to kind of uh uh get the idea of there's sometimes that we have a view of something and we have a look that that we can uh look at something from our perspective and from our eyes and have our own uh idea as to what it means and how to how to understand it. And there are times where we need to look at it maybe from a different perspective. But also maybe look at it from a different lens. You know, sometimes when you have a camera, there's certain lenses that you can use to make things look a little bit wider so that you can kind of get a better scope as to the field of view. And so that's kind of the idea why I put the the picture of the lens, because these psalms are are very challenging. And uh very uh uh we don't want to to miss uh some things through it. So let's just let's dive right into it and we'll go to Psalm 35. And we'll just uh I want you to get the idea as to what uh an imprecatory psalm is. And and this is just one example, but but it begins uh in Psalm 35, and I'll we'll just look at a few verses there in the beginning. And uh uh uh we'll look at uh verses one through eight. The Bible says this, Psalm 35, a psalm of David. Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler and stand up for mine help Draw out also the spear and stop the way against them that persecute me. Say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that divides my hurt. Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause they have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul. Let destruction come upon him at unawares, and let his net that he hath hid catch himself into that very destruction, let him fall And so this is an example of an imprecatory psalm or an imprecatory statement. And you see that what he's saying there in those towards the end of those verses. Is that he's saying, Yes, these people have laid a trap for me, or they've let uh uh they've caused me uh they for without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, so they laid a trap. in a in a pit. Uh they they hid a net that they wanted to trap trap me without a reason. They they have no reason that they're doing this. Uh but then he says, Let destruction come upon them at unawares and let his net that he hath hid catch himself. So he's saying, hey, instead, uh uh he's praying, this is a prayer, and he's saying I want these guys to fall into their own trap. The trap that they made for me, I want them to fall into it. And uh so that's the idea there that we're that that he's saying. And uh These are examples of of imprecatory statements. And as we look at that, we As I mentioned, these psalms are very challenging, and they're challenging for many people. There are some that as I was preparing for this, I would read. And they had there's some that would say that uh the Bible is contradicting itself in Psalms like this. And there's some that would say, you know, this is a contradiction in Scripture. That's one of the reasons why I don't believe the Scripture. And so the question is asked about these impregatory psalms. How do they line up with the teaching of the rest of the Bible? Is it consistent? And hopefully we'll answer that, and hopefully we'll also learn from the impregatory psalms and how we can learn from them even today. So there's a lot of background that we're going to have to go through, so we'll we'll dive right into it. But there's several impregatory psalms, and I listed them out for you there at the top of your sheet Psalm 35, 55, 58, 59, 69, 83, 109, 137, and 140. And in these Psalms we find statements like these Statements like fight against them. That's one of the things that we saw today. A desire to bring them or his enemies into confusion. We also see a Another one. In 58, we see the phrase, break their teeth. In Psalm 59, perhaps you read that one. It says, withhold all mercy to them. In 59 also it says, consume them in wrath. In Psalm 69 it talks about setting a trap for them. In Psalm 83, it says there, I'll read this for you, it says, make unto them or do unto them as unto the Midianites. as to Sisera, as to Jabin at the brook of Kison, which perished at Endor. So if you remember the song, or excuse me, the story of Sisera Uh Cicero was uh in the time of the judges, and he was uh uh uh uh going after one of the armies of one of the judges and he came into a tent of a lady named Jael, and Jael said, Oh, uh Sisera, if you wanna, he was the captain of the host. And he said, Sisero, if you want to lay down, if you need to get uh relaxed, you can do so, take a nap. And as uh he was sleeping, she killed him And so, I mean this is this is very intense here. It's saying, do unto them as unto the Midianites as to Sisera. And if you recall the story of Sisera, it didn't end very well and it was very uh uh very violent if you will or very just uh uh uh kind of it'll take you aback. Um but other statements that we see in Psalm 109 giving them over to Satan Psalm 109, 8, let their days be few. I mean, there's a lot of these statements that would seem very ajarring, very uh negative. So what does imprecatory mean? It means to pray against. To imprecate is to pray that a curse or a calamity may fall on one's self or on another person. And obviously many times we see this as perhaps someone praying against a person that something would befall somebody else. There are many instances where the psalmist calls or asks praise for judgment on his enemies. And again, some people have struggled with this. They question Scripture, and really we have to wonder, is it a legitimate prayer? Or is it just the psalmist venting his anger? And again, there's many people who will say different things. And we have to be careful because there's some people that would just dismiss them and say, well, no, these these aren't, you know, that they they there there are some that would say these aren't part of the inspired word of God. And we have to be careful when we do that. We can't just dismiss them. We can't dismiss these Psalms. But it's also important to consider, just consider this for a moment. These psalms are among the most quoted psalms in the New Testament. So you have a lot of messianic psalms. We talked about some of those uh last couple weeks ago, or we talked about even And a lot of those psalms are quoted in the New Testament. But these impregatory psalms are pretty much next on the list of the most quoted Psalms. So there's a lot of these passages in Scripture. Now the question that comes up is: how do these Psalms line up with other parts of Scripture? Mainly ones like this. In Matthew, it says this. In Matthew chapter 5, this is the Sermon on the Mount. This is Jesus teaching in the book of Matthew. And in Matthew 5, it says this. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. So when we stop and we think about that, now That first verse there, it says, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. Let me just point out this. Alright? What Jesus is saying is, this is what you've heard. This is what you've been taught. That's not what the Bible actually says. If you go back to the time of the law in Leviticus, in Deuteronomy, it does say to love your neighbor as yourself. That teaching is found in the Old Testament as well as in the New. But when the Pharisees and the rabbis were teaching this, that's why Jesus said, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But the Bible doesn't say that anywhere. It doesn't say to hate thine enemy. Alright? But the Bi so when we look at that, that's just kind of something just to point out. But then it goes on, it says in verse forty four, but I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and praise for them which despitefully use you So we're to pray for those that that use us and persecute us. So that's the teaching of Christ. And so we we have to look at these Psalms and we're like, well, is this, you know, how does this this measure up? D how does this make sense? And then if you look at Romans, Romans chapter 12, verse 14, it says this, bless them which persecute you and curse not. Verse 17 goes on to say, Recompense no man evil for evil. Provide these things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourself, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. So, you have these passages of where the Bible is saying that we're in how we're supposed to treat those that we would think mistreat us. How does that line up with who God is? So the first thing that to understand these imprecatory Psalms We have to view them from a little bit different of a lens. And the first is the lens of understanding Israel. If you remember very early on when we were introducing this topic and this studies, we were saying that The Psalms were written to Israel. Now some of the psalm phrases are prophetic. Alright? They're tell foretelling of the future But many of these are written at a time when Israel is under the law. Many of them are written by David in the Old Testament time. And so we have to look at this from the view of understanding the Old Testament. So these Psalms are written from a Jewish perspective and from those that are under the law. Now when we think about that, we have to take a step back. And we have to go back to where the nation of Israel started. And if you look at Jewish history, to them, the nation of Israel or Israel, their history, begins with who? Abraham. So what was and we talk about this, we we've we we've heard it many times, and Abraham was given what we call the Abrahamic covenant. There was a covenant that God made with Abraham. And what was it? It's in Genesis 12. 3. You'll I'm sure you'll you'll recognize it when I read it to you. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And so when we again looking at making sure that we're understanding that this was written at a time for Israel, and also that in that time, the time of the Abrahamic covenant God said that he would bless those that bless him and curse those that curse him, that being his nation. And then later, a few hundred years later, David is also given a covenant from God in the Old Testament, and we see it. But it talks about the throne of David being established, that God was going to establish David's throne. And in doing that, it implies that it's defeating the enemies of God's people. Now, something else to consider is that God also said that he would curse Israel for their disobedience So when we look at Deuteronomy chapter 28, we see it over and over again. The first part of Deuteronomy 28 is a list of blessings. It's a list of blessings and I will bless you with this and I will bless you with that. And then the next half of Deuteronomy 28 is cursings. And the devotional that I actually wrote for Deuteronomy 28, that was the title. It's Blessings and Cursings. So in Deuteronomy 28, verse 15. It says, But it shall come to pass if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God to observe, to do all his commandments. and his statutes which I command thee this day, that all these curses shall come upon thee and overtake thee. So, what I'm trying to point out to you is that it's not that the Cursings were absolutely not available, that they weren't there. There were plenty of times where God talked about uh uh judgments coming upon uh uh coming upon Israel's enemies and things like that. There are places where God is following through where what he said he would do. He said he would overthrow Israel's enemies He said that he would fight for Israel. He said that he would do these things. So in some sense, these Psalms, these imprecatory psalms, are God fulfilling what he said he would do for Israel. And we cannot have a narrow view of God of what we think how we think he should act based on how we interpret it or how we feel. You know, the Bible says his ways are above our ways. his thoughts are above our thoughts. They're there God is just so much on a higher level than we can even uh think about. So the first lens that we want to look at the first approach that we need to look at the imprecatory Psalms is from understanding Israel. The next one is about the lens of understanding divine judgment. Understanding divine judgment. I said uh just a moment ago that we can't We can't have a narrow view of God. And there are times that I'm afraid that we oversimplify in our minds who God is and God's character. And I think that there are times where uh uh preachers may oversimplify uh God and his character. And so we have to be careful not to you know put God in a box that that is just you know what we think. You know, last week we talked about the mercy of God, and we talked about how his mercy is eternal and it endures forever. But that does not mean that he will have mercy in every circumstance. Because he is holy. He is just. And the fact that he is just means that he will judge righteously. So he has this divine judgment. And we see that over and over. The Bible says that he will judge evildoers, right? That's what the Bible says. You know, in I'll give you some examples. Even in the New Testament, in Matthew chapter 18, there's a little something that's very jarring. Uh uh Jesus is is talking and uh he's using the example of these the the young children and he says, But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged upon his neck, and that he were drowned in the depths of the sea. That's something that Jesus himself said. And Galatians chapter 1 says this, but though we are an angel, this is Paul speaking to the Galatians. or writing to the Galatians, but though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel, so if there's something that if there's another gospel that pre people are preaching unto you Then that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, if any man Preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. So what he's saying is saying You've heard the gospel. You've heard the truth of the gospel. And if I were to come, or even an angel were to come and to teach you differently than what the gospel teaches, let him be accursed. That's something very strong. That's strong language. In Galatians 5, 12, it says, I would or I desire, I wish They were even cut off which trouble you. So there's examples of these statements that are very direct and very uh uh uh blunt. Now we know about divine judgment. Now when we consider that, when we think about God's judgment, I also want to talk about God's wrath. We don't we can't dismiss God's wrath. We can't just put it aside. And here's the thing that I'm afraid that we uh that we do. You know, God is holy, he must be judged, just, he must judge sin You know, we learn about God's love and we learn about God's mercy, but we also need to understand that the Bible teaches about God's wrath. Many times, I'm afraid what we do is we when we think of God's wrath, we think that that is something that is going to come later. That that's not something that's present right now. And so I want to just look at a couple verses of Scripture to ask, is God's wrath present today? The Bible says this in Romans 1. 8. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Let me just point you to John 3. 36 Very familiar verse, but just something to really consider. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. The wrath of God is abiding on the person that does not believe in the Son of God. So the wrath of God is something that's present. It's something that's there. It's not something that we're just dismissing, and that's going to come at a later date, maybe at the end of times when we're not around. God's wrath. But the wrath of God is on those who do not believe on the Son. Now, what is the dividing line between those who have God's wrath abiding on them? It's if they believe the Son, if they're saved, if they've trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Now I want you to think about that because God's wrath is satisfied by the Son, by the Son of God. So if you do not believe on the Son of God, the Bible says that God's wrath is upon us. That doesn't mean that God's wrath is going to fall on us right now. That's that's again that's having somewhat of a narrow view of God. But it makes it very clear that there's two choices. So judgment, divine judgment is a part of who God is. Now here's the thing. It's difficult for us to understand this because, you know, the Bible talks about righteous indignation. And we would we would think about that as being uh angry or being, you know, having a a a bad temper or something Now, there is such a thing as holy, righteous, just anger. But most of us don't understand what that is because we Have a tendency to go beyond into sinful anger. That's just our tendency. That's my tendency, at least. I'll say that But the wrath of God is part of who God is, and the thing is that we don't always like to look at that. God's wrath makes us uncomfortable. God's wrath is something that we don't like to talk about. And it's hard for us to understand. And but I want what but we also see again the other side of that in the scripture is that we have the mercy of God as well, like we talked about last week. So we have these two things, and it's I'm not saying that one is more than the other. It's God is completely holy and completely just and completely righteous. He's full of mercy, but at the same time he is going to judge. And so we have to understand that divine judgment. That divine judgment. And we'll kind of wrap up with that thought about God's wrath. So when we look at these impregatory Psalms, we do understand that they're talking of the God This isn't outside of God's realm. This isn't outside of what God would do. It's something that is mentioned and It's something that we can learn from. And I'll mention that there at the end. The next view or perspective or lens that we'll look at is the lens of fulfilling prophecy. The lens of fulfilling prophecy. As I mentioned, many of these impregatory psalms are quoted in the New Testament Some of these were quoted by Christ. They are what we would what we've been talking about messianic psalms. They are messianic psalms. So we can't really just toss them aside and say, no, I don't, we're not, you know, these aren't, you know, we're not going to learn from these. We can't do that. And certainly If they're the words of Christ. So if we see them as fulfilling prophecy, we see that of course Christ, God is going to judge his enemies. We see that, and we would agree with that. And of course, God is going to conquer over those who treated Christ badly. And there's verses that we see that are confirmed by Christ. It's one of those things that we see in Psalm 35, in Psalm 69, and Psalm 72, and Psalm 109. But again, we need to make sure that we're looking at this Jesus. Some of these words were words spoken by Jesus himself. And so it's not something that we can dismiss. It's a prayer that Jesus repeated that we learned from. And we learn from it by looking at it here, God was fulfilling prophecy. And yes, he's going to judge, and yes, he's going to uh uh do negative things, imprecate or Have imprecatory prayers towards those that are that are trying to hurt him, his enemies, God's enemies. We know that that's something that's consistent with who God is. So the last view that I want us to look at is the lens of God's vengeance. And I put it this way because we'll go back to Romans chapter 12. And I'll mention I'll read this again. It says, Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. Then we go to verse 17, recompense to no man evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourself, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. When we look at that, the main point of of what I'm trying to communicate in this is that Vengeance or revenge belongs to God. And we have to look at this As we read these impregatory psalms, understand that here was a man, here was the psalmist that was writing these things down, that he was pouring out his heart, that he was saying you know, break their teeth, you know, make my enemies fall into the trap that they've set for me. I mean all these things that he he he's calling down And you know what? That's a fair and he was praying. He was talking to his God. He was saying, Lord, would you fight this battle? But what he wasn't doing, understand, is that he wasn't saying Let me be the one to get back at them. Let me be the one to wring their neck. That's not what he was saying. And so when we when we look at this idea Vengeance is to be left to God. God's vengeance, not our vengeance, and that's where we run into problems. It's not for us to take a personal vendetta against our enemies. In praying, we can have a very candid, blunt communication, conversation with God It can be direct. You can let God know how you feel. You can even let the Lord know how you feel about specific people. You know, as I was studying this, there was one uh there was one uh uh uh guy that I was listening to that was saying, uh, you know, you don't You don't pray these impregatory prayers about specific people. And scripturally I would I would disagree because in 2 Timothy 4 Paul said this, if you recall. It's just one of those verses that's just there, but it does teach us Paul's perspective. He said In 2 Timothy 4. 14, he said, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works. So, you know, what he's saying there is he's not necessarily blessing him there. He's saying, hey, you know, the Lord's going to take care of him and that he would take care of him according to what he did to us. And you know, he was specific. He called out the guy by name, Alexander, and for all of eternity we're going to know about this guy, Alexander the Coppersmith. And he did Paul wrong. But you can let God know specifically about people that are fighting against you, but ultimately The responsibility that we have is to release it to the Lord, allowing God to take care of it, allowing God to fight your battles And also to fight your battles in his timing. That's one of the things that we struggle with. Is sometimes we say, Lord, fight this battle for me, but fight it today. And we want Fire to come down on you know so-and-so today, but it has to be released to the Lord in his timing and in his way. So how are we going to apply this to us today? What should we take away from these imprecatory Psalms? In precatory prayers, a prayer of negative against someone is found throughout the scriptures. Now If we're going to pray this way, I will say it's it's scriptural. It's there. We can't dismiss it and say, no, don't pray this way. But we do need to be cautious. And the biggest exhortation that I would have for you is that we need to leave those Feelings and emotions, we need to leave them to God and allow Him to take care of them. Because judgment belongs to the Lord. We shouldn't steal. That's God's role. That's not my role. That's not somebody else's role that we can say, hey, can you get back at this guy for me? Judgment, revenge, getting back at someone, that is a role specifically for God, and that is something that we should not take from Him. Not take matters into our own hands. But when we pray this way, it should not be for our person for our own personal revenge, but in what is against God So if something is going on perhaps, and that's why, you know, we look at these situations that may be going on in the world, different social issues that we see, you know, we're not praying for them because we are hateful against these people. We're praying about them and we're giving them to the Lord and we're asking God to intercede in these situations. Why? Because it's something that's against what God teaches And so what we're doing is we have a zeal. It's a zeal for the Lord, and it's something that we pray to Him about. Now we do pray these prayers even today. I want you to think about this. You know, we pray for souls to be converted. You know, many times I know that there's people that have been hardened and maybe they've uh they've been stubborn and they're just against the word of God and perhaps against uh Christianity and just uh or or or against the things of the Bible. And you know what I do is I'll I w an and I'm sure uh you've heard me pray it that way. You know, I'll pray, Lord, do whatever it takes to break them. Amen. That they whatever it may be a calamity, that may be a judgment, but the desire there is God's glory. When we pray this way, it's okay to speak out against the enemies of God and people that are hurting the cause of Christ or people violating God's law. But we pray for them to be saved. We pray for people to be judged. But it's entirely different than saying, Lord, use me to judge them. One would have to question your motives there. Another thing that we don't often consider is that Christ's model prayer, the example prayer that he gave to us is can be considered an imprecatory prayer. Many times we pray, Lord, come quickly. Come soon. The Bible in the model prayer talks about thy kingdom come. Now, what are the ramifications of that? If we're to pray for the kingdom to come, for the Lord to come back, that means that we're specifically stating and praying for things that are going to get worse. That things that are that that judgment's gonna take place. There's gonna be some things that'll that'll that are difficult to go through, and if we've read the book, there's some some things in there that are uh that'll shake you, that are jarring. You read it all the way to the end, and there's some challenging times for the people of the world, but we still pray for it. We pray for his kingdom to come. Why? Because we know that God will be glorified through it. So this is what I mean about oversimplifying the things of God or having a narrow view of God. We have to really consider. We don't understand what it is that God is trying to do or trying to accomplish. But our desire is that we know that God will be glorified through it. And that is our desire. Now I think the most valuable part of this psalm, of these psalms, is understanding God's judgment and wrath. And I want to just take a moment so that we can kind of understand and you know the Bible says this in Hebrews 10, 30. It's similar verse to what we talked about. For we know that for we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me. I will rec recompense, saith the Lord. And again, the Lord shall judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. So God's wrath, as I mentioned, it makes us uncomfortable. It's Scary. It's fearful. And when we look at some of the scriptures, it's pretty graphic. But when we look at the coming judgment and where the wrath of God is poured out, as the Bible says, it's uneasy. But then we go back to that verse that we talked about about the wrath of God. Those that believe on the Son, and those that believe not on the Son. And if you don't believe on the Son, the wrath of God abideth on you. So the idea there is that God's wrath was satisfied by the death of Jesus Christ. And the teaching is that Jesus took, accepted, suffered the wrath of God for you and for me. And so what I want us to think about there is, yes, the wrath of God makes us uneasy, and yes, it's scary, and and yes, it's it's graphic. But that helps us to understand what Jesus suffered for you and me. He satisfied the wrath of God by dying on a cross for us. God's judgment was put on Christ. When he died on the cross. That should make us uncomfortable. But that's what we deserved. That wrath to be upon us, to be poured out on us, but Jesus took it for us. And so when we look at these Psalms, we look at them and they kind of make us uneasy, but it's important for us to consider that God is a God of divine judgment. He is a God where his wrath will be poured out. But what a wonderful thing that if we believe on the Son, Jesus took that. We don't have to go through that. And we need to and the dividing line there between the wrath of God and not is those that have accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Those who have accepted him as a payment for the forgiveness of their sin. And that's a wonderful thing. When we stop and we think about it. And so these psalms, yes, sometimes they might make us uncomfortable, but they help us to get a view, help us to look at the things of the Lord a little bit differently, help us to understand about who God is And I'm not trying to say that this is all there is to learn from these psalms. There's so much that if we really stopped and we looked at them, we can learn so much more. And some of them are specific fulfillments of what Christ suffered for us. But when we look at it how wonderful it is to look at these, and yes, they're they're they make us uneasy. But again, also when we look at the end of the road, we see: hey, the wrath of for those of us that have trusted Christ, the wrath of God doesn't abide on us. And that's a wonderful thing. And but it should be important for us to it should make it more help us to focus on sharing that truth with others. What's the purpose of it? Turn over to Psalm 83, and we'll finish with this Even in the light of these impregatory statements in Psalm 83 and verse 16 I mean it's pretty there's a lot of statements in this, but in verse 16 it says, fill their faces with shame. But then it gives why? That they may seek thy name, O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever. Yea, let them be put to shame and perish. that men may know that thou whose name alone is Jehovah art the most high over all the earth. There are going to be some judgments that come upon people for the sole purpose of God proving to people There is a purpose in it. We may not fully understand it. We may look at it and say, that sounds pretty bad, but there we have to understand that God may be may have a purpose in it. And the purpose is worth it. The challenge and the adversity is worth the result. Alright, let's go ahead and close in a word of prayer Lord, we thank you for this day, and Lord, I thank you just for this time to look at these Psalms and Lord just to really learn from them and realize how Lord, how much is involved in them, but also understanding about you. Lord, I thank you that uh Lord that I I just want to thank you so much that Father we don't have to suffer your your judgment and wrath Father, and I pray that Lord that if there's any that perhaps don't know you as their Savior, Lord, that they would uh Lord have the courage to speak up and say Uh I I'm not sure. I don't know if if the wrath of God is is upon me or not. And Lord, I just pray that you would help us to go out into a lost and dying world. Lord, there's many people that need you, that need to know about your son and what you did for them. And Father, they may have judgment on them now, Father, but there is an opportunity, there is a way of escape, there is a a solution for that problem. And Father, I just pray that you would help us to take that solution to the world. Lord, we thank you for all you do. We ask that you would bless the rest of the evening, help us to have safety, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.