Well, turn your Bibles to the book of Colossians. Bible says you cannot help but speak the things which thou hast seen and heard. I feel bad for you 'cause I'm teaching in Colossians in Sunday school and uh we have been dealing with this, but this is uh area that I have been studying obviously and and spending quite a bit of time investing and Uh uh a few weeks ago as we read through a passage of scripture, uh God gave me a thought that I didn't know exactly when you'd have me preach it, but uh I believe it's for today. Let's look in Colossians chapter number two. And uh why don't you stand with me? You've been sitting for a little bit of while because we had We skipped our last song and such. We're going to read the first eight verses when you get to Colossians. You can stand and we'll, if you can stand, you don't have to, but if you can. The first verse, the first eight verses we're going to read, verses one through eight, you follow along as I read the Word of God this morning. Colossians chapter 2, verses 1, he says, For I would that ye know what great conflict I have for you and for them at Laodicea. And for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, that their hearts might be comforted. Be knit together in love and into all riches of the full assurance of understanding to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in the spirit, joy and beholding your order. and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him. established in the faith, and as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ's. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you, God, for the opportunity to preach your word to these your people. I pray, God, you would help me to step out of the way that you would bring alive the pages of Scripture, the message for your people today. it work its work in the heart of men. May the Holy Spirit do that which I cannot do. May you speak to us, stir us, challenge us. From the Word of God today. Lord, some people came to church today out of duty. They're here just because they know they should be. There's some here today that came because they're hungry. And they need something from God. Lord, there's some people here today that came because they're just not sure something brought them here. Whatever the case may be, I pray, God, that you would speak to every heart, that you would stir every individual as you would see fit, that you would bless us for having gathered in your house today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You can be seated. This is the week of our revival. our fall revival. We haven't always had one. We don't have one every single year. I just felt the Lord wanted us to to have revival and and God blessed. And We have Brother Mike Allison coming to preach to us, and I believe wholeheartedly that God will give him the messages that we as a church need. I believe God could use that to spark and stir in us a renewing of spiritual awakening and draw us closer to a relationship with Jesus Christ. I would like to encourage you to come and be a part of that revival throughout the week. I can tell you as your pastor, the last week I've listened to probably seven or eight messages on the topic of revival. It's trying to stir my heart, trying to kind of prepare me to be ready. And the Holy Spirit has convicted me. The Holy Spirit has spoken to me about the revival that I need as your pastor. And I want to encourage you to be a part of it. There are many people in the church house today and in Christianity that are looking for and and wondering what is it what is this Christian life? What is it like to to live godly in this present world? What does it mean to walk with God? What does it mean to be a Christian? What does it mean to live like Christ would want us to live? What does all that mean and how do we do it? Well, there's a gospel song, uh old an old song that goes like this God delivered Daniel from the lion's den with no struggle and no strife. He gave them victory over wicked men who sought to take his life. In the same wonderful way, in that same wonderful way, God can still answer prayer and show his mighty power in the same wonderful way. As I read verse number six of our text, that song came to my mind. And the title for today's message in the same wonderful way. Verse number six says, as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord. So walk ye in him. He said, as ye received Christ, walk in Christ. And in my mind came that song in the same wonderful way. In the same wonderful way in which you came to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. That is how we are supposed to walk in Jesus Christ. In that same wonderful way, we are supposed to walk day by day in Jesus Christ. In the same wonderful way that we came to him. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus, so walk ye in him. So how do we walk in him? How do we live for him? How do we honor God? In the same wonderful way that we came to Christ in the first place. So can I be real simple for a few minutes and we won't be very long? Does that sound good? Very simple truth, and we'll we'll be out of here. We'll go on to lunch. Very simple truth. Can I take that and apply it? In that same wonderful way that we came to Jesus Christ, we walk. in Jesus Christ. You see first of all that you have to realize that you have a need You see, it's in the same wonderful way that we came to Christ. And you understand that a man needs to know that they need a Savior before they ever come to Christ. They have to realize there's a need. They have to realize that they're lost and undone and without Christ and in danger of the judgment because of their sin. Only when the house is on fire does fear grip the heart. Only in the light of the flames and in the presence of the smoke does somebody run from the house seeking safety. They realize there's a need before they run out of the house. They realize that there's an encroaching fire and that they must get safety. In that same wonderful way, it is only when man feels the heat of a devil's hell and the judgment of his sin so present in his life that he seeks the safety of a Savior. It is said of Billy Sunday that men would literally grip the back of the pew in fear that they would latch hold of the pillars of the tabernacles that he preached in. In fear that they would pass off or fall directly into hell presently, right then, before they had opportunity to come to safety in Jesus Christ. You see, they realized there was a need. They realized they were in danger of the judgment of God because of their sin. One must see the need, beloved, if you're here today and you don't. Haven't trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior, you haven't come to Him for safety in the salvation that's freely offered. You've got to see there's a need. Could I implore you today to understand that we are born dead in our trespasses in sin, and we need a savior. Every single man, woman, boy, and girl, no matter where you grew up or where you started life or where you're going to end life, every one of us need a savior. Amen. There is a need. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We've all fallen short of perfection. And only when men see the need do they come to a Savior. And beloved, in that same wonderful way, we walk In Him. You see, beloved, it was the need that was present in our heart that motivated us to come to a Savior and say, God, forgive me of my sin. In that same wonderful way, we need to come to our Heavenly Father and say, God, I need to walk with you. God, I need your help to live this Christian life. Romans chapter 7. Why don't you turn over there? Romans chapter number 7. I want you to see these verses. Hold your finger in Colossians. We're going to be back there in a little bit, but in Romans chapter number 7, verse number 17. Romans chapter 7, verse number 17, he says, Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil that I would not, that I do. Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me I find then in a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me, for I delight in the law of God after the the inward man. Beloved, could we get real honest? Could we put ourselves in there with the Apostle Paul? This is the Apostle Paul who said, I want to be a great Christian. But I find it pretty difficult. I I have a desire to walk in Christ. I want to do that, but it's hard. I mean every time I try and do right, I mess up, and every time I don't want to mess up, I mess up anyway. The things that I try not to do, I do them, and the things that I try to do, I don't Could we be honest today? Would you join me in saying that we're not all we want to be for Christ? You know, if you're like me, uh I know what's right many times. I just have a hard time making myself do it. I know that I should read my Bible, but I don't. I know that I should be spending some time in prayer. But I don't. I know that I should be a witness to those around me, but I don't. I know that I should give, but I don't. I know that I should forgive. But I don't. I know that I should love my enemy. But I don't. I know that I should have compassion. But I don't. Understand, beloved, just like the lost man who has no ability to save himself You see, beloved, you see, in the same wonderful way, when we come to the Savior for our salvation, we come and we realize that it's all Jesus. There's nothing that we can do There's no way that we can we could get saved on our own. We need Jesus Christ and his payment for our sin, and we come and we accept that freely Beloved, in the same wonderful way, we need to understand that if we're going to walk in God, that it's something that we cannot do. He said, Pastor, that's terrible news. You're you're telling me that I got saved and that I've got this new desire inside to live a Christian life, and you're saying I can't do it. Yep. That's what I'm saying. You gotta realize you can't do it yourself. What you gotta know is that God made provision for you. You see, in the same wonderful way that a man realizes he's dead and his trespasses in sin and he needs a savior. You see, God made provision. Man could not get saved on his own. There's no measure of works, there's no amount of good deeds, there's no amount of sacrifice that a man could give on his own to earn his way to forgiveness. But he made a provision, amen. God provided a way. He sent his only son to die on a cross, and Jesus gave his life so that men could be saved. Praise God, He made provision for you and me. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. God made provision. A way for you to be saved, but beloved, in that same way Christ has also provided for you and I a way to live this Christian life. Although to will is present with us, and sometimes we don't, God has made a way. We need to acknowledge that, realize it in John. Turn over there with me, John chapter 16. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, I want you to see a couple of passages of scripture in the book of John. In John chapter 16, verse number 7. He says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you. You see, God knew that we needed the Holy Spirit. God knew that we weren't going to be able to live this Christian life and do what we're supposed to do on our own And so God made a provision. God provided something that would help us and help us live this Christian life Jesus had to go. The disciples were sad to see him leave. They didn't want to see him leave. They wanted him there, but he says, I've got to go. Because if I go, if I don't go, the comforter can't come. And you need the Holy Spirit. So Jesus ascended unto the right hand of the Father, and the Comforter came to live in our hearts. To be with us, to provide a way for us to live this Christian life. The Holy Spirit came The Lord know that we needed him. Look at John chapter 14, back a couple of chapters. John chapter 14 and verse number 26. He says, but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. And bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you. You see, we need to see the need. And we need to come to Him and ask the Spirit to help us live this Christian life. I want to please you, God. But I just can't seem to do it. And God has made a provision. He has given us the Holy Spirit, but we need to avail ourselves of that Galatians 5, 16 through 18 says, This I say, then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You say, how how how can I live this Christian life? The things that I want to do, I don't, preacher, and the things that I don't want to do, I do, and it's so difficult, and I'm Find myself always beat up and and downtrodden. I can't make it happen. How do I do it? God made provision. He has sent unto us the Holy Spirit. He has given us the Spirit that dwells inside, that teaches us all things. Take it to him in God and prayer. Like the disciples of old who said, God, we believe, but help our unbelief. God, I want to. Sometimes I can't And God has given us the Holy Spirit that would dwell in our hearts and give us what we need and teach us all things. Even though I can't, I know He can. And therefore I will. Because the Bible has promised me I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me is me. Beloved, we can live a Christian, victorious Christian life. You can how love how you're supposed to love. You can Get a hold of that temper that has a hold of you. You can quit that besetting sin that seems to grip a hold of you. You can raise your kids for God. You can walk with God even in this wicked world. Young people, you can say no to sex in before marriage. even though the world says that you can't. You can say no to drugs and alcohol, even though the peer pressure comes on you and tries to get you to be involved in that. Listen, don't do anything that that uh destroys your brain cells. I've talked to a few of you and you can't afford it, man. I mean, don't do something that's going to fry one or two of them. You need every one of them you've got Listen, don't do that which would destroy the body. God has provided a way for you to have victory in this Christian life. Don't do it. What do we have to do? In that same wonderful way we realize that God has made provision. In the same wonderful way, we have to accept the provision that God has made. It's amazing to me when you think about it. In Romans chapter 8, verse number 11, he says, But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken. That means make alive, bring power unto your mortal bodies by the Spirit that dwelleth in you. That Holy Spirit that God has sent is a provision for you and I to live this Christian life. Do you do you believe in the Holy Spirit of God? There was a Sunday school class that was putting on a uh uh a cantata of sorts for the church and they were all up front and they were doing their parts. And the first young man stood tall and he said, I believe in God the Father, the Almighty Maker of heaven and earth And he stepped back and then stepped forward another young boy and he said, I believe in Jesus Christ, the only Son of God. And he stepped back. And nobody stepped forward. There was kind of an awkward silence like many of you have experienced in different cantatas at times when Somebody forgot their lines until a young boy from the back of the line cried out, Teacher, the boy who believes in the Holy Spirit's not here The one in the group that believed, do you believe in the Holy Spirit today? We've got to accept the provision that God has made for us to live this Christian life just as the soul that is dead in his trespasses and sins accepts It's Christ, the provision that God has made. He accepts Jesus Christ for salvation. He turned to him for salvation in that same wonderful way We need to accept the direction and the power of the Holy Spirit that's available to us to live this Christian life The provision that God has made. He shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. The Holy Spirit teaches us what we need to know to live this Christian life. The fact of the matter is, is most Christians Are trying to do it without the provision. They're trying to live this Christian life without what God has given to us to make it possible. That is just as futile as this person over here trying to attain salvation on his own. It's impossible. Man cannot earn salvation. Man cannot earn forgiveness. Man cannot earn a home in heaven. They have to accept the provision that's given. And as I said to you a few minutes ago, we have a hard time living this Christian life. We can't live how God wants us to live all on our own. Beloved, we need to accept the provision that's been given to us. We need to apply it to our lives because it is futile to try and live as a Christian on our own. The Holy Spirit teaches us and brings to remembrance what we need. You know you can't remember something that you never knew. That makes sense? Anybody here tell me uh Gothric's Gellios theory? Can anybody tell me what that is? Let me tell you, it is the abstract approach to the study of algebraic topology. In a setting of algebraic geometry, it provides a classical field of theory in al in an alternative perspective opposed to that of linear algebra. That's what it is. Now you know. What I'm saying, beloved, is the Holy Spirit can't bring to remembrance the things that we don't know. That's why it is vital as Christians that we spend time in this book. That we spend time reading the Word of God so that the Holy Spirit that God has given us in our heart and life can bring to remembrance the things that we need to stand in a wicked day. That is why it's important that we come to church. That we're in God's house, because in God's house the word of God is expounded. The Word of God is preached and we're challenged to do that which God wants us to do. And then throughout the week on Wednesday or Thursday or Friday, when you're at work and something happens, the Holy Spirit will bring to remembrance That which you heard, which you had been taught, and you continue in the things which thou hast learned Everything in this life should go through the filter of the Word of God. The Holy Spirit directs our steps one step at a time. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in Him. You know, we go on a walk one step at a time. If I wanted to get out to my car today, I wouldn't just take this step right here and then all of a sudden be there. I have to take one step and then another step and then another step. step and slowly get out there. And if I'm behind some of you it's gonna be even slower. I was racing Miss Leanne up the steps. Well I wasn't. I was behind her and I said I'll race you. She says no wow you just passed me. He said, You go ahead. It's one step at a time. The Christian life is one step at a time. I know, beloved, we like to see down the road and we want to know where we're going to be and exactly what we're going to do and how we're going to get there. But beloved, the Holy Spirit directs us one step at a time. And as we walk in the Spirit, you won't fulfill the lust of the flesh. You'll be living the Christian life that God wants you to live one step at a time. Listen, salvation is once for life. You trust Jesus Christ and get forgiveness of your sin. That happened one time. Once it's done, it's done forever. Praise God. Do you know what? Baptism is once for life. Once you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, the first step of obedience is to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. No sa no saving faith is found in the waters up here, but it's just a picture, a testimony of what you've done. You've trusted Christ. And so you're t telling everybody, your old life has passed away and all things have become new, that you have a new life. That's a picture. But once you've done it, it's done. We don't need to hold baptismal services once a month for everybody to get in the water. It it's once it's done, it's done. It's once for life. Do you know that the indwelling of the Spirit of God is once for life? At the moment of salvation, when you when you confess your sin and trust Jesus Christ as your Lord Lord and Savior At that moment, the Bible tells the Holy Spirit comes and dwells in you. You have the Holy Spirit. It happens at the moment of salvation. It's once for life. But do you know that the filling, the yielding of our life to the Holy Spirit is a day-by-day event? It's a day-by-day event. We have to day by day yield our life to him. Let him direct one step at a time. Follow him. Walk in the Spirit. As ye have therefore believed in God, come to Jesus in the same way, avail yourself of what God has provided, the provision of the Holy Spirit, but we've got to do it day by day. We've got to yield to him day by day. Beloved, that's how we are. Turn back to the book of Colossians. If you're had your finger in there, hopefully, I want you to see in verse number seven. Verse number six was our text, but look at verse number seven. That's how you're rooted and built up in him. That's how you're established in the faith. As ye have been taught, abound therein with thanksgiving. Do you understand? As we respond to the Holy Spirit one step at a time. We are becoming more rooted and established in our faith. One step at a time, the more I yield, the more I follow day by day, walking in the Spirit, I am more rooted in My faith. I am more strengthened, more established in my faith. And then the Holy Spirit of God, God begins to build us up. Sets up something that is a mighty testimony unto God. And when we do that, we cannot help but abound in thanksgiving. You cannot help it but to say, man, look what God has done in my life. I know this old flesh and what I can do on my own. I'm telling you, I'm just a wicked sinner saved by grace. I could I mean I tried to be a Christian for so long and I couldn't do it and man I was so wretched and miserable and undone but when I began to yield myself to God woo look at the change that God has brought about in my life Look at what God has done. It's beyond me. I don't understand it. This is not me, but it's the Holy Spirit that dwelleth in me. We can't help but praise him because we know what we are. We know how wicked and ungodly we are in our flesh. But God changes us from the inside out, and we just stand there and can't help but praise him. Because he's changed us into his glorious image. In that same wonderful way. Would you stand with you, stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Beloved, if you're here this morning and You don't know for sure that you've been forgiven of your sin. You've never availed yourself of that salvation that's freely offered by God. Listen, you can't get to heaven on your own. There's no way to do it outside of Jesus Christ. Could I ask you, could I beg you this morning to come and avail yourself of the opportunity to be saved, to be forgiven of your sin? Jesus Christ died on the cross for you. You know about it, but have you ever accepted it? Have you ever applied it to your life? And Christian, if you're here today and you've been struggling in your Christianity, life, can I ask you, are you availing yourself of that which is offered unto you freely? The Spirit of God? To help you walk day by day as God wants you to. Avail yourself of the provision that's been made by God Himself for this Christian life in that same wonderful way.