Amen. Well, in the normal course of our study and teaching through the New Testament survey Several times in the last few weeks uh we have addressed the topic of faith and I personally have been challenged. I need this I personally have been challenged and I've told you, you know, just said clearly that faith is an area where I feel like maybe I I'm weak, that I that I need to grow. And so because of that and because of those comments, I thought, well, uh, I wonder what the Bible says about faith. I wonder what the Bible says about how to grow my faith. kind of provoked a study for myself, like, you know, I need to be stronger in my faith and this is a area where I shouldn't just be saying, well, this is where I'm weak. It's what it is. I ought to be growing. And so I wanted to get into the Word of God and say, well, what does the Word of God say? How can I be growing in this area so that I'm moving forward in my faith? And out of that provoked this message that I've entitled tonight, Increase Our Faith. And if you would turn to Luke chapter 17. Luke chapter 17. In Luke chapter 17, the title and the text verse uh comes from verse number five. You'll see there that the Disciples, which are referred to or called the apostles as well in this text, but he says, and the apostles said Unto the Lord increase our faith. So Jesus was asked here By the apostles, the exact question that I was asking, Lord, increase my faith. How can I increase my faith? How can I grow in my faith and be moving forward in this area of my life? Now the apostles, just for clarification here, were the disciples. The apostles are by another name. They are maybe take it a little bit further. You know, a disciple is a student. Somebody that is a learner, he's a disciple of an individual. An apostle is a messenger. So the disciples became apostles. Because they took what they learned as a student and took it and carried that message forth. And so we see here that the apostles come and they ask, you know, we need some more faith. Ponder and think about what it would mean for a church to be full of people that were full of faith. To have a church with people that were strong in their faith. Well, Jesus was asked this question, and in response, he gives a very unusual lesson, as far as from our perspective, looking at it and saying, okay. How does that tie together? What is Jesus' response to this? Really, Jesus, you know, they came and said, we want more faith. And he gives to them the parable of the unprofitable servant. He responds with their responsibilities. They say we need more faith, and Jesus said you need to do what you were told. I want you to look at the text tonight and see this will begin Reading in verse number seven down through verse number ten, this the parable of the unprofitable servant. But which of you having a servant, plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him, By and by, when he is come from the field, go and sit down to meet. And I would rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup And gird thyself, and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. Doth he thank that servant, because he did the things which were commanded him? I trow not So likewise, ye, when ye shall have done all the things which were commanded you, say, we are unprofitable servants, we have done that which was our duty to do. I hope to give some understanding this tonight and maybe challenge us in this regard to our faith. First of all, there's cause for concern the cause for concern. Jesus had just asked of the disciples or he was teaching them. You really could back up even into the previous chapter and see the lessons that he is teaching, but we'll just start in the beginning here. He begins by teaching them about the reality of offenses. In verses 1 and 2, he says, Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea than he offend one of these little ones So we have this idea of offenses and we talked about this in Sunday school. That is the idea really of uh being a hindrance or a stumbling block to somebody else in coming to Christ and to learning of Christ. If there's something in our life that hinders or keeps others from coming to Christ, then The Lord says, Woe unto you, that's that's something that we really need to guard against. So he says, Hey, there's a reality of that in in your life. There's offenses that are going to come. And then he talks about the requirement of forgiveness in verses three and four. He says, take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him. And if he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. Beloved, I think that a lot of times we take this matter of forgiveness too lightly in our lives. I'm not sure that you and I are really living up to this standard that God has given to us in this word. I think we would rather live by the idioms of today, the mantras of the day, that, you know, fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. If it happens twice, well no, you got me once, it ain't happening again. He says here, and we know that we're supposed to uh seven times seven we're supposed to forgive, but here he says if he offends thee seven times Not just seven times, but seven times in one day, then we're supposed to forgive him. That's a pretty high standard because I think all of us in here have at times in our life looked at somebody and said, Okay, I'm done with you. I've forgotten. I'm over it. You can do whatever you want to do, but I'm done with you. We've ceased to forgive, which means we have ceased to meet up to God's standard in this matter of forgiveness. The disciples heard these lessons. I think what it was is they were a little bit burdened about happening to hold to this level of standards. Uh in in effect they could have been laying their inadequacy to meet these at the feet of Jesus They could have been looking at him and saying, Okay, this is what you require, but boy, that's hard. I'm not sure I have enough faith To forgive on that level. I'm not sure I have enough faith to deal with the offenses that come, but Lord, if I had some more faith, I could do that. Essentially, God, if you would give me more faith, I would do what you're saying I need to do. But Jesus teaches a parable to them. Now I think it is an admirable thing that we should desire more faith, that we should Want to increase in our faith. We should be growing in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We should be growing in our knowledge of God. Anytime there's not growth, there's cause for concern. I forgot to mention that Baby Mary was here today when I was introducing the guests, our first-time visitors to church today. And all the ladies in the choir started mumbling and I knew I forgot something. I'm like, who did I forget? And they're like, Baby Mary, you forgot Baby Mary. And I was like, oh I sure did. She was here today. You know, baby Mary, uh, you know, babies when they are born, they weigh them. And then because of the trauma of birth and transition and changing over and trying to to feed that a lot of times it's normal for a baby to lose some weight during those first few days, but the the goal is so as quickly as possible get them back to their ba birth weight And then they should progress after that. Anytime a baby is not growing, if a baby is not putting on some weight and getting back to their birth weight, the man the doctors get alarmed. They're like, there's something wrong here There's a problem. And we need to do something. Get them back into the doctor right away. Get them in here. Let's figure out what the problem is. For some reason, they're not gaining anything. Beloved, anytime there is no increase in our Christian life, there's certainly cause for concern. Paul praised the Christians of Thessalonica because their faith had grown, because their faith was growing. In 1 Thessalonians 1, verse number 3, he says, We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meat. because that your faith groweth exceedingly. It is exciting to see Christians whose faith is growing. Who's aren't remaining stagnant. You see young Christians, they come to the Lord, they get saved, and and uh they over a little bit of time they they they get baptized and then you'll see them begin to be faithful to church and you start to see their spirit and their demeanor change and and if you spend any time with them you start to see their conversation is changing. They're sharing the Word of God and they're talking about the things of the Lord and you're seeing their faith grow and that's exciting. That's what Paul was saying. Man, we're always excited to talk about this because it's great to see your faith is growing A beloved, they were asking Jesus, increase our faith And Jesus gives them a call to commitment. Jesus had been teaching them about the Christian life. He had been showing them what it meant to be a believer. Maybe they were a little overwhelmed and they said, Lord, if we're going to do all that, we we need more faith. We know in this parable that Jesus is the master. He is teaching them and he says, which of you having a servant? is asking them to put themselves, not to make themselves the master, but put themselves in the master's shoes if you would see this situation. Which of you, if you were the master He's not describing his feelings towards us, beloved, but what he is trying to do is to get us to see ourselves under the Master. The master has authority. The master has given us a list of things to do. And the master is not obliged. To pat us on the back and to say thank you for doing what you were told. There is It i i it is sad today that the mentality and things have digressed to the point that uh workers need to be patted on the back and uh affirmed That they're doing a good job because they showed up for work. I mean it's a sad day when that's the level of expectation and it's a f matter of fact is it it is so bad that bosses are actually thankful for a guy that just shows up for work. If you just be here, if you just get here, if you just you know, be it on the job instead of missing all the time and calling out for this and for that and and no just be at work. And and it we've digressed so far that that boss is thankful for a guy that's just going to do what he was asked to do But Jesus here says, doth he thank that servant because he did the things which are commanded him? I trow not. That word trow is just a think. He said, I think not. That's not the case. Not even the apostles would have expected that. He says, put yourself in the position of a master. Would you expect this to be the case? That you're going to say, man. You did what I told you to do. Boy, I'll tell you what, let me let me uh here put your feet up. Let me pat you on the back, boy. Let me give you a card of appreciation, man. You really went above and beyond. You showed up today No. It wouldn't be ex No, because they did what they were commanded to do. You put it in modern vernacular, it could be like this. You don't expect the president to send you a letter of appreciation because you did your taxes. You don't expect Congress to be sending you a note and say, well done. You have completed your taxes this year, the IRS, here's your letter of appreciation for filing your taxes and paying what you owed. No, and if you don't pay it, they're going to be visiting you. They're going to be sending you letters. There's going to be some punishment if you don't do what you were supposed to do Even if you do what you're supposed to do, sometimes they they still send you letters and call you and uh I'm not gonna run down that rabbit trail. We've had some dealings with the IRS It's always your fault, by the way. It doesn't matter what happens. It's always your fault until you get somebody involved to figure it out and they're like, oh, oops, I guess that was us But you you're not going to get a letter from them for just doing what you're supposed to do? You're not going to send out an appreciation. Beloved, the servant, the master is Jesus, and the servant is you and I, and we have a responsibility. They didn't feel like they had enough faith to do what God was asking of them. I think what Jesus is saying here is not really a matter of quantity, it's a matter of quality. I I say that because you look at verse number six. Very familiar verses to us, but in verse number six he says, And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed. You might say unto the sycamore tree, sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. He's saying if you had the faith, that the the size, if you had the faith of the this tiniest little bitty seed, the the smallest seed that I imagine was prevalent or well known at that time that people would have been would have recognized and And so he used that as an example. And he says, man, if you would have had that much faith In my studying for this, I saw a message. That particular kind of tree is believed to be a mulberry tree. That's in the text here. And I saw a message entitled, My Wife the Mulberry Tree Now I didn't listen to it. I'm not sure I'm not sure where he was going with that. He might have been thinking about having her cast into the sea. I I don't know what he was uh I didn't bother listening to it. Uh I just saw the title and uh But he says here, the smallest little bit of faith, and you could accomplish, really, if we understand this, what he's saying is you could accomplish that which is impossible. Not just that you could see, he says, and it could be planted in the sea. He didn't say you could just throw it into the ocean. We could pull it up and cast it into the ocean. He gives the implication that it could be planted into the sea. Do you know most things do not grow in salt water? You don't you you can't you ladies go home and make up some salt water and dump it on your plants tonight and see how they do. Salt water and plants don't get along But he's saying what you could do is you could take this plant that's not supposed to be in the sea and you could transplant it there and it would grow. It would be planted there in the sea. What he's saying is the impossible would be available to you If you had the smallest, the tiniest little bit of faith, the smallest little bit of faith, you could do the impossible. So it's not the quantity as well as it is the quality of the faith that we have. For the smallest amount would deliver unprecedented results to us. You see, beloved, the difference is, is what are you willing to exercise? Are you willing to exercise that faith I believe the problem many times is not means, but motivation. I was listening to this week this week to a story. I've been trying to get it done for several weeks now, but It's a documentary about a Navy SEAL and uh his training and what he went through to become a Navy SEAL and his and his life and just doing some studying on manhood and and what it means to be a man and that's where this book came from. But He said in this particular chapter, he's talking about discipline. And he said, I had a friend call me and say, man, I need some help. I have such a problem with self-discipline. I have no self-discipline. He says, I can't stay on even the most basic diet, the most simplest diet out there. I can't stay on it And and the most basic workout program. I I just can't do it. I I don't I have no self-discipline. And uh the man said he he said I talked to my friend, I says, Well, let me ask you a question How long have you been working at your job where you're at right now? And he says, 18 years. He said, in 18 years, how many times have you been late to work? He says, mm, seven or eight. He says, okay. And how many years have you been a manager there at your job? He said 14 years. He said, okay. In 14 years, have you done anything that would be detrimental or harmful to your workplace, to the job? And he says, no. He said, that's determination. He said, your problem is not determination, your problem is motivation. He said, you're not sufficiently motivated. He said, let me ask you this. If you went to the doctor tomorrow and the doctor told you, if you eat one more Twinkie, you're going to die. Would you eat another Twinkie? He said no. He said, why? Because you now have motivation. He said, it's really not a matter of the means, it's a matter of motivation. And many times, beloved, as Christians, it's not so much how much we know, it's what we're willing to exercise and put into practice It's not so much the amount of faith that you say you have, but it's how much of the faith that you have are you willing to actually use? Are you willing to actually exercise and actually put into practice So we see lastly tonight the cost for cultivating faith in your life What is it going to cost to actually cultivate faith and this increase our faith? It was the motivation for the question. It was the motivation for my study. Looking at this, to be honest with you, I wish I had a better, a more theological answer. I wish I had something that was more eloquent or more pretty to give you tonight But the fact of the matter is, is the disciples said, hey, increase our faith. And Jesus said, Okay, here's what you need to do. And he gives to them this parable of the unprofitable servant He reveals to them the results that are available with even the smallest amount of faith. Just that little grain of mustard seed. And I believe a lot of Christians many times are using insufficient faith to keep them from doing what they know they should do. What I'm saying is God has told us that we are to be tithing, giving 10% of our income to the Lord. And we're like, oh I'm not sure I have enough faith for that. It's not a matter of how much faith you have. He said, this is what you're supposed to do. God says, spare the rod, spoil the child. Bring your kids up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You should be disciplining your children. And we say, Oh, I I don't know that I have enough faith for that. I don't know that that's really going to work. Uh I know that this is what God said, but I'm not ready or willing to implement that in my home or to do that in my family. You see, we're using insufficient faith to keep us from doing what we know God has wanted us to do He says, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We're to be a witness in this world. We're to be giving out gospel tracts and planting the seed and watering the seed and allowing God to bring the increase in and through our work But we say, oh, I I I'm not a very good communicator. I don't I'm not I don't know all that I should know. I don't know if I have enough faith to see God do that in my life. But God says, No, you have a job to do and you've been told to do it. There's not a question there It's not debatable. You remember Jonah? Jonah had a prejudice in his heart. Against the group that God wanted him to go reach. God had told them what to do, and Jonah said, No, it's not what I want to do. And Jonah ran the other way. You see, beloved, we all have that choice. We have the privilege to do what we want to do. God is not going to force us to submit. He's not going to force us to do what He's required of us or what He's calling us to do. But he told Jonah where to go. Jonah decided to go the other way. God gives us the ability to choose, but that doesn't mean what you choose is right. You see the servant That's truly going to see faith as a reality in his life, faith in God, as one who's unconditionally surrendered to do what God asked of him. Doing what you're called to do. Your faith is on display when you do what God tells you to do. 1 John 2, verse number 4 says, He that saith, I know him, and keep not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. You see what we're talking about tonight is just obedience, unconditional obedience. I think that if we responded in our life with unconditional obedience God's faithfulness to us through those circumstances would unequivocally grow our faith When God says step and we are hesitant and we don't see a way out, we don't understand, and it doesn't make sense to us, but this is what God said to do, and we step. And God makes a way, then our faith grows. And God says, step, and we we we we don't understand it, but we step and It doesn't make a lot of sense to us how it actually worked, but it did work, and so our faith grows. I think as we do what he's commanded us to do, it it will grow, it will build our faith. We see, beloved, in this text, that there is a variety of work that this servant is called to do. There's not just one thing. He wasn't just the caretaker of the animals. We see in verse number seven he was to be flow uh plowing and he was to be feeding the cattle. In verse number eight, he's to be preparing a meal. He's to serve that meal to the master. He's to Take care of the master's needs there. There's multiple things, and beloved, in the Lord's work, there are many different things that need to be done. It's not just the one thing that we want to do. I'm willing to serve the Lord as long as I get to do the one thing that I'm good at. As long as I get to do the one thing that I enjoy. I can tell you that as a pastor over the years there's been a lot of people that have oh, I I want to serve, but I can't serve uh on this day or this day or this day and I can't do that and I can't do that and I'll come up with something and they'll be like, oh I I can't do that. And we just need to be servants willing to do whatever God wants. I remember in Kansas I was as an assistant pastor, one of my responsibilities was to be the Sunday school director and Uh there was a man in the church that had been there, been faithful, doing a good job in church as far as that goes, but he was quite pretty quiet man. He didn't talk too much And we had uh somebody come in and teach on on Sunday school ministry and whatever, and that man looked at me and he says, Caleb, that man right there would be a great seventh and eighth grade boys Sunday school teacher. And I was kind of shocked. I'm like, really? What in the world? So I prayed about it, and two weeks later I went to him and I said, Hey, uh, would you be willing to be a Sunday school teacher? And he says, No way. I can't do it. And I say, well let me change that. Would you be willing to pray about being a Sunday school teacher? Well, pfft, what's he gonna say? No, I ain't praying about it. And two weeks later we got together and we talked again and he says, listen, I don't see how this is gonna work. I I don't I don't know, but if you think that I should do it, I'll do it. And he took on that responsibility. Can I tell you that within a month that Sunday school class started growing? Those kids' lives started changing. He he was having the time of his life teaching that class And those kids, it was one of the best and most well-attended classes in our Sunday school at the time. He didn't even think he could do it. To be honest, I did I didn't see the potential as somebody else that pointed it out. But He just said, okay, if that's what the Lord wants. For him, he looked at it initially and he thought, boy, I don't think I can do that. But a servant is willing to do whatever needs done, willing to do whatever God asks of him. We all have many different responsibilities in this life. A lot of the men here are fathers, their husbands, their their employers or employees. You wear a lot of different hats in your life that take time and responsibility and shape your days. But where does our service for God fit into that? I know that God will use our strengths, but we need to be willing to do whatever God asks of us. Beloved, as long as we have the master mentality, we will never be all that God wants us to be. What I'm saying, as long as we think we're the master and we're controlling our life and we get to decide and dictate and do what we want to do, we'll never have the faith that God wants for us or see God use us the way that He could until we put ourselves into the servant role and say, okay, Lord, whatever you want. If you'll do what God wants you to do faithfully, your faith will grow That's what I see in this text. Just do what you know you're supposed to do. I read this week a story of A growing piano. There was a small boy that was By his parents' direction, given piano lessons, and mom was a real stickler for piano lessons, and every day he was forced to sit down at the piano and practice and practice. And one time a year in their local community hall, the Mokala Community Center, they had a uh recital that anybody could enroll in and mom wanting to encourage her son, you know, and help him to practice, she enrolled him in the recital and This is the first time that he had ever seen a grand piano sitting there in the middle of that stage. And he went that first year and he played his little piece, whatever it might have been. After his fourth year of playing, she came down and he came down and mom looked and says, Well, how how was it? And he says, Mom Every year I go up there, that piano is getting smaller and smaller. The piano didn't get any smaller. He got bigger. And things in your life right now you look at and say, boy, they're impossible. They're way too big God's saying, if you'll just be faithful and do what I've told you to do, if you'll just follow me day in and day out, those things that seem impossible? You'll have the faith and it'll happen. It will become within reach. It'll be slow, it's a process. It's the Christian life. Doesn't happen overnight, but our faith can grow Would you look at verse number 10? I said this already, but I want to point this out. This is not you to understand, beloved, that this is not how God sees you and I. This is how we are supposed to see ourselves. Notice what he says here. He says, so likewise ye When ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants. We have done that, which was our duty to do. Jesus is not saying I'm looking at you as saying, yeah, you're you're a wicked, unprofitable servant. All you've done is your duty. It's how we view ourselves in light of what the Master has asked of us. That's what you're going to say. That's what you're going to view. When you have a proper servant's attitude before God, if we live with a servant's attitude, our faith will increase. When we hold on to a master mentality, it will decrease. Beloved, in the end It will be worth it all. And we stand before him. And our master looks at us and he says, well done. Thou good and faithful servant. But it takes a servant mindset, a servant heart. If we want our faith to grow, it takes unconditional obedience to the Master. Just stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed.