To the first Peter, first Peter chapter number two. And I I want to at least mention just it's good for us to be able to have a point of reference in the scripture. And I say that because there's there's times where uh recently I was able to to look at a uh or or listen to there was a something I was interested in listening of another church and they were giving some teaching for for their church family. And one thing that I noticed that really struck me is that the there there really was no scriptural point of reference. There was no point where they said Look at the Bible and what it says here. And this teaching that we have on Baptist history and some of the distinctives that we have, I I don't want us to gloss over them or overlook them Because when we say at the beginning that the Bible is our authority for all faith and practice, we look at that and yes, we can agree with that statement, but That's why we open the scriptures and we say at the beginning of a message, turn in your Bibles too. And don't take for granted the fact that you can take a Bible and and Hopefully you have your own Bible, but even if you don't, you have uh uh one of those pew Bibles that are in front of you that you can just grab and open up and as our point of reference to be able to say, this is what God's Word says It's something that we don't want to take for granted. And we've been talking about some of the different teachings of Baptist doctrine. And hopefully we you you don't feel like we've gotten bogged down with it. I know some of them have been very uh informational, very uh uh teaching, and tonight is not an exception to that, but I really think that tonight's discussion will be very practical and we'll really be able to relate to it how we can use it in our Christian life. And or that at least that's what my hope is. But as we look at it, let's look at 1 Peter 2 and verse number 5 and verse number 9. And this discussion tonight that we will go over is about individual responsibility. In 1 Peter 2, verses 5, it says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house and holy priesthood. to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. And the book of 1 Peter here elaborates a little bit more, but there's another reference once again in in verse number 9. You can look down there. It says, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people That ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light And so when we look at this teaching of the Scripture, there's another tenet of Baptist, a distinctive of Baptist, a teaching uh a doctrinal teaching that we relate to that is the one that is called individual responsibility. So the ones we've gone over, we've gone over the B, which is the the the authority of the Bible We've gone through A, which is the autonomy of the local church. We've talked about the perpetuity of the church and uh uh last Three weeks spread out by VBS. We talked about the two ordinances being the Lord's Supper as well as baptism. Tonight we go over individual responsibility and this is also going to uh connect two ideas or two uh teachings and I hope to uh help you to understand how we believe that those relate and then the the three remaining are the ones that you see in front of you there But as we look at this, we see for ourselves the teaching, and this teaching is something that is in Scripture over and over again about individuality So when we first started, we discussed the different distinctives that we would be discussing, and individual responsibility, Pastor said, encompassed two. And there are these. Individual soul liberty, sometimes you'll see it referred to as soul competency or soul conscience or the liberty of the conscience. These are all similar ideas that that we're talking about. So the first one that we'll go over this evening is the the teaching or the doctrine that to understand about the priesthood of the believer. And we see that as we studied out here in 1 Peter 2. verses 5 and 9, the reference that God made in his word to us as the priesthood. There's a reference to the holy priesthood and the royal priesthood. So, what exactly does that mean, or what does that entail? As we see, there's a idea that the Bible talks about In 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 5 and 6, it says this: there's one God, for there is one God and one mediator between God and men. The man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. When we see this teaching, it's important for us to understand that the Bible is saying that there's one mediator, there's one go-between, and that's Jesus Christ. And what that means then, the follow-up to that, is that then we are all priests. So what is a priest? The priests were responsible for certain aspects of worship. More generally, priests served as mediators between the people and God. If you look at a very general definition, they say that a priest is a religious leader authorized to perform the sacred rituals of a religion. especially as a mediator between humans and one or more deities. So when we see that teaching or that just general definition, We compare that and we look at what the scripture teaches us, and it says in 1 Timothy that there's one mediator. So here that term one, that term one, where it says there's one God and one mediator, that word gives us the idea of only. There's only one. So there's only one God and there's only one mediator. And that's what the Bible is teaching. And there's a lot more that that we see see in the scripture that points to that. And we see it uh uh if you if we understand the purpose of the priesthood that was established in Judaism. And we see that each person in or each uh office in Judaism had their particular role, and the servants of the house of God at one point was the tabernacle, and then It was followed up by the temple. The people that were in charge of the service of the house of God were the Levites. And within the Levites, they had their own different uh structure or appointments that they had to do, and there was a high priest. And within that we see uh several things and offices that they were supposed to uh accomplish But we see something interesting happen in the New Testament as it pertains to the law, the law of worship of God. Relating to Judaism. And that was seen in the veil. There was a veil, and the veil was supposed to separate The holy place where the priests would could enter in, and the most holy place, or also it's referred to as the holy of holies. Where the priest was only, the high priest who was only allowed to enter in there one day a year. And that was on the Day of Atonement. And we see in Matthew 27, verse 51, the Bible tells us, it's relating in the Gospels, that the veil of the temple was rent in twain. That means it was ripped. From the top to the bottom, the Bible says, and the earth did quake and the rocks rent. Now, this veil was a symbol of the separation between God and between men. The veil separated again the holy place from the holy of holies. We see this verse is also repeated in Mark chapter 15 verse 38, and it's important for us to notice a couple things, just small interesting tidbits. We we see the symbolism that this act was done by God because it was from the top to the bottom. How do we understand that? Because The thought is that if if people would have done it, if the Jews would have done it, they would have done it from the bottom up. Because Uh sometimes we think, okay, there was this like curtain, but let's understand what this curtain uh uh a little bit about this curtain. What was I I don't know if you're like me. Sometimes when you think of these things, you picture your mind, you're like, well, what did it look like? How big was it? And all these different questions that come into my mind. And so I look those things up The the common uh uh uh teachings on on Judaism is that when it was soiled it had to be carried by three hundred of the Levites. So this thing was pretty big. But uh they said it was 40 cubits by 20 cubits, which is about 60 feet long or 60 feet high and 30 feet wide So this was a very large curtain. The description of how thick it was, the description is, they say is about the width of a hand. Now we don't know if it's the width of a hand this way thick or if it's the width of the hand this way. But that's all we know. But still if it's a curtain that's about the width of a hand this way, that's pretty thick. That's a the thick piece of cloth And they said that it was it was so large and they they made it so thick just so that someone wouldn't accidentally go into or enter into the Holy of Holies. And we know that the Jews didn't rip this thing because that was a very important symbol for them. They wouldn't have ripped it. There wouldn't have been anything that went through their mind that would say, you know what, this might be a good idea to rip. So we see that the veil in the scriptures was rent in twain, and it teaches us about who Jesus was and about what Jesus did, and that atonement was made. And so man, the main idea that we get to here is the priesthood of the believer because man had direct access to God. Through Jesus. There was no longer need for a temple. There was no longer need for blood sacrifices. There was no longer need for the intercession of earthly or human priests. And so that teaching in the New Testament is that we as Christians, as believers, have access to God. Not through a priest, not through a pastor. The idea is that no one person has any corner on God or special access to God. So we all have it through Jesus Christ, and we individually have access to God We have access to God for prayer, for confession, for praise, for worship The Bible says in Hebrews 4. 16, we talk about it often, that let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. We see that. Understand that If a person that was a practicing Jew would to come boldly to the throne of grace, would come boldly to the mercy seat, under Judaism, they would be killed. And so this whole idea that we need to understand is that the temple and and that religious system that God had set up that that had been eliminated. It had been changed. It was now we, the believer, had direct access to God through, it's not just everyone has access to God. Because a person that is unsaved does not have access to God. They have access to God through Jesus. And then we learn a little bit more because the Bible talks about the role of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, the Bible says, intercedes for us. So we have this access to God, and the teaching is that again we are all priests. So when we think about that, that's what the Bible's teaching here. The job of the priest carried Responsibility. It carried individual responsibility. There's this neat comparison that I didn't get a chance to include in my notes or but was about the comparison between the New Testament priest and the Old Testament priests. And there's a lot of simul similarities that we that we can draw in there. But the New Testament priest Which would be us, we need to make sure that there's certain responsibilities that go along with that We remember just one, just kind of talking about it. We know that the priests, as they approached their service, as they approached their worship, they had to be clean. And it reminds us that as priests, the Bible calls us priests. We're to make sure that we are clean when we come before God. Many times there's this ideal in 1 Timothy, this is a little bit of a sideline. It talks about lifting up holy hands Many times when you see pictures of Old Testament priests or prophets or teachers, anything like that. Do you see there's one there's one image that we see of Daniel that is kneeling and he when he they pray, they put their hands up like this. And that's what the Bible is talking about when it's talking about lifting up holy hands. And the idea is that their hands are clean. They're saying, God, I am clean before you as I come before you. It's not a matter of waiting and worshiping and things like that That's not what the Bible is referring to. It's saying I am clean and holy as best I can be as I come before you. And so that's the idea that the Bible is talking about. And so the job of the priest was to represent God to all people. And so that's our responsibility. The responsibility of a priest is to share our knowledge and understanding of God with other people. That's something that we need to do. And it rolls into the idea we need to have a personal understanding of God. A personal knowledge of God. And it rolls into this idea of what the Bible calls individual soul liberty, which is the second topic that we're going to discuss. So let's turn to the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter three Galatians chapter 3, it's right before the book of Ephesians. Chapter 3, verse 26. It says this, for ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus. Then let's go ahead to to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We'd go back a few pages. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 The idea here is about there's an individuality, and there's not a distinctions thing here 2 Corinthians 5, verse 10 talks about this. It says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. So the idea here, and then we're we're also going to discuss I want you to see it for yourself. Romans chapter 14. So let's go back to Romans chapter 14. There's a couple verses in here that are very important and very practical. Romans chapter fourteen And we'll start there in verse number five. The Bible says this. It says, one man esteemeth one day above another. Another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind So there's this idea of individuality, and there's an idea of what the Bible calls here doubtful disputations, a differing of opinions. But we're going to see exactly that God wants us to have our own our our in our wants our thoughts to line up With Scripture, but then he says in verse 5, let every man be fully persuaded in his mind. So there's an idea of individualism, there's an idea of the free will. We see it in other ways. We see it discussed as religious liberty. Another thought is that that comes from this is freedom of religion. There's freedom of conscience, conscious or soul freedom. These ideas are under attack not just in the religious arena But these ideas of religious freedom and religious liberty, these are ideas that have not always been accepted by the religious authorities But they're important beliefs to the Bible believer, and they were very important beliefs to those who have carried the belief of what is called the Baptist way. The idea of individual soul liberty means this. It means the God-given freedom and ability of persons to know and to respond to God's will. Baptists believe that God gives people the ability to make choices. Every individual, whether a believer or an unbeliever, has the liberty to choose what he believes is right in the religious. Realm. No one should be forced to assent to any belief against his will. This liberty does not exempt one from the responsibility of the word of God or from accountability to God for Himself So we see here that the Bible teaches in Galatians that we have equal standing before God in Christ. In 2 Corinthians, we see that we will all be judged. In Romans chapter 2, verses 6 and 11 through 11, the Bible talks about God being the judge, and he's going to render, or he's going to judge every man according to his deeds. Each believer has his own individual standing before God. And that's an important idea for us to relate to and to think about and really apply in our life. Each believer, the Bible teaches, must give an account before God. We saw that in the book of Corinthians, and then in Romans chapter 14, you can go down to verse 10. It says this, but why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set at not thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Go down to verse 12. The Bible says, so then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. See the idea here and one of the important teachings that has uh uh followed and and been uh uh uh a a belief held by Baptists is that each believer has the right And especially in this book in Romans 14, each believer has the right to interpret and understand the scriptures for himself But there's some very important other principles that go along with that because the Bible says that the scriptures are not of private interpretation. So if a person is going to say, well, this is what God revealed to me only, that has to line up with the rest of Scripture. And if it doesn't, then that's not what God was teaching that person That's just the way it plays out. The interpretation must be in harmony with the rest of the Bible And we must be honest with our interpretation of the Bible. This is where a lot of us, a lot of people, when you talk to people, people get hung up. Because people, and this isn't just in an area of, as we talk about religious beliefs, this is just in the area of just having an opinion at all. And when we look at the scriptures, I've said it many times, people can look at the scriptures and justify just about anything that they can think of And because they're interpreting it incorrectly. And when we look at the scriptures, we must be honest with what the scripture is teaching. And when we're challenged with that, we need to make sure that we take w that we take a step back, regardless of our biases and regardless of our opinions, and say, okay. What is the scripture teaching? And we take the correct approach, which is a literal approach to the scriptures, and we have to look at it from different contexts. What did not just pick a verse and say, well, this is what I think this means. What did it say as the passage is flowing and as we're reading it? What did that mean to the people that it was written to in that time? And then we take a step and we say, okay, well, how would that apply to me? And all those have to be in harmony with what the scripture teaches in order for it to be, yes, this is what the Bible, this is what we can say that the Bible is teaching. And the there's a lot of gray areas where people get bent out of shape and get mis m uh uh uh discombobulated in their uh interpretation of scriptures and when we look at this understand yes it is the responsibility of the individual of the person to make sure that they have an understanding of what they believe and not just necessarily be fed what it is that they believe. The right answer when you look at something and say What do you believe with this? It should be based on something scriptural, not just something, well, this is what my pastor has taught me. The Bible shows us in that in the Bereans would look at the scriptures and they'd take in what was said, and then they would, it's the Bible says that they would take it and then determine if those things were so. They would take it, they would accept it and agree with it, and then they'd go home and compare it with what the scriptures taught. So that they can make sure, okay, yeah. They were diligent about this, about making sure that they understood what the scripture was teaching. So the Romans 14 teaches believers how we're supposed to approach what the Bible calls doubtful disputations. Here the idea in chapter 14 was there was a discussion about special food, all right, a special diet that people held. And some had a specific teaching or idea on special days. But the Bible goes on and it says this in verse 5, let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. So here's the thing that's important for us as we're determining something. The Bible says that we need to consider one another in verse 7. If you look there it says For none of us liveth to himself and no man dieth to himself. What the Bible is teaching is that you can make a decision and you can make a a A conclusion as to what you think is right or what you think is wrong, but you're not an island to yourself. You need to be careful because your decision could affect another person And we want to we've got to be careful because our decisions, and this is where we we we uh can get really messed up with our with our personal preferences. But we need to make sure that we're considering one another. Verse 7 says that we're not an island to ourselves. And then we see in verse number 13, it says, Let us not therefore judge one another anymore, but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. So we're the one of the teaching principles here is that we're not supposed to be a stumbling block. So when there is a doubtful disputation about something, we shouldn't be a stumbling block. Now we can carry a certain uh preference and especially in our day where information can just be spread so quickly and there's so many different ways We have to be careful in how we share our opinion around. And to make sure that we're not, especially as it pertains to other people, that we're considering another brother. And that we're making sure that we're not causing that person to stumble. And we're going to see that later on in the passage, we need to make sure that we are careful not to cause someone else to violate their conscience. And how do we do that? We do that because we take a position where we say, well, you know what? This is right. You can do this. I think you can do this according to Scripture. But the Bible says that a person's to be fully persuaded. And we're going to see exactly, I I had to ask myself that question. In let's go to verse 23. We need to make sure we are convinced that what we do is right unto the Lord. Verse 23 says this, right as your conclusion, concluding there, in verse 22 and 23, it says, Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth him not himself in that thing which he alloweth, and he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith For whatsoever is not of faith is sin. I had to take a look one time at this verse and say, What does this verse mean How am I so it says whatsoever is not of faith is sin. That's a very broad statement. And so I need to make sure that the things that I do, I do in faith, but That sounds kind of strange. Like how do I brush my teeth in faith? How do I do this in faith? So I really wanted to understand what was this passage teaching? And the idea that is coming here at the very end it says, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. And then it goes this refers to In e in verse five, when it talks about let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. We as people, as Christians who are individually accountable to God make decisions that we're going to give an account for to God, and we need to make sure that the decisions that we make we are convinced are the right decision. We are that we can have faith and believe in faith that this is what God would have me to do. Now, if we can't And we do it, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. That's what that verse is teaching. So this is what happens. A lot of times people will say, What do you think about this? What do you think about that? Is this right to do? Is this or is this wrong to do? And there are times where my Answer is I can't say with a hundred percent certainty that this is right to do I can't say I can't give you scripturally that this would be that reasons why this would be okay to do And and I'm care I'm trying to be careful not to to give any examples so as I I take into account these things to make sure that you're not Perhaps something that you don't see as sin, I'm not putting a heavier burden on you than you need to carry And when we talk about these things, that's very important for us to consider because as as uh uh uh pastors and as leaders in the church uh w we have to be careful That we're not putting a heavier burden on people than is necessary to carry, than is outside of Scripture. And then at the same time, we need to make sure that we're convinced In our mind, that what we're doing is what God would have us to do. And so we have to be careful, we have to make sure that we're looking at the scriptures as we're convinced of what God would have us to do. So, there may be a person that says, I think that eating chocolate is wrong. Shame. All right. And there might be a and I may say, no, but chocolate is okay. Chocolate is fine. And what I could uh and that person says, but I'm not convinced. I can't for certain say. Now if I go to that person And I say to them as an individual in the church, and I say, hey, don't worry, you can do this. But that person's not convinced, I'm causing that person to violate their conscience And I'm the one in the wrong. And so we have to be careful in how we approach and we give up and hand out our opinions. And we need to make sure that we're not encouraging our brother or our sister to violate their conscience. Be careful not to allow a brother to do something that's not in faith. We have to be careful in that. Now there's two points of confusion that this passage sometimes leads to. Because this leads to differing opinions. We have to be careful how we express our opinion. But understand that we can hold differing opinions. But it must be in a spirit of unity, it must be in a spirit of humility, it must be in the spirit of, as the Bible's teaching here, not affecting someone else, not causing a brother to stumble. Now, this, another point of confusion is that this does not apply to doctrinal teachings. An example for this might be baptism. And you know, sometimes we can come across as the angry, mean intolerant Baptists because a person because we don't allow a person to be baptized uh uh by sprinkling as a baby. We wouldn't count that as baptism And someone may say, well, you're just, you know, splitting hairs and uh and things like that. The problem with that, and I I As we've approached this, our approach is not to be angry, not to be hateful, but to be true to what the Bible teaches. And when we when I approach the issue of baptism, the way the Bible teaches it There's people that I've met, that I've spoken to, that are convinced that they have been saved because they were sprinkled as a baby And that teaching is a heresy, and that teaching is condemning that person eternally. Because if their holding their salvation is based on this baptism as an infant, then that person's not saved. And that's why it's so difficult and it's so hard as a person that desires to stay true to the Word of God. It's not a matter of us trying to be mean, it's we're trying to be true to what the Bible says. But again, it's something that we need to make sure that we understand and that we learn from the Scripture ourselves. The priesthood of the believer and individual soul liberty address issues of personal spirituality. This is Pertaining to one's own walk with God, one's own lifestyle, one's own standards, one's own convictions. But what about when one's personal convictions conflict with perhaps the church's standards? When this is the case, an individual has to discern if they should yield to the will of the church It's wise to yield to the God-given authority in these areas because the Bible teaches that the God-given authority is going to be the one that stands in account. The Bible teaches that pastors are going to give an account. We see in the book of Genesis that when the the when Adam and Eve sinned, God addressed Adam. And so when we see that, we need to make sure that our personal standards yield to the God-given authority. So it's yielding to the husband as it pertains to the marriage. It's yielding to the father as it pertains to the home. It's yielding to the pastor as it pertains To the Turks But these types of situations provide an opportunity to evaluate the standards and the beliefs that you hold personally and to make sure that they're biblically based Again, it needs to be in the spirit of unity, in the spirit of humility, and it must be in the spirit of not affecting other people, not being a stumbling block. And again, it goes back to an honest interpretation of Scripture. And that's what we go back to. We can go and have a discussion about different standards. and different uh teachings of the scriptures. And many times if someone perhaps has a question or per perhaps has a difference of opinion, I ask them, I say, okay. What could you cite the scripture that supports your position? Because it's not a matter of us debating our opinions. It's a matter of us understanding what the Word of God says. And so understanding truthfully, honestly, having an honest interpretation of the scriptures. Now we're not going to spend so much time on the development. The development, how has this through history developed? It's important for us to understand that This has been something that many have been persecuted over. There was m uh during the Reformation In 1527, there were many Protestant people in Switzerland that would persecute Baptists. And they they made a reference that said, Well, they like immersion, so let us immerse them. So they would drown Baptists. They would just throw them into the water because they didn't believe the what the scripture taught. Lutherans in Germany were persecutors of Baptists. John Calvin in Geneva, Switzerland, was a persecutor. There was a persecution of Calvinists against the Arminians. There was a persecution of Baptists during the days of Henry VIII. There was a persecution of Baptists during the days of Queen Elizabeth. There was a persecution of Baptists during the days of King James I. And a lot of these things, if you understand the time of the reign of James and all these English kings, is leading up into expansion into the New World. And so a big tenant, even in history, in American history, we see that there was a desire to have religious liberty coming over into this country. But there was still that conflict. Religious liberty, the the individual soul liberty was something that people fought for. See, I believe it was nine of the 13 colonies originally wanted to have a state church. But once that was evaluated, uh uh the original constitution didn't have enough protections for religious liberty, that's why there was the Bill of Rights, the amendments to the Constitution that plainly spelled out the freedom to exercise religion. And so how does this Changed or how how has there this this developed? One of the other ways that we see it is in the teachings of Calvinism, John Calvin. There's teachings of Calvinism that many times we've made reference to, but many who believe in Calvinism do not believe in free will or believe in a very different idea of free will. And this very Clearly goes against the idea of individual soul liberty that we will all give account to God, that we all have the free will to make choices and to choose what we will. In terms of what we believe of God. Because we, even as unbelievers, people have that free will to believe or to not believe. And so then over time, what have been the differences? And these are just things that how we can see in different denominational differences. Um, I'll make reference to when we talk about the priesthood of the believer, there is an ex cathedral doctrine, meaning that a a uh the the highest authority in in this case the the church uh or the pope of the Catholic Church can make statements in full authority of God, that the statements that are made when he's speaking ex cathedra are infallible. And that's not true. That's not that takes away from the priesthood of the believer because that puts another mediator between us and God. Then we see the Mediatrix doctrine where Mary is considered the co-mediatrix. This was made, I believe, in the 400s or so, and that is not a scriptural teaching. And it's easy to understand how people could be convinced of this because they didn't have the scriptures directly to be able to read. And that's why it's important for us to know and to understand and to to be able to determine and read the scriptures for ourselves what it is that we believe. There's other denominations or other belief systems, I would say, that practice vicarious baptism. That means that you're a substitutionary baptism. You can be baptized for someone else. There's also along these lines the Mormons that teach that teach that you can be baptized for the dead. Which takes away the individual responsibility. There's also some that pray for the dead or pray to the dead. And they say again that these person people are already in heaven and they can be uh they're closer to God, so they can pray on your behalf as a mediator, but again, they're the mediator is Christ. We can go directly to God, the Bible tells us. Also, as we were saying, Calvinism denies free will. There's also some that believe that you can uh uh uh there's some teachings that say In practice, that you accept the religious belief that your family is in So I was born into a Catholic family, therefore that makes me a Catholic. I was born into a Muslim family that makes me a Muslim. And there's this idea of being able to have a family belief system, but that takes away from the individual responsibility, the individual liberty of each person. Each person has to make that decision for themselves. So, with that, it's important for us, just in conclusion, to consider the importance of having God's word in your hands. Something that we can take, something that we can read, something that we can understand and apply to our lives how we're going to live. And to be convinced and to make sure that we can make decisions that in full faith, knowing what it is that God would have us to do. But it's also consider important for us to consider the the how how key it is to know and understand God's will for us. personally and to be responsible to act in accordance with the Word of God. That's something that's a responsibility that all of us have. Not one person has it more than another I can't do it for anybody else. I can't take that responsibility from someone else. It's something that we all carry, from the youngest believer to the oldest believer. From the one who's been saved for just a few weeks to the one that's been saved for many, many years. We all have that individual responsibility. to follow what God would have us to do. And that is according to do according to what the Bible tells us. So that's what it comes down to. That's our individual responsibility. I hope that you've uh definitely learned some things tonight. And uh let's go ahead and close and let's have a word of prayer. Father, we do love you. We thank you for the day, and Lord, I thank you for the teachings of your words and how important they are for us to learn, for us to accept them. For us to understand them, but most importantly, for us to use them in our life. Lord, you gave us your word for a purpose. Lord, all these teachings of Scripture you gave us to reveal yourself to us, so Lord, that we could follow your will in our lives. Lord, we certainly do thank you for it, but I also pray that you would help us to be serious about searching the Scriptures, being diligent to apply it to our lives, to be honest when we approach the Scriptures. Lord, not just fitting your word into what you would have us to do, into what we want to do, Lord, but that uh, Lord, that your teachings would affect and infect our entire life. So that we live them out and that we can be your representative as we go out into this world and teach others And pass that along and win others to you. Father, we ask that you would bless the rest of our week. Would you give us a good week and And in preparation for our day on Sunday. And Lord, would you just help us along the way to be fulfilling your will in Jesus' name? Amen.