Nehemiah chapter number two We've been looking at and discussing the idea that character counts. I want I want you to understand that character does count in today's world, a world that is void uh on every hand of every level of character more ev more now than ever in history, I think it is vitally important we have some people Some Christians, some young men, young ladies, and adult men and ladies that are guided by and living their life by character. Doing what is right. Letting principles of character be what leads their life in a day and age when many people just do what feels good. But what I'm saying is we've got a culture today in the church and out of the church where people just do what their own flesh wants them to do. There's nothing inside of them that says, I can't do this, I won't do this, I'm not going to do this, I don't care what temptation the devil brings. I don't care what comes up in front of me. There's something inside that says, I cannot. I can't do it. Why would we allow the devil to pull us aside and just lead us around by our nose or by our feelings or by our old flesh instead of being people of character? Yes, we need the Spirit of God, but I think a lot of times we we blame the lack of the Spirit's help in our life Our failures on that instead of just the fact that we're just living our life by feelings instead of by character. Just doing what's right And part of it starts with men, primarily men Sometimes ladies, but we've got to protect this thing up here, men. We have got to live disciplined lives and don't let the devil Anybody in here is capable of committing the vilest of sin. In our mind right now, we may say that's the farthest thing from us, and how in the world could anybody ever do that? Unbelievable wickedness. The devil would have any one of us here do that if we don't live lives of character and discipline and do what's right because it's right to do. Live in the power of God. Tonight we're going to deal with the character trait of initiative. Initiative. What I love about the character traits that we get to look at is they are so applicable to our lives To every one of us wherever we are, they fit in. They hit us right between the eyes, if you're thinking at all, and they apply to our lives, and we can use Look in Nehemiah chapter number two with me if you would. In verse number one, I want you to see this man here, Nehemiah, a man. of initiative. The Bible says, and it came to pass in the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, the wine was before him. And I took up the wine and I gave it unto the king. Now I had not Sorry, I lost my place. Now I had not been before time sad in his presence. Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was very sore afraid. And I said unto the king, Let the king live for ever. Why should my countenance why not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my father, sepulchre, lieth waste? And the gates thereof are consumed with fire. And the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven And I said unto the king, if it please the king, and if thy servant have found favor in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah. Judah, unto the city of my father's sepulchres, that I may build it. I mean when I wanted to look at this idea of initiative, I didn't have to study it all. I I just I said I'm gonna go to Nehemiah. I went right to Nehemiah But when I read this passage of script, I started in chapter one and began reading down through and I'm familiar with the story as you are. You you know they come and they give a report and He hears that the walls are broken down, his heart is broken, he cries out to God, and he doesn't know what to do about it, and he's burdened. But we pick up chapter number two and we're reading that. And then I saw that phrase, he says, that I may build it. And I thought, that is initiative. I mean this the the whole city the walls are broken down you understand at this point he does not know that the king he doesn't even know if the king's gonna kill him For being sad, let alone whether the king's gonna help him or not. He doesn't know whether the children of Israel are gonna get behind him, whether there's gonna be anybody else to pick up a stone and help him do this or whether he's going there, but he says, you know what? Here's something that needs to be done. The city's broken down. We need to get out there and build these walls back up. And he says, King, if you'll let me, I'll go do it. That is initiative. He wasn't just offering to pick up some trash. I mean he he read I'm gonna go build if if nobody else comes, I'm going. And you know, really, the way it works, when you step out for God, God bless us, and many times, most of the time You influence other people to come in and join as well, and you read the rest of the story, you see how he influenced a great number of people to get involved and a miraculous thing was done, but it started with a man that had. This driving characteristic of a man who is not content to just sit down. and sit back. Not content to light life, let life just pass him by. He says, I've got to do something that needs done Let me give you the story of a man a little closer to our time. Born in Columbia, Columbus, Ohio, in October 1890. The third child of eight children that would be in the family, Eddie, from his childhood loved machines. He spent any free time that he had working on them. His father told him one day that a machine must have a purpose. This phrase shaped Eddie's future. At age 13, in the middle of the seventh grade, he had to quit school to help provide for his family because of the untimely death. of his father. His first job he went to work for, he earned three dollars and fifty cents a week With his passion for machines, he wanted to know all he could, so he started working through a correspondence course in the evenings on engineering. Working on his understanding of autos and how they worked, he also went to work in an auto shop. Worked in an auto shop all day long and studied by correspondence in the evening. Evenings on the same topic. These long days and tiresome, wearisome nights were just stepping stones because his goal was he wanted to work. He had a direction. wanted to work for the FAR Automotive Company. After completing his studies one day, he walked into the plant right up to Lee Farr. Who was working on a car at the time, his head tucked over the hood, and he said, Mr. Farr, I just want you to know that I'm working here tomorrow To that, Mr. Lee turned around and said, Really? Who hired you? He said, well, nobody yet, but I'm going to be on the job in the morning, and if you're not happy, you're welcome to fire me The next morning Eddie arrived early. No one else was around. He noticed the shop floor was littered with trash, metal shavings, and oil buildup from not being cleaned. Cleaned the floor before anyone else arrived. As you can imagine, he had his job. He became known as an automotive expert and a nationally recognized race car driver. His love of cars took him to the Indy 500. In World War I, he came and he wanted to fly planes. He was denied because of his only seventh grade education. They said you can't fly planes. But because of his skill with engines, that won him a spot on the maintenance crew. So he began working on the planes for the government, although he took his free time in the evenings to take personal flying lessons. and learning how to fly. Despite the brass doing all they could to keep him on the ground because of his skill in the shop, he became a proficient pilot and was sent out on missions. Not only did he become a proficient pilot, but he became Became the most decorated pilot in World War I. He shot down more enemy aircraft than any other pilot in history at that point. up to that point. He received the Distinguished Service Cross eight times and the Medal of Honor. He went on after the war to found and run the Eastern Area Airlines, which those of you that are older probably remember the Eastern Airlines. They were founded in 1926, but they disbanded or filed bankruptcy in 1926. What I'm saying is this man, though he faced many challenges, he said, this is what I want to do, and he took the initiative Over and over again in his life he said, No, I want to fly. And they said, No, you can't fly because you don't have any education. So he said, Okay, I'll work on the planes. And he began to work on the planes, but he took his evenings. And began to study and learn how to fly and took his own lessons and became a very good pilot and went on and on and on through his life. An amazing story about Eddie Rickenbacker. This man had initiative. We need initiative in our life today. Initiative The definition by Google is the ability to assess and initiate things independently. That is, you'll do it without being told, without being asked. You'll assess the situation, see the need. and get after it. The dictionary. com says an introductory act or step leading to action. I've written it, put it this way, seeing a need, then undertaking that task before. We are asked. Seeing a need and undertaking that task before we're asked. I'll tell you what, any parent loves a child with initiative. What I mean the other day, I'll actually several of my kids have surprised me in recent days with with their initiative but the other day uh I don't know what day it was but I said in family devotions they said well what are we gonna be doing tomorrow and I s uh Lisa asked if they could take the log roller to work because they were gonna be rolling some logs at work. And I said you can, but you have to have them back, because tomorrow afternoon we gotta go down and we gotta roll all these logs that we're working on. We've got to get those put away. That's all I said in family devotions. And uh so they all went to work in the morning, uh all of the older ones all work. And uh when they got back in the afternoon I was working on something, I got busy and uh it was late afternoon and I grabbed the chainsaw and the parts and went down there to to work on the pile of wood. I was gonna work on cutting it up some more and then I was gonna call the kids down to help me roll the logs. And I got down there and Andrew was already down there. And he had about half the logs already put away. And I said, did your mother tell you to come down here and do this? And he's like, No. And I said, Well, why'd you come down here and do this? I had forgotten that I had mentioned it in in devotions. And uh he says, Well you mentioned in devotions last night you wanted to get this done today. She said thanks. That's awesome. You know, I appreciate it. He had the initiative and he went out he was at what Kids, you need initiative Don't be content to just sit down. See the job. My dad used to always say, job seen, assignment given. Somebody comes to me in church and says, boy, it would be nice if the grass got moon. Amen. Job seen, assignment given. Yeah, boy, we need to get this done. Yes, we do. Job seen, assignment given. So y as you know, when I was a child, I didn't never see any jobs. No, don't don't notice anything. Everything looks good. I tell you what, one time General uh MacArthur called one of his army engineers during the war and he asked him how long would it take to build a bridge across this stream He said, uh General, I believe we could build it in three days. And the general snapped back, good. Have your draftsmen make up plans right away Three days later the general sent for the engineer and asked him, How is the bridge coming along? The j the engineer said, The bridge is ready. However, if you want to see the plans, you're gonna have to wait. They're not done yet. Say we we got you a bridge. I don't know if you need the prints or not, but the bridge is there. You're welcome to use it. It's ready to go Initiative, just saying, let's get after it. Let's just get it done. That kind of a spirit. The opposite of initiative is slothfulness Somebody has said that it uh it could be stated as inactivity. I use the biblical word of slothfulness, to be sluggardly, to be lazy, the indulgence of sloth. Inactivity in our life. The habit of idleness. Slothfulness is the habit of idleness. Do you have a habit of idleness? You know the by that uh the the statement that was said is uh idle hands are the devil's Yeah You got you get idle and that opens up the door for Satan to come in. We need initiative. What does this deployment look like in our life? As Christians, we are supposed to, the Bible says, add to your faith. Add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and the knowledge temperat What I'm saying is there's an expectation by God. There's an expectation that we would be taking the initiative. You understand, of course, that God took the initiative with us? He loved us. We love him because he first Loved us. God the Father took the initiative with us. He reached out to us. He drew us unto himself. He saved our soul. He's given us a home in heaven. He sent the Spirit to dwell inside of us. He took the initiative with us, but now as Christians, he wants us to take the initiative with him. Some years ago there was a One of the former astronauts took the head of a uh of a major airline company. The airline service he determined was going to make it the best in the industry One day as the new president he walked through the different departments of the airline and he walked into one branch of the airline. He's walking through this office there and he found a man sitting there with his feet up on the desk looking at a magazine. And the phone was ringing off the hook. And the president turned to the man and said, Are you going to answer that phone? And the man looked up, not knowing who he was talking to. He said, This is not my department. I work in maintenance. And the president said, no, you don't. Not anymore. You you're you're done because this mentality, this idea that permeates our society today, don't you love it when you ask somebody at Walmart where something is and they say, oh, that's not my department Uh I oh that no I think there's somebody working in that department over there. I mean this idea of if it's not right in front of me or if I don't uh know exactly about it, I'm not gonna bother helping you Take some initiative. Go above and beyond and find a solution. Make it work. Make it happen. We need initiative in our lives, on our job, in the workplace, in our homes, we need initiative. Why is it so many homes are are falling down around them around it? I mean the people living in there and the house is just falling apart. It takes initiative. I mean the the idea oh you know you come to visit and you open the screen door and it goes and they're like oh yeah you gotta hold it up while you swing it and like that. One of these days I'm gonna fix that. But the problem is that there's things all over the house like that. One of these days I'm gonna clean this up. One of these days I'm gonna do something with that car that's on Jack's out back One of these days I'm gonna I mean it is permeating our society and people today, every area. It's just it's it's It's one of these days I'm gonna do that, but there's no initiative, no drive to say, hey, we're gonna get this done. Let's get it done. Let's get it fixed. It takes a lot of work to maintain things I'm thrilled at how God's people maintain the house of God here. It's a testimony and it's mind-boggling when you think that we've been in the building here for more than 10 years. And the facility still looks as good and it still looks as sharp. Why is that? Because people touch up the paint, people fix the doors that are not Swinging correctly. There's people that vacuum, not just vacuum, but you know, spot clean the carpets. There's people that I mean there's there it takes a lot of work. It takes some initiative. People that see those needs and are willing to tackle them. We do the same things in our relationships many times. Eli was a father, and he was a priest. He invested and gave so much time to being a priest that he he didn't do anything with his voice. And he lost his voice. He didn't take any initiative at the home front. He was doing real well as a priest. But he didn't do anything with his sons and he lost them. You know, many, many times in our relationships, we need to take the initiative. What about when an offense rises? Both people are saying, well, I ain't saying nothing. I'm not talking to him first. I'm not gonna talk to her first If she wants to get right, I'll talk to her. If they're willing to apologize, who's gonna be the bigger Christian? Who's going to take the initiative and say, we need to get this settled. We need to get this fixed. It's not right for us to have this ought between us. We need to settle this. We're gonna do this. And take the initiative and say, hey, can we talk? Hey, let's get this fixed. I don't want to have anything between us. Having the initiative. In our finances. One of these days we're gonna handle our money correctly. One time sometime we're gonna, I mean we're gonna start saving money and Not overspending, but tonight we're going out for pizza. Right? I mean that I d we need to have some initiative and say right now we're gonna we're gonna set this This is going to be our goal. This is going to be our budget. That's part of the whole thing with the FPU classes we had. And I don't want to give away people's testimonies in here, but there's people in here that since FPU last year, they have paid off all their debt except their mortgage. Because they said, listen, we've been running this way for a long time. We're going to put on the brakes We're going to stop wasting our money. We're going to look at where it's going and decide how it's going to be spent. And we're going to be we're going to be careful with it and we're going to get this debt paid off. It took some initiative, some work We need initiative in our walk with God. I talked about it on Sunday, how we're at the foot of the cross we're all equal. Every one of us come to the cross and we trust Jesus Christ and we're there. We're all sinners saved by grace. We're just a pile of dirt standing before an Almighty God, washed clean because of the blood of the Lamb. Every one of us are in the same place. Nobody has a corner or a market on the power of God or the presence of God or the or the meeting of God I don't know if I really described it very well on Sunday morning in Sunday school, but what I'm saying is there's some people that they decide to stay there at the foot of the cross. They've been saved 5, 10, 15, 20 years, and they're still babes in Christ. Why? Because they didn't take any initiative And say, I want to know about this book. I want to read this book. I want to memorize this book. I want a relationship with God. And the the the fact of the matter is is although we were all the same at the foot of the cross, there's many people who are way beyond that in their Christian life. Because they took the initiative And they're not the same anymore. You could say, oh, well, they're still both sinners saved by grace. Yeah. But the one that had the initiative, he's got a much greater understanding. Of walking with God, talking to God, praying, and seeing prayers answered, than this person who chose to just sit here. We've got to grow. And we've got to go on. Take the initiative. Don't be content to just be idle in your Christian walk. We've got to take initiative in our witness. I've been saved a long time. I've yet to have somebody come up to me and say, what must I do to be saved? I mean I've been in church my whole life. Listen, we've got to take the initiative. We've got to reach out to them. We've got to give them gospel tracts. We've got to approach the subject. We've got to ask them, have you ever thought about eternity? Do you know where you're going to spend eternity? You know you can be forgiven of your sin. We've got to take the initiative. How do we develop initiative in our life? Someone said there's three types of people in the world: those who don't know what's happening, those who watch what's happening. And those who make things happen. Those who have no idea what's happening, you've met a few of those kind of people, right? They just got no idea. You're just you y you just say the elevator doesn't go all the way up or whatever, you know. But then there's those that are content even though they could and have the capacity, they're content to just watch it happen But a person with initiative, they make things happen. If you're going to make things happen, you need direction. You need direction. It takes direction. You have to have purpose. You understand just doing anything, just being active, just being busy, is not really right. There are some people who work very hard at not working. There are some people who invest a lot of effort in looking busy, but they're not really accomplishing anything. Did you have to go there recently? I I mean that's exercising patience right there. You you gotta have direction. You gotta have the right direction. You need structure, framework. The structure, the framework acts as a guide for your effort. The framework, the for your initiative starts with God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Is it going to bring honor and glory to God? Our framework, what we do, should be guided by God. Obviously, if there's something that's going to take me away from God or something that's going to Uh come between God and me in our relationship. If there's something that's gonna hinder that, then what do we need to do? We gotta do we gotta change our initiative. We might have a lot of initiative to go do a particular thing, but if it gets between me and God that's the wrong direction. So you need direction. You need to have purpose. But it needs to be inside the framework of what's going to bring honor and glory to God. Be therefore followers of God as dear children, the Bible says in Ephesians. 5 verse number 1. Be a follower of God. Bring honor to him. Does it fit inside of God's will for you? Too many Christians have made a point to say seek the way, putting great effort in finding the way, when we know f when we know full well what the way is. What we need is initiative to get after it. Lot of people talking about boy I wish God would show me what what He wants me to do. Boy I wish God would reveal this unto me Sidney Smith said a man waits and doubts and consults his brother and his particular friends till one day he finds he is sixty years old and he has lost so much time in consulting he has no time to do Inside of our framework, we must have more than a dream. We need direction. We must build a habit of taking action. Build habits of taking action. Have direction and build a habit of taking action. Say this is where we need to do, we need to do it. We need to go, go after it. Ron, somebody, I can't even pronounce his last name, said this. There is a very close correlation between getting up in the morning and getting up in the world. There's a very close correlation between getting up in the morning and getting up in the world. Just getting after it. I read this week, I was reading about uh I believe it was Jonathan West Leslie, uh, I believe uh exactly who I was it was, I can't remember. He said he was very disappointed himself That at 80 some years old, that he found himself sleeping in till 5 30 in the morning He was very discouraged at himself because he was sleeping in till 530 Let that sink in. Not only do you need direction, but you need determination. It takes determination. When opportunities come our way, we've got to grab them. We've got to go after them. We've got to be determined. Nehemiah said, I'll go. He was set in his heart to go and to build this this wall back before he ever knew he had help. I mean that to me is just mind-boggling, undertaking. I remember when I went to Heritage Baptist Church for the very first time, and one of the things they were going to have me do as I came on staff there is they were going to have me lead their building program And we just got moved in. A bunch of people came and helped us unload all our stuff and they all said goodbye. It was probably 1231, 2 in the morning when we arrived and got unloaded. Everybody left and Mary was trying to get ready for bed and I walked around the building. And I remember looking at the building thinking, what did I get myself into? I thought, my goodness, the work that he's done here. Lord, how are we going to get this done? I have bit off way more than I could chew. Little did I know that was just a fraction of the work that God had in mind for me But I was overwhelmed. I was just like, what in the world? How can we do this? But Nehemiah said, I'll be willing to go with it He was determined, willing to do it, and determined to do it. The opportunities that come. Thomas Edison said, opportunity is missed by most because it's dressed in overalls and looks like work. This great inventor was talking one day with the governor of North Carolina. The government governor was complimenting. He said, I'm not really that great of an inventor. He said, but you have thousands of patents to your credit. He says, no, Governor. He says, I really only have one, and that's the phonograph He said the others, he said, if I could describe it as just I'm a good sponge. And here's what he said. He said that I can take ideas from other sources and put them to practical use, then I can I improve upon them until they become of some value. The ideas which I use are mostly ideas of other people who never did anything with them. They had an idea but no initiative to make it happen. Don't procrastinate. Don't say someday. Give direction. Be determined. And say now we're going to do it. Don't make excuses. The slaughter man saith there's a lion without. The slaughterman he's looking for any kind of an excuse. There might be a lion in the street. There's some kind of an excuse. There's gonna be there's always gonna be excuses. There's always going to be reason. We need initiative in our pursuit of God, in our relationships with one another, in the workforce. This impacts every part of our life. Let's stop being content with idleness and start getting after it.