Amen. Grab your Bibles, turn to the book of Philippians, and put your finger there or uh somehow mark your spot, put your Bible marker, whatever it is there, and then also turn to the book of Acts, chapter 21. So Philippians chapter 1 and Acts 21. kind of be the the areas that we will be this evening. As I said to you a couple weeks ago, telling you the introduction. the idea that we're going to be doing a study in the book of Philippians. I talked to Alicia today and uh I told her that I was speaking on this tonight and she said, Oh Uh Brother Schreiber, which is my brother-in-law, who's on staff there at Fairhaven, uh just finished writing a book on the book of Philippians. And uh she said he actually just said that in class today. Uh he said I just completed the book of Philippians and I will be publishing that in the near future and I thought, wow, I should have uh waited and Use that resource, but um just thought that was interesting. But we're gonna be looking at the book of Philippians, just kind of walking through it and seeing what God has for us and Obviously, many very familiar passages of scripture in the book of Philippians that we're used to hearing and familiar with. But uh as we look this evening, the the first point or the topic of tonight is going to be the composer of the book of Philippians. As we think about or look at uh the the person who authored this book. Uh I purposely titled it the composer because of course we believe that God is the author, that God is the one that uh by the inspiration of God. God breathed. God gave Paul the words to put down in the book of Philippians for us. It's amazing when you contemplate or think about the idea there because in many aspects. I mean you have the personality of the individual comes out, uh the author, the writer, Paul, uh his life experiences. his way of communicating, uh his knowledge of language, all of that comes out in his writings But somehow God was able to, he did not, he put the words here that he was needed to needed to communicate to us, but also used the individual Whom he wanted to use to get that to us. I mean you think about the differences in the books in just the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and how those are many times accounts of the same stories. but they're communicated in different ways based on those individual men and their backgrounds, where Luke tends to, as being a physician, tends to look at things more surgically and and from a medical standpoint and has that point of view. Yet all inspired by God. And so as we look at this, we of course believe that God is the author, but tonight we want to look at the Apostle Paul and just Remind ourselves of who it is that it that God used to pin these words for us, who put it down here for us, and what can we learn from him and maybe spur us in our Christian life. Um Paul is probably one of the most well known individuals in Roman history. Uh certainly one of the most influential. Uh you know, I think of somebody like Julius Caesar, somebody that uh so many people would know and recognize the name, but how much influence does Julius Caesar have today? Uh not much. I mean there's certain things that they might look at his life and say, well he uh is the one that did this and that carried over and historically we can see how it had an impact on today, but For these couple thousand years, the Apostle Paul has had a direct influence on society. Because God used him to pin words that were recorded in the New Testament with the foundation, the starting of the church. And the carrying of the gospel to the Gentiles and amazing when you think about that scope of influence and uh how Well known this man, the Apostle Paul, is. So we will look tonight, first of all, his childhood. I think that everybody here knows and understands that he was born a Jew. In Acts, if you're in Acts chapter 21, look down at verse number 39. Acts 2021 and verse number 39. He says, But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus. In the city of Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city, and I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people. He recognized here that he was a Jew of Tarsus. In one page over in Acts chapter 22 and verse number 3. He says a very similar thing. He says, I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarshis, in the city of Cecilia. yet brought up in the city at the feet of Gamalia, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God as ye all are this day. So being born a Jew, he would have brought been brought up in the in this family, and from the ages of zero to about five in a Jewish family, the children are very much instructed by mom Excuse me. They spend a lot of time under the instruction of mom, and mom is the greatest influence of their life during that period, and and mom has that strong impact. They say there's no bond but like there is between a mother and a child, and he would have been trained by her until he was five, and then he would have been begun to get under the tutelage of his own father. And his father would have begun to start teaching him. His father taught him Hebrew in Acts twenty-one, verse number forty. He says, And when he had given him license, Paul stood on the stairs and beckoned with a hand unto all the people. And when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying So he learned Hebrew, and he would have learned the law and studied the law and spent time looking into and being very fluent in Hebrew and knowing these things Then, around the age of ten is when he would have gone and started sitting at the feet of Gameliel. Started learning from this the premier rabbi of the time. Josephus recognizes him as one of the most well-known, one of the most influential rabbis, certainly among the top as far as being respected in history. Not just in the Word of God, but in Jewish history, the impact and influence that Gamelio had. And Paul was able to sit at the feet of Gamelio. Now Emelia believed in tradition. He believed it was superior than that of the law. That is opposed to other schools of thought during the time which believed the law was superior to tradition. There was a competing argument there. Some believed that law was per paramount and tradition fell secondary. Others looked at tradition as paramount and the law as secondary. But Paul got to sit at his feet. The reason that we're told that he sat at the feet of Gameleo is because Gamalio actually believed Well, he despised books. He did not care for book teaching, book learning. He said that there's only one book worthy of your time, and that's the Word of God, the Bible That's God's word, the law. That would be the only thing that he would allow his students to read. The rest of his tutelage, the rest of his teaching was done verbally. And his students would sit around and he would stand and talk and instruct them in these truths and allow that message to sink into their life and impact them that way. What I want you to consider or think about the idea here is that this great amount of education that was his privilege to take. Is exactly what God used to give him the foundation he needed for him to be able to take What Christ was going to give him and apply it to the people. To be able to give voice to the doctrines, the teachings of Christ. And to be able to bridge that gap between the Greeks and the Romans and the Jews God had uniquely positioned this man and prepared him to fulfill and do a job that only he could do. I would encourage you tonight to don't take or don't adopt the idea or the mindset that, well This is who I am, this is what I am, and God can just take it or leave it. Maybe God would like you to take some learning. You see, God can only use for us what we have. He he can't all of a sudden Put Don in Greek class and Don's going to start teaching Greek. Don does not have that background to be able to teach Greek. You see, God can only use what we have. But that doesn't mean we should get a mindset and say, well, take it or leave it, Lord. Here's what I am. No, I think that there ought to be something in our heart that say, I want to be as prepared, I want to be as useful as I can, I want to have as many tools at my disposal as I can for God, for his honor and glory. I have things right now I'm studying beyond the scriptures, beyond what I'm teaching, in hopes to prepare for what the Lord might have next for me. I'm trying to prepare for what, Lord, what do you want me to do? I'm looking down the road. I'm saying, Lord, what do I need to prepare for? What do I need to get to get a hold of that I can be as useful of a tool as you want me to be? And uh, you know, I don't know what it might be that God would have for you. Maybe God wants you to to learn there's some things in the Word of God, you know. Being a being a witness, being a soul winner, being effective at communicating the gospel of Jesus Christ. Maybe ha how to give assurance to somebody, learning, you know, Lord can only use you to give somebody assurance. If you have that knowledge. So maybe you need to get into the Word of God and say, how do I give somebody the assurance of their salvation? How how can I show somebody that? How can I convince them of the fact that they're either saved or they're lost or they need to get saved? And what what can I do there? I mean there might be something in your heart you say, Lord What do you want me to do? What do I need to learn? What do I need to prepare that I can be as useful of a tool as you would could have me be? Learn the Bible, but also learn how to communicate it. God can only use what we have. Paul, as a Roman, as a Tarsian, as a Hebrew, as culturally a Greek man, he was uniquely prepared for God's plan. So the question is, what is God preparing you for? What is God preparing you for? I don't think we should ever get to the place and say, oh well, I mean, I'm not 17 anymore. God's not preparing me anymore. I think God's always preparing us for something. There's there's you know you're not dead yet. There's still something happening. There's something coming around the corner and down the road and and maybe God is preparing you right now for that event We've got to get what God wants us to get right now. We need to be ready. Don't miss it. So we see his childhood, then I want you to see his conversion. That's of course in Acts chapter 9. You don't have to turn there, I'll just read a couple of verses to you. But you know, of course, this is a familiar story, I think, for most of you there uh here tonight, uh, but he was On the road to Damascus. In Acts 9, verse number 3, it says, suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. The Apostle Paul told Agrippa, he said, that the light shone was greater than the brightness of the sun. He said above the brightness of the sun. I mean can you imagine getting hit with a light like that? I don't know if it was dusk or if it was the middle of the day or if it was at night. That would be a pretty drastic thing at night. if the light came and bam, you know, it probably was in the daytime, but what I think he was saying is that obviously it's light up. Your eyes are adjusted to this light, but a light greater than that light, greater than the light that was already shining in the world, greater than the light of the sun, which was already illuminating everything, there all of a sudden was a light far greater than that that came down on him. And that light shone on him, and of course you know it blinded him, knocked him off of his horse, and he turned to Christ. We know that Jesus said, I am the light of the world. The light that shines down into the heart of an individual is a convicting light. It reveals and shows us the sin that's there. And that's what we as a church would like to see God do in the heart of individuals that come and attend here I hope it's not just a passive thing that people can come and attend it's just they're doing their duty, but I hope that the light of the Word of God and the light that shines from Jesus Himself, from the Holy Spirit, shines into the hearts of individuals. And for those that are lost, they see their need of a savior. And for those that are saved, I hope that they see in their lives things that God would want us to change. That God would want us to make us stronger or to help us prepare for what's next. I hope the Holy Spirit comes and speaks to people in God's house With that light that shines in darkness. That old song, the light of the world is Jesus The whole world was lost in the darkness of sin. The light of the world is Jesus. Like sun shining at noonday, his glory shone in. The light of the world is Jesus. Jesus. Come to the light, 'tis shining for thee. Sweetly the light has dawned upon me. Once I was blind, but now I can see the light of the world is Jesus. Jesus. The Apostle Paul was blind, but with the light of Jesus Christ shining in his life, he could then see. We see his conversion. He heard a voice that says. He saw a light, but he also heard a voice. Verse number four says, And he fell to the earth, and he heard a voice saying, Unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? He heard a voice. Can I ask you tonight, how long has it been since you heard the voice of God? How long has it been since Jesus. Spoke to you, spoke to your heart, stirred you, ministered to your soul directly Beloved, I think this is probably among the certainly in the top five questions that I've answered for God's people on an individual one-on-one basis How do you know when God's talking to you? How do I know when God's speaking to me The truth is, beloved, every born-again Bible-believing Christian ought to know that. You ought to know, you ought to have experienced that, you ought to have that to rely upon, to strengthen your faith, and to know. And it comes from building a personal walk with Jesus Christ and a relationship and And that day after day after day of walking with Christ and yielding to Him, hearing the voice, He said, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Do you hear God's voice? Do you know his voice? Do you recognize it? Now either either we're not listening Or there's something in the way. If you're not hearing the voice of God Either you have chosen to block it out, to shut it off on purpose, and you you you you're you've pushed him away so many times, you've what they see the Bible says grieved the Holy Spirit To the point that he's not speaking to you anymore or there's something in the way. I remember one time one of my children It just seemed like they were ignoring me. And I was getting pretty Irritated as a parent. Like this is not acceptable. When I talk you need to you need to listen. You need to Your mind, your ears should be tuned for dad's voice. I don't care if the video game's on or music is playing when dad speaks That stuff gets tuned out and you hear the voice of your father and you respond. You turn around, you look at me, you acknowledge me, and say, yes, sir, what do you want? Well, I was getting pretty uptight about it. Then we took them to the doctor and found out they had a double ear infection and their ears were all swollen shut. They they actually couldn't hear. They did uh I mean they weren't just ignoring me like I thought. I thought they were just like trying to tune me out, right? But But they actually had an infection and their their ears were were just swollen swollen shut and of course when it started relaxing the there's ooze coming out and all the infection and everything and I thought, oh man I felt so bad, you know. Um but sometimes maybe, you know, as a Christian our our ears ought to be tuned to God. When God speaks we ought to hear. But sometimes there's some things in there that aren't supposed to be and they they they cause us so we don't hear him. Sometimes there you get some trash in there. You get some things in your ears that aren't supposed to be there and it it blocks that sound. I would encourage you tonight to make sure there's nothing between you and the Savior. I hope you long to hear the voice of God and that you desire to hear it and you allow God to speak to you. We see Paul's commitment. He was passionate, Paul. He was committed. You know, the very thing that seemed to make him a very unlikely candidate for salvation. I mean, here you have a guy that is persecuting the Christians. I mean he is zealous. He is going after him. He's doing all he can to stop this movement. He's the last guy any one of us would want to go witness to, right? I mean we would be like, I ain't talking to that guy. And if you read the count there in the books of Acts, you'll see there were some Christians there that didn't really want to talk to him either. They're like, isn't he the guy that's persecuting the Christians? Isn't he the guy that's putting it locking us up? I don't want to talk to him. I don't want to go see him. Why would I do that? An unlikely candidate, but do you understand, beloved, we do not know Who's going to respond to the gospel? You and I have no idea, and we do not know who's got who God is going to use. We look at people sometimes and we we say, oh, they would never get trust Christ, or they're never going to change. Beloved, they can change. Because God is in the life-changing business. And we we even in recent days, I mean, I'm just excited and thrilled for Brother Greg, who for years was praying for his son. And some say he's an unlikely candidate. But God saves the unlikely. And God is growing Ben. And Ben is making changes. And he came and said, Hey, I need to get baptized. Hallelujah. Praise God, he's taking steps in his life and he's growing, and we want as a church continue to minister to him and strengthen him and help him on his Christian walk because we don't have any idea what God would do with somebody like Ben. You say, oh, he's an unlikely candidate. God likes using the unlikely guys. God can do it. He can do an amazing thing. And we don't know what God's going to do. I'll tell you what, if you get that zeal and that passion directed in the right direction, man, God can do something amazing. Like he did with Paul. Paul's zeal just needed to be refocused. Need to get in line with God instead of away from God. When Paul's zeal was refocused towards Christ, he was committed. Committed to God. Man His commitment was was started because he had a true conversion One of the reasons, beloved, I think we see a lack of commitment today, and it's mind-boggling, that today there's such a lack of commitment in society as a whole. There's no commitment to the workplace. There's no commitment from the workplace to the employer. There's no commitment from husbands and wives. There's no commitment in the family. There's no commitment in the church. There's no commitment. I mean, it just seems like today nobody wants to really commit to anything But in the church, beloved, I think one of the large problems that we don't see a level of commitment there is because there's many that aren't truly converted. It doesn't work to try and live a Christian life when you're not really a Christian. You need the power of Jesus Christ. To help you live as a Christian. Without that, man, you're kicking against the pricks. You're struggling. You're pushing a rock uphill. Man, it's hard. But with Jesus Christ, you're doing it in the His strength and His power. Paul's committed with commitment was rooted in a true conversion and then it also was sustained with an understanding of his call. That is, Paul knew what God wanted him to do. Man, you can endure a lot when you know that what you're doing is right. When you know what you're doing is what God wants. When you get biblical principles and you see them in the Word of God and confirmation from God, this is His Word, and this is what He wants us to do, and we live and follow this book. Then, beloved, it's not a matter of what's PC. It's not a matter of what's which way the wind's blowing right now, or if people like this or they like that We don't necessarily have to try and find that. And of course we want to make people happy. We want people to like us But that's not what determines what we do. What determines what we do is what the Word of God says. You see, Paul had a call from God on his life. Paul said in 1 Timothy 1, verse number 12, he says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for he hath counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Paul knew what God wanted him to do. Beloved, you can do, you can raise your kids for God. With biblical principles, because you know they're from the book. It's not from Cosmopolitan Magazine It's not changing with the times. It's not readapting. It's biblical principles. You can have a successful marriage When you do it the way God's word says, why? Because this is from God. This is his pattern. This is what he set up. You can be happy in your life. You can be a successful Christian. You can apply that to whatever you want. Why? Because you know what God wants and you're doing what God wants you to do. Amen? That's how we're successful. That's how we maintain a level of commitment. I'll tell you what, we need that today. In God's house, we need more commitment to just do what God wants us to do. To be faithful, to fulfill his will. What does God want? Okay, and you do it. And you do it. And you do it. And you do it. Is it easy? Sometimes no. Is it fun? Sometimes no. Is it hard? Sometimes yes. But you still do it because you know that's what God wants. I mean you look at Paul and his commitment, man. He said, I press towards the mark. For the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. Beloved, could I remind you that Paul's the one that said, For I am persuaded. That neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ. Christ Jesus our Lord. Paul knew that God loved him. Paul knew that no matter what happened in his life, and if you would just think about the life of Paul and all that he endured. He knew that all he went through all that, and it didn't matter. He said, God loves me. God wants what's best for me. God knows where I am. He knows that I'm in prison. He knows I'm being beaten. He knows I'm being locked up. Paul said, God knows and God loves me and it's okay. When Paul was ready to go to Rome, he said, I'm going to go, and they said, No, you can't. And they showed him a prophecy that he was going to be locked up. He actually took chains and bound them and said, This is what's going to happen to you. And he said, I am ready to be bound. Yea, more than that, I'm ready to die if that's what God wants for me. That level of commitment, because he understood the love of God, that God wanted what was best for him. He had that assurance. Have you ever found yourself doubting the love of God? I mean, you've had a really bad day, something rough happened, you got a phone call, and there's some hard things we go through in life, and I'm not making light of any of those, but beloved, don't ever doubt the love of God. God loves you. No matter what you're going through, don't think, don't let the devil convince you that somehow God has forgotten you because nothing will separate you from the love of God. Beloved, does that love of Christ, that love that He showed for you, does it constrain you like it did the Apostle Paul Does it constrain you? That means literally pull you along? Does it force you? Does it move you? To do what you know God wants you to do? Does it move you to get out of bed in the morning and read your Bible? Does it move you to find a time to read the Word of God each day and spend time in prayer? having and building a relationship with God. That love of Christ that ought to constrain us Man. The early church endured persecution. Persecution like we have yet to experience. Being burned at the stake, fed to the lions, mocked, ridiculed, on the run. Paul was ministering to them, speaking about the love of God. Paul himself was persecuted. Just read 2 Corinthians chapter 11. But he was able to stay faithful because he had the right kind of character. Beloved, I believe that our character The strength of character that we need to be the kind of Christian God wants us to be is found in our relationship with Him. It's established in our relationship with God. Just like I read tonight your In this book on prayer, your your ability, your you to be small with God in prayer is to be small with God in service. That relationship Another quote out of that book is, the secret of every failure is the failure of secret prayer Having that relationship with God. Believes Paul's character was strengthened and maintained because he had a relationship with God He stayed faithful. He stayed fully committed to the course that God laid before him, even though it was hard, even though he endured, because he hadn't That relationship. Ephesians 3, verse number 20 says, now unto him that is able to do exceedingly, abundantly, above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Paul had that relationship and it sustained him. It sustained him I believe we're gonna stop there tonight as we've finished up this thought on the The composer, this man that God used to pin these pages. We're gonna get into. We're gonna look next week at The cause, what was the cause, why why did it get written? The city, the city itself, and learn a little bit about that. We'll we'll look at other things. But tonight as we contemplate and think about this man, Paul, one of the most well known men in history, certainly one of the most influential But why was that so? Because of what Christ did in him. Because his salvation was sure. And he followed the Lord faithfully. Did what God wanted him to do. He prepared adequately. Are you do you have something you need to prepare? Something you need to get ready? That God could use Something you need to learn that you've been putting off or maybe refresh on. Maybe oh I used to play the piano, but uh not gonna do that. Uh I don't think so Uh what what can you do that God could use? Are you as committed as you should be to the cause of Christ and to the things of God? There's that commitment waning, maybe because of the hardships and and man we've had some hard days. But we gotta stay committed.