Going back, just by way of review, we dealt with the composer last week, of course, talking about the Apostle Paul, one of the most well-known individuals in Roman history. And if he's not the most well-known, certainly the most influential. because of his impact on Christianity and yea even the world all the way until today. We talked about his childhood, that he was born a Jew, educated by his mother, his father, and Gameliel. Uh he was a Roman, a Tarsian a Hebrew and culturally was raised as a Greek, very uniquely prepared by God. And uh we dealt with the idea last week that God is also preparing you. Hopefully you know what God's preparation is or what God wants or at least you're willing to consider and yield to whatever God is preparing you for. And you're looking at that and saying, God, I want to do what your will is for my life. You're preparing me for something. Along those lines we also have the aspect of the fact that you need to do your part to be prepared. That you need to study. You need to apply your heart to learning. You need to get the knowledge you need to get that God can use it. You can't use, God can't use something you don't have. Just like the scripture memory we try and do here month by month. If you have those committed into your heart, then God can bring those back to your mind, and maybe not for you, but maybe for somebody else who's going through a struggle or a trial, you'll be able to pull that scripture up and say, hey, the Word of God says this. and feed and help somebody else. But if you don't have that committed to memory, you can't do that. So we s saw that his childhood we also saw his conversion happen in Acts chapter 9 on the road to Damascus where he saw the light from heaven. By God, and we know that Jesus is that light. And then he heard a voice from heaven, dealing with the aspect, the idea that you need to be sensitive to the voice of God and to follow your heavenly Father, to do what God wants you to do and yield to him. because we as his sheep are supposed to know his voice. Then we saw Paul's commitment, what a commitment Paul had as he uh was willing to follow and do what God wanted him to do, no matter what it was, no matter how hard it was, no matter how much time in prison or if he was going to be beaten. He just committed to do what God wanted and his commitment to the to the to that was stirred because he, of course, had a true conversion, but also because he had a call on his life. And we know that he had a call of God and he knew what God wanted him to do. And one of the strongest things to help you stand in the day of adversity is to know you're doing what God wants you to do. And that means you've got to learn the Word of God and follow the will of God in your life. And we saw his character as an individual. His character was rooted in the fact that he wanted to know Christ and him crucified above all else. He had a relationship with Christ. And this is why God was able to use him so immensely through all of his life because of these things. Now we're looking going to move tonight to this to the city. We saw the composer last week of the book of Philippians. Now we're going to move to the city of Philippi, this area where Paul was writing the letter to. this church that was located in Philippi. And uh it was a commercial center of northeastern Greece, northeastern area of Greece. And uh it was a chief city uh of all of the cities. Now it was a chief city. Um and Paul covered this or went there on his second missionary journey. Turn your Bibles to Acts chapter 16. Acts chapter 16. The same as last week we will be in Acts chapter 16 as well as in Philippians. as we look at the different scriptures kind of introducing this book to us and where we find these things mentioned. But in Acts chapter 16, verses number 11 and 12, he says, Therefore, loosing from Troaz, we came uh with a straight course to Smarthakaea and next to Napolis and from thence to Philippi, which is the what is the next two words? Chief city. It was a chief city, which what does that mean, a chief city? Well, Rome was divided into territories almost like states, but not quite. It was divided into regions, and as they captured or gained control of a new area, they would They obviously that would become part of the Roman Empire, but they're in that area they had to establish a city. A place which would act as a ruling head, an authority for that area. And so we would consider it much like a capital You know, it was the capital of that region, which would be Macedonia, um, during that time. And uh so although it's located in Greece, there's Macedonia during that time. And Paul went there. We see in that verse, verse number 12, he says that they went to this chief city of that part of Macedonia. So it was the chief city of Macedonia, that region. And then he says, and a colony, and we were in that city abiding certain days. So the regions, the areas were divided up that Rome conquered into different, just like we would have, different states. And uh those they had Macedonia, they had Asia Galatia, they had Achaea, uh the different areas which we are familiar with as we read through the pages of scripture. Well, Macedonia, the chief city or the capital of Macedonia, was Philippi. We see that. It also, as I've described here, was a conquered city. We saw the word there a colony in verse number twelve, a colony. That was letting us that's letting us know that it was under the rule of Rome. Now these things are foundational thoughts that if you have those in your mind, when you begin to read through the text, And you see different things that Paul is telling the people, sometimes those truths tie in very strongly with the fact that It was a colony, that it was a Roman colony, that they were probably ruled from a distance. As you know from history, the Roman Empire defeated the Greeks and took over all of their territories as they began to conquer more and more peoples. All through the Bible we see these cities that we're familiar with that are actually or were at one point under Roman rule. They're not necessarily Roman cities. Like Jerusalem. Jerusalem is a Jewish city. Very little Roman influence in Jerusalem itself. Yet at one point was under the rule of Rome. Jerusalem is this city, its authority was the Sanhedrin. And the religion there, obviously, was the Jewish religion. Now, some of the other cities in Asia Minor were Greek cities, which is what we have in Philippi. Another Greek city was Ephesus. And they lived by Greek culture. Even though they were conquered by the Romans, they were still influenced by Greek culture. So it was a Greek city that was conquered and in control by the Romans, even though they might have established some people to rule there. As Philippi was a Roman colony, it enjoyed the rights and the privilege of the Roman Empire. Philippi was consisted of largely Roman citizens It was actually a place where Roman soldiers would go to retire. It was a nice retirement community for Roman soldiers It's funny that it's actually the reason it became that was because there was a great battle that was fought in uh history. And the Romans won this battle, and it was right outside of Philippi. And at the conclusion of the battle when they were victorious, The Roman emperor said, those soldiers that had reached a certain level, basically veterans, you guys are done, you're free to go. And so they were all free to go and thought, well. We could try and make it back, or if they didn't have any necessarily any place to go, they just ended up staying there. And so that city ended up being consisting of a lot of retired soldiers. uh a lot of uh Romans that were were there in that place in three fifty six BC This gives you an idea how old the city was. So 356 years before Christ, King Philip II of Macedonia conquered the city. And renamed it Philippi from what it was before that. Now, you know from history, if you know your history books, that King Philip II was whose father? Any of these young people here know whose whose dad that was? It was somebody that was great. Alexander the Great. Yeah, there you go. Alexander the Great. So that was his his dad and and they they conquered that city and he decided to name it uh Philippi, of course, after himself. I think sometimes we look at history And and we feel like there's this disconnect. That somehow what happens here in the Word of God is completely separate from what happens in the world. Like this happened somewhere else, like not really on earth. I mean this we believe it, but there's a disconnect. We don't look at this history as actually happening in conjunction and s consistently with world history. Somehow in our mind we disconnect the two like, oh they they they didn't happen consecutively or at the same time. They this happened and then what happened in the world happened. But that's not true. Everything in here happened day by day alongside with everything that that we have in recorded history. And as you go down through and read the historians, you will actually find them mentioning biblical characters People from the Word of God, and the history that's found in the Word of God lines up with and is consistent with the history that is found in what would be secular history books. One of the greatest Jewish historians, which is a secular historian, was Josephus. And he recognizes and acknowledges a lot of Bible history as he goes through that. And uh very beneficial, although very hard to read, uh if you want to if you want to get deep into that uh Jewish history. But um they happen together and we need to remember that. Um Then I want you to see this city continued on through the ruling rules of Julius Caesar. uh who was assassinated in 44 BC. So we're coming up to when Christ was born. His heir, Mark Anthony, which there's been many books and and movies and things written about that time period, uh the battles and things that happened during uh Mark Anthony's life. That occurred about a hundred years before Paul would walk into the city on his second missionary journey Paul walked into Philippi on his second missionary journey approximately right around 50 years A. D. AD 50. So as the this Roman colony, there was very few Jews in this Roman colony. It was a Roman colony. There were some Jews, but but not a lot. If you look in Acts chapter 16, you'll see in verse number 12 and verse number 13, he says, from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia. And a colony, and we were in that city abiding certain days. Verse number 13 says, and on the Sabbath we went out of the city by a riverside Where prayer was wont to be made. And we sat down and spake unto the women, which resorted thinner. You know, they went out of the city to gather for prayer. There was not that many Jewish people there. They had to in Jewish law they had to have ten Jewish men present What we would call like a quorum, you had to have at least that many men present in order to call for prayer If you couldn't get that many men together, you couldn't call for prayer. I I believe and I'm a little weak on this part of my Jewish history, but I believe that that is one of the reasons that some communities don't have a Jewish synagogue because they can't get ten men to come together. Uh to th they they would get if they could get ten, they could have their own synagogue, they could start it, and then if other people came that's fine, but they had to have at least that many. What I'm saying is there wasn't very many Jews there In Philippi. It was largely a Roman colony. Then I want you to see here, that tells us a little bit about the city, gives us a little bit of background. Then I want you to see the cause. What is the cause for Paul to write this book? Why did he want to write it? Why is it in the Word of God for us? So I want you to see that Paul was actually turn to the book of Philippians now. And uh verse chapter number one, verses twelve and thirteen. Paul was in prison. Now this is actually about sixty-two A. D. Um Roughly 11, 12 years, again, depending upon exactly when uh Paul visited Philippi, we're talking about 11, 12 years later, that Paul is now in prison. We see here in verses 12 and 13 of Philippians chapter number 1, he says, But I would Ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. Verse number thirteen, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places So he's in bonds. He's in prison. He's writing to them because he's in prison. Now most believe that this was written by Paul when he was in Rome and under what would be like house arrest. Uh some people believe that he would have two guards chained to him or shackled to him all the time. Like nowadays they stick people in the house and they put a bracelet around their ankle, right? And that's their tracking bracelet. and they can't leave the house or goes off and warns everybody. Well, they didn't have tracking blazes, so they put a soldier uh strapped to them. So they were under house arrest. And of course Paul thought, well, I've got a captive audience here. Uh and uh these soldiers probably said, I don't want to go today and be strapped to Paul, you go be strapped to Paul. And he says there in verse number thirteen Uh he says, hey, it was manifest in all the palace and all other places. He says, Everybody I got everybody was here. I got to talk to him about Jesus. Amen. He got to tell him about him. But see, Paul was in captivity. He was in in prison and so the Philippian church sent Epaphroditus to go and greet him and to love him and to help him with his financial needs. Look in chapter four, Philippians chapter four and verse number eighteen. He says, but I have all and abound. I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you An order of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. They had extended Stay there in chapter 4. We're going to read verse number 16. But they had extended love and help and concern to the Apostle Paul. Not just on that occasion, but on other occasions. Look at Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 16. He says, for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity. So even in Thessalonica, the church at Philippi had sent help. had sent love, had shown their love and their support for him. This is one of the ideas, and I'm sure we'll deal with it when we get into the book, but the idea of supporting missionaries And helping them and loving them and communicating with them is why it's so vitally important as we see that example given to us in the scriptures, and we want to follow that example. But Paul was in prison The church of Philippi had sent some somebody to love and support him. And so you know what? Paul responds to their kindness with this letter. Unlike the motivation, which many of his letters were, the motivation for most of them was there was a problem Paul had to deal with. There was an issue in Corinth. It's called carnality that he had to deal with. And hey, here's a problem, people. We need to settle this. The amazing thing about the book of Philippians is he is not really trying to deal with a specific error. Or trying to address a particular problem. Instead, there seems to be a twofold purpose for his writing this book. First of all, I want you to see he's writing it to inform them about his condition. We're not going to take time to read all these verses. If you read chapter number one, you'll see it. We're going to get into it as we go through this verse by verse. But he's informing them. You know, they sent somebody and said, How are you doing? Nowadays we can send a text. You can say, hey, how's it going? And we can send a text all the way to the Philippines. I got uh some communication from the hard deckers this last week and they're looking for some some uh school books for their children and they just text me and said hey Pastor Caleb do you know where we can get these books And I said, I don't, but I'll find out, and we've got the books on the way for them. But just the text. They didn't have that option back then. So they the church of Philippi said, Hey, we've got word that Paul's in prison Man, we need to show him some love. We need s we need to go see if there's anything we can do for him. Let's Epaphroditis, are you free? Well not really. I I actually I'm working. I've got a family. I got these things I need to do But for Paul, I'll do it. Paul dropped everything. I mean, Epaphroditus dropped everything he was doing and went to check on Paul. And travel wasn't as easy then as it is today. It wasn't just jumping in a car or hopping a plane, you know. I mean it was it was a job to go check on Paul. Hepathroditus got in and went and checked on Paul. And so Paul is returning, he's writing a letter to say, hey, I want to let you guys know I'm answering your questions. I'm telling you how I'm doing, how things are moving for me. He wants to assure them that he is fine. More importantly, he wants them to see that regardless of what life throws at you, Christ is sufficient. Christ is sufficient. And we're going to see this as we go through the book that Christ is sufficient. Paul's focus is on Christ. And he knows that the purpose of all that he's enduring is for the furtherance of the gospel. And he's excited about that. This is paramount to him. And he emphasizes it and he tells the Philippian church about these truths. Secondly, Paul is writing to say thank you. This quite literally is a thank you note, a letter of gratitude that Paul is sending to the church. Could I encourage you, church family, to write letters of gratitude? To take a moment and pin a note and say thank you for those that have ministered to you. That have done for you, that have given to you. And church family, I I need to say, you know, there's not very many of you here. And I'm assuming there's a bunch of you watching. That's the only downside. There could be nobody out there and I'm staring at the camera like you you're listening intently. And there's nobody there. I don't know. Uh, but listen, I w I want you to know, church, this is one area that I struggle. And it is not because I'm not grateful. I am overwhelmed by the generosity and the goodness of God's people. And if I could be perfectly honest with you. It's because I am very self-conscious about my handwriting. So much so that it causes me not to write thank you notes. My penmanship is atrocious. You hear me, kids? It affects you the rest of your life. Take some time and learn how to write. My penmanship is poor, my spelling is worse So I can't just write, I can't just sit down and jot a note to somebody. I'm notorious for having a word spelled correctly, but it's the wrong one. It's the wrong word. That I blame that completely on the English language because it is ludicrous that you would have two words that were spelled the same, but they're the wrong. I I I don't know. But Anyways, I I deal with that all the time. So if I'm going to write a thank you note, I have to write it. I have to get it typed. I have to get it proofed. And then I can put it in something and give it to somebody. And uh that does not remove the responsibility that I need to be better at writing thanking. notes to the church family. And uh I'm I'm apologizing to you for not for not being better at that and encouraging you and uh you know as I'm studying this you see the Holy Spirit deals with us a long time before he deals with you You guys. We we go through this and we study and prepare and and the Holy Spirit convicts us of areas where we need to grow. And this is one for me that I said, man, Paul's writing a thank you letter. He's saying thank you for what you've done for me. I appreciate it. And I just want the church family to know that I I am grateful and that I will uh strive to be better at this, that we need to extend uh thanks for what you do for me and for my family. And uh I do value and appreciate it. Paul is saying thank you to the church at Philippi. This quite literally makes this book probably the most personal letter. in the New Testament. It's just a communication of Paul's heart to the church, just saying thank you for your love and appreciation. This makes this letter kind of almost casual in nature. Not so systematic, not so preachy like Paul might be at other times. He's just sharing his heart. And as you read through these pages, it's amazing to me, if you think about this, this is just Paul writing a thank you note Now you think about you writing a thank you note. Now Paul's writing a thank you note, and in his thank you note Think about how earnestly and continually his focus is on Jesus Christ You see, that's what was in Paul's heart. Beloved, Christ should be more central to our lives. It really should be more part of our conversation than it is. Christianity and the things of God and what this book is teaching us and what we're learning and the prayers that we're seeing answered and How God is impacting us on a day-to-day basis should be more of our conversation. It shouldn't be re relegated just to a 45 minutes during a Sunday morning service or a Thursday night service where we talk about the things of God, but the rest of the week we discuss the world and we talk about the movies we saw. We discuss the newest hit single that's outer. We talk about the business things we're dealing with and the problems at work and the challenges at home and Those things are all part of life, and there's not necessarily sin and dealing with or discussing any of them. But if our heart was full of the Word of God, I can tell you, beloved, those things would be coming out in our conversations. Paul was just saying thank you. But as he was saying thank you, he was over and over and over again pointing people to Christ. Man, wouldn't that be powerful if we as God's people, no matter where we were at, were used of God to bring up Christ and We weaved that into our conversations, and it was a part of our heartbeat that God could use us to impact those around us and point people to Jesus. It's amazing when you think about that idea. Paul's just writing a thank you letter. Yet he continually points them to Christ. If we learn so much about Paul by the things that came from him in these pages, literally what his conversation was. We can learn a lot about ourselves too, by what our conversation is. What is our topics? Can I give you some characteristics of the book now as we look at this cause, the motivation for writing it, some some of the characteristics, just some of the key things. First of all, the key word of the book is joy. Is joy. It's amazing, beloved, that this man who was in prison, who was hated by his enemies and attacked on every side and had suffered unbelievable hardship. was enduring outright cruel injustice. Sometimes that's the hardest thing to deal with. It's one thing if you if you know If you ever got something you didn't deserve, I mean, like maybe you got a ticket and you weren't speeding. I mean the indignation. You know, I mean the I did not deserve that. I was not speeding or I did not run that stoplight. I stopped. I mean whatever it was, you got that and you know you've rolled through thousands of stoplights and you have been speeding hundreds and hundreds of times, but that particular time you work and the injustice of it just drives you nuts, doesn't it? I mean you think about Paul and all the injustice that was done to him Here he is in prison. But when he writes, what comes out of him is joy. Joy. Even in the midst of all this hardship, joy. I didn't go through the book and count them. I'm trusting the commentary I was reading on this, but there's 16 times in these four chapters that you find the joy the word joy or one of its synonyms In four short chapters, joy, even though he was enduring such hardship. That brings us to the key theme of the book, and that is, as I've said already, the sufficiency. Of Christ, the sufficiency of Christ. Paul is saying: no matter what you're enduring, no matter what you're going through, no matter what struggle you're facing, Christ is sufficient. He's telling the people to put their focus and their thoughts on the person, pursuit, and the power of Jesus Christ Himself. One old country preacher said this. Satan could keep a man like Paul from traveling, but he couldn't keep him from triumph. He had locked Paul up, put him in prison. But he couldn't keep him from triumph, from victory as a Christian. Philippians provides for us as Christians that key To joy, the key that to the joy that Paul had. That joy that allows you to smile even when you're suffering, that allows you to sing even when you're subjugated. Like Paul and Silas. My wife is smiling. She laughs at me in my endeavor to uh I don't know, I just I can't help it. My mind works like that and I I I like to alliterate I like to, as I'm studying them, like there's got to be a better way to say this. I could have said sing when you're in prison. But doesn't it sound better to say sing when you're subjugated? Maybe not, I don't know. Well I try. I try anyway. The key verse, in light of the fact that we have the sufficiency of Christ, the key verse is 1, verse number 21. For me to live is Christ, and to die is king. Beloved, we triumph because of Christ. With this focus on Christ, Paul applies this like any preacher would. He applies it to their life in a practical way. For me to live as Christ, to die as gain, and He deals with the believer's confidence, the confidence in Christ, that no matter what, Christ is in control and the sufficiency of Christ and that he is enough, and he deals with the believer's contentment. If Christ is sufficient, then he's sufficient in all. And we should be content in all that he has done. And he deals with the believers' consensus as a church if Christ is sufficient. If he is the one that we're all focused on. We're going to be unified around Christ. We're going to be in agreement with Christ and following Christ. Then we'll see lastly here the the church. I'm gonna try and bring this to a close here pretty quickly. We see the church This church that was founded by Paul in the city of Philippi, this group that he was writing back to almost twelve years after he visited them. First, this church that Paul founded was the first church on European soil. The first time the gospel was carried this direction. Of course, it wasn't Europe then, but It was Macedonia, as we as we said, northeastern region of Greece, above the Aegean Sea and below Bulgaria, if you want to find it on a map today. This is the first move of the gospel that would one day eventually reach you and I. This direction. Had God not directed him to Philippi, we might be a mission field. instead of sending missionaries to the field. This land. Now God moved them, God moved him in his missionary journey, moved him to this location. This is where we see that Macedonian call. He said, come over and help us. If you have your finger in Acts chapter 16, you can go back there and You could see in verses eight and ten he says, And they passing came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over unto Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly, gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. You see, God called him to go there, to start that church. What I'm saying is it was God's plan for the gospel to move that direction. That's not what Paul was going to do. He didn't have that in his heart initially. But the Holy Spirit restricted him from doing what he wanted to do and then called him to go to Macedonia. Paul was sensitive to the leading of the Lord and allowed God to move or to change his plans to fit God's plans. How sensitive are you to the leading of the Lord? You got in your plans, oh I want to do this. There's a number of young people here. You say, oh, I want to go into the military, or I want to Go here. I want to go there. Are you sensitive to let God change and direct your plans? To do what God wants you to do. Not necessarily what is in your heart, but what does God want? Where is God directing you? Can you do that? As Paul yielded to God, God sent him to people that needed a savior. We see the converts here. They went, they needed the gospel. We see Lydia, this businesswoman that uh was was there Among those women that were gathered for prayer outside the city. We read the passage a few minutes ago. They went outside the city for prayer and they were holding a prayer meeting and And he went out there and he found this woman. The church actually was started in her house. It wasn't in her house long because the church began to grow We see the Philippian jailer is very likely added to the congregation. As he, after seeing they were still in the prison, responded, said, Lord, what must I do to be saved? And Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. This church that was started around 50 A. D. , now 12 years later, Paul is writing back to them. And he's thanking them for their compassion and for their love. We see God's blessing on the church, and we see that it was growing. I want to point out that the church was growing despite Paul's absence. The church never has been dependent upon one man. The church is God's people. Jesus Christ is the head. And he should be the focus. And Jesus said, I will build my church. It's not a man that builds a church. It's not centered or focused upon a man. It ought to be centered and focused upon Christ in any New Testament church. That lifts up Jesus Christ, he said, I will draw men unto myself. And as we lift up Jesus Christ and hold him forth and try and strive to honor him, He will draw men unto himself. And the church will experience growth Now beloved, there's two different kinds of growth. There's times where church goes through a type of growth where you grow deeper. You grow stronger. You grow closer to the Lord. This is not the kind of growth that's exciting. This is the kind of growth that sometimes is disruptive. It it gets us. But it's not something a lot of times that you can even see. I think there's evidences of it, but it takes spiritual discernment to even see it. Some of those that aren't spiritually discerned don't even notice it. They look at the church and say, nothing's happening. Nothing's happening in the church. Man, it's boring. What's going on at the church right now? But the church is growing deeper. And then there's times where the church grows wider. And uh it it expands out. That's numerical growth. That's new ministries are started. Those are the things that are exciting for a church, and those are the things that everybody sees and it's evident. And wow, look at all that God's doing. Beloved, sometimes when those things aren't going on doesn't mean God's not doing something. You need both types of growth in a church. I'll never forget what Mary's uncle told me. Standing in the driveway of one of her family members in Michigan. He was telling me about the church he was attending, and he said, Pastor Caleb, he says the the The church has grown like crazy. He said, but the longer I'm there, the more I feel like it's like a puddle in a parking lot. And I said, what? He says it's grown out a lot, but it's still only about a half inch deep. Boy, it looks really big, but there's really not that much there. And I thought about that, and I thought that's a picture of a lot of these seeker-sensitive churches that are out there. And oh, they've got these massive facades and they've got these big large groups of people, and there's a huge puddle, but there's not much there. We actually right now have people attending Hunt Valley Baptist Church that came from churches in our area that are just like that. And they've told me by their testimony, Pastor Caleb, I was just tired of the fluff. I was just tired of there's nothing, there's no meat, there's nothing happening. There's no growth. Were they talking about numerical? I don't think so. The churches are growing numerically. They're saying there's no growth, but they're saying is there's no depth there. We weren't growing spiritually. Beloved, we need to, as a church, be praying and striving to see both types of growth. As this church in Philippi did. Grew numerically, but it also, because of its focus on Jesus Christ, grew deeper in love with their Lord. That's what we want to have as a church