Bibles this morning to the book of Second Timothy, Second Timothy chapter two. We'll be um back in here today. Uh I I say back in 2 Timothy, because we have actually looked at at least myself have been in 2 Timothy quite a bit recently. We taught um on a passage out of 2 Timothy chapter 2. uh with uh young people downstairs a few weeks ago. Uh pastor dealt with a the same passage in Second Timothy during a Sunday service. I believe it was last week and then as I've been looking at this Discipleship curriculum, which we have out in the foyer, and I'll be available between the services this afternoon to if you have any questions about that, that is out there. But that is based in uh the idea for that is based in 2 Timothy So we're going to come back to this chapter. Um or for a second time, I'll come back to the fourth time in the last couple weeks, but look forward to what the Lord uh has with us for us this morning. So we're going to be getting uh into a new series. We did uh take a couple weeks and deal with the overcoming series, looked at the idea of uh laziness and materialism just a nice a nice uh kickstart for the year let everybody feel feel good about hearing about those things I was talking to uh my mom and she was asking about how things were going and and what I've been teaching and I told her I dealt with materialism. And she said, you took uh right after Christmas, beginning of the new year, to hammer everybody about materialism? I said, well, I dealt with laziness first. Um so Uh but it's just part of the series. It was just the next thing, next thing in order. And I was praying about what to go next into and had this series on my heart for I wasn't sure if I was going to start it today because we will be taking a break from uh this Science School class somebody else will be teaching in a couple weeks, so I didn't know if I want to start and then then pick it back up later, but look out peace from God to go ahead and start it today. This series, if you have your notes there, is entitled Rightly Dividing the Word. rightly dividing the word. We're going, we might, this this this is going to last for for a while, this series is, probably 14, 17 weeks, something along those lines. just see how topics develop as we go along. Maybe we'll take a break in the middle, but who knows. Now when it comes to uh this this series, I like to give credit where credit is due. The idea for this series I actually heard from another preacher. He preached a series on his back about twenty twenty twelve. He's not a pastor anymore. He is a missionary. is uh Lee Cadenhead and uh some some people in the church have recommended some of his sermons to listen to. So uh he he is the one where I got this idea from. I do write all my own um messages and curriculum I don't mind uh using somebody else's stuff and I don't mind other people using my stuff as part of the reason why I wrote the devotionals and the books the way that I did so somebody could have some outlines to use. But I'm taking his skeletal outline. He did 14 lessons. We're not going to use all of his, and we're not going to use some of his, and I have some of his notes from that, but I do like to give credit that he is the one I got this idea from for this series And we'll be using his kind of skeletal framework as a starting point. So the series, as I said already, is going to be called Rightly Dividing the Word. This comes from a verse in 2 Timothy that we're going to be reading in just a little bit. As we begin this morning, I want to think about this word dividing, rightly dividing the word of truth. We hear a lot about division in in the world today, in the political sphere, in families and things, and division is usually comes with a very negative context. So we think about that word dividing. Is it a good word? Is it a bad word? Our culture today is very adverse to division. I've heard many times our country is more divided today than at any other point in history. That's not true, but I can understand the sentiment that there's a lot of division out there, and there's some pretty stark uh contrasts in belief and positions in the way one side may view the other. So our culture would like to end all divisions and just have everybody get along and agree with them. You also have the opposite sentiment. There's some people that want to divide everything. Forget looking for common ground. If they spend five minutes talking to you, they can find something that they disagree with you about and some reason why you shouldn't be friends. So what is it? Is division good or is division bad? Well, division, uh, the answer is both. There are times when division is good, and there's times when it is um when it is not For example, division is good when a Christian decides to stay away from sin, divides himself from sin. Division is bad when a married couple decides they cannot live together anymore Division is good when a church stands against false doctrine. Division is bad when church members cannot show the love of Christ to one another. Division is good when a young person decides not to listen to the world's influence. Division is bad when they decide not to listen to their parents. So there you gotta understand the context. What's going on? When is it the right time to be unified? When is it the right time to be divided. So the focus of this series that we're going to be getting into, rightly dividing the word, is not a focus of divisions between good and evil, but it will focus on the divisions that God has made in the Bible. The Bible covers a lot of material, and all of the Bible is profitable to us. We understand that from 2 Timothy 3, verse number 15. All scripture given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. So all scripture is profitable. We understand that. But if we're going to study the Bible and we're going to understand it, we need to understand divisions and separations that God has made in the Bible so we properly understand things in their context. Let me give you an example, then we'll get into our study for today. When you read a verse like Genesis chapter 22, verse 2, the Bible says there, and he said, Take now thy son. thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. As we seek to rightly divide this verse, we need to figure out what c what category it fits into. So is this fit into the category of commands? Yes. It fits in the category of commands. It was a command that was given. Does it fit in the category of commands that were given by God? Yes, it was a command given by God. But does it fit into the category of commands given by God to Christians? No, it does not. This was given to a man in the old uh Old Testament. Um is it is it profit? Yes. Well, God does not uh ask me to offer my child as a sacrifice. I can learn from this example that nothing that I have belongs to me. I'm stewarding it for the Lord. God should have first place in my life, even above my own children. Now that's a little bit of an extreme example, but but gets us kind of thinking about that. We need to know where to put truth in our in our mind to properly put it in his place to understand What does this mean for me? How is this profit for me? Is this something God is telling me to do, or is this something that God is telling somebody else to do? And how do I understand those things? There are a lot of things that we can misunderstand in the Bible if we don't know the divisions that God has made. So we need to get this idea of learning how to rightly divide. So that'll be the focus of the this series is looking at things in the Bible and helping us to understand the difference between between this and that. And we'll get some illustrations in the lesson today. We'll start by reading our text in 2 Timothy 2, verse 15. The Bible says, There study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman that needs not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the things that we can learn from it. Lord, we desire as your people to draw closer to you, to grow in our walk with you, to grow in our understanding of your word. And Lord, as we seek to do that, pray you'd help us to learn to I pray this would be a profitable study as your people um seek to grow in their walk with you and in their Bible reading, Lord. We ask that you bless our time together this morning. So getting right into this, we're going to start by kind of dissecting this verse. It'll be kind of an introductory material, and we're going to talk about it at the end of the lesson. one one broad category of division that we find in the Bible as we look at the idea of rightly dividing. So this first point we're just going to look at 2 Timothy 2 verse 15. And see what God says about our need to the Bible. So first of all in this verse I see the command to study. Notice what the first word there is in the verse Study to show thyself approved. God's given us a command to study His Word. Now we understand that the books of Timothy, 1 and 2 Timothy, they were written to a young preacher by the name of Timothy by his mentor Paul. So this verse has a very specific application to preachers. Timothy was a preacher hearing from a preacher about the need to study the Word of God. It is an obligation of a pastor to spend time studying the Word of God. This is the job description given by the apostles when the need for deacons arose within the church in Acts chapter 6. Acts 6 verse 2, then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. And we see in the next verse where he talks about that as they give over this duty of serving the tables to the deacons that they appoint there in that chapter. The disciple says we're going to give ourselves to the ministry of the word in prayer. So there is a specific obligation that pastors have when it comes to studying the Word of God. And that is a direct application. From this verse in 2 Timothy 2, verse number 15. As a pastor, it is my responsibility to spend time studying the Word of God. But we see this verse is also applied to growing Christians. Go back in the beginning of chapter two, verse number two, which is what we're actually using for our theme verse for our discipleship material. It says, And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses. So everything Timothy heard from Paul, which would include the commands of study. What's he supposed to do with that? Look and keep reading verse two. It says, The same commit thou to faithful men. who shall be able to teach others also. So if you have a Christian who is faithful, the obligation of the pastor is to pass along them this command to study. Now, as we get somebody into the church and they're they're brand new to the things of God and they just get saved, and what do we want them doing? We want them just read your Bible every day. Just a little bit, couple verses here, a couple verses there. Let's work up to a chapter. We're not going to load them up with some concordances and some commentaries and send a new Christian home with an armload of materials. So you really need to get into studying the Word of God We're going to take somebody who's just saved and we're going to get them into reading the Word of God, that faithful habit. But as somebody becomes a faithful Christian, they need to take the next step. It took a whole year to talk about that idea of taking the next step in your life. And so the next step for a Christian is to go on from just reading the Word of God to studying the Word of God. So this command that was given by Paul to Timothy, Timothy He told Timothy, Take it and pass it along to faithful Christians. So if you are a growing Christian, if you are a faithful Christian, this command also applies to you, the command to study. So what does it mean to study? The word study means to put in effort, to be diligent, or to labor. It requires us to go further in our relationship with the Bible. So you can have something that you're just reading. I remember when I was in college that we had some books we had to read for a history class. And the teacher gave out the books and he said, just so you know, there is going to be no tests taken on these books. There will be no quizzes. There are no questions. I just want you to read them. I don't care how quick you read them. I don't care how slow you read them. You just need to look at every word. And as the speed reader, I thought that was fantastic. So I I managed to I time myself on see how fast I can go. 160 page book I read in an hour I got through the whole thing. I looked at every word. I only remember one thing from the whole book, but I didn't need to. All I needed to do was look at every word. So there's this idea of just reading, and then there was the material that the teacher would give out and say, this is something that you need to know for the test. I was going through some of uh my my Bible survey books from college yesterday, kind of looking at part of this lesson for today. And I I was opening through the pages and apparently I loaned one of these to um to Brother Jacob for when he was in college because I had a note written down by this chart saying this material is on the test. And underneath it there was a note that said, thanks, Jacob. So there's a different level of investment that you put in when you're studying. There's more effort involved. You have to go a little bit further. So this is the idea of studying, to put in effort, to be diligent, to labor. You know, when it comes to our relationship with the Word of God, we're supposed to be hearing the Word of God. This is where where our foundation will be Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And later in the same chapter, how shall they hear without a preacher? We need to be hearing the Word of God. Hearing the Word of God read, hearing the word of God preached, hearing the word of God applied. That's those one of the relationships we as Christians have with God's Word. We also need to be reading the Word of God. We have the example from Acts chapter 17. in verse number 11, where the Bible says these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they searched the Word of God, and that they received the Word of God with all readiness of mind. And search the scriptures daily whether those things were sold. A daily time in God's Word. We understand that that's part of our responsibility as Christians in our relationship with God's Word is to read it every day. We teach the young people from the earliest of ages Read your Bible, pray every day, and you'll grow, grow, grow. And we let them grow all the way up. And if you forget your Bible, you forget to pray, you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. So if you want to be a growing Christian, you need to have this relationship with God's Word where you're hearing it where you're reading it. And kind of the next step in that is to study the Word of God. If you're going to keep going forward in your relationship with God's Word is to go into and study to put some effort into your Bible reading. Say how do I do that? How do I put extra effort into your Bible reading? Well take notes as you're reading your Bible. Hey, this is something interesting to look at. Hey, here's something that God spoke to me about. Here's a way that this verse can be used in my life. Look up definitions. When you come to a word you don't know, look it up. Find out what that word means. Ask questions. Ask questions of somebody else. Hey Pastor, I was reading this this week. I'm not sure what this means. I appreciate getting those emails. I have an unanswered one in my email right now that somebody had asked me a question about, so that is coming soon. But we have questions. Ask questions, but you can also ask questions of yourself as you're reading the word. You read it. What did he mean by that? Who is he talking to? How would that apply to my life? Those kind of questions help you get in and study the Word of God. Consider illustrations. You read a passage and say, hmm, I wonder who else in the Bible dealt with this issue. Think of an illustration that way that can apply to what you're reading. Give explanations, read the verse, and then try to explain it like you were teaching it to somebody else. And that would help you dig into the Word of God a little bit more. And make connections. Hey, the word blood was used in this passage. I wonder where else the word blood is used in the Bible. And go through and make these connections. So invest some extra time in studying the Word of God. So we have this idea to study. There's a command to study. Secondly, we also see in this verse a command to show. Keep reading verse number 15. The Bible says, study to show thyself approved unto God. Study to show thyself approved unto God. This phrase approved unto God means to exhibit yourself as acceptable to the Lord. That's the idea to exhibit yourself to be accessible to the Lord. We're not studying so that man can be impressed with how smart we are. We're not studying so that we will be noticed for our effort. We're not studying so we can gain some kind of position or prominence within the church. We study so that God is pleased with the way that we spend time with His Word. We're studying for God's approval, not for man's approval. That's what we go through. The picture I get as I read this, and I told you as you study the Word of God, make an illustration. The picture I get when I see studying to show yourself approved is that of a student standing before their teacher for some sort of oral exam. They've studied the material and they're looking for their teacher to accept the answers and the material that they have studied and then they can they can then give back. As he stands before his teacher, his performance is acceptable based on the time that he has taken to study. You know, one day we are going to stand before God. And one day we are going to give ourselves give an account of ourselves. Just an oral exam, if you want to put it that way. of our um of our behavior, of our labor, of our stewardship, and of our study to him. The question is, is he going to find that acceptable Will he find it acceptable how much time we spent with his word? Will he find it acceptable how well we know the Bible that he gave us to study? So there's a command to show this studying makes us ready to be accepted by God as as Being pleased with the service and the effort we've put into his word. So the command to show. Thirdly, I see a command to sweat in this verse. Keep reading in verse number fifteen Show thyself approved unto God a workman that needs not to be ashamed. A workman. Some I working. You work hard, what do you do? You start you start sweating. It takes work to study. It's not easy. It's not something that's just going to happen on its own. You have to invest that labor to study. You've got to work at it. Most pastors that I know spend about six to eight hours developing a single sermon. A single sermon that they'll likely only preach once. If they do preach it again, they'll wait about five years and And then they'll spend another four to six hours getting the sermon ready to preach again. It takes work to study. I do more study and more writing for every sermon or lesson that I prepare or teach than I did for most of my college research papers. Uh single sermon puts more study, more effort into that than I do a whole research paper. I kind of laugh. Look, man, I remember that class we had to do two research papers for it. And it was going to be so hard. But we put so much more effort into that, into studying the Word of God. So it takes work to study. It also takes time to study. You know, it's really easy to read a chapter or two out of the Bible in just a few minutes. I told you I'm a speed reader I can get through a chapter of Proverbs in like forty five seconds if I was just going to get through it and just read the to read the Word of God But if you're going to study, it's going to require you to invest some time. I've done Bible studies at different times in my ministry with different individuals, and I'll often take just a single chapter of the Bible and study it together. I said I can read a chapter in just just a few minutes uh and read it by myself. But to study with a group, I can spend over an hour. Very often. That's kind of the average is spending an hour reading and studying one chapter of the Word of God. So it's going to take some time if we're going to study. We've got to put some work into it. It'll take some sacrifice if we're going to study the Word of God. If you're going to invest the time in studying the Bible, you're going to have to sacrifice something else. Maybe it'll be some sleep, maybe it'll be a meal. You might have to give up a show that you wanted to watch or a time of relaxation when you get home from work. But if you're going to study and be approved by God, it's going to take some work. And we must study if we do not want to be ashamed. Notice in the verse, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. If you're studying, and if you're working, then you don't have anything to be ashamed of. So what kind of shame would result in not studying? Well, I can think of two types of shame we can experience when we fail to study God's Word. First of all, we can be ashamed before men. You know, in 1 Peter we're told that we need to be ready always to give an answer or a reason of the hope that is in you. We need to be ready to answer men's questions. When somebody comes to you, they know you're a Christian and they have a question for you about the Bible, if you say, oh, I don't know. then then you're going to be ashamed at your at your inability to answer or to to to answer them and give them uh an answer to their conversation You know, I've had a number of conversations in my life where somebody's found out that I'm a preacher and they've said something along the lines of, oh, I have a question for you. I've asked all my Christian friends, and none of them could tell me. Well that that that's a shame. As as Christians, we should be ready to give this world an answer for the reason of the hope that's within us. We should be ashamed if someone asks us about the Bible, we cannot give them an answer. Now, let me give you some practical advice here. Don't answer if you don't know. Alright? Don't answer if you don't know. But an answer you can give is say, hey, that's a great question. I'd love to take time to study what the Bible says about that and come back and tell you. But if you don't want to study, say, I don't know, go ask somebody else. Go talk to my preacher. He could probably tell you. That's lazy as a Christian. We need to be able to put the time in to invest in study. So we can have shame as we stand before men when we fail to study, but the second place we'll feel shame is when we stand before God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, the Bible speaks of those who Stand before God with with the things that they've built on the foundation and they suffer loss and they're they're saved yet so as by fire, the Bible says That you're staying there and and you're watching as people are judged and people who have given uh their lives to serving the Lord and and they come through and hear the well done, thou good and faithful servant, and they're rewarded uh for their labor, and you come and And have nothing to show for it, there's going to be shame there. Shame. And he says here, if you're a workman, if you're a workman that's sweating and that's studying so you can show yourself approved unto God, you won't have anything to be ashamed of. God can be pleased with the effort that you've put in. So we have the command to sweat here. So the command to study, the command to show, the command to sweat, and thirdly, or fourthly, we have the command to separate. Go back to verse number fifteen. It says, Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. This brings us to the reason that we study. Why are we studying the Word of God? So that we can rightly divide the Word of Truth. Now this does not mean that we're going through the Bible and separating truth from error. The Bible is the word of truth. It is all true. There are no errors in the Bible. That's not the division that we're talking about. The command is to rightly divide the word of truth. This word rightly divide literally means to cut straight. That's what the word rightly divide means, to cut straight. When we think about Paul, what did Paul do as his secular profession? Anyone remember? He was a tent maker. So he knew something about cutting things straight. Because you know if you're you're sewing something together, if you're if you're making something and you can't cut it straight. It's not going to work. It's not going to fit together. It's not going to hold up. It's not going to last. He's likely drawing on this experience as he uses this word. You make the wrong cuts, you're not going to end up with a tent when you're done. You're not cutting things straight. You're going to have something else. I heard of a story of a man who ordered uh from some place like IKEA that he ordered a treehouse for his son. And he got it and he had the directions and and he can't find anything that matches and the the parts are all backwards and he's flipping through all the different languages trying to figure out what's going on. and spends some hours laboring trying to figure out how to put this thing together and finally turns the covers over and or the the directions over and sees that he has directions for putting together a sailboat. And he calls very upset to the company and And says, here's what's going on, and we explained it to the man on the phone. The man on the phone started laughing. He's very upset. He said, I don't see what's so funny about this. And the man on the phone, I apologize, I'm so sorry, sir. I just got the vision of somebody trying to float in your treehouse. out there on the lake. So you you're not following the directions, you're not cutting things straight, you're not putting things together properly, you're going to end up with the wrong thing at the end. And this is why is when it comes to the Word of God, we need to know how to handle it, how to put things into the proper place, the proper category as we read, to keep us from ending up with the wrong theology at the end. We need to know where things go and how things fit together when it comes to the Word of God. If you're not making the right cuts, it's very easy to get off base. If we fail to divide it properly, we can start making applications that God never intended. A very common one today of people not cutting the Word of God straight, not rightly dividing. is that people mix up the promises that God made to Israel with the promises that God made to the church. And they start to mix these things up because they're not properly dividing them and understanding the right place for them. And what that ends up with is the false doctrine of reformed theology and the unbiblical idea that the church has replaced Israel. That's not true. That's not God's not done with Israel. God's going to uh redeem Israel and He's going to take time in the tribulation period to to put his focus back on Israel. And that's a whole nother lesson, but we understand when you you're not putting things in the right place and not understanding things properly, you can say, oh, that's talking about the church. When actually it's talking about Israel Or that's talking about the Israel, and that's talking about the church. You need to understand where things go in their proper places. This is the idea of rightly dividing. We need to understand that there's a proper interpretation for everything in the Bible. When we do not study and we do not rightly divide, we can get off base in our understanding. So that is the the idea that we have when it comes to dividing the Word of God. We have this command here. To study, to study, to show ourselves approved, so that we can rightly divide the word of truth. What are some types of divisions that we see in the Bible? We're not going to take time to go into all these. I have a long list. I'm just going to kind of read through to get our minds going on What where is this going to apply? What are we going to need to study and understand? And the things we need to learn and differentiate the Bible. So one example, kind of the biggest one, we're actually going to deal with this a little bit today at the end of the lesson here. is that there are two testaments. We need to understand the division between the Old Testament and the New Testament. There's a division that takes place and we need to understand why that's there and what that means. When you understand there's a difference between law and grace. There are difference p differences between Jew, Gentile, and Church. Understanding the differences between the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God. The difference between the first and the second comings of Jesus Christ, especially when it comes to Old Testament prophecy. The difference between man's old and new nature, the three types of men discussed in the New Testament, the three types of anointing that are in the Old Testament, rightly dividing the word of the passages related to the rapture versus the revelation. There are seven judgments discussed in the Bible. There are seven resurrections that the Bible describes. A lot of different mysteries in the New Testament. There are seven baptisms that are described in the Bible. There are different covenants that God made throughout history and throughout the Word of God. There are different dispensations that are described for us throughout history. There's a difference between our relationship with God and our fellowship with God. There's a difference between a Christian standing and their state. There are several types of salvation referenced in the Word of God. There are different rewards that are reserved for Christians A Christian has three different enemies. There are three parts of man, his body, his soul, his spirit. There are two types of forgiveness that are experienced by Christians. There are five gospels mentioned in the Bible. This can even extend to something as simple as the people in Bi in that are in the Bible. Did you know there's nine different people in the New Testament referred to as Simon And if you go to those passages and you think it's talking about Peter, you're going to be off base because there are nine different Simons in the New Testament. So something as simple as that, rightly dividing, who is he talking about here? And making the right applications to these things. So I hope you can start to see where we're going to be going with this study. We'll be looking at these different topics and we'll understand the differences between them to help us understand what the Bible is talking about as we read it and as we study it. So those are some of the types of divisions. Now we're going to get into the first division that we're going to talk about in the series, and that will be the testaments divided. We're going to look very briefly at this idea of how to rightly divide the testaments. This is going to play into next week. We'll go into a lot more detail about this because next week we're going to deal with the covenants and the covenants and testaments, there are synonyms, and there's sort of application from that that'll help open up um this this a little bit further, but just kind of a very basic idea we need to understand the differences between the New Testament and the Old Testament. So we see this first of all I see the directness of the division. It's very easy to see the physical um the physical division in your Bible. You go go right about two-thirds of the way through and you have New Testament. Go to the beginning, you have Old Testament. It's very physically divided for us. We understand that. We can see it easily. This is not simply a publishing choice, or not even necessarily a chronological choice. This is the division that is defined in Scripture. In Second Corinthians chapter three, verse number six and fourteen, we see the reference who also hath made us able ministers of the New Testament Verse number fourteen. But their minds were blinded, for until this day remained the same fail untaken away in the reading of the Old Testament Which Vale was done away with in Christ. So God defines in the New Testament that there is an Old Testament and there is a New Testament. It's a biblical division. There is a clear distinction in the language of the testaments. The Old Testament is primarily written in Hebrew. The New Testament is primarily written in Greek. There is a distinction in time. The Old Testament was completed about 400 years before the New Testament was begun. There's the distinction in topic. The Old Testament deals primarily with the Jewish people. The New Testament deals primarily with church. Of course, Christ is the focus of both testaments. There's a distinction in purpose. The Old Testament conceals the truths of the New Testament, and the New Testament reveals the truths of the Old Testament. So it's a very clear distinction. We can see the difference between the Old and the New Testament. What are some of the details of this division? See, first of all, the number of books. The Old Testament has 39 books in our English Bible. The New Testament has 27 books. Now, if you get into this studying it a little bit more, the Hebrew Old Testament actually has 24 books, but that's because they combine some of the books that we are divided in our n uh in our um Old Testament, such as 1 and 2 Samuel. You just have Samuel in the Hebrew Bible, things like that. So there's the there's this the same Overall text just split up a little bit differently. So in the in our English Bible, 39 books in the Old Testament, 27 books in the New Testament. How are these books divided? The Old Testament books are divided into three categories, as described by Jesus in Luke 24, verse 44. We have the law, that's Genesis through Deuteronomy. We have the prophets, that's Joshua Judges, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the 12 minor prophets. And you have the Psalms. Now this Psalms, this division actually encompasses more than just the Psalms. It's sometimes called the Holy Writings. It includes Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Song of Solomon, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and 1st and 2nd Chronicles. These divisions were in use prior to the time of Jesus. He just referred to them. The law, the prophets, and the Psalms. He describes that division. The New Testament can also be divided into three parts. You have history that takes place between Matthew and Acts. You have the epistles that take place between Romans and Jude, and you have prophecy in taking place in the book of Revelation. We often see some other divisions made between the books of the Old Testament and the New Testament. For example, the Old Testament is often divided into law, history, poetry, and prophecy, and prophecy is also divided into the minor prophets and the major prophets. The New Testament is often divided into the Gospels, the History, the Pauline epistles, the General Epistles, and Prophecy, and some people can divide it even more. But we understand overall you've got a New Testament, you've got an Old Testament, and they both have things that they deal with a little bit differently. What is the date of the division as we continue looking at the two testaments? Now typically we think of the division taking place in Matthew chapter 1, because that's where it's physically taking place in our Bible. Matthew chapter 1 is the division between the Old and New Testament. Physically. Now, the Bible actually slightly adjusts that. A testament has to do with what somebody wants done with their stuff after their death. Somebody's last will and testament. Now, when does someone's last testament go into effect? When they pass away. Hebrews 9, verses 16 and 17 talk about how the New Testament came into effect with the death of the testator. which was Jesus Christ. So the New Testament, the Bible actually breaks that division at the death of Christ. Even though it's physically in our Bible at the um at at Matthew chapter one. the New Testament, Hebrews breaks that division of the New Testament, specifically, as we're going to talk about next week, Old Covenant, New Covenant at the death of Jesus Christ. So again, that's somewhere we need to understand the proper division so we understand the context. For example, just how that would apply, we're told in Galatians that Jesus was born under the law. The new covenant didn't take place until after Jesus' death, so even while Jesus was here on earth, he lived under the law. He was still under the old covenant until the death. So there's there's some application. That we need to understand there when it comes to these divisions. What was going on in Jesus' day prior to after or as opposed to after his death? So the testament divides at the death of Christ. What are some of the differences of this division? A common mistake when someone's not rightly dividing the Old Testament and the New Testament is to think that the Old Testament is no longer valid for Christians. The Old Testament is still part of the Bible. It is still profitable for Christians. We still have things in the Old Testament that we we need to do and we need to adhere to. It's not done away with. Jesus said, I did not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill the law. The law Old Testament is still valid for us as believers. It is not outdated, it is not useless, and it is not irrelevant to us today. I've even heard many Christians talk about the God of the Old Testament as if he was different than the God of the New Testament. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He may have handled things differently, but he's the same God. It's not that the God of the Old Testament was a God of judgment and the God of the New Testament is a God of love. He's the same God all the way through. So the Old Testament's not something that's just done away with. That's an improper division. Perhaps we can use an illustration that might help us with this. Brother John Norman, he's looking for a car right now. Right now him and his wife have one car, so be in prayer for them as they're looking for a vehicle. Is the car that they have right now their old car? No, it's their only car. Uh that's the only car that they have. Let's just say that they find a car, same make, same model, ten years newer, way less miles, and they buy that. Now they have this that they have the similar car, just a lot newer. Now they have their old car and their new car. So are they done with their old car? No, they're still gonna use their old car. They just have a new car. It's a little bit better. In fact, Hebrews chapter seven describes the New Testament as a better testament. Not that we're doing away with the old, not that the old has no longer has any value, but there is a difference between the two, but still both serve a purpose. They use them at the same time. So as we come to rightly dividing the word of truth, I just kind of give you a definition here, and we'll go into this more next week as we talk about the covenants. The Old Testament is God's covenant with man through the Mosaic Law in preparation for the coming of Jesus Christ. All of what's in the Old Testament is still profitable. There are a lot of things the Old Testament that the book of Corinthians tells us were written for our example. We learn it. There are things in the Old Testament that are part of God's moral law that apply to us today. Much of the Ten Commandments still apply to us today. So we need to we need to still take the Word of God, study the Word of God. It's still applicable. It is still useful to us today. But the theme of the Old Testament is God's covenant with man through the Mosaic Law, preparing for the coming of Jesus Christ. The New Testament is God's covenant with man through the salvation that was purchased by Jesus Christ. And has a lot more very specific application instruction for us as believers. in in the church, then the Old Testament didn't deal with the church. It was a mystery. Another one of those divisions. Old Testament the church was a mystery in the Old Testament. It's not that the Old Testament's no longer useful. It's that we have a better testament, salvation with Christ And one easy way to see this is the access that we have to God. One of the verses we read about the Testaments talked about the people in the Old Testament were under the veil or behind the veil. And you remember God's presence. was was held back from man in the tabernacle and the temple by the veil that was there. The veil kept men from coming into the presence of God. Men didn't have direct access to God in the Old Testament. They went through sacrificial system which which would cover their sins but could not cleanse their sins, so man could not have access to God. When it comes to Jesus Christ and his death, when the New Testament began, what did he do? First thing as part of his New Testament, his last will and testament was he ripped. the veil in half. So that we can have access directly to God because He is a better sacrifice. A sacrifice that doesn't cover our sins. It's a sacrifice that cleanses our sins and gives every one of us individually the priesthood to go to God ourselves. And there's there's the there's a distinction that is there. And understanding when the distinction happens Why the distinction is there? This isn't done away with in the old and replaced by the new. We have these these two testaments, these two covenants, both applicable, both useful for us today, but we're living under the promise or the agreement with God that is part of God's New Testament. So the first of these divisions that we're going to look at is this idea of the We're going to come back next week and we're going to get into the different covenants that God made in the Bible. There are several of them. Some are still in effect. Some of them have been fulfilled. And we'll talk about those a little bit more next week.