The intertestament period that we looked at in detail, uh, but we're gonna go just kind of click through that very fastly. So if you have your notes there, you see by way of introduction that the intertestamental period, of course, is called the four hundred silent years because God did not record for us any of the events occurring during that time in the pages of Scripture. However Just because the scriptures as a whole are silent, God was not sleeping. God was still at work in the affairs of men. And he was preparing the world for the coming of the Messiah. God was pre-preparing and bringing on the scene the stage, preparing the stage for the world for the Messiah to come. So we're going to look at some preparations for the New Testament made first of all, some preparations that were made. How did God prepare the world? Now by and large we looked in detail at some of this stuff that I'm going to fly through today because you've already seen it in detail. You have the names and the history and the dates and all that kind of stuff So we're not going to dig down into that, but I just want to put it together with these notes so you have them. So we're just going to kind of go through this quickly. But our knowledge during this time is by and large uh exposed to us from the Jewish historian Josephus. Uh that's the probably the greatest resource on knowledge regarding this time period. There is some information in the book of Maccabees, which is not scripture, but it's a historical. There are some things in there that we glean from that. But we know that although God was uh you know silent as far as the pages of scriptures, the scriptures itself were not 100% silent because Daniel gives us prophecies that describe clearly events, world events, world history that was going to be taking place. during those years. And so Daniel established for us a timeline. In Janiel chapter 9, uh we have uh the story or the uh The the vision that God gives Daniel uh wisdom to be able to interpret and see and to know and and the angel describes and explains to him what these things are, but we have Daniel's 70 weeks there. And uh if you remember uh that we talked about in the old t Old Testament and we described how that there was a Sabbath, a weekly Sabbath. That's every Sunday we're supposed to rest. It's a day of rest, right? The Sabbath was observed. And uh then you have the day of rest every week, but there also was a seven-year Sabbath where the land was supposed to rest. And God judged his people because they did not observe the Sabbath. And he said, for every year that you guys didn't observe the Sabbath, you are going to be in captivity. And so they went into captivity for that. And this is part of Daniel's vision here, and we described those things before. But this 70-week period uh describes for us the 490 years because of the 70 weeks of Sabbath that they didn't observe. And that timeline, Daniel kind of described it and said, here's the timeline. So New Testament prophets that were looking, that knew what to look for, knew the time of the Messiah was at hand. In uh Galatians 4, 4, a familiar verse, it says, But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. The fullness of time was come. And the prophets and those that were looking knew that the time was pretty close. Depending upon exactly when you looked at when something happened, Pastor Augustus, did you have a chance to get the 70 weeks map up there for me Okay, so we have uh a I have this in paper for you to have if it wasn't out there already this morning. Um I saw a thumbs up. Did you say you had it? You have it on paper, you don't have it on the screen? Okay. Well, right around here Um so you y did you guys get it on paper? Okay, you can look at it right there. So um I don't have it, but you have these seventy weeks in front of you, and it depends, you could say God had given a prophecy that said, Listen, when the command for the temple to be rebuilt goes forth 490 years from that period, we know that the Messiah is going to come. So you have those 490 years. The difference is is When exactly did the command for the temple to be built? We know that in the book of Ezra that there was a command he said, hey, you can go back and rebuild the temple. But also there was a command of the main street in Jerusalem is going to be re-established and that didn't happen until the time of Nehemiah when he went to build the walls. So depending upon where you move that a little bit, where you uh adjust that, you know, depending upon what scholar you read after. It depends the exact date where you start, right? But you're an officer and a gentlelady. Thank you. So you can see here pictured the Daniel 70 years and describe for you the decree of Artaxerxes there in Ezra chapter 7 to go forth and to rebuild the temple. So that was starting that. So you have those The first 69 weeks are described there or laid out for us in a seven-week period and then a 62-week period, and these are described for us in Daniel. what the was not evident in the Old Testament, what they did not see in the ev in the Old Testament, and Larkin has a uh a map or a d diagram of this time period where you kind of visually You saw these high points that that God was laying out for Old Testament saints. And you could see these high points, but if you're looking across the span of time, What they didn't see was the church age. What they didn't see is what God had described as a mystery. And God had described this mystery of the church age that wasn't exposed until the New Testament, until the Messiah had come and they sent the gospel to the Gentile nations. And so this church age is not part of the 70 weeks. So we have the first 69 weeks have happened. This is not a lesson on prophecy, so we're not going to dig too much into this, but you have the final week that comes uh during the seven years of tribulation. And that of course is divided into two parts, the first three and a half years, second three and a half years, and we're not going to get into that. But that seventy 70th week is coming. Now David Sorensen says this, describing Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 to 27. Okay, he said the 70 weeks of Daniel would begin. In the not too distant future, forming a chronological framework for God's timeline from then until the return of Jesus Christ at the end of the tribulation. Of the 70 weeks, 69 have been remarkably fulfilled. We are presently in a prophetic Timeout, and he has that in quotes. We're just in a timeout where we're in a time frame that wasn't visualized in that vision. Moreover, God can restart his prophetic timeline at any moment. So we don't know when the day or hour is going to be, but that is coming right around the corner. So what I'm saying is Daniel described coming events. And then he goes a little bit deeper. We know that Daniel Fuller told about the changing world powers, what was going to happen on the world stage. the great empires that were going to come and fall and grow and and bypass. Okay, so we're going to talk about those briefly. And I ought to tag team with Jacob and just switch out right here. Um just real briefly, and this is going to be a small tidbit from what you've already got here, but the Babylonian Empire was the head of gold. I'm sure you guys have seen that depiction of the vision, but the Babylonian Empire was the head of gold. It had already come and gone. The Babylon Babylonians, remember, conquered Judah and took Judah captive. Now, if you're coming in here for right now, there's a lot of this that we covered in the Old Testament and we talked about these things, and so you're you're playing a little bit of catch up if this is your first time, but we are Dealing here with the Babylonians conquering Judah. They took a whole bunch of people captive. This started the spread of the Jews out into uh the known world at that time, which is key as we'll see as we get a little bit further. But the Persian Empire, there was the chest of s of silver, the chest of silver. And the Persian Empire uh ruled the Middle East at the close of the Old Testament. You remember they were under the law of the Medes and the Persians during that time. All of the story of Ezra and Daniel and Esther, those things, the law of the Medes and the Persians And that's who was the ruling power in the Middle East during that time period at the close of the Old Testament. Now, underneath Persia, Israel, the people children of God. had great religious freedom. I mean, which is evident. The king said, Yeah, you can go back to your hometown. Sure, go ahead. You can rebuild your temple. You can rebuild your walls. They had great religious freedom and God opened the door for them and blessed them in a great way during during that time. Then you have the Greek Empire, the Grecian Empire. They were the stomach of bronze. And you remember from Jacob's lessons that Philip of Macedonia was going to take over the Persian Empire, and this was his desire, but he died And so his son, who was Alexander the Great, Alexander the Great went and did it. However, Alexander the Great didn't just uh take over the world because he wanted dominance. Because of he so gra so strongly grabbed a hold of Grecian culture from his teacher, Aristotle, he he really believed in the superiority of Grecian culture. And so it was not just spreading world power, and I want to take control of this, but they tried to force Greek culture onto every community they went to. They said, this is what you need to do, this is how you need to be. And what that did is it established a lot of consistency throughout the world in culture, in mindset, in way of thinking, so that when the gospel came on the scene, it could spread rapidly from a consistent framework. Okay, so the the Grecian culture unification and expansion of Greek culture, not just the common or Koine Greek language. Uh the that that Greek language spread all over the world and was the trade language. There were other languages that were four languages primarily that were spoken in the culture during that time. But It was the trade language, so everybody was learning Greek. And that of course opened the door for a very key thing, and that is the Septuagint, the translation of the Old Testament from the Hebrew into Greek. And that made that available to the Gentile world The Jews didn't really like that a whole lot. But what that did do is it again gave a foundation for the teaching of the one true God. You know the Romans and the Greeks, I mean, especially the Greeks, they worshipped all kinds of gods and and terrible beliefs regarding the gods of the Greeks and how they just played with men and and had these competitions and it was their desire to see these people uh you know, let's see what happens and they would it's like they would You know, do these particular things. And so that getting the Old Testament into Greek opened it up for them to be able to learn about the one true God. It gave a common culture from which the gospel could be presented and carried around the world. At his death, Alexander the Great was asked, which of your four generals do you plan to have lead? And he said, Whichever is the strongest. Yeah, that's how he left it. He died off and so basically he was saying whichever one can take control, that's the one that's gonna take it. And that broke out uh civil war between his his four generals uh and Jacob covered this clearly. Uh Ptolemy and uh what was the other guy? Suselius took control. They were the two strongest. And Daniel, again, Daniel tells us about this. In Daniel chapter, is it four? Help me out. Let me look. Is it in your notes? Um Daniel chapter two, no, that's further down. Daniel chapter 11. Sorry, it's described in Daniel chapter 11 these two things. Do you have that second map for me, Gus? So you can see the Seleucid Empire here. That's pretty big. But Daniel chapter 11 describes the king of the north. And the king of the south. And these two kings described by Daniel hundreds of years before it actually took place. Uh you have the the Ptolemy Empire down here, but what's right in the middle right here? Jerusalem. The Israel Israelites, their their nation. So the civil war, the the constant battle between those two two reigning powers Every time they ran through that region, they would capture and take more slaves, and that took the Jewish people, and it spread them, the Jewish people, all through the Greek Empire. Okay, that's key because when we get down to it a little bit further and we start talking about the synagogues, synagogues were established all over The Greek Empire. And you know from the readings of Paul that the synagogue was a central place in which they would go to immediately and teach the gospel. It was a central place where men came together to discuss the scriptures. to have the reading of the scriptures and it became an open door for the gospel to move forward. So we see the Roman Empire takes uh reign. They were the legs of iron that's described in Daniel chapter 2 and verse number 40. The New Testament opens under the rule of Caesar Augustus as emperor in Luke chapter 2 and verse 1 tells us that. Now the gospel is able to spread under Pax Romano. Again details uh were given to us by Jacob as as he taught through this stuff. The gospel spread also on the Roman road system that was established by them. Just opening the window, open God Shaping the world and preparing the world for the gospel of Jesus Christ, for Christ to come and for this to go forth. Now the Roman road system was believed to be somewhere between 200 and 250,000 miles of road system established by the Romans with 50,000 of it actual paved stones, paved roads. That's mind-boggling if you think about and the the roads, the the design of those roads uh were were amazing. The they started with a sand base and then they went to a gravel base and then a hard packed earth base and then uh some of the roads that they built are still avail- still functional and actually used today. That's mind-boggling considering 83 gets fixed every year I mean come on. All these advancements that we have and they gotta redo eighty three every year, right? Uh it's my the is it the Alpine Way Appian Way? The Appian Way is still a functional road that was built during the Roman times. And that's a large, that's the 350 mile, 250 mile road system that they designed during that time that is still functional today. And uh so that Roman road system is what allowed free travel. Never in history was there a time where people could freely travel. We take for granted today being able to get into a plane and fly to another country to be able to cross borders, to not, you know, by and large, unless you go into some South African states where there is civil wars, uh, but you understand a lot of the world was like that. Um where you couldn't just travel across the border. You couldn't just go and visit another place. But now under Pax Romana You could. And so the gospel could move forward in an amazing way. Again, God having prepared the stage of the world for the coming of His Son. The Romans demanded tax and obedience, which started this conflict between the Christians and the Romans, which ultimately they weren't Christians at that time, but the Jews and the Romans. And uh so again laying the stage. So we see a rise of some political and religious groups. First of all, the scribes. The scribes Uh they were uh tasked with copying the Word of God. The scribes were given very strict guidelines. They had to every single the Bible calls it jot and tittle, every little period, every little punctuation mark, everything. uh had to be recorded precisely. They once they wrote it all out, they would go back through and count every single word, and then they would go back and count every single letter and make sure they had every letter correct I am so glad I'm not a scribe. Amen. I'm glad we have computers. Uh praise the Lord. That's a blessing. But they did it all by hand back then. So the scribes were the lawyers of their day because they uh understood the law. They spent the most time studying the law and so they became the the lawyers. They were very self-important, uh felt very powerful, very knowledgeable because they had this knowledge in excess where uh your common or normal man didn't as much. Then the Pharisees, a group we're very familiar with, began around 165 BC. Generally, the Pharisees did not seek political power. That was in contrast to the Sadducees. The Sadducees sought political power. They were motivated by the power that they gained through uh the political alliance with Rome. And uh the Pharisees, it was all about religious power, and uh they kind of So you know the Sar Sadducees and the Pharisees didn't agree on anything except crucifying Jesus. That was the only thing they agreed on. Everything else uh they disagreed and if there was a cause, it's funny we're gonna look in Acts in just a minute Paul, when he's standing before the Sanhedrin, which we're going to get there in a minute. When he's standing before the Sanhedrin, he's the Sanhedrin was made up of both, the Pharisees and Sadducees. And so he just throws a uh a bomb in the middle there. He's like, well, here's something for you guys to talk about. So they're mad at him and he throws something in the middle there. We're going to read about it in a second But you see, the the Pharisees here generally didn't seek political power. They uh became dependent upon the law for their spirituality, they exalted tradition. above the scriptures and works above faith. Matthew chapter fifteen, verses seven through nine describes that if you want to read it. Then they did not see themselves really as sinners, but as godly because of the their strict adherence to the law. This designed a very hypocritical way of living. As long as I'm observing this law and keeping this, then it's okay. if I break this or if I don't do that because because after all I'm keeping this law. Uh I've told you before when I was in Israel on the Sabbath because you can't do any work on the Sabbath Well, the elevators on the Sabbath run automatically to every floor, and then they stop and they run every floor back down because you can't push the button. on the Sabbath for your floor. The rest of the week elevators work like normal. You get in the elevator and you push the floor you want to go to. But today, right now in Israel, on the Sabbath The elevator runs all day up and down, stops at every floor, and goes back and stops at every floor because it's breaking the law of the Sabbath to push a button. And if you know the stories, they had so many ways around the laws. Like you could only travel a certain distance, but what they would do the day before, you couldn't carry a load, but the day before they could go out and they could put their load that far And then because they got that far, that would allow them to go that much further. And so they had all these ways around the laws that they were supposedly observing. And uh, you know, the Pharisees driven by this, but it provoted a strong or very hypocritical way of living, their righteousness was self-righteousness. In Luke chapter 18, verses 9 through 12, I want to read that for you, but God describes this self-righteousness of the Pharisees. He says, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others He's talking to the Pharisees, he says, Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus within himself, God, I thank thee that I'm not as other men are. extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican, I fastide twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. This self-righteousness And we have to be careful, Christian, that we do not start to attribute our righteousness and our relationship with God because we're carrying a Bible. Because you happen to come to church on Sunday. Oh, I'm righteous because I was in church on Sunday. I'm righteous because I I uh you know, have a Bible or I'm I'm righteous because I know about God. Righteousness in your relationship with God goes far beyond we're to be doers of the word, not hearers only. And uh that relationship is something that we are to be working on, listening to, and uh submitting to the Holy Spirit is not just because we are following, I mean we want If you love me, keep my commandments. We're to obey God, and there's no way around that, that's for sure. But understand it comes from that relationship. Our righteousness, of course, is imputed unto us by Jesus Christ. And that relationship made possible because of Jesus Christ. So then we see the Sadducees. From about 200 B. C. to 70 A. D. , they were a very strong political force because the Sadducees tend to be very wealthy in the community. They were the movers, the shakers of the day. They had money and therefore they had power and they they bought and sold their political positions. And they they really uh jostled for control and so that was the the movement of the Sadducees. Now they held very strongly to the Torah, they held the Torah in high regard But at the same time they welcomed Greco and Roman culture. That uh they they welcomed that. They wanted to kind of adopt that and have that as part of of their life because they they were motivated by the political aspirations And therefore they wanted, they liked that alliance with Rome because Rome gave them power. And so for them that was a that was a plus. Now they denied the resurrection. They denied the work of spirits. The entire spirit world they denied. They denied that there were angels and that there were demons. They just decided this. In uh Acts 23, verse 8, the Bible says, For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit, but the Pharisees confess both. So it shows us here this conflict between the Sadducees and the Pharisees. The Sadducees say no. Now my dad growing up he always say the Sadducees didn't believe in the resurrection. That's why they were so sad, you see. And so that'll help you remember it. That was one of their key key beliefs, the Sadducees. Then you have the Sanhedrin. You can turn to Acts chapter 23 if you have your Bibles. We're going to look at that in a second. I should get there, I suppose. Acts twenty-three. This is that passage of scripture I was talking to you about as Paul kind of throws a bomb in there. Um But you see, here we're talking about Paul standing before the Hisanhedron, and in this passage of Scripture, you see all three of these groups mentioned. So, and Paul earnestly being uh the council said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all uh good conscience before God until this day. And the high priest, Ananias, commanded them that they that stood by him to submit him on to smite him on the mouth. Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee. Thou uh witted wall, and sittest thou the judge after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? And they that stood by said, Rebelest thou God's high priest Then said Paul, I wish not, brethren, that he was the high priest, for it was written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people. But when Paul perceived So here you go. See, Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees and the other were Pharisees. He cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee. of the hope and the resurrection of the dead. I am called in question. It says regarding the resurrection of the dead, Here's a debate between the Sadducees and the Pharisees. They didn't agree on this topic. And so he kind of says, here, uh you call me into question over this? And so And when he had so verse number seven, when he had said so, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the multitude was divided. Now they're all of a sudden they're not so mad at Paul. They're like getting, no, y this didn't happen, this didn't happen, they're debating this back and forth. And um So they continue on. You'll see the scribes there mentioned as well. But the Sadducees functioned as a Jewish court, a Jewish court of justice. There was conflict due to the fact that it was both political and religious. And so they had constant conflict there with the with the Sanhedrin. They were given power to administrate the affairs of the community without Roman influence. They didn't have Roman Rome they actually could pronounce somebody put be put to death. They could say you you you you've transgressed the law, you're gonna die. Now under Roman law, Roman rule, the Roman Emperor or uh the current or local uh I'm sorry, governor had to agree, had to say yeah, okay, and he had to uh uphold that but they could pronounce it and then they just went and And stood before the governor, the governor said, Yeah, and they would kill him. Uh, you know, so they had a lot of power, the Sanhedrin did. Um it consisted of seventy members who were led uh by the high priest Uh and it was a position, once they were in the Sanhedrin, it was a position that they held for life. Um then you had a couple other groups that are a little less known, the Essens and the Zealots. Uh you remember Simon the Zealot, so a little less, but they were political religious groups that were available or were around during that time, and we'll see them as we get into the New Testament and start talking about things. Then we have the rise of the synagogues. The synagogues, as I described this, as the Jewish people were taken all over, synagogues began to rise up. The origin of the name of the synagogue is unknown, but synagogue means a place of assembly. It just was a place of symbol where they would gather together and read the scriptures and discuss the scriptures and and discuss current issues of the day. They just gathered. Synagogues were in every community. There was only one temple. That was the place where they would go to sacrifice. That was the place that God had appointed. So that temple was they still were supposed to travel back there for feasts, observance of feasts, and stuff like that, but they had synagogues that they would go to weekly. uh in observance of the Sabbath and in keeping of the law and to get together and read the scriptures. So it became a communal place, a place where people gathered. Requirements to establish a synagogue was at least ten Jewish men in a community. So synagogues propped up everywhere. Anywhere that they had at least ten men, those men could establish their own, you talk about local church. Can you imagine if we had a local church for every ten uh Christians uh around the country? I mean we're we're a long ways from that and we probably have more churches in this country than any other country in the world, uh but we're a long ways from that. Of course if these churches keep splitting, we might get there. Everybody splitting and starting their own, you know. Uh but you know, just the idea of of it being a local church, a community of people that came together. They obviously didn't have the capacity to jump in a car and go eighty miles an hour and You know, Mary and I, we drove thirty-two miles one way to church every uh day of the week just about. Uh sometimes when you forget something, you have to drive all the way home and come all the way back and Uh, you know, that but you they weren't doing that in that day. They weren't running 32 miles, you know, for a quick trip. And so these communities and the synagogues grew grew up, which set the stage for the furtherance and the spread of the gospel in a very easy way. Then some prophecies that were fulfilled in the New Testament. Now I'm going to give you some of these In my plan this morning I was going to have you open up these scriptures, but we're already 10 o'clock and so I need to move through this. But my goal, you should have it on a piece of paper uh as well, and you'll notice that the paper's blank So you have these prophecies that were fulfilled or that were given to us in the Old Testament regarding the coming of the Messiah and then the text. And we're going to reference those, but I left this side blank. As we walk through the New Testament, you're going to fill these in. As we see where these were fulfilled. So when we get to that in the New Testament, you're going to fill in that reference. and add that as we're doing. So you want to keep that in the front of your notebook somewhere handy because as we're going through the New Testament, you're going to start filling those pages in. But just this morning we're just going to kind of mention these, especially since I have some blanks in there for you to fill in. You're going to want them. Okay, God promised a deliverer in the Garden of Eden in Genesis chapter 3, 15. Now you guys uh know that verse, you're familiar with it. We we talked about it as the beginning of the Old Testament survey, but in Genesis chapter 3, 15, and I will put enity between thee and the woman And between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. that description. There is a lot of doctrine in that verse right there, a lot of teaching. He's describing, uh telling us about that great struggle that was going to come between good and evil. between thy seed and her seed. That her seed is Jesus Christ Thy seed, what does God tell us about many people in the New Testament there? He says, but ye are of your father the devil. That is his seed. You see the conflict that rages in the world between the Christian and the world system Was described all the way back in Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 15. There was going to be enity, there was going to be conflict, there was going to be a struggle between thy seed and her seed. Now that conflict, you were going to have the power to bruise his heel. That was at the cross, where Satan thought he won a victory over God and heaven, and he sent Jesus to the cross, not realizing that was a fulfillment of God's plan to provide redemption for mankind and that Jesus was going to rise again three days later. So he just bruised his heel. But we know that God, Jesus, would wound his head and one day we'll have complete victory over Satan. This was described for us all the way back here. promised in the Garden of Eden that there would be a deliverer, that he was coming, that Jesus was coming. And uh so we know in the New Testament that is fulfilled. Then we see that uh I I gave that to you already, but Satan's gonna bruise his heel, Christ will bruise his head, and then I'm going to skip through a lot of these, not going to read all these to you, but I'm going to give you the ones that were branks. Okay, so Christ would be born of a virgin, Isaiah 7. 14 Christ would be born of a virgin. And skipping down to Christ would be beaten and spit upon, Isaiah 50, verse number 6. These are things that were fulfilled in the New Testament. If you've been in church a while and you've read the New Testament, right away in your mind those verses come to mind. Christ would be despised and rejected of men, Isaiah 53:3. Christ would raise from the dead, Psalm sixteen ten. He would raise from the dead. Christ would be accused falsely. He would be accused falsely. I want to give you time to write these, but we've got to keep moving. Christ would be uh hated without a cause. Christ would be born in Bethlehem. Prophesied for us. Christ should be born in Bethlehem. Christ would be sold for 30 pieces of silver. These are prophecies in the Old Testament that describe the coming of the Messiah, which we know the New Testament opens with the announcement of the Messiah and another fulfillment uh given to us at the close of the New Testament that God would send a forerunner. to announce the coming Messiah. And that of course was John the Baptist fulfilled in John the Baptist saying, Behold, the Son of Man, the Lord, Son of God cometh there. So we know those are fulfilled. Now planning for the formation of the New Testament. Planning ultimately the formation of what we have here is the New Testament. What is it? So To rightly understand, I'm sorry, a right understanding of the Old Testament is necessary for a right understanding of the New Testament Uh those two are are they go hand in hand and there's a lot of people, a lot of large movement today where they want to just do away with the Old Testament completely and say, oh we only thing we need is the old is the New Testament. They want to get rid of the Old Testament And we only need the New Testament, and then there's extremists that say, oh, we only need the words in red. That's the only thing we need. If Jesus said it, other than that it doesn't matter. Well, Jesus said, you know, what's our theme? Love God, love people, love the Lord thy God with all the heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength, right? And love thy neighbors, thyself. Upon these two hang all the law. All the law that's there are hung up on those things and and people Jesus took the law and went beyond it. Under grace, people want to say, oh, I'm under grace. I don't have to adhere to that. No, you don't. You have to go farther than that. Because God said if you think about killing somebody, if you if you have you know you're angry without a cause, you're guilty of murdering somebody in your heart and your mind. If you think about being with a woman, you've committed adultery already in your heart In the Old Testament, if you did it, you got stoned, but you had to do it and get caught. In the New Testament, we know God sees our thoughts. And we know that he knows what's in there. And so it goes far beyond the Old Testament law if you're living under grace because of the motive the love of Christ constraineth us. and motivates us to serve and love him. Grimacki says this to have a full and adequate understanding of the New Testament, one must have a working knowledge of Israel's closing kingdom years. the 70 years of the Babylonian exile, the uh post-captivity era, and the period between the testaments This later period has sometimes been called the 400 silent years because there is no oral or written revelation communicated directly by God. But you need to have an understanding of that. That's why we took this time and talked about these things so that you could see what God was doing as the New Testament opened. So both the Old and the New Testament are scriptures. Jesus was the focal point of all scripture. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher, boys, you get into a passage of scripture and find Jesus and you preach Jesus. Anywhere in the Bible, he said you open the scripture, you're going to preach a passage, you find Jesus and preach Jesus. Jesus is the focal point of all scripture. Old Testament looked forward to the coming Messiah. New Testament looks back at the Messiah that had come. The Old Testament was the foreshadowing of things to come. The New Testament was the fulfillment of those things. Others have said it's the promise. Old Testament was the promise. New Testament is the performance. This is what it is, and this is when it came. It's been described this way. And so you need both of them. The term testament comes from a Greek word which means covenant. It is the old covenant and the new covenant. The New Testament for us, a covenant with Jesus Christ. Much like somebody would leave a last will and testament. This is their covenant, this is their promise, this is what they're saying their desire is. So Jesus gives us this, the New Testament and the Old Testament. Um the New Testament obviously consisting of 27 books divided into five categories depending upon who you look at and who you read and you know, how how they break him up. Some are some say four, uh, but I like five, so we're gonna use five. Uh you have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you have the book of history, the book of Acts. And uh just like we did memorize the books of the Old Testament, we're going to work together as a church and make sure you have these memorized so that you can quote them without question. You have Romans, first and second Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. 1 and 2 Thessalonians, 1st and 2 Timothy, Titus, Philemon. Then you have the general epistles, Hebrews, James, 1 and 2 Peter, 1 and 2nd, 3rd, John, Jude, and Revelation, as the book of prophecy. Now There's a big debate over whether Paul wrote Hebrews or not. I stuck it in that side because that's generally where most people put it. I like to attribute Hebrews to Paul. What do you think? I I usually give it to Paul, but uh now I really am strong about that 'cause I trust his opinion a lot. Um but you know what? It doesn't matter. Ultimately I know it's scripture. It's God's Word, and He's the one that wrote it, and so we believe it because God said it, not because Paul wrote it. Amen. And uh so I generally attribute it to Paul. Um so that's where I would put it if I was designing this list, but this is not mine uh specifically. Then we want to talk briefly about the canonicity of scripture, and I've got five minutes to do this. Okay? The we we dealt with the canonicity, uh the topic of canonicity. You understand the cannon was basically not a cannon like you shoot a cannon and you know Somebody gets launched out of a canon. The canon was a ruler. It was a guide. It was a standard by which scripture was measured to decide or determine whether it was scripture or not. Here is the rules, here is the canon. It has to meet all these qualifications. It couldn't meet a couple of them, had to meet all the qualifications, and we dealt with this when we opened up the New Old Testament. And so I'm not going to dig down into the nitty-gritty about that. We really spent a bunch of time talking about the authority, about it. Is it prophetic in nature? Is it authentic? Is it dynamic? Does it have power to change lives? Is it accepted? Is it quoted by others? And and by who? Who quotes it? And and so these things, all these things had to be necessary to bit for them to fit into the canon. So the canon of the New Testament, I want to describe just from a New Testament perspective here And if you want the lesson on canonicity, you can read about it or you can go back and listen to it in the Old Testament class that we went over this. But the New Testament declares itself to be scripture. In 1 Corinthians 1437, and in 2 Timothy 3. 16, he says in 1437, if any man think himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I have written unto you Are the commandments of the Lord. So he's declaring, listen, what I've given you here is not my words. These are not things that I think. Oftentimes, when I'm speaking and I'm given an opinion, I'll even step away from the pulpit. Now I'll say, okay, now this is my opinion This is how I feel. This is not scripture, so you can take it or leave it. I'll say you do it. This is just a thought that I have. And you know, I won't, you you can't be dogmatic on those things. But what he was saying there, Paul was saying, listen, what I'm giving you is not my opinion. This is the word of God. This is the word, commandments of the Lord. 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scriptures given by inspiration of God. That God breathed, God spoke this scripture into existence. And so it declares itself. There's a lot more verses on this type of stuff. I'm just giving you little pictures of it, and we're going to see it when we get into the New Testament. Paul declared it to be scripture. So not only is the New Testament itself declared, but Paul declares it In 1 Thessalonians 2. 13, for this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye received the word of God, Which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God So Paul says, hey, I appreciate the fact that you understand that what I've shared with you and you have received it, not as a word of truth, but as it is, not as a word of men, but in truth as it is the word of God. And beloved, when the man of God, whether it's me or this morning, we're going to be privileged to hear um Pastor Brennan speak. And uh when that happens, you know the the It's our job to receive that, not as the word of men. I mean, if he's looking at the Bible and he says, look at the word of God, this is what God says We're to receive that as it is the Word of God, even though man is sharing it, but it is the Word of God. And Paul is saying, listen, you've received this It is the word of God that I'm given to you. Now we have it and it's established and there shouldn't be a question about it, although there is, there shouldn't be a question about it. But you understand in the beginning When Paul wrote a letter, let me ask you, do you think everything that Paul wrote was scripture? No, he wrote letters to other people. He communicated and wrote some thank you notes probably. He wrote some other things that weren't scripture. So how did they determine what was scripture? Well you've got to go back to the topic of canonicity where they had to meet the laws and the requirements. to be included in the canon of scripture. But Paul describes what he was giving in many passages as the Word of God. In 1 Timothy 5. 18, he says, For the Scripture saith Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward. Now, the notable thing about this is in this passage of Scripture, he is quoting both from Deuteronomy. Thou shalt not muzzle the ox. And from the book of Luke. So here you say, well, part of canonicity is who's quoting it and when. So now Paul's talking about this is scripture. And he's talking about Deuteronomy, which is the law, which there was no question, that is scripture. And then in the same phrase, he's quoting the book of Luke So you can see where the authority or the power of saying, hey, Luke is scripture, Paul recognized it as scripture, Paul was quoting it as scripture, just like the law, Deuteronomy was scripture, here is scripture. And so that that kind of tying things back together and seeing that is where the early church, when they first began, and these things, God of course working in the hearts of men, seeing that these these passages of scripture were indeed scripture and not just the thoughts of men. So Peter, if you want those references, it's Deuteronomy 25. 4 and Luke 10. 7. Deuteronomy 25. 4 and Luke. Is it in your notes? Okay, you can write that down if you want. That's what he quotes there in 1 Timothy 5. 18. He quotes from those two passages of scripture. Now, Peter declared that Paul's writings were to be equal with other scriptures. Now it's one thing for one person to say, hey, my my writing, what I say is scripture, right? But when somebody else who is a respected apostle who knew that he says, listen, in first in 2 Peter 3. 16 He says, as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to be understood. which they that are unlearned and unstable rest as they do, also the other scriptures unto their own destruction. He's saying there's some things Paul's writing you make it hard to understand and you can't really, you're not sure how to interpret that, and you just you just do away with it. Like you do the other scriptures, you're just not going to ignore those. And you do it to your own destruction. So what I'm saying is, Peter puts Paul's writings, the epistles that Paul wrote, in connection with other scriptures. So I hope that makes sense to you. Before the close of the first century, the New Testament was accepted by most, nearly all, as Scripture. The 27 passage was accepted. There was a norm that there was people believed this to be. There was a normative. It was so normative there wasn't really much debate. And uh it wasn't until um Not even sure how to say it. Is it Mercy? Mercian? Do you know Mercian? Do you know that name? It wasn't until Mercian, who was an apostate. He was a pagan priest. who one day decided he was going to be a Christian. And uh he decided he wanted to establish his own canon. And so he decided, I'm going to have my own canon. I'm going to uh he didn't like the Old Testament. He didn't believe in the God of the Old Testament. He he only believed in Jesus. The connect passionate beloved beloved God. Does that sound familiar the beloved God of the New Testament. And so he denied the Creator, God. He denied the creator of the Hebrews. So he scrubbed all of the writings of Paul of any mention of those things. And his canon included only the book of Luke, and he was a follower of Paul, so the book of Paul. And they said he said this is scripture. That's all that there is in the New Testament, just this. Well that made the church say, well, this guy said that's all there is. We have to decide what is scripture and what's not. And that's when the debate started. And I'm not going to have time to dig it out dig down into that any further, but we'll get into it. to it next week. And I don't have any time for questions. I'm already late. So let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we love you. We thank you for your time in Sunday school. I pray that uh Lord this is beneficial and uh help us to get an understanding or help me as I try and communicate it to do so effectively. And Lord, we pray that you would just bless this morning's service. May you be glorified. May you lift us, Lord, from the cares of this world into your presence and speak to our hearts, and we'll praise you for it. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Planning for the formation of the New Testament. A right understanding of the Old Testament is necessary for a right understanding of the New Testament. There are so many people that want to discredit or do away with the Old Testament and say we don't need it anymore. That's Old Testament. We're New Testament saints. The Old Testament has nothing to do with the New Testament, but the fact of the matter is is it is the same God and God told us and and uh planned in the Old Testament for the New Testament And because we have both, it's easy for us to see that. And so a right understanding of what God was doing in the Old Testament prepares us for understanding and grasping what God is doing in the New Testament. Grimacki says, to have a full, adequate understanding of the New Testament, one must have a working knowledge of Israel's closing kingdom years. The 70 years of Babylonian exile, the post-captivity era, and the period between the testaments This latter period has sometimes been called the 400 silent years because there was no oral or written revelation communicated directly by God. And you know, we looked at those time periods. We studied those things. As he described some of that, you that should have made sense to you. Like the things that we talked about and laid the foundation for coming into the New Testament here. Both the Old and New Testament are Scripture, and they're all valuable. Jesus is the focal point of all Scripture, Old and New Testament alike. The Old Testament is his story before Christ's birth. The New Testament is his story after Christ's birth, obviously beginning there with the announcement and with Christ's birth. So We see that the Old Testament foreshadows it is the foreshadowing of things to come, where the New Testament is the fulfillment of those things. So that is the complete picture, and we want to make sure that we have an understanding of that. Now, the term testament comes from the Greek word meaning covenant. It's that idea of your last will and testament, the the covenant that you've made. This is your will. This is your last promise. This is what you're going to give all fourteen dollars to your you know your children or whatever. This is your last will and testament. So the the New Testament is made up of twenty-seven books. divided into five categories. Now I've divided them into five. Some people divide them into four, uh, and there may be people that divide them into others. Mostly it's looked at as the other either four or five. And the the four would be when they include all of the epistles together. So they would include all of the Pauline epistles and the general epistles together. And so there would only be four because they don't separate those out. Now of the 27 books, it is notable that it was only written by eight different men. And so we have your list in your notes of the men that wrote, obviously, Matthew. wrote Matthew, Mark wrote Mark, Luke wrote Luke and the Book of Acts. John wrote 1, 2nd, and 3 John, the book of John and the Book of Revelation. And uh then James wrote James, Jude wrote Jude, and Paul wrote all of the Pauline epistles, and for the sake of what I think hero Hebrews. Uh that's very debatable. Many people believe as somebody else did um and really it's not gonna matter We're gonna know for sure in heaven, but we know God. We know God wrote it, right? So it it's not that critical, but just for continuity's sake, I usually attribute Hebrews to uh to Paul. What about the Oh the Peter, yes. Um I'm sorry. I completely deleted those from the New Testament uh in my notes here. Uh left that off. Yeah, so Peter um wrote these. I don't know why I did not uh Put that in there. I just overlooked it. Um so then these were all Jewish men except for maybe Luke. Luke possibly they say he might have uh you know been been Greek but with Jewish heritage. They're not positive on that, but it's it's uh maybe uh the thought. Then we we looked at the canonicity in the Old Testament. When we did the Old Testament lesson, we studied the idea of the canon, the the measuring stick by which things were included in the Word of God. So we're not going to dig into that specifically, except to look at it in light of the New Testament. And so the New Testament itself teaches us several things. First of all, the New Testament declares itself to be scripture. So throughout the New Testament, in many different places. The New Testament gives us that, such as 1 Corinthians 14, verse number 37. He says, If any man think himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord. So it's not he's not saying, hey, these are good things that you should learn or this is something I think is important. But the idea specifically that this is the commandments of the Lord. This is scripture. This is from God. And so you need to take it as such. We know 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. and so clearly defining itself as scripture. Paul, several times, I don't have them all, but several times he declared his writings to be scripture. In 1 Thessalonians 2. 13, he says, for this cause also thank we God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men But as it is in truth, the word of God. So you you see see the word of God there. See saw that describing it. In first 1 Timothy 5, 18, he says, For all scripture saith, describing there that all scripture, this is this is all scripture, and it's notable because in this verse he quotes two other passages. So he quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 25 and verse number 4, and he quotes from the book of Luke, chapter 10, and verse number 7. So what he's doing is he's putting these two passages of scripture, an Old Testament scripture that is well established. There is no question that this is Scripture on level, on par with a New Testament uh passage that maybe some people would have wondered about or thought, well maybe this is not scripture. And he's saying, listen, The scripture saith. And he says, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox. That's the quote from the book of Deuteronomy. And then he says, the laborer is worthy of his reward. And uh that's a quote from Luke chapter 10 and verse number 7. So again, acknowledging and recognizing uh the fact that Old Testament And New Testament passages are scripture. Peter declared Paul's writings to be equal with other scriptures, he says, in 2 Peter 3. 16. He says, uh As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which some things hard to be understood. which they that are unlearned and unstable rest, as they do also the other scriptures. unto their own destruction. He says they they disregard these scriptures to their own destruction destruction. Not just these, but even the other scriptures. So he's again including these things together, declaring these New Testament passages to be scriptures. And what I'm saying is that throughout the New Testament period In very early on, people saw and recognized, the church saw and recognized that what they were looking at is scripture. It literally became the norm. was described as normative. It is something that was undebatable. It was something that was understood by all that this was scripture. It was just the church knew it Everybody in Christendom knew it. Not that there wasn't detractors, not that there wasn't enemies. Obviously, people, there always going to be, just as there is still today, people that disagree But uh it was understood to be that way and and everybody generally accepted it. Um you know Like people think generally about Fords, you know, that a Ford is means found on road dead, right? So uh I don't know if you're a Ford guy, it doesn't matter. That's just for an illustration's sake, just the idea that there's something that has been normally accepted in society that pretty much pretty much everybody believes this to be so. And uh So that was accepted. And the notable thing is, is that by 140 AD, so we're not that far beyond uh you know Christ's birth, life, death, and resurrection, that all twenty-seven books were review were viewed as scripture. It was unquestionable. It was it was the norm in society By 150 A. D. , all of the apostolic fathers, all of those books that were written about Scripture during that time, had quoted from every New Testament book. There wasn't one that was left out. They had quoted from all of these. It was normative. Everybody believed these to be scripture. It wasn't even a debate what the people had come to cherish and hold as valuable. Now it's notable how how much they valued it because they determined that it was worth dying for. So you say, well, they believed this was scripture, but they didn't just believe it, they died for it. In 303 A. D. , when Diocletian passed his mass persecution on Christians, it was illegal to have a copy of the scriptures. So Diocletian recognized and understood that these books were scripture. And he's not even a Christian. He wants to kill Christians. But society at large, as a whole, believed that these were scriptures, and he was willing and ready to kill people for having a copy of it. And Christianom as a whole were willing to die to say this is the Word of God. Okay, that is the power of the conviction that was present in this time period. So there was no debate until 144 A. D. when the Gnostic Marcian established his own canon. Now, he was an apostate. He was a complete heretic. He started Martianism. A far-out sect of people that believe several crazy things. So he denied the existence or the power of the Old Testament God. He only wanted to acknowledge Jesus as God, even though Jesus says, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father I and the Father are one. The connection between the New Testament and the Old Testament is so powerful, I don't know how anybody could deny it. But he denied all of the Hebrew scriptures and all of the Hebrew uh references to God. So what he decided to do, he's like, Well what I want to do is I want to establish, he actually established what is believed to be the first Canon. It was false, but he said, I'm going to say what is scripture and what is not scripture And he did away with all of the New Testament except for a shrunken edited version of Luke and the Pauline epistles. Because he was a follower of Paul. He believed that Paul was the only true apostle. So his New Testament that he published for his people and established in society, he said, this is what the New Testament is. And it just had a part of Luke and the Paul and the epistles. And so you would understand why, okay, now the church has to decide. Well, wait a minute. He says that all of these aren't scripture. How are we going to establish and prove and say that these are scripture And so the church had to come up with and design a canon that would be consistent from Old to New Testament. that would uh establish the canon of scripture and the twenty-seven books that were in the scripture This uh heretic also believed uh that Jesus was the supreme being. Now he was, he was God. He was God in the flesh and he dwelt among us, uh, but that's something that he held to. So around 157 A. D. Montanus, who was a pagan priest, self-declared pagan priest, no question there. There's not, I mean you can look him up on Wikipedia. Okay? It says right there at the very beginning Self-proclaimed pagan priest. This pagan priest declared himself to be the voice, the literal voice of the Holy Spirit. Now, you know, there are churches today. The Catholic Church believes that the Pope can speak, and when he speaks, he is speaking the words of God. Okay, well this pagan priest did it here. He was saying, I am giving you the words of God. And so he began to start to add to Scripture. He wanted to say, well You guys have the New Testament, but God has given me a vision. God has showed me what the truth is, and I am speaking directly from the Holy Spirit, directly from God. And so I'm giving to you new Scripture. And again, this forced the church to say, okay, wait a minute, is the canon closed? Can there is there going to be new scripture in a in a year or two? Is there going to be new scripture in five years from now? So they had to look and say, well, what what is it? And so they determined based on the the Established principles of the measuring stick by which something could be included in the Word of God that the canon was closed. That you could not add to, by God's own words, you couldn't add to or take away from the word of God. And so the the canon of Scripture was closed and nobody could add to it. You may have people that have visions and they say they heard directly from God, but we know that the canon of Scripture is closed. And uh he taught several crazy things, like he taught that he had the power to forgive sins. Uh does that sound like anybody today? He had the power to absolve you of sins. If you would just come and confess your sin to him, he could do that. He taught that martyrdom was good. That we ought to seek martyrdom, that we should try and find that. Does that sound like any group today? He taught that the New Jerusalem was going to be established Right then, like very soon. Uh that the New Jerusalem that the Word of God speaks of that hasn't been established yet, but he speaks speaking directly from God told everybody it was going to happen way back then. And uh obviously proven to be a heretic. So the church was forced to say, okay, is the canon of Scripture closed? Now, over the years there would be numerous debates, numerous councils held. As there are still debates about the Scripture and its validity and its power and so on. But I want you to know that by the Third Council of Carthage in 397 A. D. The 27 books of the New Testament were recognized, established, and accepted as the complete canon, the finished work of the New Testament scriptures for God's people. Now it is notable that during all that time, during all those debates, we have records of the many different councils that were held and the early church fathers and all the debates that they had during all of it Not one time did somebody recommend another book to be added to the canon. There was never any additions in all of those years, over 200 years of debating over the scriptures. Nobody said, oh, maybe we should add this book like the Maccabees. You see, the Maccabees were very quickly recognized to not be scripture because they contradicted Scripture. Things stated in the book of Maccabees contradicts things that are stated here. And God is not going to contradict Himself. And so they were not recognized, but nobody recommended any other books. And then during all those debates, there was only two books that were debated as whether they should be included or not, and that is Hebrews and the Book of Revelation So those two books, there was debates in those different councils that were held. Should Hebrews and the book of Revelation be included? Nobody asked to add anything, but we said, should those be included as well? And obviously the conclusion that they came to was that they should. Now In this first lesson, what I wanted to do specifically is I wanted you to come away with two thoughts. First of all, that Although there were 400 silent years, God was not sleeping. That God was very clearly working in the lives of men. that God was very systematically preparing the world for the coming of the Messiah. And just as God was working in the world back then, To bring about his will. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. On earth as it is in heaven, that God's will would be performed and finished in this earth, I want you to know God is still working today. So that should be settled in your heart. The second thing I wanted you to get from this first lesson is that you have the finished, complete Word of God in your hand. There shouldn't be a question in your heart and mind. There are people in the world that will question it. There's going to be people that will say, oh, it's a nice book. It's a good book. It contains, you've got to watch this. They'll say it contains the words of God. But they but it's not the Word of God. They're saying, yeah, God gave us some thoughts or some ideas and the guys the best as they could They wrote it down and so it contains the Word of God. But you need to have settled in your heart and mind that what you have in your hand is the Word of God for us. And that is something that you need to have settled for your faith and establishment of your Christianity and your growth. So those two things are key. As we dig into this New Testament, that you know that God's still working today and that you have the Word of God, and the New Testament is his words to us. That brings our first lesson to a conclusion.