I've got a lot of ground to cover, a little time to do it. But I think the heart of the message this evening you'll be able to get, and uh we'll see what the Lord gives me liberty to uh to share with you today some things we may skip, maybe some personal stories, things that are less less critical uh to the heart of it we could get through. I I don't plan to keep you long, but I want you to get the heart of this message and it in Nehemiah, chapter number eight, look at verse number six. We see the phrase mentioned here about Nehemiah's God. It says, And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen. With lifting up their hands, they bowed their heads and they worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground They lifted up, they said, we serve a great God. They were humbled in his presence. They were glorifying him. They lifted up their hands and they said, praise. God. They bowed their heads in worship. They said, God is a great God. There was no question. Ezra said that God is great. And all the people said Amen. It's a great God. And this morning what I want you to do is I want you to answer that question in your heart and mind. Do you personally have a great God? Now maybe this morning is just going to be a reminder of that. Maybe it's just to affirm in your heart and mind that truth. But if you don't this morning possess Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and have a personal relationship with God through the sacrifice of his Son, I would implore you. to get that settled today before we dismiss at the end of the service. But I hope that you have a great God. You know, God put in the heart of this man Nehemiah that this book is written about. to go back and to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. I thank God for men and women who are willing to let the Lord touch their heart to do something great for Him. I'm excited this morning for these young men who have said, Hey, I want to serve God in some capacity or some way. I want to prep train and prepare to do what God wants me to do. me to do and I'm going to commit my life to do that. I praise God for people who have a sensitive heart and say, Lord, what do you want? Okay, I'll do it. And go do what God wants him to do. That's an exciting thing. Well, Nehemiah had a sensitive heart, and he was moved by God to do an exceptional thing. Listen, when you go to do something for God, there's going to be some opposition. There's going to be some challenges. There's going to be some heartache. And Nehemiah was no exception. But he kept going for God. How did he keep going for God? Because he served a great God. Nehemiah is one of my favorite characters in the Bible. I enjoy the lessons for life. Leadership, loyalty. I mean what this book is just chalked full of things. And maybe it's because Nehemiah was a builder, and and I'm a builder. I like building things. And so Uh maybe that's why I I really fit into the story with him and I can see myself there and and I enjoy that. But for whatever reason, he's one of my favorite characters. The lessons we glean from here are strong, but if you do any type of a word study on the book of Nehemiah, one thing that's going to jump out to you right away is that how often the word great is used. It's actually 28 times in these 13 chapters the word great is used. It's used the first time, if you would turn back to Nehemiah chapter number one. We see the word great used here. Nehemiah chapter number one, right off the bat. In verse number 3, Nehemiah 1, verse number 3, he says, And they said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity there in the provinces. are in great affliction. And the reproach, the walls of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. They start open the book. Verse number three talks about the fact that there is great affliction This is not something that's exciting. This is not something that's pleasant or appealing or that anybody would would seek after. But if you walk through the pages of this book you begin to see how he talks about his great God. Over and over again in Nehemiah 1. Just look down and just to verse number 5. Just a couple verses down, and he said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments. Look down in verse number 10. Now these are the servants and thy people whom thou hast redeemed by thy great power and by thy strong hand. You walk through this book and you'll see over and over again they're talking about their great God. I would like you to see one more verse as I establish and lay the foundation here, and then we're going to run. But would you turn to chapter number twelve? All the way to chapter number 12, we're reaching the end of the book. And in chapter number 12, verse number 43, we see that word great again. He says also the day that day they offered great sacrifice And rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. We see here in these pages that the book started out and they were in great affliction. And then towards the end of the book here, we see that they stand in a place and they say that God had made them to rejoice with great joy. They went from great affliction to great joy. How did that happen? Because in the middle, you've got a great God. And if you're in a place this morning where you might find yourself in great affliction, I want you to know that if you'll get and spend some time with a great God, you too can be in a place of great rejoicing I hope this morning that you're serving a great God. There in this book here, how you view and think about your God, it's evident it affects how you view life. how you see life. And if you personally have a great God, you know that you have a great God, I want you to know that you see great opportunity. You have a a view of life and you look at life in a way that it brings great opportunity when you serve a great God We see here back in ver chapter number one where he's reading and talking about the city and that it's broken down. And Nehemiah was was burdened about it and he was brokenhearted and he went to God in prayer and he said The Bible says there that he fasted and he prayed and he sought after God because the situation that they were in as a people. The status of the city, how the walls were broken down. He inquired after the state and was left broken. Listen, as he prayed and fasted, God moved him to do something about the situation. God moved him to realize and see that something needed to be done. Now can I remind you that Nehemiah was your average man? Nehemiah was not a prophet. He was not a priest. He was not a developer. He wasn't the head of a large construction company. Nehemiah was an average guy, an everyday guy. He, of course, loved his people and he loved his God. But he was just a normal guy, ill-equipped and ill prepared to do what God had burdened his heart to do. He didn't have a a background in this necessarily. He could say, oh yeah, I know who to get together to do this, I know how to do that. He was just burdened about the need. Nehemiah, he had a career. We know that he was the king's cupbearer. We know that he spent his days Really I would imagine in in pretty relative ease. As the King's Cupbearer there walking the halls of government, spending time with the big whigs You know, chatting it up. I mean I I I don't think that he was struggling too hard in his life. I think he would you would say in that time he was probably a pretty successful guy. And yet God burdened his heart to do something. And he saw an opportunity The difference between somebody who has a great God and looks at life through the eyes of their great God and somebody else is the guy that has a great God sees great opportunity, the guy that doesn't sees great obstacles. You see there are obstacles everywhere you look, everywhere you turn, there's obstacles, but w how are you viewing those obstacles? Some some are opportunities. And what makes the difference is the great God we serve. Look in chapter number two of Nehemiah, the beginning of it. We see the first obstacle that he could have been deterred by was the king himself. You know, in this time, it was literally a crime to go before the king with a sad countenance. It could be punishable by death. You remember uh the story of Esther? Do you remember how she said, Well, I don't know. I mean if I go before the king and he doesn't raise his scepter, I it could be the end of me. I mean the king was all powerful, and if you were even sad in the countenance of the king, you were in trouble. But look here in chapter 2 and verse number 1. How long as I read a couple verses here, you can see the story developing. He says, and it came to pass in the month of Nisan and the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king. That wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it unto the king. Now I had not before time, not been before time sad in his presence Verse number two, he says, Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was sore afraid and said unto the king, basically Nehemiah said, Well here goes nothing. I mean this is this is all or nothing. This is it right here. This is my I I he already saw me sad. I'm gonna I'm gonna be killed or not. I don't know, so I might as well let him let him tell tell him what's on my mind So here he says to the king in verse number three, he says, and said unto the king, let the king live forever. Why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my father's sepulchres, lieth in waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I prayed unto the God of heaven, and said unto the king, if it pleased the king, He shot off a quick prayer. Lord help me. You know, just silently in his mind. But he said, here it goes. He says, King, if it please the king, this is what I need. And what's amazing is this situation here, which stood as a great obstacle, I don't imagine as the king's cupbearer he had the liberty to turn in his two weeks. You know, I don't think he could just say, Hey King, uh I got something else I want to do, so I'm leaving. He I don't think he had that privilege. He he couldn't just leave and go whenever he wanted. He couldn't uh not only that, he didn't have the means or the wherewithal to go do this this amazing thing that God had put in his heart. I mean there's obstacles on every hand. The first one was the king. The king could kill him. But he told the king what was on his heart, and because of the power of his great God, the king not only gave him permission to go, but he says, you know what, it's kind of dangerous on the road. I'm going to send a group of soldiers to protect you as you go You know what? It's going to take a lot of money to rebuild that wall. I'm going to send some provision with you as well so that you can rebuild those walls. You see, every obstacle we face is an opportunity for us to see our great God. An opportunity to see our great God do something. You know, the complacency of the people was an obstacle. Everyone was there living their life. They were comfortable. You know, there had already been two returns. I mean, there's a group that went back with Ezrevabel, and there's a group that went back with Ezra, and now here Nehemiah is going to go back. I could imagine Nehemiah in his mind thinking, all the people that wanted to go home already went home. There's not anybody, who's going to go with me now that I want to go? Plus I'm going to say, hey, let's go back and let's work. Let's go build the wo the walls. I mean, let's go remove all the rubble and tear all that stuff out and let's start building the walls. I don't know that there's going to be too many I mean I'm burdened about it, but I don't know there's too many Back in the city there, everybody has their life. They're living their life. I mean I can see in the heart of Nehemiah him thinking, I'm going to be all by myself. Lord, I'm not sure how I'm going to do this all by myself. But look at chapter 2 and verse number 18. He says, Then I told them of the hand of my God. He's talking to the people. He was talking to the people here, and he said, I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, and also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthen their hands for this good work. I can just imagine Nehemiah in his heart, in his mind. He went to the people and he said, listen. Our city's broken down. There's a need here. The walls are destroyed and we could be attacked on any at any time. We've got to do something about this. It's in need. It's going to take a lot of sacrifice. It's going to take a lot of money. It's going to take a lot of work. How many of you guys are in And he's thinking it's gonna be dead silent. He's like, Are you with me? And the crickets. Except He stood up and he said that and he said, listen, let me tell you how God is blessed. God's already told the king to help me, and the king's got some provision, and the king sent in some provision. soldiers and we're going to do this and I see God's hand on this. Are you guys ready to go with me? And they stood up and said, let us rise up and build I can imagine how excited he was. I remember a couple of years ago, time flies two or three years ago when I told the church family, listen, we want to have a saturation Sunday. We want to go out here on Sunday afternoon uh right after church. We're gonna load up on a bus and we're gonna go drive out into the community and we're gonna pass out John. We're gonna pick a neighborhood. the first neighborhood we did was the Crane's neighborhood. I think it was over by their house. We're gonna pick a neighborhood and we're gonna pass out John and Romans and just the whole area we're gonna do from this street to this street and this street to this street and we're gonna do the whole the whole area And here I am casting this vision. And I thought, well, I know I've got my wife and I've got five kids that'll be on the bus. I know that we pay Pastor Derek, so he'll be there and his wife. So he doesn't have a choice. Pastor Gus and his wife, so they don't ha so there's a few people at least, you know, don't have much option in the matter. But I can tell you what. When we dismissed and over sixty people went out and got on the bus, I was almost brought to tears. For me, I said, man. They see the need. They've got a burden to see our community reached with the gospel. They're ready and willing to get out into Do something. It's not just talk. It's not just saying amen, Pastor. It's they're ready to put their feet where their mouth is and go do something. And I I was I was so humbled as a pastor. I was so shocked, but that you guys said, let's rise up and go do it. I mean I was Amen. I can imagine how excited Nehemiah was, this obstacle that he saw, the challenge of maybe stirring people's hearts and motivating them to go do something beyond themselves. He didn't know if it was going to happen, but when he presented it, the people stood up and rejoiced. responded to the moving of God. Amen. Every obstacle is a chance for us to see God do something great. The people stood up, they stood together. We're not going to turn there, but in chapter number three you'll see twenty-three times the phrase, and beside them, and beside them, and beside them. Twenty-three times through that book you see people s working together on the wall and beside them or and next to them. It's nice to have somebody to work with, isn't it? When you go to an attempt to do something and try and tackle something, it's exciting to have somebody beside you. Somebody with you, accomplishing the task. And that's what we see. Together they did it. In unity, they went and they worked hard to get this wall built. Some only see obstacles, but we, like Nehemiah, need to see the opportunities. This wasn't necessarily well fit for him as a man I don't imagine there was a big need for cupbearers in Jerusalem. That's what his expertise were. But he said, I'm willing. You know, God will use somebody who's willing, not necessarily somebody who believes they're capable. Yeah. Warren Wersby said that strength that knows itself to be strength is but weakness. And weakness that knows itself to be weakness is strength. Paul said it like this when I'm weak. I'm strong. But what I'm saying is you may feel ill-equipped or ill-prepared to do what God puts in your heart to do. You say, I don't know if I can do that. I don't know if I have the strength to do that. I don't have I have the wherewithal or the capacity to do it. But if you're willing, God does it. You just surrender and God will use you. That opportunity. Is not an obstacle. I want you to see. Secondly, that a great God brings great faith They served a great God in verse number one of chapter number I'm sorry, chapter chapter one, verse number five. And said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments Let thine ears now be attentive, and thy eyes open that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for the children of Israel, thy servants And confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee. Behold, I and my father's house have sinned. You know, Nehemiah was a man of prayer. You'll see ten times in these chapters where Nehemiah goes to prayer. Nehemiah, every obstacle, every challenge, everything, every burden, he went to God in prayer. That was his go-to. He was a man of prayer. And do you understand that prayer is an expression of faith? Just the act of praying is in itself stating faith. I believe that God is hearing my prayer. I believe that God can and will answer this prayer. When you spend time in secret prayer calling on the God of heaven, that is an expression of faith. You have great faith in a great God. You know, let's look at this prayer here and just notice a couple of things about it. First of all, it was a prayer that held praise. He praised God. He knew God. He said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God, the God that keepeth covenants and mercy for them that love him. He said, God, you're you're a great God. This is that word great is an exceedingly great, greater than anything else, a great God. That word terrible there doesn't mean bad like we think of the word terrible, but it literally means fearful, a God that should be feared. A God that has is great and has power and so therefore should be feared. But then he also says, But I know this about you, Lord. I know that you're a merciful God as well. Although you shouldn't be a God that's feared, yes, we we do fear you, but Lord, we're grateful that you're a merciful God. That is, you don't give me what I deserve. You've had mercy on me, and God, I'm so grateful for your mercy. Are you thankful for God's mercy today? Yes, he was thankful and he praised God's mercy. You know, the more that you the better you know him, the better you'll be able to pray to him. This prayer had confession in it, confession of sin, not just his, but sins of the people. Both he confessed their sin. You know, the purpose of our prayer is not to get man's will done in heaven, but to get God's will done on earth. To get God's will done here. This prayer was a prayer of faith. He had faith. You know, as I said, the act of praying is faith. Continuing in prayer is continued faith. You know, sometimes my kids will go to my wife, their mother, and ask her for something. Ice cream or they can go somewhere or do something with their friends or whatever. And they went to mom for a reason. Opposed to coming to dad. Right? Because they believe they have a much better chance of getting what they're asking for if they went to mom. Sometimes mom says those dreaded words, go ask your dad. Oh. And you know what? I can't tell you the times that m she told me, hey, the kids are gonna come and ask you if they can do this, just so you know. And she's like, What do you want? And I said, Oh it's fine with me if they do it. But then they don't even come and ask. And then later I'll be talking to them and I'll say, Oh I thought you wanted to go over with the Alvarados. Well we did, but I said, Yeah, you didn't ask. And they said, Well we didn't think you were gonna let us So you didn't even ask. I was I wasn't gonna let you, but you didn't even ask. You see, they didn't have any faith that they would get what they were desiring, so they didn't bother asking. They didn't get it. You know if you have enough faith to just come to God and ask. We have a God that's great and can answer. If we would have enough faith to come, and then we see that he continued in prayer, if you if you study this out, you'll find that there was four months between the time that he initially heard about the situation in Israel and he began to pray and he began to fast before he talked to the king. It wasn't that afternoon. There were four months that transpired in between there. Four months of him continuing in prayer, continuing to pray. You know, beloved, it's hard for us sometimes to just wait on God. Waiting is hard. That's a lesson that we just have to keep on learning because boy we are not very patient, are we? We have what we want and we're ready to go get it and we're just not ready to wait, but beloved, I want you to know that it is in the waiting. That we mount up on wings as eagles. It is in the waiting that we learn to run and not be weary. It is in the waiting that we learn to walk and not faint. We've got to learn how to wait on God. And it takes faith in God to see that come through. And beloved, I want to tell you this morning that you don't have to have great faith. You just have to have a great God Could I ask you today, if you had to cross a a huge chasm with a raging river down at the bottom, Would you rather have great faith in an old rickety worn-out rope bridge? Or would you have rather have a little faith in a big strong concrete bridge? Which would you rather? The concrete bridge. You see we don't need to have great faith, we just need to have a little faith. In the sure thing. The sure thing is Jesus Christ. Our God, that great God. He can and will Do what He has birthed in our heart to do, what He wants you to do. You come to Him today and you don't know Him as your Lord and Savior to say, Lord, I know I'm a sinner and I I know that I can't do anything about this sin myself, but I've got enough faith to believe. that Jesus you died for me and God you raised him. You talk about obstacles. I don't know of a greater obstacle than the fact that Jesus died on the cross. I mean, can you imagine all the followers of Jesus there? Oh, he just died. Oh my goodness. All of our visions or all of our grand uh ideas, everything we were thinking, I mean thought he was going to set up the kingdom, he's dead. The whole earth went dark. Man, that's an obstacle. But then God then God came on the scene and he raised his son and he said, O death, where is thy thing, O grave, where is thy victory? Right. He gave him victory over death. Every obstacle is just an opportunity for God to show himself great in your life. We see when we see when we serve a great God, it brings great faith. And beloved, we can rejoice today because when we have a great God, it brings great victory. It brings great victory. They continued to endure hardship, attacks from within, attacks from without. It was on every side. You know Sam Bat Sam Ballot and Tobias, these These guys trying to come and stop the work over and over and over again they attacked him. They said unto them, Ha ha, that wall is gonna fall down. You guys don't know what you're doing, you can't build that I mean if a fox came over here and blew on that wall it would fall down. That's how much confidence they had in it. They were attacked and they were discouraged If you have your Bibles and want to look at it, you can turn to Nehemiah chapter 6 and verse number 9. These people, as they were serving, they had to work with a trowel in one hand and a sword in the other because the attacks were everywhere. They're trying to get these walls built up and people are trying to keep it from happening. We see in Nehemiah 6, verse number 9, for they all made us afraid, saying, their hands shall be weakened from the work. That it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands. Again, going to God in prayer. They were said, hey, you guys are so weak, you can't do this work. You know, I I just can't help but think about and I'm not going to run this rabbit trail too far, but you know that property over there is an opportunity. It's an opportunity And I know sometimes we look at it and we say, man, there's some obstacles. There's some obstacles. We don't have enough people. We don't have enough money. We don't have the wherewithal to do this. I mean we've got some people against us, but praise God, He gave us the victory. We saw God come on the scene and and And it took several years, took some waiting, took some waiting on God. But God came through and we were granted permission by Baltimore County to build that building Now there's some other obstacles. We could look at those obstacles or we could look at the great God and say, God, if you want it done. Our hands feel too weak for the work, Lord. Would you strengthen in our hands? Would you strengthen our hands, Lord? Because beloved, when you believe in a great God, you get to see great victory. Yeah. Look down in chapter six and verse number fifteen. One, two, three, four, five. What are the first five words? They finished it, amen. So they finished the wall. You know the best answer to your critics is not to argue with them, the best answer is just to do the job. Because then they can't stay they can they can complain and whine and they can say oh your wall's gonna fall down or you can't do that or you don't have that skill you just go ahead and do it, let God be victorious, and then they'll have to stand back there, you know, with egg on their face. God said vengeance is mine and he knows how to take care of it. We just need to let him take care of it. Amen. Let God do it. We just keep doing what God wants us to do. But you get to see the victory. You get to have great victory when you follow God. Man, the work was finished. And you know it was in 52 days. Man, fifty-two days. They were working. But that's what you see when God comes on the scene. You see a great God and He does great things. Look down in verse number sixteen there, chapter six, and verse number sixteen. And it came to pass that when all our enemies heard thereof, and all the heathen that were about us saw these things. They were much cast down in their own eyes, for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. The work was wrought of God. It was accomplished by God. They look at this little band of people and said, man, they can't do that. They're never going to be able to build that wall, don't worry about it. Them guys that's just a dream. And then when it got done, they looked back and said, man, those people did that actually We know their God did that. And beloved, when you serve a great God, those that are around you, they'll look at your life and they'll say, You did that? And you say, no, my God did that. I can't take any credit for this victory. I can't take any credit for this accomplishment. I can't take any credit for doing this correctly. It was all God God did it. And you bring honor and glory to Him with your life. So the question I have for you today is do you serve a great God? Is he your God? You know, some of us have right theology, but in practice it doesn't line up. Our theology says we serve a great God, but our practice says we're not sure we trust him. We're not sure we can even rely on him. Yeah. Our theology says he'll never leave you nor forsake you. But our practice says, Lord, where are you? I ask you today, do you serve a great God?