Get us to the point where, you know, Solomon is writing Ecclesiastes and and kind of talk about that. We didn't get to do that, uh so I guess we'll kind of introduce next week's Sunday school lesson uh today. Just talking about this, but uh of course Solomon is the last of the kings to reign over the United Kingdom, uh the children of Israel. Uh Solomon is known for his wisdom above all else. He is given uh God is through through him given us by divine inspiration several books of the Bible. We know that Really as a royal lover and probably as a young man, he wrote Song of Solomon. Uh a very interesting book and uh one that It is challenging to preach from. I have taught some things from that in our family class. Uh but uh she gave us the Song of Solomon and as a wise father During the prime of his life, probably during the time before his heart was turned away from God, he was used of God to give us the proverbs. And we have this the book of Proverbs, the book of wisdom that we glean and learn from. And then as a preacher And really, as an older man who now is looking back on his life and evaluating all that he lived for and everything he went through, pondering his days and Presents some arguments to us in the book of Ecclesiastes, some thoughts that he has as he evaluates his life. If you're in Ecclesiastes chapter number one, our text is really chapters one and two, but for by way of introduction here, let's just read The summation of his thoughts for the beginning chapters here of Ecclesiastes as we read just chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. We see he says the words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Vanity of vanities, saith the Lord, I'm sorry, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Lord, we come to you now. We ask that you would guide us through this message this morning. I pray that I would, Lord, you just scratch from my mind anything that need not be said, and that, Lord, you would Through your divine direction, leading of the Holy Spirit, would you use your word to feed and the people of God this morning? Would you strengthen us spiritually? Would you guide us into all truth? Would you allow the heart of the message this morning to settle down in our hearts? May that seed take root and bring forth fruit, Lord. I pray Satan would not be able to snatch it away. That we would be able to step aside from the cares of this world for a few minutes, and the Word of God would be made alive in our heart and lives. And we ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Here, the wisest man in history, the most prosperous king in all of Israel, steps back from his life. He's reached the point where he can take an honest estimation of all his days. And he gives to us his autobiography, if you would, a description. By and large, a man who knew God, but was living life without God And ultimately he comes to his readers and he declares to them that life without God is meaningless. I would like to, for a few minutes this morning, preach to you. Is your life meaningless or meaningful? Under understanding, Solomon did not come to this conclusion about his life outside of experience. For he had all that this life could offer. He had power. He knew philosophy. He had prestige and abundance. He had pleasure without end, even piety. He had it all. And Through all of this, 37 times in the book of Ecclesiastes, he uses the word vanity, which means empty. Which means lay meaningless. Yea, all is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. It's vanity. There is no meaning to it all. We must note that the perspective that he opens with is a view from under the sun. Twenty-nine times In these chapters, he declares his perspective as one to be under the sun. G. Campbell Morgan wrote this: this man, Solomon. Has been living through all of these experiences under the sun, concerned with nothing above the sun. And that is why he has found no value. Could I say that is why he had come to the conclusion that his life was meaningless instead of meaningful? It is only when he comes to the place that you and we come to the place that we look at our life through the eyes of God that we find meaning. Only when we understand who He is and who we are in Jesus Christ. That's when we find meaning. When we see who we are as an individual. Many young people struggle with this today, just trying to find out who they are. Who am I? What am I going to be? What is my life like The problem is, in all of their effort to find themselves, what they need to do is they need to find God. Because when we find God, we find meaning for the light that He gives us. I would like to try and just kind of dive into a few of his descriptions of life Walk through some of these statements that he makes, see the experiences that Solomon had, and then some of the illustrations that he gives us And then look at the expectations from above. So we begin here this morning with the experience of life. Solomon experienced it all. He sought meaning for his life in all the wrong places. Isn't that the pattern and the habit of most today? to seek meaning in life and all the wrong places, to try and find value and sustenance and substance in something else or somebody else. One of the big problems with uh married couples is they try to have their mate be the one that fulfills and makes them abundantly happy. It is That person that's going to make me happy. That person that's going to satisfy all of my needs. That person is, now my life is going to be fulfilled. And if if they are both at uh Doing that, what one writer said is they become two blood-sucking ticks that suck the life right out right out of each other. Because it's not about that person satisfying, it's about you being able to satisfy them and ultimately we satisfy God. So we see here, first of all, in Ecclesiastes 1, verse number 3, he talks about the experience of labor, which we all have the pleasure of being involved in. He says, what profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? He's like, all the labor you're doing under the sun, all the time that you're investing, he says in chapter 2 and verse number 11 Then I looked at all the works that my hands had wrought, and on all the labor that I had labored to do, and behold all was vanity and vexation of spirits, and there was no prophet under the sun. You see, man gives himself to endless labor, to strive to accomplish and achieve something here on earth. And at the end, what do we have? I mean, you mowed the lawn last week. And you gotta mow it again this week. You ladies, you you wash the clothes, and no matter how clean you got them, they are not gonna stay clean. You've got to wash them again. That labor is something you're going to have to accomplish again. You planted the garden and you got to harvest, but you've got to plant it again. They're not going to continue and continue to bring forth You painted the foyer and put new carpet down. Well you know what? We did that once before. We did that in 2009. And before we did it in 2009, it had been done at least twice before that. Lord willing, we won't have to do it again. We're going to sell this building and be out on Shawan Road. Amen. That that hopefully that'll last long enough and we won't have to do it again. That would be an answer to prayer. In Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, he gave an example. He said a a uh Cook County sewer employee said this. About his life. I dig the ditch to get money, to buy food, so I have strength to dig the ditch. That's the summation of the labor. We labor, but to what end? That is what is important. What is the end goal? What is the means? Labor is a means to an end, but what end is it? Labor in itself is not meaningless, but what is the goal? What is the end? What is the direction in which we are laboring? We know that labor is good. The Bible says, work for the night is coming when no man can work. Ecclesiastes chapter 9, verse number 10 says, Of whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might First Corinthians 15, 58, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord So the means or the end of the labor is what is important, but his experience of labor, he said, all the labor I've done was meaningless. We see the wisdom that he had in For Ecclesiastes 1 verses 16 and 17, he says, I communed with my own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great estate, and I have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem. Yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit. We know that Solomon had great wisdom. He wrote 3,000 Proverbs and 1,005 songs. He lectures in these books about trees and animals and birds and creeping things and fish. He discusses many things with great wisdom. You see, the pursuit of knowledge for the sake of knowledge is empty. We today have more knowledge at our fingertips than ever in history. The abundance of knowledge that is available to us is almost overwhelming. How quickly you can, I mean, anybody wants to know something and just that quick you can look it up. You just Google it, pull it up, and and you you have that knowledge. You we almost it's changing the dynamic of school because no longer do you have to have these things in your head. No longer do you need to know this for a test. I mean why do I need to know it? It's right here. All I gotta do is look it up. I got it at my fingertips. And yet we are more empty than we've ever been. We see Solomon's great prosperity. We talked about his riches and wealth in Sunday school today. He was rich. He had it all. He had ships full of gold brought to him. He was blessed by God with unparalleled sustenance and prosperity, and he found in all of his prosperity it was meaningless. I read this week that Will Smith is worth $350 million. He's got lots of money. We only need about twelve of that to build the church. He wouldn't even know it was gone. If any of you know him, call him up. We need we need we need twelve million. Uh listen, he was in an interview and somebody asked him, has all that wealth made you happy? Here's his reply. He said, once you bought everything you could possibly want, There is no material thing that can satisfy you. I hope everybody can feel this. When you realize that no relationship, no money, no kids. can make you happy. There is literally nothing that can. And he goes on to falsely describe the source of happiness as within yourself. Will Smith will very quickly in his life come to the realization that you won't make yourself happy either. Happiness is found in God. The abundance of prosperity does not bring happiness. It's meaningless Solomon talks about power. He had power. He was among the strongest leaders of the world in that day. He had more pleasure than he knew what to do with. Look in Ecclesiastes 2 and verse number 10. He says, and whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them Some of you young people would like that, huh? I mean we're driving down the road and uh all the time last night I got a text. Andrew was following me in another vehicle, we were in a vehicle and he sends me a text and said, There's an awesome Tesla right next to you So I'm looking for the Tesla, right? I mean whatsoever thy eyes desired, he said, Whatever my eyes saw that I wanted, I had. I took, I enjoyed. He says, I withheld not my heart from any joy. My heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my portion. Of all my labor. He says, Everything I did, I got to get and have whatever experience I desired. The pleasure of this world, and all of it was vain. He was living by the Carpe Diem. Theme before it was ever said. Seize the day, grab a hold of it, experience life, live life to its fullest. Oh Enjoy it all, eat, drink, and be merry, because that's what life is made of. And he he did that and he said it was empty. It was empty. In this text, he also gives us some examples that are readily seen in nature. He sees these examples and he says, you know what? These examples in nature tell us that this is what it's going to be like. This is the you view it. Look at verse number 5. He says the sun. He says the sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteneth to his place where He arose. He said the sun is going to go down, it's going to come up, and it's going to go down, it's going to come up, and that's what's going to happen today, and that's what's going From the day that God put the sun in the sky, the sun has continued to move in this pattern. God in control of these things. He describes the wind. He says, Look at the wind. The wind goeth. And verse number six. The wind goeth toward the south, and it turneth about unto the north, and it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to its circuits He's saying the pattern and the habits of nature that we view are patterns and habits that we have no control over, we can't change, we don't understand them. That is what it is. This is just how things are What happens to the wind? It rises up and blows and then all of a sudden it's gone. Where did the wind go? What happened to it? He describes the rivers. He says in verse number 7: all the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from whence the rivers come. There they return again. You ever thought about that? I mean The rivers, you know how many millions of gallons of water are flowing down into the oceans every single day? And yet the rivers are not overflowing. I mean, you know the Dead Sea. The Dead Sea is dead because there's no outflow. It's basically sealed. For the Jordan River runs into the Dead Sea. And the Jordan River has been running into the Dead Sea that has no outflow. For thousands of years. I mean, logically, you think, well, pretty much all of Israel will be underwater by now. Yeah, Israel hasn't, I mean, the Dead Sea hasn't exceeded its banks. This doesn't make sense. This is just the laws of nature. This is how things go. He describes the earth in verse number four. He says, and and the generations, he says, one generation passeth away and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever. He's saying, you guys, this things are not going to change. Things are the way they is. That's how it is. That's what it is. It's just the sun's gonna come up tomorrow just like it did yesterday. Nothing you can do about it The wind's going to blow, it's going to come and go. The rivers are going to continue to flow into the sea. Listen, one generation is going to pass off the sea, and the next generation is going to come up. Do you know, beloved, that in America there are around 10,000 deaths every single day? There is currently today about 10,000 births every single day. Now just as a side note, I want you to know we're on a very bad trajectory as a nation, because it was just a few years ago that there was about 11,000 births to the 7,000 deaths. But with this motivation and movement and uh you know people not wanting to have children, uh it's it's changed the trajectory of our nation and if this continues, uh obviously deaths are going to greatly exceed. the births and uh as a nation we will be in trouble. That's a side note. Has nothing to do with this, but the the the lesson here is that every generation comes and goes. Every generation felt that they were the ones that were going to set the world aright. They were the ones that were going to fix the mess. Every generation it's arisen says, okay, it's our turn. But you know what? Every generation down through the history of time and we're still dealing with the same problems that they were dealing with in this book. Well, I know they didn't have the internet and they didn't have air travel and that kind of stuff, but what I'm saying is the problems of man, the problems of the heart of man, the sin nature, the selfishness. the desire to look out for numero uno, this problem of sin has been present from the beginning and it will continue One generation cometh and the next riseth. I remember as a boy watching my mom and dad lay their parents to rest. And you know what? It won't be very long. And my kids are going to watch Mary and I lay our parents to rest. This is the pattern of life. And what Solomon is saying is what in the world is it all about? It's meaningless. One generation comes and goes and nothing changes. We're still on the same path we were before. It is meaningless. It is ridiculous. It is just stupid. Like why are we even here? That's what Solomon is saying. The earth is unchanged. He tells us in verse number 9, there is nothing new under the sun. But you see, beloved, that's the problem. His perspective and view is from under the sun He is looking at all that this life has to offer and seeking value and meaning under the sun. He needs to change his perspective, and Solomon does, in the latter half of this book, to things that are above the sun. That's where we get to the expectations that are from above. All of this view is truly this way if you look at life from under the sun. When we leave God out of the picture. From that point of view, there is no meaning. From the human perspective, from the human viewpoint, man is predictable and unchangeable From the human viewpoint, and without God, there is no answer to prayer, there is no miracles, there is no change. There is nothing that can interrupt the cycle of nature, there is no meaning to the cycle of life. When you remove God, there is no prayer, there is no power, there is no change, there is no meaning. When you remove God, there is nothing but when you bring God into the picture, you begin to see somebody that that can even change the laws of nature. When you view things from the perspective of God, down here from our perspective, it's meaningless, it's never going to change, there is no hope We we're living here without any direction, but when you put God in the picture, you see somebody that can change the laws of nature, that can cause the sun to stand still for Joshua, that can cause the sun to move backwards for uh Ezekiah, you can see it to saw a God who can cause a storm to quiet for the disciples. A God who can cause a lame man to walk. Blind man to see you see things from his perspective and you see somebody that can take five loaves and two fish and multiply them to the point Where there's twelve basketballs left over. What we're saying is when you put God into perspective and you begin to view things from His viewpoint, there is meaning, there is purpose, and there is a reason that we're here. You have a cause, you have a purpose, you have a meaning for your life. God is not held by the boundaries of nature And he's not bound by human nature either. Oh, I know human nature has us set on a path of a directory of self-destruction. But with the power of God, you can change that path. You don't have to live a meaningless life where you slowly consume yourself with your own sin. After all of his experimentation and investigation, Solomon realizes that life under the sun is meaningless But life through the sun S O is meaningful. That's where Solomon gets to in the latter half of this book, when his per se perspective changes and he turns his mind towards heaven, to those things above the earth. Paul said it this way in Colossians 3, verses 1 through 4. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, listen to this, when Christ, who is our life, Shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. When Christ, who is our life, Life has meaning that it never had before. Because it's in Jesus. Life doesn't have to be empty. It can be an investment in eternity. It is a sad thing that many live their life. And even for them personally it's meaningless. They dig the ditch so they can get money to buy food so they can have strength to dig the ditch That's the summation of their life. But in Christ, life has meaning that it never had before. If you are risen with Christ, the Christian has something to live for. Far beyond just getting through his days. Would you turn in Ecclesiastes towards the end of the book to chapter number 11? We see some truths that he shares with us now as he begins to look at things from above. He says in eleven numb chapter eleven verse number one, Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. He's saying, Hey, uh Put it out there. You don't you don't understand how it works this idea of sowing and reaping But if if you'll invest in eternity it will come back to you again when Solomon would send forth his merchant ships to go out into the world and he had them laden with wealth. He sent them out in faith and waited in patience and those merchant ships would go into the world and they would come back filled to the brim with riches and with with great bountiful blessings that they had acquired from all over the world. He says they go out and they'll come again You can be sure there's meaning when you're considering things above. In light of eternity, you and I need to sow all we can. We need to sow, he tells us, regardless of the circumstances. Look at verse number four. He begins to describe and talk about the farmer here. He says, He that observeth the wind shall not sow. And he that regardeth the cloud shall not reap. He says, listen, the circumstances are never going to be perfect. I know people in their life sometimes have described or said, Boy, I'm going to serve God as soon as I'm finished with college Right now things are so busy, but as soon as I'm done with college and oh wait, I'm gonna serve God as soon as I have enough money to pay for the house because right now I need to take all the overtime I can get because I got lots of bills. Hey, those of you that are older, do the bills ever stop coming They don't ever stop coming. You're gonna have them. There's just gonna be more of them, different bills from different places. That never gets any easier. And you think, well, I'm gonna serve God once uh you know we're settled and then oh man I got kids Kids take so much time. I've got one kid, one child at home, and two grown adults, and you can't find time to do what God wants you to do. And parents with four or five kids, you're looking at them saying, What are you doing with all your time? You got one kid. Right? Come on, I know how we are. You got one child. You're telling me you're busy. There's two of you. You know. I'm being sarcastic, alright. I don't need any hate meal. Uh all right. So but i the slice. You're like man I'm so busy I don't have time to go do this right now because I got a kid Oh now I got five kids and oh what in the world how in the world could I do anything else and and then oh the kids are grown and now I gotta travel a lot because I gotta go see my daughter who's two hours away and and I don't have time to serve God now because now I gotta travel and go see them. Hey, what he's saying is the circumstances of life are never going to be right. If you look at the s look at the wind, you say, Oh, it's too windy to sow, can't sow today. Look, oh there's clouds, can't sow today. He says if you do that, you're never gonna sow and you're never gonna reap. He's saying the time to sow is now. Stop paying attention to all the circumstances. Just sow bountifully and you can reap bountifully. When we're living life with eternity in view, and looking at that from God's perspective, he's saying, hey Do all you can right now, so regardless of the circumstances. He says, so regardless of the confusion. Look at verse number five. He says, As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, Nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. He's saying, listen, there's a lot of things in life that you're not going to understand. You can't explain how is it that the miracle of birth And a child is brought to life inside the womb, and the bones are formed, and the brain is formed, and the heart is formed. And how in the world does that happen? We don't understand those things. There's things in life that may be confusing to us, but that doesn't matter. He's saying, hey, you've got to sow now regardless of the circumstances, so regardless of the confusion. So, because judgment is coming. So right now. Look at verses 9 and 10. He says, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes. But know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. He's saying, Young man, young lady, go ahead. So your wild oats. Go have a good time. Go live for fun and for the future. Go live for some Pleasure that you can acquire in this world and say, boy, that's what life's all about. He's saying, but know this: judgment's coming. God's going to hold you account for what you've done there He says in verse number 10, therefore remove sorrow from thy heart. See he's saying, use some wisdom, dingbel. Remove sorrow from your heart. Put away evil from thy flesh. For childhood and youth are vanity. Have you ever heard that youth is wasted on the young? You know, that's that statement in the kids, they got all that energy. And they're wasting it, right? They got all that they got they got energy to run around and do whatever. My boys want to go to the gym and work out, and I'm thinking, man, I'm not working them hard enough If they were working hard enough they wouldn't have energy to go to the gym, you know. Uh they want to go they want to go lift a piece of metal. I'm sure it's good for you. It's bodily exercise profit a little. But what Solomon's saying, he's saying, man You have right now the ability to remove sorrow from your life. Oh, you can go out and live as you want, you can sow your wild oats and pray for a failure of crop, a crop failure, but the fact of the matter is, is uh you could remove that sorrow from your life if you would show right things now. Instead of showing the wickedness now. A lot of times we think, oh, uh it's I it's not that big a deal, I'm just gonna go do this or I'm gonna go do that and I'm gonna Be a part of this and in our heart and mind we know it's not right, but we say that's what I want to do. But you understand what you're sowing is things that are gonna bring forth sorrow later. When we live life with tomorrow in view, with eternity in view, we change what we're sowing today. Spurgeon said, Youthful sin lays a foundation for aged sorrow. Youthful sin lays the foundation for aged sorrow. And Solomon is saying, you have the power to remove that sorrow from your life. The sorrow that is sure to come. How many older people have stood back and said, I wish, I wish, I wish. Wish I wouldn't have done that. Boy was that stupid. Oh, I'm paying for that now. Turn to Ecclesiastes chapter twelve and verse number one. That's why here he says, hey, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Well the evil days come not Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. He's saying, you can do what I did. And live life to its fullest and, you know, seize the day and live life for this world and seek pleasure and popularity and and prosperity and seek all these things that that are meaningless. He said, you can seek all that. He said, but you're going to come to the day when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. All of that was meaningless and empty. He says, or you can remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth. Before those evil days come, before you reach the point where you have to look back in sorrow and regret. You can choose today to sow right things. We don't have to live our lives meaninglessly Our life is a gift from God. And that gift that God has given us, we are to be wise stewards of our days, our days that are numbered. Much of the world spends their gift, the gift of the life they have, in meaningless, empty pursuits. And much of the world lays their head on their pillow at night wondering if there's any meaning in what they're doing. Is there any meaning at all? But that is the reality of life without God. There was an advertisement on the wall of an elevator Put there by Atheist. It said, are you okay with a life without God? Millions are. Millions are living life without God. And I guarantee you without question, when they get honest with themselves, They ask, is there any meaning in what I'm doing? Because John 5. 12 says, he that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son hath not life. They're living a life without God And they don't have a life. A life with meaning. And it's sad, but many Christians are also living a life without God. That is to say, their life is meaningless. But you don't have to. In Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 4, I read it to you already, but he says, if ye then being risen with Christ, Seek those things which are above. Which Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on this earth For ye are dead. What he's saying is the life that you would live, the life that you would live in and of yourself, that's dead. Your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with God. here with him in glory. Would you look at Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse number 13, and I'm going to close. He gets all the way to the end He evaluated it all, he looked at it from both perspectives, and he said, This. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be bad. Is your life meaningless? Maybe what we need to find is what our life is in Jesus Christ. Because it is in him that we have life. And we have life more abundant. And we have life with meaning. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed