Amen. Take your Bibles, turn to James chapter three. James chapter three. It's hard to believe it's October already. Can you believe that? We're going to be in James chapter three tonight. I'm excited about the message. The Lord's really laid this on my heart. I think it uh will be a help to us. I'll be preaching the first part this week and the second part next week. So this is my first two-part message. So I'm excited about that. But we'll be in James chapter three. Um we'll start in verse five. But before we do that, um I have a little video to show us tonight just to kind of get our minds on the message, just to kind of illustrate the whole point of the message tonight. I think it will help us to see the whole point of the message. So I'll wait till uh we get up there and are ready to do that. Are we set up there? So if you just watch this, it's a slow motion video. Well, for all those who are uh enjoy weapons. So if you see the it was a gunshot, it's a fifty caliber sniper rifle sh shooting a watermelon. As you can see there's not much left. And tonight this is kind of a picture of all of us have a weapon just as powerful as this that can do as much damage as as this did to that watermelon, if not more. We all have a weapon that's just as powerful as that, if not more. And it can do just as much damage. And I'll show you that in the next picture, what what that weapon is. Once we get there. The tongue, right? We all we all have a powerful weapon in the tongue. Um now that now it can be used it doesn't have to be used as a weapon. Oftentimes it is in our Christian life. And that's what I'm going to look at tonight here in James chapter 3. The title of the message tonight is Your Tongue Hurting or Helping. Your tongue hurting or helping? So let's start in James chapter 3, verse 5, and we'll read all the way down to verse 10. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beast, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison Therewith bless we God, even the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be Let's pray and then we'll jump into the message for tonight. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word and for just the power of your word and how it has the power to change us. But Lord, I pray that as we look into this subject of the tongue, Lord, that our hearts would be open to change, Lord, and that we would, Lord, you would show us areas that we can work on in this area. And Lord, I thank you for what you've shown me through this. I pray that it would be a help to those in the congregation tonight. Pray that you'd bless us and use your word effectively tonight. Speak to hearts, Lord, only you can do that. I can't do that. Take me out of the way in Jesus' name. Amen. So tonight I want to look at the hurting tone. Next week we'll look at the helping tone. Tonight is the hurting tone And there's a lot of ways described in the Bible that all of us can use our tongues to hurt others. And hurt ourselves, to be honest. All of us can use our tongue in that way as a weapon. And so the first one we'll look at tonight is we can use our tongue for deceit. We can use our tongue for deceit. So we'll jump over to Psalm chapter 34 here. Psalm chapter 34, verse 13. But I think all of us could say that we can use our tongues in in a as a weapon. We can use our tongues to hurt other people. And so tonight as uh I preach on this, I I ask that you really evaluate yourself. Really take take some time to think about Man, what what what words come out of my mouth? What's um uh and so often we can um get to the point where we're we're not paying attention to what's coming out of our mouth sometimes. It's just a good reminder, I think, to all of us about just just what's coming out of our mouth and how our tongues are being used. So Psalm 34, 13, keep thy tongue from evil And thy lips from speaking guile. Guile meaning deceit. And then over in Psalm 50, verse 19, you don't have to turn there. Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. And then over in Psalm 52, verse 2, Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs like a sharp razor working deceitfully. I think this is one of the most dangerous ways that we can use our tongue is deceit. And you know, sometimes we don't we don't necessarily think that the deceit is that bad, you know. Um you know I they didn't they didn't need to know this. You know, they're they're down here, I'm up here, I I can hide this from them. That's what we think sometimes. I don't they didn't my friend didn't need to know this or I can hide this from them. They they don't need to know that. Deceit. And so or we began to set up different we began to set up um to see in our in with our mouth in different in different uh relationships that we have. There are a lot of metals that on the surface look similar to gold. Centuries ago, people discovered that unscrupulous operators would take advantage of this trick to trick people into paying for worthless metal. In order to determine whether gold was genuine or not, scientists devised an acid test. The item that is supposed to be gold is rubbed on a black stone, leaving a mark behind. Gold is what is called a noble metal, meaning that it is resistant to the corrosive effects of acid. If the mark is washed away by the acid, then the metal is not real gold And if it if it remains unchanged, the genuine nature of the gold is proven. Can your words stand up to a test like that? Do your words stand up to a test? If somebody goes and proves out what you're saying, is it true? And uh and I think sometimes we all tell the little white lies, right? And that's still that's still a lie. And it's good to reevaluate, okay, uh is everything I say 100% true? Everything that comes out of my mouth, is it one hundred percent true That if you go and actually think about it, that's that's not always the case. Um and I've I think I've learned that um through this study as well. So are are your words a hundred percent true? When they come out of your mouth, are are they one hundred percent true? Um our mouths if if we're using our mouths for deceit, um that's a weapon. And that that can be used to hurt others and ourselves. Oh so the C the second one, pride. Pride. Psalm twelve, verse three. Let's turn over there. Psalm twelve verse three. Psalm 123 says, The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things. Have you ever been around somebody that uh just talks about themselves all the time? They can you know they can you you think, oh man, what if they just stopped talking about themselves, you know. Um have you ever counted how many times you said the word I in a conversation That's pretty uh sometimes if you ever do that that's uh that can be pretty uh pretty convicting. Like, oh I just said I like 15 times. I was talking about myself. And our tongue can be used that way. Our tongue can be used to, oh I did this, I uh you know, I uh I I did my work in church today, or I uh you know, and We can all fall into that um into that pride. Um we all can there's we're we are not above that. So Psalm 12. 3, the Lord shall cut off all flattering lips and the tongue that speaketh proud things. Our tongue can be used to speak proud things. Um so that that's the question for you tonight. How much how much is your tongue talking about you? How often does that happen? Um I don't know. I don't know how I I I it's not like I go around listening to every single person in here and is like, oh I can point out what you were talking about and what you're talking about I don't know. I mean only you know. Um you know and the Lord will the Lord will show you. Um so is your tongue being used uh for pride? Number three, quick to speak, hasty words, quick to speak. Proverbs chapter twenty-nine or verse twenty. Proverbs twenty-nine Verse twenty. This is the this is a pretty uh powerful verse right here. Proverbs 29, 20 Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words, there is more hope of a fool than him. A st in his words. Have you ever wanted to uh say something? Or have you ever said something and then you immediately wanted to take it back? Like ah ah foot in mouth. I've had that happen to me many times. When the Cornerstone Bank in Waco, Nebraska was robbed of some six thousand dollars in November of twenty twelve, the bank employees were able to give the police a fairly good description of the teenage girl who pulled off the crime and the car in which she escaped. As it turned out, the investigators didn't really need those descriptions because the thief recorded a YouTube video titled Chick Bank Robber Boasting of Her Criminal Prowess Fanning out the cash in front of the camera, the 19-year-old Hannah Sabata held up a sign that read, I just stole a car and robbed a bank. Now I'm rich. I can pay off my college financial aid and tomorrow I'm going for a shopping spree. Later, she held up another sign which said, I told my mom today was the best day of my life. She just thought I met a new boy. Hannah's brief criminal career ended later that week when police took her into custody. Now I don't think any of us would uh go rob a bank and then post it on YouTube. Um but oftentimes we do say things without thinking. Oftentimes we ah man, I we get worked up at uh our our spouse or we get worked up at um our children or we get worked up at our students or whoever it may be, we get worked up and all of a sudden it comes out. Oh, I I wish I could have taken that back. And um I don't know if that's you tonight. Maybe um it happens to you more often than it should. If that's the case, that uh there's something you need to get right, because it's a weapon. Uh words that come out without us thinking, that's that can become a weapon that is uh used of the devil And use to hurt other people. So are you thinking about what comes out of your mouth? Does it go through here before it comes out here? Um if if that's if that's the case, um then you'll save yourself a lot of trouble. Um Number four, hate. Our mouths can be used to show hate. I hope this isn't the case for anybody in here. I don't think it should be the case for any Christian to show hate, especially with their words. Proverbs 26, 28. Proverbs 26, 28. So you see, you see how our tongue can be used in a lot of different ways already to be used as a weapon And um and none of us are above getting to these points. if we're not careful with our mouth. So I think even if even if you say, Oh, I I don't think I use my mouth in any of these ways, well, remember them because we can get to a point where it it could be us that, you know, we show hate with our mouth. So hate, Proverbs 26, 28, we can show hate. A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it, and a flattering mouth worketh ruin. Um have you have you ever had somebody tell you that they hate you? That just does something in here that That just does something that really you almost can't fix. That it's hard to get over that in that re in that relationship if somebody tells you that they hate you. Maybe they don't even have to say the word, but they they show it through their speech. They show it thro through their speech and you feel like, oh, they hate me. Um that that's a really hard thing to get over. And we have to be careful about that as Christians because man, if I um I'm I'm supposed to be a Christian, I'm supposed to be showing the love of Christ. And um and if I'm showing hate towards someone like that, um that can be uh a weapon that the devil uses to really, really hurt So deceit, pride, hasty words, hate. All of these can be used. All of these can happen through our tongue. The next one, oh, this is the this one. This is where the rubber meets the road right here. Backbighting or gossip? Proverbs 25, 23. Proverbs 25, 23. Let's all turn over there. Look at that verse. The north wind driveth away rain, and so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue. We can all use our tongue for backbiting. During World War II, the United States government became concerned that a number of German spies were operating in America. Sending information back to Germany regarding Allied war plans and specific troop and ship movements. To keep them from impacting the war effort, the Office of War Information launched a national campaign around the slogan Loose slips sink ships. It was a solemn warning to people not to repeat information that might be damaging or even deadly if it fell into the wrong hands. Well, don't we sync a lot of people with our lips in that area? Um ah Yeah, the gossip. I mean uh um that's And you you know in your heart if If if you're gossiping, you know. There's I you know there's a fine line and all of that. But you know. If your tongue is being used in that way and it's um you you can talk to someone and then go talk behind their back or things like that, um the Lord knows that. The Lord knows that and um I pray it'll come convict you. Um so backbiting gossip complaining complaining Use the children of Israel here as an example of that. Um in the wilderness, you know, they complained. Um could you imagine being Moses leading like a million people that are complaining to you all the time? Oh, it would just be like pull your hair out. Um Um I think we can all I mean I did this just today. I was sitting in traffic and I was like, you know, you know how it is. It just it's just so easy for us to see the negative, isn't it? And to it comes out right here, right away. Um so how often do you find yourself complaining? How often do you find yourself if it's if it's More if it's more than you find yourself being on the positive. You're probably you probably need to get that fixed. Um complaining. Or have you ever been around um have you ever been around a kid that is just complaining all the time? Nothing's ever good enough? Uh Um so and none of us are above that. Again, none of us are above complaining. So a lot of things here. Um and then uh just one here, Vanity, the last one here, vanity. A lot of us Um how how are we talking about things that really matter? And we'll see next week how our tongues can be used for things for things that are helpful, for things that are um things like witnessing and um uh other things that we'll get into next week. Um but how much is your conversation matter for eternity? That's a good question to ask. How much does my how much do my conversations matter for eternity? So you see all the different ways here, that the tongue can be used to as a weapon to hurt. And it doesn't always hurt other people. This can hurt you. This can come back to hurt you. And you have to remember that as we're looking at this. But how much Here, are are we aware of these things? Are we thinking about, okay, what's coming out of my mouth? Um, because what I say affects other people. Um turn over here to Proverbs chapter 18 verse 21. Proverbs 18, 21. This is a good verse. Many of you might know it already. And just the first part is powerful. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. The power of the tongue. The tongue has a lot of power. Um how how are you using that power? Um so what in in these areas um is your tongue being used in the right way. So Just and then the next thing here I want to point out is so we looked at some ways here that uh our tongue can be used as a weapon. Now I want to look at the consequences of using our tongue as a weapon. The consequences of using our tongue as a weapon. Matthew 12, 36. Matthew 12. 36. But I say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. That's pretty convicting. Every word that you speak, you're gonna give an account for. Oh Lord, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the things I said this last week. Um I'm sorry for the things uh um that came out of my mouth this last month. Um Um I'm sorry, maybe it you have to go to a person and say, I'm sorry for the way I spoke to you. Um but all of our every single word that comes out of our mouth is going to be judged at the judgment seat. And that's um wow if you think about that, that that uh really um is convicting. Really convicting. Um go back here to Psalm twelve three here, where where we just read, the Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things. The Lord's gonna punish you if you're if your if your tongue is being used in the wrong way. He's gonna cut you off. It's pretty pretty apparent there. The Lord shall cut off. all the flattering lips there. So who'll cut you off? So do you see those two just um consequences there? But the really convicting one is man, we're going to give an account for every single word that comes out of our mouth. I hope that uh you're thinking about that. So real quick, how do we change from hurting to helping? How do we change from our mouths from hurting to helping? That's a good question. Thank you for asking. A clean heart. Clean heart. Matthew twelve thirty-four. Matthew twelve thirty-four. should be there. Just a couple verses back. O generation of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. If you're gonna change what comes out here, something has to change in here. Psalm fifty one ten. Just a good I love this I love Psalm fifty one, first of all. Um but this verse uh specifically is just Um you know, David went through all the things that he went through, um, the sin he committed. And he comes to Psalm 51. And in verse 10 he says this. And if you're having trouble with your tongue, if something needs to change, it's probably down here. It needs to start here. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. I love that verse. Because the Lord the Lord did that for him, and he'll do it for us. Create in me a clean heart. If if we have the spirit that David did, he came in full confession and he was he was ready to change. He wanted to change. So Um a clean heart. Clean heart. That's where we start. How do we change from a hurting tongue to a helping tongue? A clean heart. And then second, a kept tongue. Psalm 141, verse 3. I pray this will be even maybe Maybe you say tonight, I don't I don't think any of those areas that you mentioned really affect me. I don't think that, you know, I I've really evaluated myself and I don't I don't think as to my knowledge, I don't believe that I've used any of those weapons. And I pray that Psalm 41. 3 going forward is a good prayer that we can all have for ourselves, and it will help us going forward here. Psalm 141. 3, set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. Set a watch, O Lord. And if you ask the Lord, Lord, I need help with this thing right here. Remember, it's uh no man can tame this. None of us are able to tame this. But the Lord can help us if we ask Him to set a watch before our mouth. And so I pray that that is your prayer going forward. You may say uh I don't to the best of my knowledge, I don't believe I'm using my mouth as a weapon. Um just remember you can get there Um you can get there just as easily as anyone. So I pray that that will be our prayer going forward. Psalm 41, 3. So the question for you tonight is: what is your tongue being used for? In any of these areas, and even different areas that I may not have thought of here. But is your tongue being used to hurt? Um because just like we watched that video of the there was nothing left of that one room, it was destroyed. Our tongue can be used to do that to to others. Um and so what what is your tongue being used for there? Um if if it's being used to as a weapon to hurt, you know the change we talked about the change that needs to take place. It starts here. Lord, create in me a clean heart. I need a clean heart. I've I out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. My mouth has really showed what's in my heart. It's hurt. It's causing hurt to others. And then, oh Lord, set a watch before my mouth. Lord, I need you to help me with my mouth to, Lord. not use it as a weapon to hurt others. And next week we'll get to see how we can use it as a help. And that's why it really gets exciting because um Boy, we can really, really, really, really help each other. We can help the lost. We can help just with this. If we know if if the Lord's helping us and we're using it the right way. And that's what I'm really excited to get into. But first of all, we've got to realize that, okay, I'm I may be using my mouth in the wrong way, and it needs to change. And the change starts with the heart and then setting a watch. on our lips. So deceit maybe I that that may be you. Pride, that may be you. Hasty words. You may t talk a lot without thinking about what you're saying. Hate. Backbiting, gossip, that one's a tough one. Complaining, also a tough one. And then vanity, how how much is are your conversations affecting eternity? Are they important Are they affecting eternity? Many ways, many ways that our mouth can be used as a weapon, right? So I pray that we'll see the change that we need to make. And going forward, set a watch. Set a watch. Set a watch. Um every head bowed, every eye closed. I hope that was a a a blessing too.