But you can follow along in your notes and you'll also follow along in the screen. Pastor asked me to continue in his study because we want to continue. We've been learning on Thursday nights About the Old Testament. We've been taking a journey, if you will, a survey through the Old Testament. And so we've gotten through several parts of it and uh gone through the the the creation account, uh the beginning of of history, and then we continue on through uh uh the of course the first part of Genesis is the history of man And really the rest of Genesis, probably the next uh there's 40 chapters of Genesis to emphasize God and what it is that he's doing in the nation of Israel. and how he's establishing a nation. And then we continue on. Now we're in the kingdom era. Now when you look at the the map here, it lays out the the the uh books of the Bible. That yellow part there in the m in the middle is called the that section is the kingdoms. And that spans a great amount of books in the Old Testament. So we've been talking a little bit about the kings that have been available. or that have been uh presented uh as the heads of the nation of Israel, who remembers who the first king was? The people's king, the one that they said, this is going to be our king. Does anyone remember the first one Saul. The first one was Saul. And the second king was the king that that God had chosen. And that second king was David. Now we're going to talk about the third king, and the third king tonight that we're going to cover is Solomon. So we're going to talk tonight about Israel, the nation of Israel under King Solomon. And so when we look at that in the book of 1 Kings, you can turn to chapter 2 if you're already there. And so we we concluded about the reign of King David. By point of reference, the kingdom of King David and King Solomon spans 80 years, 40 years for King David and 40 years for King Solomon For King Solomon. Many times this is referenced as the golden age of the nation of Israel And you have the kingdom era because there's a lot of kings that we see. Obviously, there's four books dedicated to the kings. You have 1 and 2 Chronicles and 1 and 2 Kings. Alright, and so you have several kings that are discussed there, but the golden age of the nation of Israel is in these years of David and Solomon. And so we ha we we we see here in 1 Kings chapter 2 that the very it begins there at the uh at the chapter Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die, and he charged Solomon his son, saying, So this book the book of 1 Kings is the introduction, is the the passing off of King David and the stepping in of King Solomon. And so there was a little bit uh uh in that that was uh a little bit different Now, when we look at King Solomon, understand that Solomon, his name means peace. Alright, you can maybe jot that off to the side there. His name means peace. And there's actually another name that is given to King Solomon. Does anyone know what that name is? What's that? Not Lemuel. Lemuel is a many times we think it well we we do believe that Lemuel was a name that Solomon, but that Solomon gave himself. There was another king, uh or excuse me, another another person that gave the name, uh, and I didn't realize that until I was studying this out. In 2 Samuel 12, 24 and 25, it's either Nathan or David calls him Jedediah. And uh and that means the beloved of the Lord or the darling of the Lord. And so that's the name that we have of uh of Solomon. uh or Jedediah as as he would be called. So that was a new one for me and uh that was interesting. I I I found that very interesting. So This golden age of Israel is a time where the nation was at its absolute peak in prosperity. and in peace. And what we're going to observe today is a nation going into decline. So this nation experienced its greatest days under David. And there were many things, many great things that happened as Solomon took the throne. Understand that we recognize him as the wisest man who ever lived. But the nation's decline comes as a result of the decline of King Solomon. Because we see that the Bible tells us that his heart was turned to other gods by his wives and his concubines. So as the name so the nation went that direction as well because of his uh uh his Heart going that direction after other gods, his idolatry, and then it uh that the entire nation started going that uh that direction as well. But understand that God warned about this. God warned about it in Exodus chapter 34, verse 16. He said He told the nation of Israel, don't take, I mean he was very specific. He said, don't take wives of these uh of the foreigners that are in the land, because they will turn you away from worshiping God. And so this was something that was warned about. But as we see tonight in Israel under Solomon, the first thing that we'll see Is Solomon's rise to power. And so we see this right in the beginning of the book of 1 Kings. And in the book of 1 Kings, we have we're introduced the very beginning Uh uh we understand from David and his life as we've studied over the last couple weeks, David's family was a mess Alright, David was in a bad situation with his family because of the the the sin that had taken place in their life and so much things that went uh undealt with. I mean there was there was problems in David's family. And that continued even into this transfer of power. So we have Solomon's rise to power. We see is uh uh we have Adonijah, who at this point is probably David's eldest living son. So we have Adonijah that comes onto the scene. He was determined to have the kingdom for himself. And this is because Naturally, he's the oldest son, so I'm sure he figured, well, this is my birthright, this is the the plan, this is what I'm going to do. And he had some help. We see that Adonijah had the help of Joab, who happened to be gener the general under David, and uh Abiathar, who was a priest. Now we'll see later on, Abiathar is uh plays an important role in this situation. So Adonai is lifted up and and Adonijah decides for himself that he's going to take the crown And Solomon was made king before the death of David, and there was some help in that because Bathsheba, David's wife, and Solomon's mother, went to David and said. Isn't Solomon supposed to be king? And uh it wasn't just Bathsheba, it was also Nathan the prophet. So at this is happening, and so Solomon, so David Makes a pronouncement and says, okay, just so that we're clear, Solomon is the one that's going to be king So David, in the book of 1 Kings, we see in chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, we see some advice that David gives. to his son right before his death. And in 1 Kings chapter 2, we'll we'll look at uh uh verse 10, it says, So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the sa the city of David. And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years, seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he. So at this point, David is gone, and he has turned over the throne to Solomon. So Solomon, some say, they definitely say that he was under the age of 20. And so there's some that say that he was about 12 years old. Josephus, a historian, says that he was maybe about 15 years old. But Solomon was very young to be the king. And we have this, so when we see this, here he is And we know the story of as Solomon rises up to power, we see uh he's given the throne, and in chapter three we hear, we remember uh what happened. That God himself appears to King Solomon in a dream. And he asks him, God asks Solomon What would you like? And Solomon says to God, I want understanding. So what we see here, let's look at it in 1 Kings 3, uh chapter number, or 1 Kings 3, verse number 5, in Gibeon, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth and in righteousness. and an uprightness of heart with thee, and thou hast kept for him this great kindness that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as if as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father, and I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or come in So what Solomon is saying here is he's saying, if you recall earlier when we when we read about David, uh the Bible says that David, there was a certain way that he would carry himself, that he would come uh go in and out uh among the people. And so there was a a a affinity that the people had with King David. And so Solomon saw this in his father and he said I don't know I'm I'm a child. I don't even know how to carry myself like a king. I don't know how to act. I need to figure this out. And so what he did is he asks for In verse number 9, it says, Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people? And verse 10, and the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast asked for thyself long Neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment. Verse 12, Behold, I have done according to thy word to thy words, lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart. So what an amazing thing here that we we we know this about Solomon and this is exactly where it happens in 1 Kings. So this is all part of Solomon's transition as he's growing into being the king of the nation of Israel. So then we see uh uh the next point, we see Solomon's rush to provision. Solomon's rush to provision. We understand that the greatest expansion of the nation of Israel happened under King Solomon. It's said that he went the the the kingdom uh let me see if I have the map here the the kingdom went from Egypt all the way and that purple part there at the top goes all the way to the border of the Euphrates River. And that's what God had promised Abraham, that the borders of Israel would spread this entire span. And so this expansion that Solomon had was all part of God's will. Now, before I move on, in that transition of the rise to power, uh Adonijah, who was uh who was the Who thought himself to be the heir, he was put down. He he and they said, no, Solomon's gonna be the king. And I mentioned about Abiathar the priest. Abiathar was ended up being put uh cast out of the priesthood, and the reason that was is because it was a fulfillment of God's promise. Because God Abiathar was a descendant of the priest Eli, and Eli had been cursed by God and saying that his family would no longer be would depart from the priesthood, and this was a fulfillment of that prophecy. uh uh uh of that uh curse, if you will, several years later. And so all these things are occurring as as Solomon is growing into the the the the kingdom and the kingdom is expanding uh borders I mean you're you you it's again we we uh uh this is why it's called the golden age of Israel. We see not only was there expansion in terms of land, we also see that they built the temple. Alright, so this is something that we think about often. Solomon's temple. We see that Even in its planning and its preparation, uh if you remember in the Bible, David earlier had given uh in uh had given Solomon the plans for how to build the temple. Not only did he give them the plans, he gave him a lot of the resources to do it. The Bible says that David gave about a hundred thousand talents of gold to for the purpose of building the temple. That's a lot of gold. And when you look at that and when you consider that, understand that how much is a talent. Does anybody know how much a talent is? Anyone do study on talents? Biblical money? No. 75 pounds is about a talent. And so when we think about that, 100,000 talents of gold comes out to about 3,780 tons. Of gold. That comes out to about seven and a half million pounds, which comes out to about a hundred and twenty million ounces So in today's dollar, an ounce of gold is about, or today's value, an ounce of gold is about $1,300. So in just gold, the calculation right now is estimated to be $157 billion in gold. Now, there wasn't just gold that went into the building of the temple. There was also a lot of silver that was dedicated. And it's very easy that in just these metals, gold and silver, that were actually counted here in the scripture. We're looking at the temple medals, came out, the value of those were close to two hundred billion dollars. And so when we consider that, the Temple was very closely modeled to the tabernacle. What's interesting about this is that In the temple, there was an uh uh a lot of the furniture of the temple was rebuilt, was redone. So there was a new brazen altar, there was new candlesticks, there was new tables. There were new uh labors that were that were the the washing basins there within the temple. However, it was it remained the same Ark of the Covenant. They didn't build the new Ark of the Covenant. It was the same one that they had fashioned in the desert. I thought that was kind of interesting, so I threw that in there. So we see that this rush to prov to of provision, you see this expansion, you see all these things going on. You see that uh the temple is built, and then in in 1 Kings chapter 8, Solomon dedicates the temple. Now it's very interesting if you look at the dedication of the temple. In chapter 8, it's it's neat. It stands out as the pinnacle as the highest point of Israel's history, as the cloud of God's glory filled the most holy place. You see that in chapter 8, verse 2. 10. This is the top of this nation. Never again do you see this nation at this level of peace, at this level of prosperity under God. And even in this chapter, there's even a point where many believe in verse 41 through 43 that it points to the Gentiles receiving uh the blessing of God as well. And so it's really interesting to look at the the Solomon's prayer of dedication. Now the temple did not provide anything that wasn't there in the tabernacle The presence was God of God was there, but the picture of peace that had been promised was not. So you have the tabernacle that, yes The tabernacle had the presence of God, but understand that the tabernacle was mobile and there wasn't that that sign of peace and rest. It was something that was uh again that was constantly moving. But now that the temple is established there in the nation of Israel, there was that sense of rest. So the temple is a symbol of peace and rest. And so we see that his kingdom grew. in in wealth also. We see that in first Kings chapter nine, verses twenty-six through twenty-eight. You see that in chapter 10 and verse 14 about just the yearly intake of of gold. that there was a a a tax uh a taxation system that Solomon had established and just in taxes alone His his he took in 666 talents of gold every year, which comes out to roughly over a hundred billion dollars in gold. So there was, and again, this is just in the tax revenue that's coming in. We're not talking about any other income that they had. So this kingdom was very wealthy. So then we want to consider not just this provision and this expansion and this growth in the nation, but we also want to consider So we have Solomon's reason in Proverbs. Solomon is most well known for the writing the Proverbs. But the foundation of this wisdom was a heart and a desire for God. And understand that his wisdom, the Bible says, was known throughout the land. When we see this, the Bible tells us very clearly in chapter 3, I think we're still there, verse uh uh twelve. Look at verse 12 there. It says, Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart. so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. So we see here that the Bible is saying that there will never be any one as wise as King Solomon. There wasn't anyone ever as wise as him before, and there wasn't anyone, there won't be anyone as wise after. And when we see that it's very interesting because in some of the the passages that we'll read about as you read through the scriptures, there's one passage where it talks about some other guys uh uh I think uh Hemon is one of 'em. Uh uh there's an Ethan, the Ezrahite. There's other people that they that they s the Bible says, and Solomon's wisdom surpassed even these guys. And it makes me wonder, like These guys must have been pretty wise. So it's interesting to look at those things in the scriptures. So no one was ever as wise as uh uh uh King Solomon We see that he wrote the book of Proverbs. The Bible tells us that he wrote 3,000 Proverbs We also understand, just again, because this is a survey of the Old Testament, we'll cover some of the other books as well or discuss them. He also wrote the book of Song of Solomon. Now, this is one of those books in the Bible that's a huge puzzle. In reading about it, many times people say this is kind of the uh enigma of the scriptures. There's a lot of things that are uh not unnecessarily understood, but because the nation of Israel was growing. and you had prosperity and you had uh all all this uh these things going on, when a nation is prospering, you also see that the arts uh uh do as well. And we see this in the sense that uh uh of of many civilizations, of many cultures, uh art w goes uh uh pastor I think was mentioning this before when we talked about how the Psalms were written during this era and that's uh because the arts were something that were were very important And so the same thing is true for the book of Song of Solomon. Many consider it to be, especially in the Jewish tradition, they see this as a literary masterpiece. It's a poem that is just a gem in how it's written and how it's it's it's uh uh portrayed and in the the the way it's uh it's set up. It's amazing. And so a lot of people, a lot of commentators will look at that and say comment on what a what a how well put together the uh Song of Solomon is. Because it's a poem Yet it it's also a almost like a drama, like a play, because you have characters that are talking back and forth. It's very interesting And so understand that there's different views on what the Book of Song of Solomon is about, but we know that it's commended for how well it's composed. It's a poem that celebrates the joy of love in marriage. And some have also believed or think that it's somewhat of an allegory. And there's concerns in that view just because again we we believe in a literal interpretation of scripture we don't read into uh allegory and things like that because a lot of times there's a doctrine that can be very uh skewed if you if you look at things allegorically. But there are certain things that we see in the Book of Solomon Song of Solomon that uh we would consider typology and and and those things uh uh Uh some people think it's a an allegory for God's love for Israel or Christ's love for the church And so I'm not going to sit here and pretend like I fully understand all the mysteries of the Book of Song of Solomon because it's very difficult to understand. So uh uh please don't ask any questions about that. But uh but we know that it is canonized, we know that it's recognized as the Word of God, and so again we we take it at face value for what it is and it's God's Word But with that, we also see that with this wisdom that he had We also, that wisdom, he he it went to his head, if you will. So we see Solomon's racket by perversion. The folly of his wisdom, the downfall, the thing that made him go in a downward direction was that he mistook his wisdom for righteousness. He thought that his wisdom was more important than living a righteous life. And we see As as the story is told of Solomon in chapter 11. Let's go ahead and turn there so that we can see it uh firsthand Solomon's wives caused him to be idolatrous. In chapter eleven, it begins there at verse verse three. And he, that's King Solomon, had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. And so this wisdom that he had, we see the people that he was around, he caused these problems, he brought these problems upon himself. He married the daughter of Pharaoh. He had many wives, and they turned his heart away. And understand that all this was part of him denying God to be the leader of this nation. He was because his heart turned away from God, God wasn't able to lead him and direct him in the way that uh needed to go. So This was a denial of the theocracy that was to exist for the people of God. There were some things that were required. Let's turn there in Deuteronomy chapter 17. All the way back, there was some things that were required in Deuteronomy 17 of the king. And when we look in verse 14, uh Verse 14 of chapter 17, Deuteronomy seventeen, verse fourteen. When thou art come unto the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, and shalt possess it, and shalt dwelt therein, and shalt say, I will set a king over me, like as all the nations that are about me, thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose, one from among thy brethren, thou shalt be a very good thing. shalt thou set king over thee, thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother, but he shall not multiply horses to himself. nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses, for as much as the Lord hath said unto you, ye shall henceforth return no more that way. So that was the first establishment. Don't gain horses in this case and that symbolized military strength and don't even send people back to Egypt. Egypt was known for having its horses Don't send people back to Egypt so that you can gain more horses because we're not trying to go back. God doesn't want them going that direction Neither, verse 17, shall he multiply wives to himself that his heart turn not away, neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold. And it shall be when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book out of that which is before the priests, the Levites. So The king was supposed to copy the Bible, the scripture that was given, the law, copy the law, and read it continually. And this showed a dependence, the source of wisdom. They weren't supposed to accumulate money because then you become independent of God's supply. Of God's provision. You're not to accumulate horses lest you become independent of God's strength. Understand that we see that Solomon had 40,000 horses. He had 1400 chariots. He had 12,000 cavalrymen. And it also says that he shouldn't accumulate wives lest you become independent of God's protection So we see Solomon went a completely different direction than the way the kings of Israel were supposed to go. So this turning away set them on a downward path that they never recovered from. So it was a racket because by the end of Solomon's reign, we talked a little bit about the taxation plan that he had Every person in Israel had to work four months of every year for the king, and they had to give a third of their crops to the king. Now we think our taxation is bad. But this was the situation that the the Israelites were living in. And it was, again, multiplying the wealth of King Solomon. So then we see, lastly tonight, Solomon's repentance through prayer. His repentance, and this is kind of where we'll wrap it up, is seen, his repentance is seen in the book of Ecclesiastes. There, you know, there's no book that is as practical for our life today than the book of Ecclesiastes, and we'll look at it a little bit tonight. How why that is. Solomon's repentance is seen clearly. Ecclesiastes discusses philosophical questions. That have been considered by people all through the ages for hundreds of years. He talks about the cycle of life, of people searching for the goal and the meaning of life. And the book even addresses some philosophies that people came up with throughout history, but he sums it up here. He sums up the meaning and the about life and philosophies of life in this book. The wisest man to ever walk the earth, and he gives it to us. Are you ready for it? Life is vanity. He had all life could give, and he called it vanity It's the that word vanity means worthless. It's found 37 times in the book of Ecclesiastes. And you have some things in your notes. It says that he tried wisdom, he tried pleasure, he tried works, he tried possessions. Now let's drill down into this a little bit. We know Solomon was the wisest man, and there's people that pursue these things. People that pursue he Solomon was going about in life and saying, okay, what is life about? It seems that this cycle of life continues to go, and and what is it that is important in life? Why are we here? What is our purpose? What Are we designed or put here to do? What can we pursue that will give us what it is that we want? So he pursued, we know that he asked for wisdom. He human wisdom. He had human wisdom. We know that he was the wisest man in history. Now if you look at, if you don't mind, turn over to Ecclesiastes. We're just going to walk through a couple things. I'll point them out to you here as we go down. And whether you want to make a note of it, whether you want to study it. Last time I read through this book, a lot of these things jumped out at me and uh was really interesting to see. The book of Ecclesiastes in chapter 1, we see go down to verse number 18, and in verse 18 it says, For in much wisdom is much grief, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. He's saying that if so many people today pursue knowledge, they pursue intellect, they pursue the things, they want to know more information, they want to take in information. We can all be guilty of this. of wanting to know more, having more knowledge. And he says here that when you do that, you're increasing your sorrow Chapter 2, verse 1. He said, I had said in mine heart, go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure. How many people in life today are pursuing pleasure? And here, Solomon, we he he did these things. All these things he experienced He experienced going after, having that wisdom, the more wisdom than anyone ever had. Solomon had it. He knew about it, about what it meant in life. Knowledge. He desired knowledge. Pleasure. He went after pleasure. We see that in chapter in verse 1, verse 3, it talks about alcohol and how many people say, hey, you know what? Life is just about partying it up. Let's just go out and Eat, drink, and be merry. And that's what people pursue, and that's what people go after in life. And then we see in ver in verse 4, what does verse 4 say? It says, I made my made me great works. I builded me houses. I planted me vineyards. So he's saying here, I had great achievements How many people their desire and their pursuit in this life is accomplishments, degrees, accolades. Position, power, all these things that people are pursuing. Buildings. Look at this great business that I've built Look at this great uh uh structure that I that I've that I've raised. Houses People pursue joy in looking for the the great houses and say, I want to have the best house, my dream house. I want to have this or that, and people are pursuing joy in that. Verses 4 and 5. There's also, we see here that Solomon talks about vineyards. I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruits. How many people pursue their purpose, have a desire in nature, and meaning in their life in nature? Preserving nature, whatever the case may be, and I'm not saying that these things are inherently wrong, some of them are, but When we are pursuing these things for our joy, for our purpose, it's out of balance. It's wrong What else? Verse 7, great indulgences. We see that here his desire was, hey, I had people serving me. I had servants. Uh I I had you know and many times people that that's what people want out of life. Their significance, their purpose, the the value that they get out of life is that, well, I, you know, I'm over this many people. And I have this stature or I have this position. And that's what people are pursuing. We also see Just by the testimony of what the scripture says in terms of his personal life, he was uh Solomon pursued promiscuity. And so many times people seek their purpose and their desire in life through relationships, ungodly relationships. And we see that people do that. Verse 7 and 8, it says, it talks about the servants, it talks about the great possessions. You know what's the what's the bumper sticker say? You know, he who dies with the most toys wins. I mean, that's the view in life people pursue. If I have the most possessions, And that's what people are pursuing. So what is it that uh or not just possessions, wealth? Again, here was a man who was wealthy, he had Houses, he had lands, he had anything that life would ever want. In First Kings 10 and 6 and 7, we see that his wisdom was known throughout all the land. He had fame. People pursue fame. What is our purpose in life? Even in verse 8, we see that it's talking about music. Is our purpose, you know, again, we we talk about life being one big party, but is our purpose, do we find purpose in entertainment? And the things that just entertain us, whether it be music or singing or video games, whatever the case may be. And we even see in the scriptures that no one the military power that Solomon had was completely unprecedented. He had navies, he had chariots, he had cavalry, he had all the military power that you could want. And all those things, he was looking for his purpose in life through them. And he said, it's all vanity. Each and one of those things. All of it. And what where does he end? And this is where we're going to end tonight. Chapter 12, the last two verses of this book. Amazing, amazing book. Take some time when we read it in a few weeks. We're going to look through it and just take some time to just sink your teeth into the book of Ecclesiastes. Verse 13 and 14, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Let's sum it all up. Let's get all the way down to the bottom of it. Fear God And keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing. whether it be good or whether it be evil. What I believe that verse is talking about in verse 14 is that yes Fear God, keep his commandments, and in verse 14, what we're getting the idea of is that God knows your intentions. So if you're going after these things in life, like they there's there's a the in life like there's some a purpose to them. Or you're doing it just to look good, or you're doing it for the wrong reasons. God sees that. He sees the intentions of your heart. So what is it that we're supposed to do when it comes down, everything is vanity, and when it comes down to the very bottom line, fear God and keep his commandments. That's our responsibility. That's what we're set to do. That is the purpose and the meaning of life. And with that, what are his commandments? It's right here. The commandments of the Lord are given to us in his word. Are we learning them? Are we searching them? Are we looking for the truths that we need to apply to our life? Or are we pursuing these other things? Let's close in prayer. Father, we love you. We thank you for the day. Lord, we thank you for the simplicity of your word. And Lord, the truth's in it. And Father, we can learn so much from King Solomon. Lord, as he ended his life, Lord, he came to these conclusions. In what things matter, and it matters where we stand with you. Lord, I pray that you would help your people tonight to care about Our standing with you more than our standing with the people around us or what other people see. Father, help us to care and to seek our purpose in life. In your will and not in our own will. So, Father, I pray that you would bless our time tonight, and we ask these things in Jesus' name.