We've looked at the Old Testament and and uh studied out God's plan through the ages, tried to get a basic overview of what's being taught in the Old Testament. And it's amazing to me uh that we only have about five weeks left. I've got a lot of history left to cover in in uh five weeks. uh that we have between now and the when when master clubs is done. And Master Clubs uh is done I don't know, middle of May sometime, about the time the kids get done with school. The kids are done with master clubs and we're so this the plan for this class was to try and finish up a around then. We might go a little bit over, but that's kind of the goal. And If uh ask us to throw up the uh era timeline, which we've kind of divided our lessons into the eras of the Old Testament. And so we started out and we talked about prehistory, the time uh before God started working with his nation. We looked at the beginning there with uh the creation and that goes us up through the flood and God's call of his people and then we see the patriarchs We went through the patriarchal period and talked about the patriarchs and what God was doing in that time and preparing and uh wanting to build a nation and a nation you gotta have people land and law and God was putting these things together God was building a nation and we saw how God protected his people And then we s w walk through Exodus and saw God preparing them to to get to the land. He in that time period he gave them the law. The people had grown to a substantial number. And then he gives them the law, and then they had the conquest, where they went into the promised land, where they uh took over the land that God gave them. And we saw how God provided for them and gave them the land. And then we saw the time of Judges, when God ruled through men and ladies who judged uh the people of Israel, as with the cycle of the book of Judges we looked at. at and we are now in the kingdom era looking at the kingdom era and what took place and what happened there in the kingdom era. I don't I know there's a lot on the screen there in front of you. Probably hard to uh uh get a scope and and to see what that is and I think my pointer here is uh does not on the screen it doesn't quite show up the screen eats it. So it's hard hard to show. But the last uh what is first And 2 Samuel and 1st and 2nd Kings, the last four large divisions right there, those are the kingdom era. There's a lot of complementary books that go with that era. There's lots of books that are secondary or supportive that don't further the timeline But they fit into that space and that's all the books that are stacked up on the top of that chart there, all those little books up there, those are your prophets. The major and minor prophets are listed up there. Those are the prophets that were prophesying and teaching and preaching during the Kingdom era. And then underneath that you have 1 and 2 Chronicles, which chronicles that time period. And then you have Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, these books written during the time period that we're actually in and looking at tonight. So we're going to, not tonight, but In two weeks we'll be finished with the Kingdom Era. So tonight we are going to conclude looking at David. If you Uh picked up the notes off the Welcome Center. Uh just kind of it gives you the notes that we had last week along with uh some new ones for this week and what we will probably looking be looking at. at next week. So just to catch us all up to date, we're looking at Israel underneath David. We saw Israel underneath David David David Samuel, Israel underneath Saul, and Israel under David is where we are right now in 2 Samuel. And we're kind of walking through 2 Samuel at a good place good pace. We saw David's reliance on God in chapter 2, verse number 1. He was relying on God. He took the kingdom and began to rule over Judah. And relying on God, doing what God wanted him to do, and ruling over the children uh of of Israel, they became stronger and stronger as a group. Uh they became stronger and stronger, and God blessed them And God blessed them. He was able to reunite the nation. The nation, you remember when he first became king, he was just king over Judah. And uh then the northern tribes uh ultimately decided, hey, God's blessing this man, God's hands on him, uh he was anointed as king, we need to get with him. And so Um he reunites reunites the king and kingdom underneath him, and then David acknowledges God as king. You see, this is a a theocracy in is a theocratic rule in that David was king. But David was king in that he was doing what God wanted him to do. He was leading the people as God directed him. And this is how God wanted it to be. God wanted a king that would lead underneath his leadership. And David did that. And at this time period is when the children of Israel Israel uh saw the greatest amount of prosperity, the greatest amount of victory, the greatest amount of peace. It's interesting that the books like Psalms Books of poetry, these types of things took place and were written during this time period of prosperity and peace that God gave his people. That's what happens when you have a nation at peace, when a nation is prosperous. You see, people don't have time to write poetry. When they're out at battle, when they've got a fight just to be able to feed their family, when they're in the middle of war, when things are not at peace, but when there's prosperity, when there's peace, then the arts. There's time for those and men as they've been gifted by God can use their skills and paint and draw and write poetry and write songs and these types of things came placed during this time. When God blessed the nation because David relied on God and he shows his love for God and follows God. Um we talked about how David uh saw the contrast between his house and the house of God and wanted to build the temple, but God said no. But when God takes away something he gives And God took away his desire to build the temple, but he gave him a covenant, a covenant that would last for all eternity. And uh one day the greater son of David Jesus Christ would be born, and one day he will rule and reign forever. Then we see uh that David is rewarded with this covenant in chapter number seven, and The covenant that we we looked at and talked about, spent some time looking at the covenant of David, and then we saw David's achievements. David's achievements. He united the kingdom because of hum his humility. We saw his humility and how he just Was following God and giving God the credit, and any leader needs to uh follow God and realize that it's God that gets the credit. Then we saw the story of Mephiboshef. Um what an amazing testimony. And And example of the mercy of God, the mercy of God on someone's life, and uh how God had been merciful to us. They worshipped the true God. Then David's aberrant behavior uh the behavior that sadly was recorded for us and given to us in a matter of truth to see that David, although he was a man after God's own heart, he still did some things that were wrong. And uh David ruined his testimony, and sadly that's uh possible for anybody, no matter how good a testimony you have, or no matter how close to God you are today. Outside of the mercy and the grace of God and a heart committed to serve God, then anybody is capable of any sin. And And we've got to take heed lest we fall. You've got to be careful because the our adversary, the devil, is out searching whom he may devour, looking for whomever he can. We talked a little bit about David and saw his his sin and the fact that he ends up having to uh reap from his sin and uh repent. So David's anguish is where we left off last week as we were talking about David's anguish, and that is in chapter 13. Uh verses one through twenty-four and twenty-four through twenty-five. The basically the the balance of chap of second kings talks about his anguish the stuff that happens in David's life. We see him reap for his sin, what he did wrong, the defilement of Tamar by Amnon, her her half-brother, and then the death of Amnon by Absalom. Now, I started to give this to you last week and I had written down the wrong reference, but I want to show you this if you look in chapter 13 in verse number 21. And I need to get there. So you should be there in 2nd Samuel chapter number 13. And I want you to see in verse number 21. This terrible act that Amnon had committed uh has been made known. And we see in verse number 21 David's wrath. We see his anger. We see him upset about the situation. He says here, but when King David heard of all these things, He was very wroth. And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon. You see, David was very wroth, but he didn't do anything about it. David was very upset. He says, Oh man, there's this I can't believe this happened. He was very rough, but he didn't do anything about it. And again, this is going to uh lead to greater problems later on with Which we'll see before we conclude tonight. But David had lost his influence over his children. He had lost his influence over his sons. And I was talking with uh Pastor Augustus recently of uh about this idea of influence over our children and and the direct correlation that comes in our children's lives between age, authority, and influence And what happens is when a child is very little, when they're very small, we lead them by authority Every parent has told his child to do something, and when the inevitable question comes, what does the kid ask? Why? And every parent has exercised their right as a parent to say, because I said so. Because I said so. Because and you don't have to explain why. Because they're two years old or because they're four years old and you told them to clean up their room and because I said so is enough Because you have authority. But what you have to understand is the younger they are, you can lead by authority. But what happens is a lot of parents try to continue to lead by authority. And the older a child gets, the less authority you have in their life. If you want to impact your children when they're old, somewhere between here and here, your leadership has to change. From leading by authority to leading through influence. And you can only influence somebody That you have their heart. So, what has to happen through love, nurturing, care, and compassion. The authority you have over your children starts to become less and less, but your influence becomes more and more. And they start to do what you would like them to do because They have you have their heart. Because they know you have their best interests. Because they know that you love them. And the only way to do that is through an investment of time. You have to give time. And David had lost all influence over his children because now they're a little bit older. I'm in my mid-40s, early 40s, I should say And my dad still has a great amount of influence in my life. Tremendous amount of influence on me. His direct authority over me has long since expired. But he has a great amount of influence. And so what happens is a lot of parents, especially in our kind of churches, and believe me, we believe in authority. And we believe that you know authority Should be recognized and children should honor their mother and their father. But we need to understand That to rule by just authority, at some point your authority is going to be gone. Maybe when they're 18 and they say, I'm out of here, and they leave your house. But your influence doesn't have to be over if you've got their heart. And so that's why as they start to get older, you start to lead less because I said so. And more because of this and this and this. Exercising influence. David had lost all of his influence over his his son and that caused his son Absalom to rebel. You see, although David was upset, uh he didn't do anything about it. So Absalom became angry that his father didn't do anything about dealing with this sin that Amnon had committed. And a green-eyed demon of bitterness sprang up in Absalom's heart. And he became angry. Look at verse number 32 of this chapter we're looking at here, chapter number 13. Look at verse number 32. He says here. And Jonadab, the son of Shimei, David's brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men. The king's sons, for Amnon only is dead, for by the appointment of Absalom So you see, Absalom appointed that Amnon should be killed. He killed his own brother, but listen to the last part of this verse. This hath been determined from the day that he forced his sister. Tamar. Absalom determined in his art on the day that Amnon did this, he said, I'm going to kill him. He he he he forced my sister Tamar. I can't believe he did that, and nothing was done to him. And from that day until the day that he actually fulfilled that promise, he had that bitterness in his heart. And he fed it. And he festered it, and if you read the story about how he uh talked his dad into letting his uh brother Annon go with him and and And sent him into battle with him and they went together and then he told his men, he says, Hey men, when I say I want you to go over and kill him. And don't worry, there won't be any reprisal, there won't be any problems, but just do it because this needs done. And the men did as Absalom had appointed. Absalom told him to kill him, and he did it. Because this green-eyed demon of bitterness had grown up in his heart. This bitterness against Amnon. Because his dad had done nothing to deal with the problem. So he develops a plan and he commands the death of Amnon. Look at chapter 13, verse number 28. He says, Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now, when Amnon's heart is merry and with wine, and when I say unto you, Smite Amnon, then kill him, fear not. I have not have not I commanded you, be courageous and be valiant. He says, don't worry. There's any problems, you can just say I told you to do it. But when he's happy and when he's drunk with wine, you go and you kill him. He develops a plan and has his brother Anon killed. Then he diverts the hearts of the people. You see, Absalom is rebelling against his dad and looking for opportunities to hurt his father. And that's what rebellion will do. It'll cause a young person to look for an opportunity to hurt his own dad. And he says in look at chapter fifteen in verse number six. It tells us here how he uh took the hearts of the people. Chapter fifteen in verse number number Verse number six. He says, and on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. He stole the hearts from his father David, who was the king, and they they should have had uh their heart towards the King David, but but Absalom stole their hearts. And listen, I'm not going to be teaching tonight on this particular thing, but as a parent, let me tell you something. There are a lot of things in this world that will steal the heart of your child. And as a parent, it's our responsibility and our job to do all we can to guard that heart, but to also to keep that heart, to get the child to give us their heart. The number one way you do that is through time. You see, children, they have their time eaten up at school, and they have their time involved in processes and in uh hobbies and all of these other things, and So many parents are so busy providing for their children that they don't have time to be a parent. And what happens is the child grows And then instead of you having their heart, their friends have stolen your child's heart from you And then when you as a parent tell them, listen, wherever whenever you're out there doing something, uh, and one of your friends says, Hey, why don't you try this cigarette? You need to tell them no. But when that opportunity comes, The person they're with is who has their heart, not you as a parent. And so they're going to do what that person wants Not what you want, because we've lost the hearts of our children. That's what David had lost the hearts of the people. And There's a whole nother lesson that I could teach on that, but he diverts the hearts of the people. Then he divides the kingdom in chapter 15, verse number 10. We see, but Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron. And Absalom got a lot of people in the kingdom to follow him. And he is reigning in Hebron, and he's good he's going to be the king now. He divides the kingdom and he drives out David from Jerusalem. Look in verse number seventeen. Verse number 17, And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a place that was far off. David had to run from his own home because of his son. It's an amazing thing when you think about how David handled this, and we're going to get into his response to this situation here, but I just want to point out that it's neat that there was a group of people that were loyal to the king. Even though it wasn't popular, even though it wasn't necessarily what the majority was doing at the time, there was a group of people that were loyal to the king. Look at chapter 15 and verse number 15. He says, and the king's servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint. Absalom had stolen the majority of the hearts. Yet these people recognized David as king, and they said, Thy servants are willing to do whatever you appoint. And Christian, we need some Christians today who will recognize the King of Kings as their king. And although Satan has stolen the hearts of the majority of the world today, and people don't recognize God and don't want to look to him, to his leadership, don't want to look to him or recognize him as King of kings and Lord of Lords, we need Christians today who see him as Lord and are willing to say whatever thou sayest, thy Christian, thy servant. is ready to do it. Amen? That's what we need, Christians, that recognize him, although it's not popular. Although it might cost you, you see, those people that stayed back in Jerusalem, they took a chance that they would lose their life. They took a chance that they would have been persecuted for standing for the king. And the day is fast approaching when we in America are going to be persecuted for standing for the king. For loving the truth, for doing what is right, for handing out a gospel tract, for standing against the wickedness of this day But we need some people that are willing to say, Lord, whatsoever thou sayest, I'm ready to do. And a day when everybody's willing and ready to turn and run, to do what's most popular. We need some Christians who will do what's right. It was neat to see, and if you read through this text and you see the things that take place, I mean there's other ways we can apply it to that scenario. Of standing for the King of Kings. But we're going to move on. I want you to see David's response to this situation. It basically is chapter 16 through chapter number 19. We don't have time to read all that, but we see as several things, key things that his response to this situation. I mean Absalom has stolen the hearts of the people Now Absalom has stolen the kingdom, and David's on the run, and things are bad, and I mean things look so bad that they just don't know if they could get any worse. But David's been dured some bad times before. He's been on the run before. He knows his way around those mountains pretty well. He's been down some rough roads. And there's something about having traveled the rough roads, you start to learn how to do it and be able to do it gracefully as David did here. One thing I would like to point out, look at chapter 16 and verses 1 through 4. David hears about his friend. Mofiboshev. You remember the story of Mophiboshev, how he didn't kill him, how he could have? I mean he was a relative of Saul and and he could have killed him, but he didn't, and he showed him all this grace and mercy and gave a lot of things to him. And provided for him, and then David hears about Mophibisheth. Now, what he hears is false. But he doesn't know that when he hears it, and David was quick to cast judgment. And to rule on this. See what he says here. And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold, Zibeah, the servant of Mophibosheth, met him. With a couple of asses saddled upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and a hundred uh of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine, and the king said unto Zibiah, What meanest thou by these? And Zibia said, The asses be for the king's house, thing's household to ride on, and the bread and the summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine that such as be as faint in the wilderness may drink And the king said, Where is thy master, son? And Zibee said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem, for he said Today shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. Now, you remember, he's a relative, a descendant of Saul. And so what he's saying here, Zibi is saying, Mephiboshev stayed in Jerusalem, and he said to everybody around, Today, I'm going to get what's rightfully mine. I'm going to be king again. The kingdom that should have been mine, I'm going to get. So verse number four, he says, Then said the king to Zibiah, Behold, thine are all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. And Tibias said, I humbly beseech thee that I may find grace in thy sight, my Lord, O King. Now there's two things we can learn from this One is don't be hasty to cast judgment. There's always two sides to every story. Zibiah lied to Mephibosheth and told Mephibosheth, King David wants you to stay here. You got to read all these all these chapters to get that. But he told King David wants you to stay here. And then he gathers this stuff together and he goes over to King David and he says, Oh, Mephiboshev's planning to take back the kingdom. And David said, Hey, everything that I had given to Mephibosheth, I'm going to give it to you. So don't be too hasty to judge on a situation. To cast to rule on something, to say this is the way it is. When somebody comes to you and it sounds like that's the way it is, don't be too hasty. Get all of the facts before you discern for yourself what took place. The second thing, here's a principle that we can learn that we see here exercised out in a very clear way, and that is a New Testament principle that a brother is born for adversity. You see, David, how quickly he responds to Zibiah here when Zibia came to him in his hour of need Zippia came there and says, hey, I've got some donkeys for you to ride. And hey, I've got some food for you. And my David was so refreshed and encouraged by that because it was his hour of need. He was on the run and things were going bad and they looked dark, and he was somebody that came alongside of him and provided something right there in that hour of need. As Christians, we need to realize that when there's people in need, we must be there for them. We have got to seize the opportunity to be the help that God would want us to be. If we don't, we have missed the greatest opportunity to show the love of Christ. Because a brother is born for adversity. And that time he has made a league with Zibia Which he shouldn't have even done. If you read the rest of the story, when when David finds out the truth about Mephiboshev, he he he still honors half of his statement. He gives half of what he promised Dibyeah, he still gives it to him. And he gives half back to Mefiboshev. So Zibia got all that because he came and was there at a time of need. We've got to seize those opportunities when people But it's not a convenient time for me. You gotta put it down. Gotta it convenience is not a matter of we need to seize the opportunity and be a help to our brothers or sisters in Christ when they are in need Because that's when it's going to make the greatest impact. That's when it's going to be the most help. You ever heard of a dollar late and uh what a day late and a dollar short? You show up after the storm's done? And they'll be like, well, thanks, I guess. Could have used you yesterday. Could have used you a few minutes ago. You know, people that wait until the job's done to show up and offer to help. Like, hey, you need help with that? Well, I'm kind of done with it now. But, you know, that's what it feels like. So look for those opportunities that God will bring our way to be a help to somebody in need. And seize it and do it gladly. Let God use you to be a help to somebody. And you know what? You'll be like a brother to them. You'll be like a sister to them. It's something that you cannot get or replace in any other way, but to be there when somebody is in need. So we see that he rewards Zibia, and then we see David's return to Jerusalem in chapter number 19. Basically, the majority of that chapter, David's returning to Jerusalem. But look in chapter number 23. I'm going to give you a thought here from chapter number 23. Verse number one says, Now these be the last words of David. David, the son of Jesse, said And the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel, said, These are the last words of David. You know the importance of last words? David's reaching the end of his life here. He's getting down to just a few days left. Not much time to continue on, and he's got some things that he wants to do. To share with those that are coming after him. And it's in this chapter, as David does some reminiscing, that he reminisces and talks about some of his mighty men. And I would like to encourage us tonight to be that kind of a man, to be that kind of a lady. In chapter number 23, look at verse number eight. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had, the Tecmenite that sat in the seat Of the chief among the captains, the same was Edenoi, the Isnite Isnite, he left up his spear against eight hundred Whom he slew all or at one time. Eight hundred whom he slew at one time There's somebody here that faced the odds. He faced the odds. He stood against the odds. When the odds were against him, 800 to 1. And he picked up his spear and he went to battle. When the everything said you can't win, when everything said it was impossible. When the majority of others would have turned and run, he picked up his spear and he went into battle. We need some Christians that are willing to face the odds. Willing to stand in a day when adversity is great When we look at it and sometimes we look at the world and the situation around us and we think, man, things are so bad. The world is so wicked. There's no way we could possibly succeed. We need some Christians who would stand up and say, with the power of God and his strength, I'm going to do my best and stand against the devil. Stand against this world. Stand against the odds, the things that would tear you down or would cause you to stop fighting for Jesus Christ. And we need some Christians that'll stand and do that. There's a lot of things at odds with the Christian today. There's a lot of things that we might fight against, but we need to face the odds. Because we know that One with God is a majority. The number out there might be, in our eyes, unbeatable. But we need to ask God to open our eyes that we might see the great multitude that is with us. That I can do all things through Christ. We can. We might have a problem that we're facing, and we say, it can't be beat Don't quit. Don't give up. Don't throw in the towel. Don't say it's not gonna happen. Keep praying for that victory. Keep working towards that end. Keep facing the odds. Keep looking to see God do something great. And he will. How do you beat insurmountable odds? It tells us right there in that verse. It was 800 to 1. It wasn't like these modern TV shows where this one guy Against 800 people with Uzi's and he has a pistol? And he he's able somehow to overcome all of these men, right? I mean these and you've got these guys with powers today, you know, and they they they punch one guy and five hundred people fall down. They were all slain in the spirit, I guess, or something. It's not like that. What does the last phrase of that verse tell us about the key to winning against great odds? What does it say? How did he beat him? One at a time. One at a time. He beat them one of the 800 of them. He says, okay. As long as they keep coming, I'll keep getting them. I mean one at a time and the odds might be great and it might be insurmountable. We may say, well, I can't do it, but can you take one more step? I can't do it. I can't get all the way there. But can you take one more step? I mean some of you have to go through physical therapy and and they're saying, man, you uh you say I can't do it and you say, well, give me one more Give me one more. Give me and you say I can't do any more. And he says, give me one more. And when you feel you're about dead, they say, okay, just get just give me one more. And you say I can't. And they say, one more. Can you just do one more for God? Can you take one more lick at the devil? Can you face one more odd? Can you take one more step for Jesus Christ? We need some people that are willing to face the odds as this mighty man of David did. Then I want you to see this secondly here. Look at verse number 10. A second mighty man of David here. He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword, and the Lord wrought a great victory that day. This is Eliezer. Tells us in verse number 9 there, and after him was Eliezer. Now he finished the objective. You see, we need some Christians that are willing to face the odds, but we need some that are willing to finish the objective. Whatever it is, whatever job God has for you, whatever task you've been called to, we've got a whole lot of people that are willing to start. There's a lot of people saying, oh, I'll be glad to help with that, or I'll be glad to start that. I'll be glad to begin that. But where are the people like Pastor Lewis that are still pastoring the same church after 44 years? 44 years as the pastor of the same church. The average tenure of a pastor today is like two and a half years. You can't even learn everybody's name in two and a half years. That blows my mind that somebody would leave after two and a half years. But that's the condition of Christianity today, and it's not just the pastors. It's the people in the pew who have no commitment to the call of God on their life to teach a Sunday school class or to sing in the choir or to work on a bus route or to come to work party or to be a part of what's going on at the church. There's no commitment. It's oh I don't feel like it this week or I'll be glad to do it but oh I can only do it every third Thursday on the second day of the week if it be if if the sun's shining And we try and accommodate you, but where's the people that are committed? That will just say this is what God wants me to do. You expect me as a pastor to be here You expect me to be in the pulpit and to be committed and to do what God has called me to do. I would like to encourage and exhort you to be somebody that finishes the objective. Whatever God's called you to do, don't quit. Don't throw in the towel. Don't give up. You're gonna face hard days. You're gonna get sick. You're not gonna feel like it. The devil's gonna attack and tear you down and cause problems. And stir up strife and give you every excuse possible. You just look at the devil and say, I ain't quitting. No matter what, I ain't quitting. And you just keep going for God. Finish the objective like Jesus Christ who said, it is finished. I've done what God called me to do. We need some Christians that are committed and willing to finish the objective. It's amazing here. Eliezer means God hath helped You want to know how to finish the objective? Rely on God. There's too many of us trying to do it ourselves, and this old flesh gets weary. And we get to the point where we can't go on. But if we're relying on God, with God's help, we can. With God's help, we can. God has helped. And when we get to the end, we'll see how God helped in such great ways, and we'll see what he said here. Look at verse number 10, he says, and his hand clave unto the sword. And what's the next sentence there? And the Lord brought a great victory. God brought a great victory. There was a man that was willing to cleave to the sword. He was willing to do his part. That word cleave there literally means to stick, to adhere, to be fastened to. You know, Brother Garland, he just had his uh knee surgery and he's doing really well, but he had a knee replacement. And do you know what happened to him? He came home from the hospital and they, of course, had his knee all bandaged up and everything like that. And the in-home nurses came to care for him and to take care of him. And uh the first time they came home from the hospital, they pulled his bandages off, and the bandages were stuck to his skin. They literally fillet about about this much of his leg, just ripped the top layer of skin off. And He was not a happy camper, as you can imagine. And that really prolonged his his recovery time as well. But you know what that's what that's talking about? That how that was stuck, almost becoming one. I mean the bandage has really stuck to his skin. That's what he did. He claved to the sword. We need some people that will will finish the the objective, that will cleave to what God has called them to do, to stick to it to where it's it's just not going to come apart. And when you're willing to do that, you're not the one that brings the victory. God still brings the victory, but he used Use is somebody that's willing to stay in the fight, that's willing to keep going. They faced the odds. They finished the objective. And let me give you this last one and we're going to be done. Look at verse number 12. Here's another mighty man. But he stood in the midst of the ground, and he defended it, and he slew the Philistines. Lastly, I just want you to see here's a mighty man that focused on the opposition. That focused on the opposition. Christian, we've got to focus on the opposition. The opposition is the devil. That's who we're fighting. We're not fighting the person that sits in the pew across the aisle from you. We're not fighting the program of the church. We're not fighting each other. We're not fighting the lost person. We're not fighting the sin that's reigning in their life. Yes, we stick a stand against sin, but the enemy is the devil, and the devil has them blinded, and our objective is to share the truth. That they might know the truth and the truth would set them free. Free from what? Free from the clutches of the devil. So many times we get focused On other things. God gives us a great, great anniversary day. And listen, I have not heard one negative thing. I'm not stepping on anybody's toes. I everybody to me, Sunday was an amazing day. They were all excited about it. But I know how the devil works. And on days like that, somebody will come in and say, Well, man, it's a great day, but uh the heat's on in here and it's kind of hot in here. We're not fighting against something like that. We're fighting against the devil, and the devil's the one that wants us to have a bad spirit. You've got to recognize it and say, devil You're sticking that junk in my mind on a day when God is doing so much, on a day when God is reigning in our church and doing great things, and the devil's getting in and causing problems, focus on the enemy. Kick the enemy out. Get mad at the devil. Don't get mad at Bob. He didn't do anything Get mad at Carol. I mean don't get mad at Carol either. Don't get mad at your brothers and sisters in Christ. Realize it's the devil Trying to cut in and cause problems in a place where you should be helping one another and encouraging one another. The devil will get you focused on everything else except him, and he's the enemy. We've got to recognize it. And s be out there fighting the devil. Whole slew foot. What did Pastor Lewis call him? Smut face. Smutty face. I call him old smutty face. Yeah. Gotta fight the devil. I'll tell you what, I just the devil wants to do anything he can to get us distracted fighting anything else So he can go do his work. Let's not let him do that to us. Let's face the odds. Finish the objective that God has called us to. And in the midst of it, keep our eye on the devil. He's walking around. As a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. We gotta be sober and vigilant, lest he get you or somebody here in the church that God loves And our heart should be broken, for one lost from the full