She was only three years old. Her name was Marcia. She uh was playing with her cousins. She was my little cousin, Marcia. Marsha Kindred was her name. She lived in Kincaid, Illinois And they were playing Follow the Leader. She happened to be only three years old because and she was so she was bringing up the rear following the last one. Somehow they made their way and went through a garage. When they went into the garage, somebody threw something flammable in a five-gallon can of gasoline. The gasoline can exploded and it went all over several of the children, but three of them were burnt real bad. Two of my uh boy cousins Terry and Dan, and then also Marsha. Marsha was burned over her whole body except her front of her face and her hair. The rest of her body was third-degree burns or worse. She lived ten days and then she died. Her name was Samantha Rhodes Samantha Rhodes was in my church in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. When she started coming to church in our bus ministry, she was only six. She came and after a period of time Samantha Rhodes got saved and praise the Lord for that, that uh the bus ministry was reaching her for Jesus Christ and When she became twelve years old, she had still been coming to church every week, hardly ever missed a Sunday. A friend of hers called her up and said, would you babysit for me tonight at 12 years old? Pretty young to babysit for a lady that had five children. But uh she agreed to go babysit So she went over to her house. When she got there, this lady apparently was divorced, and her boyfriend showed up, came in the house, and shot the woman. And shot all five of her children and killed them. Little Samantha Rhodes, twelve years old, was trying to get out the mobile home window. And he shot and killed her. It was a very difficult funeral. But after the funeral was over, the public school called me on the phone and said Preacher, the kids are having a hard time at school. Could you come and speak to the kids to try to help them? And I said, sure, I'd love to. Went over and spoke to the public school. There was at least a thousand students in the gymnasium sitting in the bleachers and 42 staff members, teachers, sitting in the gym in a line. I was in the middle, the principal was sitting beside me, and I said, Sir, I just want you to know that all I know is the Word of God, and that's what I'm going to talk to these kids about. And he says, You just do whatever you want. And I got up and I preached the gospel really hard. And at least five hundred kids Trusted Jesus as her Savior that very day. I believe that Samantha Rhodes probably was the cause of leading more people to Christ in her death than if she would have lived a normal life. And we'll see her when she gets to we get to heaven and we'll be able to rejoice with her about that. Joshua Sirvogel, he was ten. He was out in his yard working on his little bicycle. His dog ran out into the street. He ran after his dog and The tires squealed and the car hit him. Joshua Seervogel at ten years old was taken to glory. You know it is appointed in a man once to die, and after this the judgment. We had the funeral for little Joshua Sir Vogel down in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and then Since his family mostly was from Wisconsin, we went up there and had the second part of the funeral. Joshua Sir Vogel's mom and dad moved back to Wisconsin. They went to youth camp at Chitech, Wisconsin, where uh we went every year when I was pastoring in Wisconsin years before that. And he was watching a volleyball game. He told his wife, I have a little headache. He laid down on a seat, had a brain aneurysm, and Joshua was Sir Bogle's dad, passed away. Thirty years old. It is appointed a man wants to die, and after this the judgment. Murphy Crammell was fifteen His mother brought him to our church and wanted to enroll him into our Christian school. Well, in the 30, 5, 40 minutes or an hour that they were in my office. Mrs. Trammell trusted Jesus as her savior, and Murphy, her 15-year-old son, trusted the Lord as his savior. He enrolled in our school, but in about two months, he was riding with a friend of his. They had a car wreck and he was killed. Had the funeral. A lot of people were saved at the funeral, but it is appointed a man wants to die, and after this the judgment. When I first started pastoring, it was in Thond du Lac, Wisconsin. I had a Sunday school teacher. Her name was Shirley Mintner. Shirley Mintner was a sweet lady. She was married to the only other guy in our church that had a job. Everybody else was on welfare. And uh on her way to Town one day she had a little bitty minor car wreck. She slipped off into the ditch. It hardly hurt the car very bad. But it broke the passenger side window or the driver's side window, and she was cut very badly and died. Shirley Mintner. Went to heaven. It's appointed and a man wants to die. And after this the judgment. When I was in high school I had a friend named Billy Bob Brandt. Actually, he was William Robert Brandt, but we called him Billy Bob. Billy Bob got out of high school, and after he got out of high school, he got a job as a Missouri Highway Patrolman. One day he was out patrolling on the highway and a tornado came by, picked up his car, and threw it into something and killed Billy Bob Brandt. It is appointed and a man wants to die. And after this, the judgment. Do you know that Kathy Heidenreich was a sweet lady in our church in New York? She had been to the nursing home. She had picked up one of the ladies there in the nursing home and took her out Christmas shopping. After she delivered her back, she went home and kissed her husband goodbye, and she went to work. On the way to work, she had an accident. Somebody had pulled out in front of her, and uh She was killed instantly. Kathy Heidenreich went to heaven. If you ever watched the movie um the miracle at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. One of the men that was operating a backhoe uh operating a backhoe out here was uh was um Greg Heidenreich, Kathy's uh husband. Do you know approximately seven thousand four hundred and fifty-two people in the United States will die today? It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. 310 people an hour in America die. Fifty-seven million people in the world will die. this year. That's without COVID. Fifty seven million. You know, we ought to all go call in a cave and never talk to anybody, because who knows, you might get sick. You know, I think we ought to be careful, but we ought not to let the government scare us to death. Second Timothy chapter four verse eighteen uh verse number one uh says uh I charge thee, therefore, before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Ears. And they shall uh turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned into fables. But watch thou in all things, endure affliction I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but to all them that love his appearing. I think it's interesting when you read the Word of God that it is appointed in the man wants to die, Hebrews 9. 27. And after this the judgment. Everyone's going to die sometime. Heavenly Father, I pray that as I speak for the next few minutes, that you would help us, all of us as Christians, that we would be aware that our lives are short. And that we could die as a teenager, we could die as a young adult, we could die as an older man or woman. But everyone, Lord, if you do not come back soon, is going to die. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us as Christians to live for you and put you first in our lives. But Lord, there may be a man or a woman or a young child or a teenager here today that is not born again, does not have you as saved, do not know that they're going to heaven when they die. God, I pray that you would help me to preach in such a way that you would be able to speak to their heart and cause them to want to repent of their sin and trust you as their very own personal Savior. And we'll be grateful and thankful for answered prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ecclesiastes 3, verse number 2 says, There's a time to be born. At a time to die. Do you know that We believe the Bible but we don't practice it many times. We don't live our lives like We believe it. We don't talk to people like we believe it. We just say we believe it. I want to mention four words today and make some comments about those words. And that'll be the message this morning. Hopefully it'll be a help to you today. The first word is the word death. Adam was the first person born into this world. God made him of the dust of the earth, and Adam lived 950 years. Then he died. Do you know that Abraham, the father of a great nation, lived 175 years But he died. Noah saved the human race, and thank God for that, lived 950 years himself, and then he died. Daniel to spend the line his uh the night in a lion's den and not be eaten But Daniel died. David, a man after God's own heart and the word of God. But David died. Solomon, the wisest man in the world that there ever was, the Bible says, but Solomon died. John the Baptist, the Bible says of all the men born of woman, there never was a greater man than John the Baptist. But John the Baptist died. Peter and John, great apostles, great men of God. Peter preached on the day of Pentecost, and 3,000 people got saved. I uh you know, I I've not had three thousand saved in any service that I've preached. God really used the apostle Peter that first message that he ever preached, and praise the Lord for that. But the Apostle Peter died. Methuselah, he lived nine hundred and sixty-nine years. But then he died. Nobody can stay the power of death. The next time I come, I may get the message from my son that You died. Somebody here died. Every year somebody dies, I'm sure, that's connected. in some way with Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Medical science cannot save you from death. Greatness cannot save you from death Goodness cannot save you from death. The best man who ever lived must die. You are going to die someday. I am 75 years old. Whoa, did you feel that wave of doubt that passed across the audience? You know, seventy five years old. I don't know how long I'm gonna live I pray that I live long enough to see my youngest grandchild get saved and then surrender her life to the Lord and to serve God. That means that I need to live about another fifteen, twenty years. That would put me way up there. But David said, There is but a step between me and death You know, death robs the wife of her husband. It robs the husband of his wife. It robs the children of their father. It robs the company of its executive. It robs the employer of its employees. It robs the school of its teacher. It would be glorious to escape death, but unless the rapture takes place and you're born again, you're not going to escape death. If you're born again and Jesus comes back with by the way the way that it looks like things are going in this world, uh I wish I was almost preaching on the second coming of Christ, man, because it looks like our redemption draweth nigh, and who knows. The all of us may be alive when Jesus comes back, but it is appointed a man once to die. You know Dwight Talmage Was a great evangelist. And he was going on his way to the cemetery riding in a carriage. And there was a vendor selling something, and he says, he says, Who'll be next? Who'll be next? And the man Sitting beside Dr. Talmage, he said, um uh uh uh he said, Well I wonder who will be be next. And Brother Talmage said, I wonder who'll be next to die. Wonder who'll be the next one to die. And this guy said, Well, it won't be me. I'm young and I'm uh healthy and everything, and all things are going well, and so it won't be me. He says, are you ready if you were next? And he says, oh, it won't be me. It won't be me. No, I'm not a Christian, but look at me, I'm in perfect health. And Dr. Talmage said, it would be a sad thing if you were next. That night, at two o'clock in the morning, somebody pounded on Dr. Talmage's door. He came to the door and he said, The lady of this man needs you to come to him quickly. He said, I'm gonna be next, I'm gonna that's all he cries out, I'm gonna be next, I'm gonna be next, and Dr. Thomas went to see him. And he was there just a few moments and that man slipped out into t eternity without Christ, died and went to hell. He was next. You don't know when you're gonna die or when you're gonna be next. The first word was death. Everybody is going to die someday. Number two, the second word is judgment. Judgment All through the Bible, God warns us carefully to be careful and think about it because judgment is coming. It's a solemn thought that you're going to be judged I'll tell you what, uh when I was in uh uh school, a teenager, uh seventeen years old, I had a nineteen sixty-five GTO convertible. It was red with a white top, a four-speed hearse transmission, chrome wheel covers, some chrome valve cleaners, uh on it, uh covers, uh valve covers on it, and uh awesome car But I tell you what, I think I was probably held the record for the one that was stopped the most by policemen when I was a teenager. Every time I drove by one they would look my car over really good and and then start following me and if I did anything that you know looked like it might be wrong, they would stop me. I got a ticket one time on the way home from paying a ticket. I did. You know. And uh man uh uh that was a hot rod car and I love that car. Uh but um you know uh I get nervous when I see a policeman Why? I don't want to stand before the judge. I don't want to get a ticket. So it makes me nervous. What are you going to feel like when you stand before Almighty God? How's that going to make you feel? It's avoiding the man wants to die, and then it says, and after this the judgment Do you know that there are two judgments talked about in the Bible? One of them is the judgment that Christians are going to go to, called the judgment seat of Christ. And you and I will stand before God and give an answer to God of how you've lived for the Lord since you've been saved Now, if you're just a nominal Christian and you just show up at church once in a while, and you don't ever serve God and you don't ever put God first in your life, and so on, you're going to have a lot to answer to when you stand before God But we're all going to answer to God and give an answer in our b uh to the Lord Jesus of how we've lived our life. And you're going to be re rewarded or not rewarded, depending on how you live. And there's six kinds of rewards gold, silver, and precious stone, wood, hay and stubble. And they're going to be tried by fire, your works are, and the uh and the wood, hay and stubble works are all gonna burn up. But the gold, silver, and precious stone will be made more precious. What kind of Christian are you What kind of judgment are you going to? Are you going to be at the judgment seat of Christ, or are you going to be at the other one called the Great White Throne Judgment? Everybody that's lost will stand before the Lord at the great white throne judgment. And do you know what the judgment's going to be? You're going to be cast into the eternal lake of fire that will burn forever and ever and ever and ever. And you say, I don't believe that. Well, it doesn't matter whether you believe it or not, uh you'll you'll believe it when you're cast into it You know, you'll you'll believe it then. Uh but uh it doesn't matter whether you believe it now, it doesn't make it not true. You can believe the stove's not hot, but if you put your hand in it you're gonna find out that that uh you were wrong. And uh y if you don't believe in hell you're gonna be wrong about that too, uh because uh hell is real according to the Word of God. It's there. And uh at this uh great white throne judgment, uh it says, uh for a Christian For a saved person, there is now no condemnation to the with them which are in Christ Jesus. You're saved, you're born again, you have Christ in your heart, you'll be going to heaven But if you're lost, you'll be going to hell forever and ever and ever and ever. First Corinthians chapter three, he says, uh for other foundation can no man lay that is Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hate, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire Uh and the fire shall try out every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be Every pretend Christian will be cast in the eternal lake of fire. You know, you may be here this morning, and you may smile really pretty. You may be very friendly to everybody. But you're not real. And if you don't have Jesus in your heart, if you're not born again, if you haven't repented of your sins and trusted Christ as your Savior. The Bible says you'll be cast into the eternal lake of fire. Because the thing is, is God is omniscient and he knows everybody. He knows the deepest secret in your life. He knows whether you're real or whether you're a fake. And if you're not real, you'll be cast to the eternal lake of fire. Nobody here knows you're not a Christian, but God knows And in a few minutes we'll have an invitation time. And if you're not born again, I would suggest that you slip out of your seat and come down to the front, take the pastor's hand and say, Preacher, I need to be saved for real. I need genuine sal salvation. I need to have Christ in my heart. And so you need to get born again if you're not born again. You say, Preacher, I don't believe the Bible. It doesn't matter. It's appointed a man once to die, and after this the judgment. You say, Well uh but but I don't really believe that. But it doesn't matter. It's still true. It's still true. Uh he'll say, Depart from me, uh ye uh uh I never knew you into everlasting fire, ye that work iniquity. Third word is the word preparation. Preparation. We ought to be prepared. And you need to prepare to meet God. You need to prepare your life so that you can You can stand before him one of these days and you say, uh you know the world says, live a good life and you'll go to heaven. It's a lie from hell. Join a church, you'll go to heaven. No, sir. Get baptized, you'll go to heaven. No, sir. Treat others right, you'll go to heaven. No, sir. G Give your money, you go to heaven No, sir. Pay your debts, you'll go to heaven. Now, most of these things, it's good to do those things, but that does not listen, your salvation has already been paid for by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. You cannot do anything to help pay for your salvation. All you can do is repent of your sins, ask the Lord to forgive you, and depend upon the payment that He made on Calvary's cross for you and trust him as your savior. God says, ye must be born again. Even that religious guy named Nicodemus that came to Jesus at nighttime so that nobody else would see him, Jesus got down where rubber meets the road right after the Nicodemus tried to give Jesus a compliment And he said, uh Jesus said, Verily, verily I say unto thee, Nicodemus, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And you can be a member of Hump Valley Baptist Church. You can even have my son as your pastor. And you can stand before God one of these days and be cast to the eternal lake of fire if you're not born again. You must be born again, according to the Bible. The Bible says in Romans 10. 13, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. 1 John 1 12, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. There must be a spiritual transaction Where you turn from a life of sin and unbelief to a life of faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior. You say You know, you're not saved by works. However, when a person gets saved, when a person gets born again, God changes your life. I have led people to Christ, supposedly, and after they supposedly get saved I say, okay, now today is Thursday, and so let's go to church on Sunday. He said, oh, I don't I don't go to church. Says, yeah, but you're born again, and Jesus just became your Savior today, and you you need to go to church now. Well, I'm not interested in church, then you didn't get saved. You're not born again. If you don't even like the things that the Savior gave you after you got saved, you're not born again. You're a pretend Christian. You're just pretending playing like you're a Christian. Um you know uh uh uh If you're saved, there's a change in your life. The Bible says, old things are passed away, and behold, all things become new. You're not going to be perfect, but you're going to want to be. You're not going to do everything right, but you're going to try to do everything right. If God has come into your heart and changed your life and saved your soul, you're going to want to live for him. You're going to want to come to church You could and and and listen, you know whether you've been born again or not. You can fool the preacher and you can fool me, but you cannot fool God. And if you're not born again, you need to get saved. And the fourth word I want to mention is the word time. Time. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. He says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow. It's appointed the man once to die, and after this the judgment. So boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth forth. You don't know whether you're going to live another day or not. You have no idea. You don't know that on the way home from church today you could have an accident. I tell you what, I'm amazed that somebody, uh a bunch of you all haven't had accidents just driving down that road, uh, right out here. That's one of the most dangerous roads that I've ever been on. And that's amazing. But boy, God has this protection power upon uh y this church family to help you to go up and down that road all the time, you know You know what the Bible says? It says life is like a vapor. It appeareth for a little time and vanisheth away. Life is like a flower that fades. It looks pretty one day and it's dead the next. Life is like a shadow. Life is so short. Eternity is so long. We must make preparation now. We must be ready. If Jesus were to come back today, would you be left here Alexander the Great, getting time for him to die. He said, I've given thought and time to everything but death. But that is the thing that I should have been thinking about. And as far as I know, he went out to eternity not knowing Christ. Do not postpone your decision to get born again. Make your decision today. Remember death. Everybody's going to die, including me. Also, the judgment. You're all going to face judgment one of these days. You're going to stand before God and give an answer to God. Whether you're lost or you're saved. As you're saved, you'll give an answer to him of how you live since you've been saved. And a loss or a gain of rewards because of that. And then, if you're lost, you'll be cast into the eternal lake of fire. Preparation. You need to prepare for the coming of the Lord. And then time. You need to do it now. Could we have every head bowed, please, and every eye closed, no one looking around