Uh turn your Bibles to Second Kings uh this morning, Second Kings, chapter number four. I had originally planned this message that I'm going to give you this morning for next week. Probably four or five weeks ago, I uh uh set as a plan to preach this on anniversary sunday. It'll make more sense next week why I was gonna preach this on Anniversary Sunday. But uh I had forgotten that I had scheduled a guest speaker for Anniversary Sunday. So I had this message for next Sunday, but uh we have a guest speaker next Sunday, I'm not preaching, and so Several weeks ago I had already set as a plan, well, I'll preach it the Sunday before Anniversary Sunday. And what I thought was a mistake It's amazing how sometimes you see God put things together just how He wanted them. And uh I thought I had messed up. I thought well uh you know my scheduling and I forgot that somebody was scheduling And so I'm going to move it and do it here, but beloved God knows what he's doing. Amen. I would have you see our text this morning, 2 Kings chapter 4. We're going to look at a lot of the passage, but we're going to, as text verses, I want you to look at verse 24, 25, and 26. 25 and 26. So she went, and she came unto the man of God, Elisha, to Mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, he said unto Hazi, his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite. Run now I pray thee to meet her and say unto her, Is it well with thee? Is it well with thy husband? Is it well with the child? And she answered, It is well I want to preach for just a couple minutes this morning on It Is Well. We sang this song last Sunday, our Sunday morning service, and we did not know what life would bring, but I want you to know that we can, like the songwriter said, say it is well. This could technically this could be part of the series that I uh I I I always add to my series, you know, I'll I'll preach one and then three years down the road I'll preach another one for the series. So we're gonna add this here, but the series on more than a song. Because surely the song It Is Well With My Soul was birthed from the thought that I'm going to share with you this morning. She said it is well. Can I take a minute and give you the context and Give you the whole story so you might be able to appreciate those words as she expressed them. We see Elisha is a traveling preacher. And being used of God to minister among many different people, he travels the region. Often comes upon this area, the village of Shunam, where a woman asks him to dine with her and her husband, to provide a meal for him. So he ate with them. Back up to verse number eight. Second Kings chapter four and verse number eight. And it fell on a day that Elisha passed to Shunam. Where was a great woman, and she constrained him to eat bread. I'm thankful for the great women. That have been part of my life, the great women that we have here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that minister and serve and are used of God to impact and influence others. I'm privileged and thankful to know many whom, like this woman, God would look at and say, this was a great woman This great woman had a concern in her heart here for the man of God, and she says, Boy, he looks hungry. He's gonna wither away. We need to feed him. And so she constrained him to come in and eat bread Every time he stopped by, he said, Boy, this lady can cook. If I'm in the area, I'm going to stop and have a meal. We see as the verse continues, he says, And so it was that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread. Oh, it wasn't very long that they were fellowshipping with him, this man of God, and her and her husband determined that indeed he was a prophet, that indeed he was a godly man. Look at verse number 9. And she said unto her husband, Behold, now I perceive that this is a holy man of God, which passeth by us continually. In verse number 10, her husband determined to fill the first prophet's chamber, a hotel room, as it were, for the man of God as he was coming by, we see, let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall, and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and a candlestick, and it shall be, when he cometh to us, that he shall turn in thither. They determined not just to feed him, but to house him when he was close by, provide a place for him to sleep and to study and The man of God, Elisha, was so moved by this, he was so blessed by their kindness and their expression of concern for him that he determined that it would be the will of God and his desire to do something special for this lady. So he asked of his servant Gehazi, he says, man, what what can we do for her? Look in verse number 14. And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Verily, she hath no child, and her husband is old. Gehazi being observant and maybe as they sat over some meals and maybe Gehazi was helping to serve and bring in some food or something, he had opportunity to talk to this Tsunamite woman and maybe he was doing it by himself and he he might have off-handedly commented on, boy, it would be nice if you had some kids that could do this. And he might have noticed the look of pain that fell upon the Shunammite woman's face. Her desire, boy, I I would love to have some kids. It's always been a desire of mine. And those of you that have lived or gone through that or known a lady who lived in that place where her heart longed for a child and For whatever reason God had not chosen to give them a child yet. And here in this situation, we understand that the gentleman was of an age that maybe could no longer provide a child and says, Boy, she would like to have a child but i i i i it just hasn't happened and now her husband is old and Boy, if Elisha, if there's something you could do to provide a child, I know that would be a blessing to her. Just think about the faith of Gehazi. To look at Elisha. I mean he didn't say, you know what, she could reuse a new stool. Well, she would like a cutting board first so she could cut up the vegetables. That would be nice. I mean he went full on right off the bat. Why don't you get her a child? He must have just seen God do some m miraculous things to have that kind of faith. He looked at the man of God and said, you know what, she Boy, she would love a child. And we see that God answered his prayer, that God did it. Look at verse number fifteen. And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the door, and he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid. I mean, she was kind of saying, Don't play with me. No, don't don't this is not a laughing matter. This is not a joke. This is something that's heavy on my heart and boy this this means the world to me. This is not something that's to be joked about and and she says don't don't even joke like that and He promises, no, it's going to happen. And we see in verse number 17, and the woman conceived and bare a son at that season that Elisha said unto her, according to the time of life. You can imagine the joy that was in that home and the thrill of her heart to see this long anticipated and longed for desire to have a child come to fruition. She was probably carrying this little boy around and loving on him and training him and investing her life into him and pointing him to Jesus and telling him all about her God and what God had done and how God had miraculously. given her a child and she's investing time. Between verses 17 and 18, there's quite a bit of time transpires because we see the boy who where just a moment ago she conceived and she bare a son, and now we get to verse number 18. And we see the boys out in the field. He's helping. And when the child was grown, it fell on a day that he went out to his father to the reapers. And he said unto his fathers, My head, my head, and he said to the lad, Carry him to his mother. And when he had taken him, he brought him to his mother. He sat on her knee till noon. And then died. This child that she had longed for, this child that she had invested her life in. This answer to her very prayer died in her arms. What did she do? We see in verse number 25. So she went, you know what, let's let's just read on I need to turn back. We're just gonna read all of it instead of jumping to twenty-five. We see Verse number twenty-one, and she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him, and went out. And she called under her husband. And she says, Send me, I pray thee, one of the young men and one of the asses, that I may run to the man of God and come again. And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him today? It is neither new moon nor Sabbath. And she said, It shall be well. Then she sat on ass and said to her servant, Drive and go forward. Slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee. So she went, and she came unto the man of God to the Mount Carmel, and it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, he said unto Kazai his servant, Behold, yonder is the Shunamite. Run now, I pray thee two meet her and say unto her, Is it well with thee? Is it well with thy husband? Is it well with the child? And she answered, It is well. Wait a minute. Her son had just died in her arms. Her son no longer had any life in his bones, and the man of God looked at her and said, Is it well with thee? Yes. Is it well with thy husband? Yes. Is it well with the child? Yes. How is it that she could say, it is well? In the face of this hardship, how is it? She says, it is well when her heart was overwhelmed with grief and sorrow of the loss of this child that she loved so dearly. How could she say it as well? And I tell you this morning that she could say it first of all because she was a Christian. I'm using this New Testament terminology. The title and name Christian was not found in the pages of the Old Testament, but a Christian literally means Christ-like. It is somebody that believes and follows God. Can I tell you this morning that you're not a Christian because you come into a church? You're not a Christian because you carry a Bible. You're not a Christian because you call yourself a Christian. You're a Christian because you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You're a believer. You're a follower of Christ. You obey God and do what God tells you to do. Christian literally means Christ-like. Are you living like Christ? Are you following him? She was a Christian and she had what the Bible calls a peace, a peace that passeth all understanding in the face of great hardship. Beloved, can I tell you, as a Christian, you have the peace of God. Not just peace with God, when you put your faith and trust in Christ. Your sins are forgiven, and you are restored into a right relationship with Him, and now you have peace with God. You're no longer standing under His judgment. You're no longer standing condemned in your sin, dead in your trespasses and sins, but you're restored into a right relationship with Him. Well you have peace with God, but also the Bible tells us that you have peace of God. That peace that passeth all understanding. That peace of God that when you're in the midst of a turmoil and midst of trial and hardship, you have an unexplainable peace upon your soul. Because God is with you. Or the world does not know or understand that kind of peace. They sing about it at Christmas. And many of them don't even understand what it is. We look at our world today and the turmoil that's on every hand. And most people are full of an Anxiety, so concerned about what tomorrow holds. But the believer has peace. They can say in the face of all of it all that listen God's in control and it is well. It is well. Only those that know him have this kind of peace. I read some years ago about a family that had suffered a great loss, very similar to the Tsunamite War. They had in their home their only child, a little boy. He got sick and died, and They desired to have the viewing at their home. They wanted their little boy to be at their home one more time, and so they had the casket brought in and put into the den of their home. The casket sat there and the the father who was a big, strong, just robust kind of a man, a man's man, and They brought the casket in and he looked at his dear wife who was a small and frail lady and he looked at his dear wife and he went outside and he picked up the phone and he called his doctor and he says, Doc, I'm so afraid for my wife. She's already so frail and and I'm just so afraid that the grief would be too much for her. I don't know if she's going to be able to take it. Is there anything, Doc that you could give her that would help her just get through this this loss and this hard time and he and he says, well let me come and I'll I'll sit down and talk to her. And so he made a house call and he came by the house and The father met the doctor out front and brought him in through the living room and they're walking down a small hallway to the den where the boy's body was laying. And as they come down the hallway, they heard his dear wife praying. Well, they heard him heard her talking, and they thought at first that she was talking to her son. Then they realized that she was praying, and they heard her pray, dear Lord. You know that my husband is not a Christian. And he does not know and understand the peace of God that can dwell in the heart of a believer. And that, God, I know that you're in control. Lord, I pray that through this, through the loss of my dear boy, that my husband would come to a place where he would see that he needed a savior Would you please bring my husband to Jesus? Lord, would you please allow him to experience and know the peace of God, the peace that I have in my heart today? You see, he was worried about her, but she was worried about him. Because he didn't have the peace that she had. Yes, she still felt the loss. Yes, she still was going through the pain, but she had the peace of God with her, and she could say it is well because of the peace of God. Beloved, there are many who need that. Last Sunday we sang the song by Horatio Stafford. It is well. Mr. Stafford was a successful lawyer in Chicago in the financial crisis of eighteen seventy-three. He had lost most of his property and many of his investments, and the stress and strain of the times was so great. prevailed upon him and his home so much that he thought it would do his family well if maybe his wife and four daughters could escape. At least just get out of the stress of it all. And so he persuaded them to take a trip over to France. He paid for and put them on a ship and sent them on their way to France. All those on the ship were excited, and you know, all of the anticipation and the thrill of an ocean voyage was present. They set sail on November 15, 1873, and all went well until November 22nd. Shortly after midnight, the Loch Aaron, bound for New York, collided with the ship carrying Mrs. Fafford and her four girls It was just a few minutes. The destruction was such that the ship quickly went to the bottom of the ocean. The Locke Aaron was not destroyed, was not even hurt, was still a worthy vessel, so they worked and labored hard to save all that they could, but the ship went down so fast. Out of the 226 passengers, only 87 survived. Of those 87, Mrs. Stafford was one. But having lost her four girls, Mrs. Fatford carried that burden alone until she reached the shores of France. When she was able to telegraph back and say, stay, saved alone, children lost, what shall I do? Saved alone, children lost, what shall I do? The Chicago attorney left immediately to join his wife and bring her home It is said that as he journeyed across the ocean in those very same waterways where his bodies of his dear children laid. Yes, he was feeling and experiencing that pain of loss and the grief that was so real and present. But it was there that God's grace also was sufficient for him. And allowed him to pin his only song. And he wrote the words to it as well with my soul. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrow like sea builds Roll, whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul One verse reads this My soul, my sin, owe the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Oh my Soul. It is well. Beloved, it is well, and that day he was able to pin those words, even in the face of such great hardship and loss, because he knew the Lord. Because he was a believer. Because he was what we would call a Christian. Can I tell you secondly the reason that That this Shunammite woman was able to say it as well was not only because she was a Christian, she knew God, believed in him, but also the Bible tells us that she was careful. Look at verse number 13. And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. I don't mean that she was careful like the Bible tells us to be careful for nothing. That word means anxious. That's not what we're talking about. I believe that What I'm describing here is that how the Bible tells us to be careful to do good works I believe that she was careful to do right. That she had purposed in her heart that this is right to do, this is good to do, this is what a believer should do, this is what would bring honor and glory to God. So I believe that she was careful to do right, and because of that, she had a peace in her heart, and because of that, she could declare it is well in the face of tragedy. You know, sometimes when tragedy strikes, all concern for doing right goes out the window. But we need to be careful. Careful to do right. Ecclesiastes 8 verse number 12 says this, though a sinner do evil a hundred times and his days be prolonged, Yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God. Beloved, it shall be well with them that fear God. What he's saying is this, it will be well with those that are careful to do right, even when you don't feel like it. You ever not felt like going to church? You ever not felt like doing right? You know, the Bible says to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. You see, when we know what's right to do and we don't do it, that's wrong. And so we need to be careful to do right, even in the face of loss, even in the face of hardship, even in the face of challenging times and situations. Titus 3. 8 is where it says, be careful to maintain good works, to do good, to do good even though you don't feel like it. She was able to say it as well because it was her nature, it was her pattern and habit of life to do right even when she didn't feel like doing right Lastly, this morning, I want you to see that she was able to say it as well because she was content. She was content. We see there in verse number 13, not only was she careful for us with all this care, but what is to be done for thee? Man of God, the servant, the prophet, says, What wouldest thou be spoken for to the king or to the captains of the host? Just hey, you want me to go talk to the king for you? Want me to get you some provision or maybe some land or you want me to do something I mean magnificent for you? You want me to put in a good word or uh kind of paved the way for you in some in some respect and look at her response and she answered I dwell among mine own people She says, you know what, I'm content. It's enough for me to have family and home. It's enough for me just to be here and My small little village. I don't need anything magnificent. I don't need anything special. I'm not longing for anything else. Boy, God's already been better to me than I deserve. No, no, I'm I'm okay. Beloved, that she was content I remember hearing about a couple that was at a restaurant and they were on their monthly date. They were going out and every month with a they needed it or not, they were gonna go on a date. And they were sitting there at the restaurant and, you know, sitting across from each other, and the lady she looked at few booze over and she noticed there a couple. And this guy was scrunched up all close to his wife, you know, he was like right up against her. And uh every once in a while he would lean over and you know, move her hair and he would whisper something in her ear and and she would blush a little bit and you know and and then he was playing with her hair and and and rubbing her shoulder and and she was just so taken with that she looked at her husband and she said, Honey, why why don't you do that? She says he looked back and says, I don't even know that lady. You know, beloved humorous story. But we get to looking all over and we always see other it's it's always better for somebody else. Always look at other situations and And we get to behold it and looking at other things. And there was one of the early church writers that was asked about his capacity for contentment and said, Why why is it you find the ability to be so content? And he said, well, what I've learned is I've learned how to control these. I've learned how to control my eyes. You see, when I feel myself maybe being a little bit discontent, uh, he says, I've found the ability to look up and heaven. And I begin to realize that my primary goal down here is to get up there. And then from there I'm able to look at this earth and I realize how small of a space, how small of a speck I am in the grand scheme of things. I don't know if any of you watched anything about the Artemis II launch, and one of the uh astronauts said what they realized being privileged to go is just how small they were. How small, as an individual in this great magnificent magnitude of nature and the earth and space, that how small of a speck we individually are. This early church writer went on and he says, and then I found that when I take my eyes and I look around at others, I don't look for people that are in a better position than me, because you can always find them. But you also can always find those who are not doing as well as you. And he says, and when I see others. that are struggling, others that are experiencing loss, others that are carrying burdens. I I'm able to look at them and I realize, man, I really am blessed. You see, beloved, a lot of grabbing a hold of and being content is not about what you have. It's about what you're looking at. And this world today spends billions of dollars every year with one goal in mind, and that is to grab a hold of your eyes to make you dis Discontent to desire to have or to attain something else. She could say it as well because she was content. Paul learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. You know, you can have it all. And still not be well still not be able to say it is well. You know, all you have to do is look At the movers and shakers of society. Look at the influencers. Look at look at the the the movie stars and the rock stars They have all that this world has to offer. And how many of them are killing themselves? How many of them their their lives are wretched? They don't have joy, they don't have peace, they don't know Contentment. They have all that this world has to offer, but they're not experiencing. They cannot lay their head on the pillow at night and say it is well. It is well. Because beloved, it's not how much you have, it's where you're looking. Could I give you a personal illustration and bring this to a close? In July 27th, Two thousand and four. Ten thirty two PM and I was standing in the hospital room and Holding Timothy Samuel Vattrell, who had just been born a couple of hours earlier. We're there in the room and my dear wife she she looked at me and she said boy I don't I don't feel right she's like I I feel like I'm tingling all over like There's there's something not quite there's something wrong, something's not quite right. And so I called the the nurse in and the nurse came in and checked her out and kinda went through some things And she said, okay, well, you know, just we'll just watch it and we'll we'll see how you're doing in the morning. And she walked out. At 3. 12 in the morning, Mary was in a lot of pain. She said to me, says, Caleb, I've been through this. And I know And I called the nurse back in this time uh She brought a helper with her and they came in and they kind of almost discredited my wife's concerns and were a little bit casual about it all and they were like, Oh okay, well you know what let's let's get you up and and you know maybe we'll take you in here and and you you can use the facilities and and we'll just we'll we'll see how you're doing and They got her up and I'm holding Timothy and walking around and I move out of the way for her to get by and to make their way to the restroom. They open the restroom door that opens this way into the room and they they go around the door and they they they're walking into the restroom and then I hear one of the nurses with great alarm say oh no there she goes And that urgency in the nurse's voice causes me to run around and I run I come around the door and I'm holding Timothy in my arm and I look into this bathroom and I can still see it like it's yesterday. I can see it in slow motion. I don't understand how it could have happened. I don't know what took place in that room in that few seconds, but can I tell you that there on the floor laid my wife and behind her stood a nurse looking like this and in front on one side stood the other nurse and Mary was covered in her own blood There was so much blood on the bathroom floor that I can still see it in like slow motion as the blood was coming down the floor and going down into the drain. And I thought, oh no, and they sounded the alarm and they called for the nurses and every nurse and every doctor on that floor ran to that room in a matter of seconds the room was filled with people and they had a gurney and the doctor said Get us to OR right now. We I need lights and I need some tools. They put her on a gurdy and they ran her out and they started heading down the hallway and I started following. The doctor turned around and he looked at me and he said, You stay in the room and just hold your son It was only a few seconds later, and I was standing in a room that just a moment ago was full of people and all of the energy and effort to save a life. And now there was nothing but quiet. I heard the beeping of machines in distant rooms. I heard the sound of a ventilator. Running in the next room over. I'm holding Timothy there in my arms. I'm walking around that room. Can I tell you that I'm standing there looking at this baby that was just a couple hours old. Holding Timothy in my arms and My three-year-old Alicia was at home. My eighteen-month-old Andrew. Was at home with somebody. But I was holding them in my heart. And I began to think, Lord, I can't raise these kids by myself. Lord, what am I going to do if she doesn't come back from that OR? Lord, what am I gonna do tonight? That doctor comes back and tells me she didn't make it. Now stand there holding that Timothy and I say, God, I can't raise this boy by myself. I can't do it, Lord. Lord, I can't do what you've called me to do. I can't do it, God. I don't know what I'm gonna do if I lose her tonight Can I tell you as I walked around that room with tears running down my face and a burned in my heart for my wife who was in the OR and I didn't know if the doctor was gonna come back and tell me she was gone or that she was gonna be okay. I didn't know what was gonna happen, but can I tell you that the grace of God came down and met me in that room and I literally held Timothy in my arms and I began to sing to Timothy Win peace like I tended my way with sorrows like sea. Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say It is well, it is well with my soul. I held Timothy there and I sang to him in the words and I said, God, I know you're in control. And whatever your will is tonight, I submit to that. And I understand, God, that you are in control. And I trust you. And I say with a voice of praise that it is well no matter what tomorrow holds. And can I tell you tonight, wherever this morning, wherever you're at, whatever struggle you're facing, that you can say it is well if you know God is your Savior, if you're willing to be careful to do what is right And if you look for him to supply that contentment that is part of your life, you can live a life and say it is well, no matter what. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I would ask of you this morning, is it well with you? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt this very morning that your soul is saved, that your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven? Would you say to me, Pastor Caleb? I don't know that this morning. Would you be willing to just lift your hand up and say, pray for me? I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven today. Would you show me by an uplift hand and say, pray for me? I need that kind of peace in my life. Would there be one? Would there you be be one this morning and say, Pastor Caleb, God has touched my heart today about being uh fully committed to him, about being careful about what I do in this life and being willing to say it is well even in the face of battle. Pastor Caleb, would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand and say that's me. Dear Lord, as we come to this moment of invitation, we submit this service to you and ask you to be with these that raise their hand all over the auditorium this morning. That God, in the face of hardship, in the face of trial, when we'll tomorrow we don't know what it's going to hold, but we know who holds tomorrow, God. We pray you'd give us the courage and the strength to submit and to be able to say it is well. Whatever it is, it's going to be okay because God, we know you're in control and we're relying on you Lord, I pray that she would be with these your people this day in Jesus' precious name