We would go to Acts chapter nineteen. Acts nineteen. And I just want to express uh from Grad and I thank you. Thank you to each one of you for your faithfulness to the Lord, for Hunt Valley Baptist Church, as we uh Uh came back after fourteen years uh serving the Lord to the nation of Zambia. Well Lord brought us back in expanded the ministry at that time internationally in 2006, based in Memphis, Tennessee, since then. and uh traveling and working we do internationally with missionaries, young people, uh young and old, so to speak. And uh Filling niches, filling holes, answering phone calls. The Lord's just expanded in a lot of ways. We'll talk about that. But you have been part and parcel since 2008. We had the opportunity to be with you. I think it was either the second or third conference over in the storefront. And thank the Lord for those early days and what God brought you through there and then the opportunity to be with you a number of times uh crawling around in the attic of this place, uh doing some stuff when you first moved in over here and other times like that And we rejoice in what God has done and continues to do in your midst. Thank you for your prayers. Thank you for your faithful giving. And always someone that we can just call. I can just call your pastor and say, hey, can you just pray with me about such and such, or here's this need, or here's where we're going, and know that you all were not only just behind us, but that theme of holding the ropes that we're emphasizing, that you're emphasizing, Lord willing, this year, but kicks off this week, is not just a cliche. It's something that is acted out and lived upon in your Christian lives. And we're going to kind of begin focusing on that tonight if you want to entitle the message. You can call it It Takes a Church. It takes a church. Acts chapter 19 and we'll start reading in verse 8. It deals in the context with the Apostle Paul. He's on his what's called a third missionary journey in this text. He has journeyed back to the city of Ephesus. And he's preaching and teaching there along with some fellow laborers. And it says in verse 8, And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly for the space of three months. disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude He departed from them and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyranus. And this continued by the space of two years, and no to this next part. So that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that your will is divine, and above all, we thank you that tonight we do not have to meet together and just encourage one another with uh how you doing and a few personal thoughts of encouragement but Father we sit be for us with the Word of God directly from you and we uh open it and you speak to us through the Holy Spirit of God I pray that you would help us to be responsive. Help us to be open to your word. I mean to preach it, to be clear, and speak the things that are important and leave aside the things that are not. I pray if there's anyone here that does not know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, that they might repent and trust you tonight. I pray that you'd have your will and way in Hunt Valley Baptist Church, that you'd continue not only uh increasing the amount of financial giving that they may give this year towards reaching a world for Jesus Christ But Lord, they'd see the very souls of people around about them as this man Paul and those who were serving with him and how people that they're reaching now or may reach or may disciple or may bring al and walk alongside with could literally be the next people in the coming years to go into a whole area that could hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. I pray you'd have your willing way in this in Jesus' name Amen. How does a whole region of the world Hear the gospel of Jesus Christ in in such a short amount of time. It's amazing when you study out this passage and these words that are used here. This is not just God speaking in superlatives. I'm thankful that we have a leader in America now who does speak in superlatives and many times may get carried away even with his superlatives in which he speaks But yet, boy, is that refreshing compared to the other way around. All right? But God's not that way. God doesn't just say That all of Asia heard the Word of God and kind of meant, well, part of it. Okay? He said all. He said, in this course of this space of two years, it says, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus. Now, this Asia that's here in the Bible is not the Asia that we define today, of course, but that's not to belittle what God's capable of doing. But in Bible definition times, we certainly still have a huge area of population at that point. If we had a map before us, we would go certainly to the area of Turkey today. And perhaps it was just that western part, but that western part of Turkey, northeastern part of Greece, and those areas there in which, as we read later in the book of Revelation and those seven churches That's the area that he was referring to. Well, that's not a little populace of just a couple hundred people or even a smattering of villages or so forth like that You are talking about a major crossroads of the world even at that point in time in its history The Roman Empire had expanded far, far beyond those borders and into the Far East or the Middle East at that point in time. And so how many people, how many literally more than likely millions of people perhaps that this encapsulates, no one can guesstimate, but yet it would be a Certainly a much larger amount of people than you and I would say, you know what? I'm going to start today, and I'm going to spend every day for the rest of my life telling someone the Word of God And I believe that in this short period of time it will have been far more than we could take in. Yet how did that happen? How did that begin? We might look at, well, this was Paul's missionary journey. He was the experienced missionary. He spoke Greek. He spoke Hebrew. he had all of the training of the Sanhedrin and all of these advantages of being a Roman citizen and all of those type of things. And that's true. But my friend, how is it that a region of the world can hear the Word of God, as I was just refreshing myself this afternoon with rereading this passage again? It's interesting that that word there, which he says, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord. Isn't the word word? It's one of those we just kind of you just kind of pass over, you know. Oh, they heard the word of the Lord. But that word is that word logos We know that word from John 1. In the beginning was the Word, right? Same word. Exactly here. And so here this is not simply that somebody heard about the Bible. This is not simply that they, oh, I heard about God today. No, this is much more defined as to what exactly, or I should say, who exactly they heard of during this description in this time He says he heard they heard the word of the Lord Jesus. This word logos is that uh the commentators, the word definers, so to speak, those wordsmiths and studies would look at it as the divine the divine expression of the person Jesus Christ Hmm. Why do people all of a sudden get offended who you can talk all kinds of things about church And all kinds of things even about God, all kinds of things maybe even about a divine providence or about a about that there's a creator and you can generalize even maybe get a little bit more specific but the moment you start going down that road of the Lord Jesus Christ woo Well everybody gets offended. Okay? Now Jesus said that would happen, didn't he? Huh? That all be offended because of his name. Mm-hmm. But yet, does that then cause us to clam up and talk about church, Bible? God, all these other things which are not bad, and yet there's only one name under heaven. given among men whereby we must be saved. And that was what all these people heard about. The word of the Lord, that of the Lord Jesus Christ. How does that happen? How does this person or people, Paul and these others with him, Take the gospel to all of this area of Asia, all of these people, by word of mouth. It doesn't say that Paul went to all of those places at that time. No, it spread It spread. It was contagious from one believer to another believer to another believer to another believer. And it spread and it caught on like wildfire, if you would How does that happen? And how can it happen again today through Hunt Valley Baptist Church? It takes a church. Where did that begin in Paul's life? Go back with me if you would to Acts chapter 5. Acts chapter 5, I submit to you tonight that not only does it take a church to reach a whole region of the world for Jesus Christ. But it takes specific people. It takes members of a church just like Hunt Valley Baptist Church. How many of you ever heard of that church before tonight? Right here in Hunt Valley, Maryland, all right, in Timonium, Tockiesville, and so forth around this area, it takes people who are faithful witnesses. Now, be careful because you get in missions conferences and we get used to hearing terms like witness and and and the and gospel and go ye and all of those things. But how did this region of Asia heard the gospel? Beginning through the Apostle Paul, it started back here. Acts chapter 6. We know this man. And we find this man introduced to us in verse 5, it says, and the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen. A man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost. Others are listed there. I'm not belittling them, but we don't have time to develop all of that. But we can focus on this man, Stephen, who was a faithful witness. We know he was a faithful witness because in the following chapters we find him as a is he a missionary called to go to foreign fields Is he even a pastor called to pastor the church in Jerusalem or elsewhere around Israel at that time? No. It's a faithful layman in the Church of Jerusalem. is a faithful witness sharing the word of God with those that he heard. And even when persecution came and when those including a young man named Saul would come and entice others, in fact perhaps paying under the table and bringing false witness and so forth against this man Stephen. Boy, whoo, you read you read these these uh This preaching in Acts chapter 7 that that uh Stephen does, he's testifying. He's being a faithful witness of his Savior. But you know what? He doesn't begin with the Romans road, Pastor. Oh, of course, Romans wrote hadn't been even written yet. He he went back through the Old Testament. I mean, you talk about a sermon, I mean, he hit pretty much every book. And the history and the poets and the major minor prophets, and he was going through up and down all of Israel's history before him, and all the while Boy, Jeremiah exhorted the prophet, said be not afraid of their faces. You talk about, I mean, sometime as a preacher, you know, brother Mike, you've been there, you you preach and somebody's out there and they're going Mm, they don't like what you're saying or whatever, you know, disagreeing. Maybe they're not even thinking about you, maybe they got an earbud in and their team's losing on the on the on the game or whatever But boy, does their face look like they hate you for whatever you're saying. And yet all of these people were there hating what he said. gnashing on him with their teeth. Why, just cursing and vile things that he was sharing with them. And what happened? They stoned him. They stoned him to death. But I would have you focus the end of chapter 8 because How does this area of Asia hear the Word of God? All of them hear the Word of God? It starts with faithful witnesses in the church like Stephen. It starts with faithful witnesses in this church, like Stephen. And as he witnessed, and as he saw the heavens open Son of man standing on the right hand of God. They cry out, they stop their ears, they cast him out of the city, they stone him, they lay their clothes At a young man's feet named Saul. Remember that. That's not an insignificant statement in the book of Acts. That's a seed plant. Because you can stop right there. Not adding to scripture. I'm not trying to speculate on what could have been or should have been said or any of that. But this young man was there. And he witnessed a godly, faithful layman in the church at Jerusalem. Speaking of his Savior and being a witness, as the scripture said And then saying, kneeling down, crying out, think about that. Saul heard that He heard Stephen cry out, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. How many times do you think young Saul had seen that in his life? How many times do you think that he had actually heard that? from somebody else's mouth, especially in such circumstances like what's happening right there Do you know that literally fulfills the word because the Greek word for witness in the New Testament primarily is the word that we translate martyr? Hello. My friend, just because I pull out one of these gospel tracts that you have a nice collection of, don't let those sit there and You can brag about say we got a nice collection of tracks at our church. Right? What are those for? Huh? Hey, look we can take people and walk up. See that? That's the we got the biggest track rack in North Baltimore. No, these are for witnessing. These are excuse me, these are helps. Okay? Who's for witnessing? Yeah, this person right here. Okay. Many times we use these as a substitute so we don't have to use this right here. You know what I'm saying? Been there, done that? Yeah, yeah Okay, I'm not preaching against these. I'm preaching against me having a closed mouth. To be a a witness, do not for a moment tell me That Stephen's faithful witness that day, even especially in the fact that he laid down his life for Christ. Did not haunt the dreams of Saul in those coming years. I know that because go with me to Acts 22. Acts chapter twenty-two. This is years later. This is even after all of Asia had heard the word of God. And Paul's rehearsing here in Acts 22 his testimony, and we won't read the whole uh passage, but at the end of it. In verse 18 he says, and saw him saying unto me, Make haste, get thee quickly out of Jerusalem, for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me, and I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee. Here we go. This is years later. And win the blood Of thy martyr, Stephen. Excuse me, thy witness, Stephen. Hello? Okay? Thy martyr Stephen was shed. I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them That slew him. How does all of Asia hear the word of God? It begins with faithful witnesses in the church. You say, Brother Gordon, if I knew who I was witnessing to and what would happen to them in the coming years and how God would use them, If you knew, what would you do? Do you think Stephen, as he was there being stoned was realizing and looking and somehow knew that there was a young man right there holding everybody's coats and a pile of them at his feet who would write 11 books of the New Testament. No idea. No idea. He was only with his eyes on the Lord and determined where he was to be that faithful witness. That's how a whole region of the world hears the gospel. By us being faithful witnesses. That's part of what this week is about. How do all these countries hear the Word of God? How do the other 185 of them around the world countries hear the Word of God through Hunt Valley Baptist Church by you being faithful witnesses right here? to people that in turn, those might be little kids in your Sunday school class, as a young man that we led to Christ about 22, 23 years ago, Greta had him in his in her Sunday school class there in Cobwe, Zambia. He sent me a WhatsApp video the other day. His name's Isaac, and he's a preacher of God's word, and he sent me a video and pictures of him baptizing folks in a region of Africa we've never even been to. Okay? Who does that? God does that. You just be faithful witness. And don't look at it as, well, I gotta go do my witnessing Boy, God could use anybody at any time through any place you go to turn and take that person and have them be sent around the world to take the gospel of Jesus Christ. Secondly, if you would, not only it takes a church with faithful witnesses like Stephen, but go back to Acts chapter 9. Acts chapter 9 again. Here's Saul's come to come to Jesus Christ, and it's easy for us to get all the attention on Paul, you know. I mean, years ago, Bill Rice III was preaching in our uh chapel or something at school, I think it was in high school, and and he was talking about how heaven was going to be and all that, and he said Can't you imagine? And he he tends like his father to get real facetious when he preaches, you know, and kind of sarcastic and so forth. And he says, can you imagine us all standing in heaven someday? There will be trumpets blow and a band will break out and and throngs will be clapping and cheering and standing ovation and there'll be whispers amongst the crowd. The Apostle Paul. And Paul will come strolling down through heaven. And everyone will throw down their coats and their. . Is that the way heaven is going to be? No. No, not that way. But if we're not careful, we read the Bible and think that missions is the Apostle Paul and everybody else just stands back and watches it happen. No, my friend. You know? How the gospel how they hear the gospel in Estonia? Well, just Brother Mike, Ms. Penny, that's it. If it's not them, it's not on us No, my friend. It's through faithful witnesses like us. Secondly, how do those people get there? How do they get trained up? How do you how do they like young people that you have in your church? Years ago a young s a young Sam Kim sat here and tell his story. We've uh especially with the uh the the uh uh social media and so forth going on. But we had privilege of knowing knowing them before that. Any of that happened And yet God raises up people. How does he do that? Through churches. Through local church. Through faithful people in the local church. And I go a little bit further. Through devoted disciplers. disciplers, maybe that's my own word, not sure, but someone who disciples. Let's meet one. Acts chapter 9. In Acts nine, Saul's struck down, blinded those who are with him who have not been converted, take him into the city of Damascus. The story gets kind of sketchy there. I don't know what happened to those guys who were with him that were persecuting Christians. You don't hear much about them. I think they did like most most, you know, people like that, they probably just kind of faded off, you know, left him be there for who the author when the authorities showed up or whatever. But sooner or later he ends up in the house of one called Judas, a disciple of Jesus Christ, and that's where he is, blinded by the Lord that he had met on that road. Meanwhile, God's talking to another disciple in that town. Acts 9, verse 10. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, not to be confused with the Ananias and Sapphira of earlier. who's already gone to his reward, so to speak. But this is another Ananias in Damascus there, and it says, and to him said the Lord in a vision Ananias. And look at Ananias' response. If you're not sure where this came from, you could do a little homework back in 1 Samuel chapter 1, 2, and 3. When young people, and I'm talking about children, are taught and trained by their parents or by Sunday school teachers and junior church workers and bus drivers and bus workers and wherever else you have opportunity to share with them, people right in the pew, ushers in the church, the people you pray with on Wednesday nights or Thursday nights and so forth like that, that are devoted disciples of Christ. who are not just interested in coming and getting fed at church, but who are interested in discipling other people, bringing them along. with us in the Christian life so that they're growing. And this one, Ananias, he responds when God speaks to him. Look what he says. Behold, I am here, Lord. Is that your answer to God tonight? My wife and I both were called as young people. I'm thankful for that. But I'm thankful for people who taught us the Word of God, gave us the gospel, told us what the Bible said, and Stories of read we read and all of that, and the Lord prepared our hearts so that when God spoke, you knew how to answer. Is that how you answer? I'm thankful that God still calls 57-year-old people to the mission field, too. We've been working together with Gary and Lisa Zadarsky for the last couple of years helping them prepare. Him and I still do online Or not online, a phone phone uh remote uh call every week for about an hour, working through things with deputation, working through things now with field transition as they prepare to go to Poland in the next couple of months, Lord willing. Are you praying for 'em? But yet people like that with and if you're fifty-seven tonight, uh you're not too old. Okay But would your answer be, Speak, Lord, a servant heareth. And Naias responded, And God gives him the details about, hey, I want you to go, basically, and this is my little paraphrase, I want you to go get up, go to uh into a street called straight. And there's a man named Saul there, and uh, and what he's called him to do, and so forth. Look at verse 13. And Ananias answered, Lord, and I'm putting the and that kind of stuff in in there, you know, Lord, I have heard by many of this man how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem, and here he hath authority Authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. Okay, one of those you know Moses opportunities to go to Pharaoh and uh and those types of things. Do you do we ever make those excuses? I do. Okay? Oh, that's not a good idea, Lord. Ah, that won't work, Lord. Oh, I you know, I I'm just not a perfect one for that fit. How about call him to go there? Whatever it might be No, my friend, here's people. This man, Ananias, he's not a pre-called preacher. Hello, he's not a pastor in the church of Damascus. He's not even a deacon in the church of Damascus. He's just a faithful disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. In a place where they're preparing, so to speak, to start a local New Testament church. By the way, pray for those Christians in Damascus tonight Okay? Tonight in Damascus, Syria, and Antioch, and these places that we're reading of here, excuse me, a side note, they're crucifying them on the streets tonight. As we speak, literally. All right? And yet people are being faithful witnesses For real. Being faithful disciples. For real. And Ananias got up and he went and he took control. And what did he do? He helped them. God used them to open his eyes. God used them to baptize him, as near as we could tell, God used them to feed him and getting him connected with the other disciples and so forth there in Damascus. Oh, Lord willing, Sunday morning we'll preach and talk more about that aspect. But there are people in your midst, my friend, in this church, in this That you know that perhaps are already saved and so forth. And I would ask you tonight, you're here on a Thursday night. You've come here seeking God's will and God's word, I trust, but I would ask you tonight, Hunt Valley Baptist Church Whom are you discipling? Don't you don't need to tell me, but name one Who is that first person on your list right now, on your prayer list, on your heart that you're personally reaching out to young, old, rich, poor, whatever in this church, outside of this church that you're seeking to win to Christ, that if they have already won to Christ, that you're trying to exhort them and bring them along in the next steps of getting baptized and following the Lord, that you're teaching them by your own testimony. You say, well, I haven't gone to Bible college, Brother Gordon, and I don't know all the scriptures or all those exact things to say. Neither did Ananias He just knew that when God spoke, I I better listen. And even if I'm concerned and it might be difficult and it might mean getting up way early in the morning, it might be going down to the jail to minister to somebody where it's not so easy, or it might be in the face of somebody who's real intimidating and big and, you know, larger than you are, or maybe smarter than you are or whatever it might be, we go and we devote our lives and we disciple people and then God raises them up and promotes them and does miracles with them far and beyond what you could ask or even think. That happens through this church. He wants to do that more in 2025 than he has ever done before Because there's more people in this world and in this community and area and so forth to do it with. Let us determine. Talking to Caleb before church. I'm sorry, not Caleb. You're Caleb. It is Caleb. You're right. I thought he said Caleb. That's right. It must be junior then. Sort of. Alright. We'll leave it alone. I was talking to I was talking, I was right. I was talking to Caleb before church. And uh don't answer me, but you ask yourself, who my disciple Who am I in obedience to God coming alongside? Might be somebody who's eight years old. I don't know. Might be some I remember that impressed me so as far as uh uh early on we were uh getting ready or when we were going to Zambia and there was some missionary somewhere along the way who just said realize that the next pastor in that church you are planning might be right now a ten year old boy. Okay? Sunday school teacher, realize that. Bus worker, realize that, and take them under your wing, not as the know it all, I know everything, and I can do, I'll tell you what to do and all of that. No, love them. Care for them, share yourself with them, give of yourself, befriend them, help them. That's what Ananias did. He was a devoted disciple. How does all of Asia hear the Word of God? Faithful witnesses, devoted disciples like Stephen and Ananias, and lastly Like, how does all of Asia hear the Word of God through grace givers? I didn't it wasn't a stretch at all to get to that point. Okay? You might oh Brother Garner, I knew you'd get to the money because it's Faith promise and so forth. No, you know what? That has very little to do with what we're talking about That's just a side note fruit. It needs to be done. God will do it. God will multiply it. But here's a man named Barnabas. Ananias helps Saul. He escapes, and we'll talk about this Lord willing on Sunday, and escapes Damascus and so forth. He makes his way down to Jerusalem. after they they had sought to kill him. And then look at verse 26, Acts 9, verse 26, last point here. And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself to the disciples, but they were all they were all what? Afraid of him. Wait a minute, he's in Jerusalem. Okay, who's in Jerusalem still? Hmm, John? How about? Okay, kind of the Hall of Fame of disciples that are still alive, you know, that hadn't fled because of the persecution upon Stephen? Boy, there's some keynote people there, but it said they were afraid of him and believed not that he was a disciple. Verse twenty seven. But Barnabas took him. You don't get anything else tonight. My friend, we just need to go and take people. We just need to go to people. You know there's certain people That brother Bob, you and Sister Carol, that you know like nobody else in this room. So the Gus, you and your family, I think he's back to up there somewhere. Yep. You and your family have people that you know in your spheres of family, friends, neighbors, everything. That you know like nobody else in here knows. Every single believer in this room is that way. And Barnabas started out, you can do your homework in Acts chapter 4, and you find he was a grace giver. He wasn't content with just his tithe. He sold a plot of land and he gave it. And that was his reputation. That was his reputation as he goes and he gets a young Saul and takes him under his wing here and introduces him to to the other disciples in Jerusalem and mentors him. Who was Barnabas? Was he one of the twelve? No. Was he a pastor in the Church of Jerusalem? No. Was he a deacon on the list from the seven? No. Faithful giver in the church. And through him, he ends up mentoring Saul. They end up going to Antioch of Syria and helping that baby church get started. And then that baby church turns around and sends in Acts chapter 13 those two guys out to shape the world for Jesus Christ. Oh my friends, what are we doing? You say, well, this is a lot more than I thought was involved with this conference, Brother Gordon. Exactly Okay? That's the opportunity that you as grace givers in this church, you take that card and you pray over what God would have you to give. That's not just So you can send some money to help somebody to go to Australia or go to uh uh uh India or somewhere like that. That's a little part of it But more so the part of it is as you give, God multiplies and takes that because you're doing here what those missionaries are doing there. You are faithful witnesses. You are devoted disciplers And you are grace givers. And because of people like Stephen and like Ananias and like Barnabas in those early churches, Saul got saved. And not only got saved, but got discipled. And not only got discipled, but got mentored and partnered and sent forth by laymen in the church. And through that, all of Asia and way beyond that heard the Word of God. And He will do the same today through Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Let's pray.