All right, you should be in Matthew chapter 14 this morning. That's where our our message is going to come from. Hopefully that video didn't put you to sleep, that you have some energy left and you can engage your mind for a few minutes as we talk about Jesus, our supplying Savior. On the 9th of August, I was in Poquetella, Idaho, and had the privilege of preaching for Pastor Whitaker and the people of Mountain Valley Baptist Church. They thought it was very interesting that I was from Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And they said, Oh, you're from Hunt Valley and we're mountain valley and I said, Yeah, what a what a neat thing. But they're there of course in the valley between the between the mountains and So very fitting uh for their location. But uh that Sunday morning uh Pastor Whittaker preached the Sunday school hour and he was he's going through a series where he's teaching on the miracles of Jesus. And he actually taught from this passage of Scripture on this particular miracle on that day. And uh of all the miracles, as he's going through the miracles one at a time, I would think that of all the miracles that you Jesus performed while he was here on earth, this would probably be as far as recognizable or a miracle that people know about. It's got to be in the top five. It may be even in the top three. I mean it's right up there with Jesus turned water into wine. I don't know why so many people know about that miracle. Uh they just like to talk about the fact that, well, Jesus turned water into wine. Uh and so they like to discuss that, but it's right up there with that. This is one of the most well-known miracles, the feeding of the five thousand And many, many people, even if they don't necessarily go to church or certainly on a regular basis, aren't in church, but they have heard of the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000. Well, this miracle takes place shortly after Jesus had found out that John the Baptist had been killed. If you read the beginning parts of this chapter, they found out that John the Baptist was killed, was beheaded actually. His head was taken and Jesus heard this news. And we see in verse number 13, he says, When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart. He wanted to take a few minutes. He just wanted to get alone. He had heard this devastating news. The forerunner of Jesus Christ, his friend John the Baptist, had been beheaded. He wanted to get alone for a little bit. He wanted to get apart. I think it was Vance Habner that said, uh you've got to get apart before you come apart. Amen. There's got to be some times, sometimes where you get alone, where you do get apart, where you are with God by yourself. Jesus was looking for that. He wanted to get alone for a little bit. However, as was the case with Jesus, people Heard where he was, the news started to spread, and you'll see the people from the surrounding area came out and found him there where he was. After some time, them gathering there, being present, listening to his teaching, him healing sick and dealing with them, they began to grow hungry. The disciples came up with a solution. The disciples said, Hey, there's shops in town. Send them away. Let them go buy some food. They can all go get the food that they want. And Jesus said, nope, they don't need to go away. Why don't you give them to eat? And they, of course We're like, uh how are we gonna do that? Lord, we we don't have sufficient and if you read the other accounts of this uh in the other three gospels, you small tidbits of information are given in each of the gospels and you find that uh you know they they only had a little bit of money among among them, not enough to supply food for everyone. They say, hey, this is insufficient fund Of course, we know the story of the little lad who came with his five loaves and two fish and graciously gave that to Jesus to do with as he will, but what is this among so many? And they said, We have this, but of course uh that's not enough. And Jesus said, Well bring bring me what you have. And Jesus performed this miraculous feat where he blessed, braked, and fed 5,000 plus women and children. Well, beloved, I hope to encourage your heart this morning as we talk about this idea of Jesus, our supplier. The meter of our needs. Philippians 4. 19 tells us, but my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Jesus wants to supply for you. Jesus wants to work miracles in your life. Well, the reason Jesus wants to do this is because he's a compassionate and a loving God. First of all, would you notice with me that Jesus saw the multitude in verse number 14? He says, And Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion towards them, and he healed their sick. This is God in the flesh, the creator of the universe, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords He saw the multitude and was moved with compassion. Can I ask you this morning, what does it take to move you? With compassion. What does it take to stir your heart as I was able to watch the sunrise this morning from 41,000 feet? Then not long after we were flying into Baltimore, of course, coming over the Baltimore-Washington Corridor. Looking out the window of the plane there, looking down on this region and just seeing thousands and thousands of homes. Just mile after mile of home, one after the other. There's a lot of swimming pools in this region, I'll tell you that. So I was looking down on these homes, I'm like, man, there's a lot of these homes that have pools in their backyards. But there's just I could not help as I saw all of these houses and all of these places of business and all of these this region that that is people's livelihood and where they live and where their families are being raised and where they're where where they're uh building their relationships and living their lives. I just look at it and I just think, wow, so many people. And I wonder who's reaching them, who's giving them the gospel, how what opportunity do they have to even hear the truth Even in our nation where the gospel is so readily available, where the truth is available in almost any medium you could possibly think of, it's there. But how shall they hear without a preacher How the people are they getting the gospel? Who's reaching them? Jesus saw the multitude and he was moved with compassion. Are you moved about a lost and a dying world without Jesus Christ? To have compassion is to be moved in your heart. To be on beyond just a feeling, but it is a feeling to be moved to action. Jesus felt for the needs of the people. Now the disciples, the disciples saw the people and came up with a solution. And verse 15, and when it was evening, the disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place. The time is now past. I mean, you know, dinner time, time that normally people would eat, is is kind of past. We're getting beyond that, and these they said, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victors. What I want you to understand is Jesus never sends them away. Jesus never sends anyone away. Jesus always says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You see, the disciples saw the problem The disciples saw, here's this large multitude of people, and they're going to need to be fed. And how are we don't have means to feed them and here's a great problem in front of us. And they said the solution to the problem is to send them away. But that didn't fix the problem, did it? It just removed the problem from the disciples. All those people still needed to eat. But Jesus says to them, No, they don't need to be sent away. They don't need to depart. Ye give them to eat. And beloved, when we come into God's house and we have the privilege and opportunity of working with people. I was talking to somebody, uh extended relative at the uh 50th wedding anniversary of Mary's parents, and He was a trustee at his church for a long time, and then he was moved up or moved over to another department where he now works with people. And he said to me, he said, I would much rather be a trustee. He says, this working with people I mean everybody has different ideas and everybody's personalities are different and this is so hard. He says, I don't know how you pastors do it. I I don't know. I said that that's the ministry. The ministry is people. And people are problems. But if you don't want any problems, that means you don't have any people. So you have to beg God to give you what's needed. To meet the need. I, of course, as a pastor, hear this phrase, and it's like Jesus is speaking to me. He says Ye give them to eat. He's saying, you have a job, you need to feed them, you need to feed God's people. Don't send them away, but feed them, give them what they need. And I stand in the place of the disciples and say, but I don't have any meat. How can I give them to eat? And beloved, what I want you to understand for us as a whole is when people come into the church that sometimes you know the children are going to be obnoxious. Sometimes they're going to cry in the service. Sometimes the kids will do things You know, uh somebody in the church van took a screwdriver or a pencil or I don't know what it is, but they poked holes in the back of the seat And tore it up. Man, that's frustrating. Do you know how much that costs to try and fix that, to buy, to get a new seat cover, to buy a new seat? So the disciples' solution for that is don't pick them kids up anymore. That's not Jesus' solution. There is gonna be things that are frustrating. There's gonna be things that are hard, and I know sometimes it's hard to figure out when to practice with people and how to work out the music schedules and and and the conflict between who's practicing here and who's practicing there and who's using the piano downstairs and I don't know why it has to be so confusing. It is such a struggle to try and just to do the music program. Why is this so hard? Those of you that aren't involved in the music don't know what I'm talking about, but those of you that are, you have said exactly what I said right now So the solution is not just quit working with people. The solution is not just quit singing. The solution is not just give it up because it's a struggle. The solution is Ask God for help and continue to minister to people. There's going to be struggles. There's going to be hard times. There's going to be inconveniences. But if you're going to minister to people, you've got to work through that. Jesus said, give ye them to eat. He met the physical need so that he could continue to meet their spiritual need. Jesus never looks at the problem, he looks at the potential. And beloved, that's something we need to ask God for. The strength To see the potential, the ability to see beyond the problem. Lord, help us see the potential. As these young people people come in and run through the church and just about take out Dr. Keller, you know You want to catch them and wring them by the ear, right? Don't you run in front of an adult like that. Who do your parents teach you anything? You know, but hey, they need somebody to teach them. They need somebody to love them. They need somebody to help them. So the solution is not just to give up, not just to send them away. But to do what's necessary to be able to minister to them. I want you to understand wherever you're at personally today, Jesus sees your need. Jesus sees your need, your personal need. And he has compassion for you. He cares about you. Just as he cared for John the Baptist, when he heard that John the Baptist had been killed, Jesus said, I I gotta stop for a minute. I need to get, I need to just go be alone for a little bit. Now the multitudes didn't allow him to do that, but he was moved. He loved him. The only place in the scriptures that we see that Jesus wept Was when he was communicating about the death of Lazarus and hadn't raised him from the dead yet. But Jesus wept He wept for the heartbreak that those around him felt in the loss of losing Lazarus, his friend. Jesus cares for you. He has compassion for you. There's a story about a businessman who needed some money for a new project and he went to the bank. And he's sitting there talking to the bank of banker about getting a loan and the the the loan officer, the banker sitting there says, Well, uh you doesn't look like we're gonna be able to give you a loan. Sorry. And he says, but you know what? I have a little test I like to do. He says, I ha I have one glass eye, and I have one real eye. If you can tell me which is which, I'll give you the loan. So the businessman looked at him and said, your left eye is the real one. He says, that's right. He said most people don't get it. How did you know that? He said, well, because in the other one I I hinted I I saw a little hint of compassion. You see, as Christians we're not supposed to be like that. We're supposed to have compassion. If we're gonna be like Christ, Christ has Compassion. God is not a disconnected, cold-hearted, separated God that just is looking down from above, watching the chaos in your life without any interest. God knows what's going on in your life. He has compassion. He wants to move in your situation. Whatever your need is today, God sees it and wants to supply. I want you to see that in our story here that He supplied miraculously. In verses 19 and 20, he says, and he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass and took the five loaves and the two fish and Looked up to heaven, he blessed and broke, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. And they did all eat and were I want you to know this morning that I believe the Bible. I hope that you believe the Bible. There are those that would like to explain it away. There are those that would like to say, oh, it's just a story, or it's just an example, or it's just a parable, or they would like to take the miracles of Christ. and make them insignificant or destroy the miraculous nature of them, but I want you to understand that I choose to believe the Word of God as it was written and presented to us And that when Jesus said that he fed 5,000 plus women and children with five loaves and two fish, that I believe it. This is there's uh several people that try and explain away this miraculous miracle, and of course this little boy came up with his five loaves and two fish and they like to say that uh well what happened is when this boy came and gave his five loaves and two fish That all of the other people in the audience or that were there, they felt guilty. And so they pulled from their pockets their food. And they said, oh, you can have my food too. And somebody else said, Oh, you can have my food too. And it spread through. And so that's how this little boy fed this large group. How much you know that's hogwash. You know what hogwash is? Hogwash is the slop that comes from when you have a little bit of scraps on your plate And you rinse it off, you know, now we don't have too much, and so it gets cut in that strainer down at the bottom. That's hogwash. That's the stuff that the kitchen used to take and they would throw it all in a bucket to take it out to feed the pigs. They rinsed the plates off and any scraps of food that were left there, that was the hogwash, the the trash, the stuff that was of no value. Well that example, that illustration is hogwash. I believe the Bible I believe it's the word of God, and I believe what it says, and God miraculously provided. If you want to diminish God and you want to take away God's power and take away the miraculous nature of our sin, Savior, I I I don't understand it. I don't understand what you succeed in doing when you try and do that. But I ser I serve an omnipotent, that is all powerful, God. He created man out of the dust of the ground, and if he wanted to feed 5,000 people with manna from heaven, oh I think he did that, didn't he? It could fall from the sky. He could do it however he wants. God can meet your need however he would like as well. What happens is when we give God what we have, he takes it and multiplies it. He takes it and causes it to grow. This is a miracle of multiplication. He took the little bit that was given to him and He he broke off a piece of bread and stuck it into a basket, and then in his hand there was still the same amount that he had before. And he broke that off and stuck it into the basket. I was just wondering like how long did he break on on one piece? Did how did he know like okay that's enough off of that one I need to take this one now or else we're gonna have a hundred baskets left. You know, I don't know. Where did he decide that the deciding line was to to stop breaking off of each piece? Uh but everybody got to eat But they had to give God what they had. You gotta take what you have and give it to God first. You've got to be willing to be obedient. Just like Moses when he was supposed to go free the children of Israel, you remember, and he didn't want to. He said, But I can't talk and and this I I can't do this And God said, Well, what do you have in your hand? He says, Oh, I've got a staff. It's just a stick. And God says, Well, drop it on the ground. He dropped the staff on the ground and it turned into a snake. And he picked it up and it became a staff again. And that staff became a symbol, an instrument of the power of God. To be used to set God's people free. It wasn't Moses and it wasn't the staff. It was God's power. But he gave God what he had You see, the miracle only comes after obedience. The miracle only comes after we decide to obey. The boy had to give his five loaves and two fish. The boy had to come and give what he had. And we have, for many years now, had as a theme for our church when there is a great need. If we do what we can do, God will do the rest. That is the foundation of the faith that's been seen here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That first part of that, if we do what we can do, means if we are obedient to God and we do our part and we submit and yield to Him and do what God wants us to do if we take our five loaves, which isn't that much, or our two fish, which isn't that much, among so many, it almost seems insignificant. Like what could this possibly accomplish But when you take what you have and you do what you can do, then God takes that and multiplies it and he does the rest. He meets the need. He supplies in a miraculous nature. Beloved, God wants to help you in your situation. He wants to solve the problem you're facing, whatever it may be. He wants to multiply your supply. But he's not going to do it without obedience. He's not going to do it without you being willing to surrender. To start to do whatever God asks of you to do. Maybe God is speaking to your heart and saying you need to give up or stop doing this. Maybe God is speaking to your heart and saying you need to start doing this. Here's something that you should be doing. And on one hand, you're asking God for a miraculous supply of something in your life, whatever it might be, but God is saying, wait, you've got to do this. He's calling for your obedience first. Maybe God has brought you to the place in your life where you need a miracle. Because that's where you had to get in order to be ready to give up and let God. Without the need of a miracle, we're not ready to submit. We're not ready to give up. But when we are there in financial straits, or we are there Praying for a loved one. Or we are there at the bottom of the barrel personally. Where all we can do is look up. And there's no means in and of ourselves to meet the need or to fix the problem or to solve the turmoil in our home. There's nothing we can do but look to God. Maybe God is just waiting for you to get to your to the end of yourself and say, okay, God, whatever you want. I'm willing. I'll yield to you. I'll surrender to you. I'll be obedient to you. God, I need this miracle, and I'm willing to sacrifice this or to give up that or to start this and God is saying, okay. Now He can miraculously supply. God wants to work miraculously in your marriage, but not as long as you're living selfishly God wants to work miraculously to get you out of debt, but not as long as you're continuing to live lazily. God wants to work in your life. And in and of yourself, maybe there's no means, no opportunity, no ability to solve the problem. Just like the disciples, he said Yeah. Can you imagine them? The disciples sitting there? They just said, Jesus, there's 5,000 plus people here. They're gonna get hungry. Let's send them away. And he says, Why don't you feed them? Last Sunday afternoon it was about uh ten minutes before church started because the ladies uh Thing went long, so I couldn't tell her any earlier. But about ten minutes before the evening service, I walked up to Mary and I said, Hey Mary, it's all right with you if we have nineteen people over after church. She looked at me and I told her what we were doing for the meal. I said this and this and this and this. She's like, well, you've got it all figured out. That's fine with me. I said, okay, I'll let them know. That was just 19 people. At first she's like, you know, a lady, she's gonna be like, what are we gonna feed them? She didn't know I had gone shopping in the afternoon. See, she was here at the the uh ladies thing. uh what was it? The baby shower. And uh so I didn't get to discuss this with her, but I went and picked up everything that we needed and got it all ready. But uh she's like, man, what are we gonna feed 19 people? And uh I said it's all taken care of, but you know, can you imagine the disciples when Jesus said you feed them? What? How how how are we gonna do that? And I know sometimes in your life the problems that you face, and I'm not just talking about financial, although that's a big thing. I'm talking about family, relationships, hurts in your home You know dealing with your children, problems at work, life situations that are hard, and you don't see any solution, you say, how can we possibly Do this, I want you to know God wants to miraculously supply for you. God wants to miraculously come in and do abundantly above all that you could ask or think. But we've got to be obedient. I want you to see lastly that he shredded more than was needed. Look at verse number 20. And they did all eat and were filled. I don't know how fitting it is that Pastor Derek taught on gluttony for Sunday Sunday. school uh or or what but uh they were filled. So I guess there's a difference. You can get full, just not over full is what Sunday school is about. That's a great lesson. If you didn't get to hear it you ought to get on sermon audio and hear that. Very good lesson on gluttony in Sunday school this morning. But they did eat and were filled. And they took up the fragments that remained twelve baskets full. You know, this just uh just proves that other scenario. First of all, if all the people had food in their pockets, they wouldn't be high Hungry, right? If they all had food sufficient to eat. But then how did they all eat and had twelve baskets left over? I think Jesus was just removing all the doubt that that he did a miraculous thing. But I want you to understand that after the miracle was performed, everyone had eaten, they were satisfied And they realized that God had blessed in an amazing abundance, beyond what they could even ask, in a way that was impossible The disciples had no way to even feed them, just even get them fed. Yet now they were all fed, and there was a whole bunch left over. That's the way God works. This is a biblical principle. When you are obedient to God, God blesses, and He blesses abundantly above all that you could ask or think. In Luke 6. 38, he says, give and it shall be given unto you in good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over shall men give into your bosom. That's the way God blesses. Beyond what we could even think. When God supplies, he supplies extra God wants to give you what the scriptures call an abundant life. An abundant life The thief cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy. But I am come that ye might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. What I want you to know is that when you follow God, honor God, put God first, He blesses you in so many ways That you're almost embarrassed about how good God is. You're almost embarrassed about how blessed you are. God is so good to us. He does so many miraculous things. To meet our needs and provide for us and enable us to have an amazing life. And I know that every one of you understand this is far beyond just financial gain. I'm not talking about this prosperity gospel That you'll be rich and drive a Bentley if you yield to God. But I'm saying God will bless your life beyond measure. In a way that you just you're in shock. You say, Man, I don't deserve this great blessing. I don't deserve to have such an amazing family. I don't deserve to have kids that love me like this. I don't not that good of a dad I I don't know why Mary loves me so much. I I mean I'm not that good of a husband. Thank you for not saying amen I mean I look at it and I think I don't deserve this, Lord. Why have you been so good to me? Why have you been so gracious to me? Why have you blessed me so? We had these people over last Sunday night and I was showing them the house over there and I said this house is is so far beyond anything that we deserve. This is this is I mean uh I'm almost embarrassed to live in it. It's too big, it's too nice, it's too much of a house. But when I live here, I save the church six thousand dollars a year, so makes it okay, I guess But I I mean it's God's blessing. I don't deserve it. It's miraculous. And you can go through your life and when you yield to him, it just continues to be one thing upon a next and one thing upon a next to where you're counting your blessings and seeing what great things he has done and you're shocked at it and I'm telling you it starts with obedience Doing what God wants you to do. Do you want a blessed and abundant life in your home? Do you long for a Goodwill from your fellow man? Do you want respect from your kids? Do you want friends that love and support you? Would you like to have a health in your days? God wants to bless you miraculously. And I know that God has compassion on your situation. But He's not going to supply until we're obedient. Until we're obedient. Until we give up whatever it is we've been holding on to. He's not going to supply until we're able to Look into his eyes and say, My life, Lord, is yours to control. I give you my heart and my soul. I seek your will, never mine, Rich treasures to find. Give wisdom to the choices I make, along every path I take. So when I complete life's race, well done, you will say. Jesus is a supplying Savior. And He supplies in miraculous ways. But we We first must yield. And he'll do abundantly above all we could ask or think. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Whatever God asks of you to do Are you willing? Wherever he wants you to go, are you willing? Whatever he wants you to give, are you willing? Are you willing to do what God wants you to do? Maybe God just asking you to be obedient in this area of baptism. Maybe you you're you you've been putting that off. Maybe God's talked to you about joining the church and say, boy, you ought to you ought to join Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You ought to be a part of of that that faith and you've been putting that off. You see, it was just a small thing, but if God's been speaking to your heart, that's the that's the the walk of the Christian life as we step by step yield to Him. As he as he speaks to us and says, hey, you ought to be giving out tracts. You ought to be being a witness. Whatever God wants you to do. If we're going to see him supply abundantly. We've got to yield and obey. Dear Lord, as we have a moment of invitation, I ask you to be with every heart present. May they yield to you, Lord. May they surrender. And Lord, we of course desire to See you meet needs in a miraculous way. But we see by the example here today that it takes obedience. I pray you would help us to be obedient to children. We ask in Jesus' name.