Savior Jesus Christ. He's the one that made our salvation possible and gives us the power to live. Because he lives, we can live. It makes our life worth living because he's alive. I'll tell you what, I don't know what people to have to live for if they don't have Jesus Christ. We're glad this morning to be celebrating the resurrection. Not just talking to you about a dead faith, but a live faith, the faith that rest in the fact that Jesus Christ is not in a tomb somewhere You can't go visit uh the place where he's laid and put your head down on on his tomb and be close to him that way. No, because he's not there. He's at the right hand of the Father, and beloved, if you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, the Bible says that the Holy Spirit comes and dwells inside you, and you can be close to him no matter where you're at. Amen. I'm glad that you're here in God's house today instead of on the beach, although you can be close to God on the beach, but it's a lot easier in God's house There are places where it's easier to be close to Him, and we're glad on this Easter day that you've chosen to come and be in the Lord's house. We're going to have a baptism here in a few minutes. Looking forward to that. People that have trusted Jesus as their Lord and Savior, they know beyond a shadow of a doubt that their sins have been forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary. Last week we looked at the idea of Jesus, the crucified Savior. Just the fact that Jesus died and we talked about the the the the sheer brutality of that sacrifice that was made for you and I and maybe reminding us a little bit as as as good as I could, which was very weak in an attempt to give us a picture of what Jesus went through for us. Somebody said this that Christianity has two great symbols to offer the world, a cross and an empty tomb. The empty tomb without the cross would miss the central message of the gospel, but a cross without a tomb would just be a tragedy. You know, without an empty tomb would be a tragedy. Anything less than a risen crucified Savior is short of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So I'm glad that our faith didn't stop last week. I'm glad that we have the Resurrection Sunday to celebrate and the promise of his resurrection for you and I, beloved many would deny the death of Christ, and we talked about this last week. They deny it because they want to discredit the resurrection of Christ Because it is in the resurrection that we have power. They have tried for centuries to bury the fact that Christ didn't stay buried, but it didn't work. Amen. It didn't work. He is risen. He is risen. He is a risen Savior. And because He's risen, we're assured of a few things this morning. I'm going to try not to be lone because we have a baptism and I know all of you got time you want to spend with family and such But listen, we're going to celebrate the resurrection together. It's time to get in and not get out. Amen. We want to look at the Word of God. There's several things because Christ is arisen that we're assured of that we're promised of. And the first I want you to uh write on the table of your heart. Get it settled in your mind. Don't let anybody in this world convince you of anything different, and that is that He is all God. We first see the deity of Christ. The fact of the matter is, is he is God, veiled in flesh that God had seen, hailed incarnate deity. Pleased as men with men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel, hark the herald angels sing, glory to God, our newborn King. He is deity, friend, and the world would like to deny it. Some say that Jesus is the Son of God, but not God the Son. I want you to understand this morning that he was all God that became flesh and dwelt among us. That we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. That is why He did it. Seventy-two percent of Americans deny that there is any absolute truth. It doesn't matter to me if a hundred percent of Americans deny. It couldn't be a hundred percent because I'm not gonna do it. And and there's a whole bunch of a whole bunch of you in here that aren't gonna do it. Amen. Not gonna not gonna do it. There is absolute truth. We have the truth of the word of God, and the Bible says that God is truth. And we have his word on the subject. I want you to know that I'm proclaiming the deity of Christ today, but you don't have to take my word for it God the Father told us that he was the Son. In Hebrews 1, verse number 8, he says, But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever. God the Father, speaking to the Son, he said, Thy throne O God is forever. He was God in the flesh. The prophet Isaiah proclaimed his deity. And we have Isaiah 7. 14 quoted in the book of Matthew. He says, Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is being interpreted, what is it? God with us. The prophet said, This is what it's going to be. There's going to be somebody come whose name is going to be Emmanuel, is going to be called Jesus, and he is God with us. Isaiah nine, six says, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor. Come on, the mighty God. He is God. He is all God and He was all man and He came and lived a sinless life for you and I, that He might give his life for you and I. The angels proclaimed His deity When he came in Luke 2. 11, he says, For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. This world denies that he's God, but you know what? The demons. The demons of hell proclaimed his deity. Luke 4. 41 says, And the devils also came out of many, crying out and saying, Thou art Christ, the Son of God. Beloved, there's people in this world that the Bible calls fools. They say the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. The Bible tells us that they're foolish because they don't believe in God. And you know what? The demons of hell are smarter than that. Regarding Jesus Christ, even the demon said he was God. He was Christ, Jesus Christ, he was God. You remember doubting Thomas? Before we throw too many stones at him. I think there's been some times in my life I doubted a little bit. I didn't quite have the faith I should have had. But when confronted with the truth, old Thomas said My Lord and my God. My Lord and my God. He finally came to the realization and recognized Jesus Christ for who he was. He was God in the flesh. And I ask you this morning, have you come to that place in your life? Maybe you've doubted, maybe you've thought, what is this whole Christianity thing about, and why is there so much excitement around this matter of of the resurrection of Jesus. And what is it such a big deal for? And maybe it hasn't impacted you yet, but can I tell you you got to come to the place where you recognize him as God and see the sacrifice that He made a week ago on the cross for you and I and then He rose from the dead that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. You've got to recognize Him. Have you seen Him as God? Have you acknowledged him as Lord in your life? It's one thing to just know about him. It's another thing to make him your God. Jesus himself proclaims his deity in John 10, 30 says, I and my Father are one. Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, Many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of these do you stone me? And Jesus answered him, saying, For and the sorry, the Jews answered him, saying, For good works we stone thee not, but for blaspheme, because thou being a man makest thyself God. And beloved, it is blaspheme if you or I were to say we're God. There are religions today that say that you are little gods. That you are gods. They looked at Jesus and said, it would be blaspheme blasphemy for him to make that claim. But he said, I and my father are one. We know that he was God. There may be people that deny it, but it doesn't change it. His deity is seen in every aspect of his ministry. And the very fact that he is unchanging. God is unchanging. He has immutable character traits. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. Amen? Lloyd C. Douglas, the author of The Robe and several other novels, while he was at the university uh studying, he lived in a small apartment with some other people and It was it was tight quarters, but they made it work. Downstairs in the morning in the apartment below him lived a crippled man. bound to his wheelchair and thereby by and large bound to the house. Douglas would walk down the steps and just as a matter of kindness every morning he would check in with his neighbor They had a ritual, he said, every day. It was just about the same. He would come down the steps and he would open the door to the man's house and say, What's the good news? The old man would pick up his tuning fork and slap it on the wheel of his wheelchair And he said, Young man, that is Middle Sea. It was Middle Sea yesterday, and it'll be Middle Sea tomorrow. It will be Middle Sea a thousand years from now. That guy who sings tenor upstairs, he's flat. And the piano across the hall is out of tune. But young man, that right there is middle C. Beloved, he had found something in this ever-changing world that would not change. And he found respite in that. He found hope and security in that. Beloved, you and I can find hope and security in the unchanging God, who is the same yesterday, today, and forever. We see his deity and his truth. John 14, 6, Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me Could I just pause here and tell you, listen, there's no way to the Father but by Jesus Christ. It's through him and him alone. This is the words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Beloved, if there is any other way that you could get to the Father, any other way that you could be forgiven, why did Jesus die? He died to provide the way. And beloved, the questions ask, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Beloved, you won't. If you neglect the salvation that was bought and paid for by Jesus Christ and his shed blood on the cross and the power of his resurrection is available to you, if you neglect that, there is no other salvation. Your sins can be forgiven today. Because of the resurrection. We see His love Nobody ever cared for me like Jesus. Nobody ever did what Jesus did for me. Nobody ever loved me like Jesus loves me. John 15, 13 says, Greater love hath no man than this than a man lay down his life. Fair friend, Jesus laid his life down for me. Nobody took it. He laid it down for me. There was a old collector of stones that was wal walking through you know they had these shows like at the fairground and stuff like that. They was walking through one of these little shows, these craft shows and different people set up booths and He walked by this one booth and he he saw a stone laying there and he peered at that stone for a minute and he thought, well, I don't want to appear to be too interested. So he looked at the keeper little little tent and set up there and he said, Sir Are you really asking $15 for this rock? And the man afraid of maybe losing a sale. Said he looked at all of his little rocks that he had there and saw that that particular one was not quite as beautiful as some of the others. And he said, Well, if you're interested, I guess I could take ten for it. So the guy paid ten dollars for the stone. He took that stone home. and cleaned it up and had it certified as a 1,905 carat natural sapphire. 800 carats larger than the next largest of its kind. It was then appraised at $2. 2 million. You see, beloved, it took a lover of stones to see the worth of an old dirty rock. And it took a lover of men to see the worth of an old dirty sinner like me. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Because he loved me, he gave himself for me. Because he loved me, he died on that old rugged cross. Because he loved me, he provided salvation. We know, beloved, that his holiness is that of the holiness of only God could have. Luke 1. 35 says, therefore also, the holy things which shall be born of thee, the Christ, shall be called the Son of God. We know that he's eternal. In the beginning was the word, and the word was God, and the word was with God. We know, beloved, that he's omniscient, all-powerful. He's omnipotent, all-powerful, all-knowing, and he's omnipresent. Everywhere. It's amazing that God can hear your prayer, your heart's cry, and your hour of need, where you are. And at the same time, he can hear mine. He can hear and answer our prayers. Some time ago there was Young man rode in to tell the reader's digest about his son Doug. One night they're standing there looking out the window at the full moon, and Doug talking to his dad, he said, Dad. Is God everywhere? He said, Yeah. They're looking up at the moon. He says, Well, is is God on the moon? He said, Well, son, God's everywhere at all times. He's everywhere. And he says, Well, Dad, is God in my tummy? And he said, well in a way, you know, kinda sorta. Yeah, we could say that. And he said, well I think God wants a banana Kids kids have a way of of uh trying to find it's amazing what kids will come up with to get what they're after. I praise the Lord that He is omnipresent, that He is everywhere Not only, beloved, are we assured of his deity because of his resurrection, but his resurrection also assures us that the declarations that he made are true. Everything that he said about himself would be of no value if he didn't raise from the dead. Without the resurrection, all of the rest of the faith we have would be useless. But because there is a resurrection, our faith is sound and solid. In 1957, Lieutenant David Stevens walked out of the California Sierra Woods after 54 days. He was an Air Force trainer pilot, and he had crashed his plane, and he related an unbelievable tale of how he had lived in this snowy wilderness. After being forced to parachute from his disabled plane. For 54 days he survived out in the wild. However, by the time he showed up alive, he had already been declared dead. People not believing that it was possible for him to have lived fifty-four days in a wilderness denied that it happened They said it was just a big hoax and newspaper articles were written and this worthy soldier who was serving his country was almost put out of the military and put in great shame because oh this is there's no way this could be true. They sent search parties out to try and find the plane and nobody could find it and they said, see, he made it all up. But twenty years later, a Boy Scout troop out on their little trek came across the wreckage. And everything that he said was proven to be so. Well, we celebrate another survival story today about a man named Jesus. Who one day walked out of a tomb. And there's people all over the world from that day till this that want to deny it. They want to say it's a hoax. They want to say that it that it doesn't it's not really true, but I want you to know the Bible tells us the day is going to come when every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that he is the Lord. There's going to come a day when the truth of it will be settled in the heart of every man, woman, boy, and girl that's ever lived. They're going to acknowledge it and the truth of what he says will be made clear. I would implore you today to believe it. Because of his resurrection, we can believe everything that he declared. And beloved, he declared and he promised to us that he was going to rise again. He promised his own resurrection in John 2, verse number 19. Jesus answered, and he said unto them, destroy this temple. Speaking of his body, he said, And in three days I will raise it up. You can destroy it, but in three days I'm going to raise again. In John 10, 17, he says, Therefore doth my Father love me because I lay down my life that I may take it again. He gave his life, but he snatched it back from hell in the grave. John 10, 18 says, No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have the power to lay it down, and I have the power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. He promised his resurrection, and because he fulfilled his promise, we can believe everything else that he said. You know, it's mind-boggling to me some of these some of these uh radio preachers and and people that uh are are prophets. They claim themselves to be prophets You know, after two or three prophecies that don't come true, I I don't know why people still listen to him. I mean he he's a prophet. There's one one prophet that declared that he was going to stop COVID in the middle of 2020. He pronounced death on COVID immediately. It's going to be gone. Well, uh just this week my brother-in-law called and said, I got COVID. So it's it's a false prophet. There's men that have claimed that they knew the date that God was coming back again and they put it out. And then people still listening to 'em And and so he does it again. Three times Harold Camping said that Jesus was coming back, and hell three times he was wrong. I don't know why people keep listening to that kind of stuff, but you know what? Everything Jesus said came to pass. There's a lot of false prophets you don't want to believe, but you can believe Jesus. And beloved, not only did he promise his own resurrection, but he promised our redemption. Matthew 26, 28 says, For this is my body of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. The remission of sins. God gave himself and shed his blood so you could be forgiven of your sin. If you're here this morning, you've never put your faith and trust in Christ. You don't know that your sins are forgiven, you can know today. That's the joy of the resurrection because we can believe what Jesus said because he did rise again. And beloved We've presented these lilies in honor of loved ones and in honor of loved ones. We have these as testaments of another promise, and that is the promise that we will rise again. See, he promised the saints resurrection in John 14, verse number 19. He says, Because I live Ye shall live also. Because I live, ye shall live also. Romans 8. 11 says, But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth in you. He's going to raise you again. We have that promise from God. We're we're uh we're doing really good on time. Let's hope the heart of the message, I mean if you know Jesus Christ today is just a celebration for you. We celebrate our Savior, amen. Wasn't that song The Choir Sing powerful? Wasn't that a bl wasn't that a blessing? Man, I love singing it. Caleb, the last night in devotions, Caleb's all depressed because he's got a cold right now. And he's like, man, we're singing celebrate our Savior and I don't have a voice. I can't sing, you know. My voice is all gravelly and I don't ha I can't sing out And the song service is fun. To think about the risen Savior, but beloved, if you don't know that your sins are forgiven. Then that message for you this morning is to trust him before it's too late. He has promised that we could rise again, but he doesn't, we're not going to rise again just because we know about God. Just because we've been to church or just because we carry a Bible, it's because we've put our faith and trust in him We've asked him to forgive us of that sin. There's nothing else that can pay our sin debt. He paid a debt he did not owe, and I owed a debt I could not pay. Isn't that nice to have somebody else pay your debt? My kids sure enjoy it. We just did a we just did Alicia and Andrew's taxes. And then I called them up. Said, okay, we're going to put this on my credit card, but you still owe me. These are your taxes. This is your bill. So reckoning day is coming. But with Jesus Christ, He paid it. We don't we don't have a reckoning day because of what He did. I hope you know that this morning. And Christian, because of his resurrection, we're assured of something else, and that is that our dedication Is not in vain. You're here. I don't know what motivated you to come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church this morning. Some came at the behest or or uh you know the invitation of a family or friend. Some of you, if you weren't here, you would be in your church. Praise God for that. Some of you might not have been in any church this morning You might wonder why do people bother going to church? Every Sunday? I mean I understand Easter is Resurrection Sunday. Let's catch God on Easter But uh, beloved, our dedication to God is not in vain. Because He's risen. Because he's risen. Would you look in your Bibles at 1 Corinthians chapter 15? I want you to see this. If you have the Word of God. I've given you a lot of scriptures, but I haven't had you turn to any yet, have I? I have a bad habit of doing that. I get moving and I I don't give you guys the time to get to the Word of God yourself and I apologize for that. You need to look at the word of God. 1 Corinthians chapter number 15. I love these verses. You know me as a pastor. I mean, I I am called, if God, I believe, to fulfill the duty and the role of serving as pastor here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. It's my privilege. And so uh by and large I I give my life to serving God. So these verses mean the world to me. But even if you are not called to fill the position like that What we do for our Lord and Savior is not in vain. I want you to see these verses, 1 Corinthians 15. Look down at verse number 13. He says, But if there be no resurrection of the dead, Then is Christ not risen? And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching in vain, and your faith is also vain. He says, If Christ did not rise, then your preaching is vain. Your faith is vain. Everything that we call Christianity and all that we're holding up as having brought change in our lives is all in vain. But beloved, it's a it's Hey uh break the what do you call that? It's the opposite Well I can't think of the word right now. What he's saying is obviously he did raise. He's being sarcastic. He says, obviously Christ rose, and because he rose, the preaching that we do for Jesus Christ, and although the world mocks it, And although they laugh at you and they say you're going to church again, what are you doing that for? Why do you bother reading your Bible? Oh, you Christians just need the crutch of Jesus Christ to live your life. They can mock and make fun all they want, but your faith is not in vain this morning. Because he's risen from the dead. Every expression of faith that you have, the time that you spend in prayer, other people may say, Oh, that is so foolish. Why do you do it? We just had somebody this week telling me last week He was telling me that they were praying for his wife. Then they saw great change in her current physical condition And he was sharing that with some of the family and saying, look at what God did through prayer. And they said, Oh no, that was just the medicine she was taking. And he says, No, because it happened before she stopped taking the medicine. Hallelujah. They thought they he thought or they thought they had hurt him and he's like, Nope. That's not the case. It's God. The world can mock and make fun and laugh, but beloved, our prayer is not in vain. Your service is not in vain. Your praise is not in vain. Your time given to serving God and going to God's house and reading the Word of God, these things are not in vain, beloved. Because he's risen. In verse number 15, we see that our witnessing is not in vain He says, yay, and we have found false witnesses of God because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ. Whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not first, for if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. Beloved. Again, he's saying we don't have any faith. We don't have any reason to witness. We don't have any reason to tell either others about Christ if he didn't rise. But because he did We have something to tell people. We have the truth. We have the remedy for man's sin. And we can preach today. We can present the gospel Every dedication that you have, every expression of faith, none of it's in vain. There's a lot of things we do in this world that are vain. You know that word means empty, meaningless, of not much value, and probably of zero eternal value. It's vain. But everything that you do for God is not in vain. I encourage you, Christian, to keep keep doing for God. Because He is risen. We have cause. To celebrate the Savior today.