I can't even begin to describe how fitting the song service has been for the direction that the Lord has given me for the message today. And uh we're gonna get into the word and job just a minute. I just wanted to mention I received because Pastor August was talking about the Sermon Audio app I received this week an update from the Sermon Audio and so I'll just give you these current statistics. Over 860 messages uh that are available from Hunt Valley Baptist Church on our Sermon Audio webpage. Uh there is In the month of March, there was over 750 messages played. And in the life that we've been streaming on Sermon Audio, there's been over 58,000. Of those 800 messages, they've been listened to over 58,000 times. And uh it's an amazing ministry that's available uh there 24 hours a day, seven days a week to help you. Uh we reached uh currently we reach eighteen different countries. Uh in actually just in the month of March there was over eighteen countries that people listen to the messages on our sermon audio page. And so that's people from all over the world that are tuning in and listening to the messages from this pulpit. And uh I would encourage you uh to do the same. You're here and you've missed a message or there's a lot of different uh series and things there that can be a help to you. Avail yourself of that if you would. Turn your Bibles this morning to John chapter 12. John chapter 12, we're going to look at verse number 34. There is in this verse a question asked that we're going to use as a launching point as a uh we're going to strive to try and answer the question this morning, not in its entirety, but at least one small portion One small place we want to answer the question that is asked here. He says in John 12, 34, he says, the people answered him. We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. And how sayest thou? The Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this son of man? Who is this son of man? I am not by any we means going to strive to give a complete answer to that question. For we know, beloved As the songwriter said, could we with the ink the oceans fill? And were the skies of parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade. To write the love of God above would drain the oceans dry, nor could the scrolls contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. Beloved, we could not hope to give a complete answer of who is this, the Son of Man. But this morning we want to look at one aspect of that. Now, some say that he was just a man. Some say he was just a man, and others say that he was a good man. Some say that he was a prophet. Should be maybe listened to or had some good and moral profitable teachings that should be heard. Some say he's nothing but fiction. The creation of the imagination of desperate men. For some, he's God. He's God in the flesh. And he came and he dwelt among us. For some of those, he's Savior. He's king and he's Lord. But I would like to this morning look at one aspect of this and see what the Bible says about who he is. He is God who became man and dwelt among us, that he might save us from our sin. Would you be alright if I said that he's all that he claims to be and more? Yeah. Who is the Son of Man? He's all that he claims to be and more. Every year, Time magazine publishes a list of whom they believe to be among or the top 100 most influential people in the world. The list is broken down into different categories or aheadings where they say these are, you know, these are the titans of our day The icons, the scientists, the great thinkers, or the artists, or the entertainers. These are the people that we believe are shaping our society At least to somebody at Time Magazine, and although I perused the list, and there was many I wanted to comment on this morning, we're not here to talk about them. Amen? We're here to talk about Jesus. And what I can tell you is although Jesus didn't make Time magazine's list of the most influential people in the world I want you to know there's never been a man alive that has impacted the world more than Jesus Christ. From that day that he first set his uh laid his body down in a manger until this there's never lived another individual in the world that has had a greater impact, had had more influence on the world than the man named Jesus. No one has brought about more transformation in the lives of men than Jesus. No one has shaped or changed society for the better more than the man named Jesus. I don't know who the author is, and it's something that I've shared with you before, but it is very fitting in light of our topic today. Someone wrote, here's a man who was born in an obscure village, the child of a peasant woman. He grew up in another village and worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty. Then for three years he was an itinerate preacher. He never owned a home, he never wrote a book, he never held office, he never Had a family, he never went to college, he never put his foot inside of a big city, in fact, he never traveled more than two hundred miles from the place of his birth where he was born. He never did one of the things that usually accompanies greatness in the world today. He has no credentials but himself. While still a young man, the tide of popular opinion turned against him, his friends went away from him, one of them denied him. He was turned over to his enemies, and he went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed to a cross between two thieves, and while he was dying, his executioners gambled for the one piece of property he had, his coat. When he died, he was laid in a borrowed grave, and nineteen long centuries have come and gone, and today he is the centerpiece of the human society. He's a leader among men. far within the marks when I say that of all the armies that that have ever marched and all the kings that have ever reigned put together They have not affected the life of man upon earth so powerfully as this one solitary life, the man named Jesus. So who is this man named Jesus? I would like to consider this morning one thought. Jesus the crucified son of God. Jesus, the crucified Son of God. We know that this man has no equal in the world today. That's what God said about him. Wherefore God hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. In Luke chapter 19, we read about the great triumphal entry. When men recognized him as king and they they laid down their garments before him and spread out those palm leaves, that celebration of this day where men cried Jehovah, God, King, look, ruler. They recognized him for who he was, and actually the Bible says there that had men not called out, the rocks themselves would have cried out that he was king. They saw his mighty works. They heard his powerful words, and they were continually astounded by his great wisdom. And yet his triumph would but a few days be turned into tragedy. Cried Jehovah to the highest, they would use their voices and cry, crucify him. As we look next, look forward to next Sunday. The celebration of the resurrection. What a joyful time for us as Christians. But can I tell you, beloved, that between today and next week There would be no resurrection if there wasn't first the cross. There first had to be A sacrificial lamb, there first had to be the Savior going to the cross and following the will of his father and submitting to death for you and I that he could raise from the grave It's through the cross, beloved, that he has purchased our salvation. Colossians 2. 14 says, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that we, that was against us. Which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to the cross. So this morning we want to consider this Jesus, the crucified Son of God. Would you turn to John chapter 19? We want to look at this. As we ponder and think about that old rugged cross. That song we sang on a hill far away is the first song I ever sang as a solo as a young man, probably 13 years old. It probably was the last song I sang to the solo as well. But if somebody said, yeah, I sang on a hill so far away nobody could hear me. But that old rugged cross, we want to remember what Jesus did there. And that it leads us into next week, the resurrection. Follow along as we read these verses on the crucifixion of our Lord and Savior. Verse number 16. He says, Then delivered he him, therefore, unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus and led him away, and he, bearing his cross, went forth into the place. Called the place of the skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha. When they crucified him and two others with him, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst And Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross and when writing, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Thus, this title then read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city, and it was written in Hebrew and Greek and in Latin. Then said the chief priest to the Jews, the chief priest of the Jews to Pilate, Write not the King of the Jews, but that he said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I've written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts to every soldier apart and Also his coat. Now the coat was without seam woven from top throughout. They said therefore among themselves, let us not rend it, but cast slots for it. Whose it shall be, that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and His mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophys and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by whom he loved He saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciples, Behold thy mother. And from that hour the disciples took her into his own house. After this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst Now there was a, there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled a sponge with vinegar and put it in his sup and put it to his mouth. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up the ghost. We want to consider this morning, Jesus, the crucified Son of God. Would you pray with me? Lord, I ask you this morning that you would take the thoughts from this message. Would you draw us into your presence? Would you be with each and every heart this year? God, there are some here this morning that maybe have never put their faith and trust in you. They've never experienced the forgiveness. Of Jesus' sacrifice. He gave himself freely that they might be forgiven of their sin. And maybe they're here today and they don't know that forgiveness. I pray that they would trust you before it's eternally too late. Lord, for those that have experience of forgiveness and they know that your shed blood covers their sin, I pray God they would be reminded of this truth and rejoice and be grateful once again. for the sacrifice that you made for us. And may we live lives that are holy and acceptable unto you, realizing what you've done for us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to see this morning three simple things. First of all, I want you to see that it is an indisputable death. I want you to see it's an indescribable death, and I want you to see it was an atoning death. We're going to begin with that thought that it's an indisputable death. What I'm talking about, beloved, is that it's a death that actually took place. that Jesus Christ did die on the cross. There have been men from the time of Christ's death until today that have disputed it that have tried to uh discredit it. They've tried to say that he didn't actually die. Beloved, the reason they would strive for that is because without death you don't have a resurrection. If you take away the death, there's no resurrection. If there's no resurrection, there is no Christianity. Say, oh well yeah, he walked out of the tomb because he never actually died. But I want you to understand that the Bible is very clear and history is very clear that Jesus did die that day. There are many who claim that he feigned his death, that he just faked it, that it was something he just pretended. You know like your kids when they're trying to pretend they're asleep and you come in and you tickle them. They can't hide it. I wonder how well somebody could hide their, you know, feign their death with a sword being pierced through their side. Right. Separating the ribs. Some promote what they call the swoon theory And you understand, of course, when somebody goes through a lot of pain, it's possible that pain would drive them to actually pass out. When I was four years old, I fell sixteen feet onto a hardwood floor in a in an old rugged barn. But I never felt a thing because on the way down I blacked out. I didn't wake up for four hours. My dad checked my vitals and said he'll be alright. Let me know when he wakes up. That's the kind of dad I had. Turns out I broke my arm. But yeah, sometimes traumatic things cause your body just to shut down. And so they say there's a swoon theory that that he just passed out, that he didn't actually die there on the cross. The British writer Q. J. Schoenfield wrote in his book entitled The Passover Plot. That Jesus took a drug that rendered him unconscious and made him appear as dead. You know, there's nothing about this in the history books. There's nothing about this in in even secular history. There's nothing about any type of thing like this. There's nothing in the scriptures about this. But somehow if somebody has a couple letters behind their name, they can just make something up and and it's it's fact. Which by the way is the whole thing about evolution. Somebody with some numbers some letters behind their name just made it up Just just theory, you know. But some somebody just oh just out of the thin air, just oh he took a drug that made him appear to be dead. This is not what happened, beloved Anthropologist Michael J. Harner said that the vinegar was most likely mandrake wine. Now, why in the world can't it just be vinegar? The Bible says it's vinegar. Why can't it just be vinegar? But he says, no, the vinegar was actually mandrake wine, which somehow he has deduced was made from the mandrake plant and was used in Palestine to induce death like state. to a person. One writer said that his own party tried to tried to poison him and help him commit suicide by giving him poison. They say that the sponge dipped in vinegar was actually poison, and they gave it to him. People coming up with all kinds of theories to try and discredit this man named Jesus. But I want you to know it's all false. The word of God is very clear that Jesus died on the cross In John nineteen, verse number thirty, look back at it with me. He says, When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished, he bowed his head, and he gave up the ghost. That gave up there literally means to surrender, to give up. I mean that makes sense, right? And then ghost literally means the breath or the spirit of a man. Now, beloved, in my position as a pastor in uh little over ten or twelve years as an assistant pastor, I've had opportunity to be there at the bedside of individuals who finally gave up the ghost. They surrendered their life. They finally said, listen, I'm done fighting. I remember in Kansas an older gentleman that was waiting almost a week. He held on to life. He fought to maintain life for a little while. Why? Because he was waiting for all of his family to be present. He was holding on. He was fighting day after day. And finally, almost a little over a week later, when his One last son that got there, he flew into town and came in and visited with them for just a few minutes. That night it was almost if you could just just see it on his face, you could see it in his person where he just gave up the fight He held on for a week until he got to say goodbye to his son, and then he gave up the fight, and that night he passed away. It's evident you can see it in their person and in their their visage what happens. And that's what Jesus said here. He says he gave up the ghost. He surrendered. He let death take him. In Luke chapter 23, verse 46, he says, And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Do you know what, beloved, even his enemies said that he was dead? In Mark 15, verses 43 and 45, Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable counselor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came and went boldly unto Pilate, and he gave, and he craved the body of Jesus. And Pilate marveled that he were already dead. And calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been anywhile dead. And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. What he's saying is, listen, you know that his enemies had heard the stories, that this man was going to rise again, right? That's why they set a watch. That's why they sealed the tomb because they had heard the stories. They they said, Listen, do you think the enemies would have given up Jesus' body if he was still living? No, th they're trying to do everything they can to stop this from happening. They would not have given up Jesus' body if he still had any breath in him. He asked the centurion, hey, go make sure Jesus is dead I I'm shocked that he's dead already, but if he's dead, let's make sure. He went and made sure he's dead. He came back when he had heard it of the centurion. He said, Okay, Joseph, you can have his body. He's dead. Even the enemies declared him to be dead. Listen, beloved, what I'm telling you this for is I don't want you to you hear this stuff out there and it's prevalent, it's in the world, and you listen to some YouTuber talking about it, and he may talk about, oh, how Jesus swooned and and or somebody faked his death or somehow he took a drug to be able to make him think that he was dead. And in your mind you say, well that's possible, but it's not biblical. It's not what God's word says. Jesus died, and beloved, if he died, then he rose again, and the resurrection is what we trust in, it's what we have faith in, it's what God is the first fruits of our resurrection. The reason we look to the fact that we're going to rise again someday and we're going to be caught up together with him in the clouds is because we know that Jesus rose. And if he has power over death and hell in the grave, then he has power for us as well. So this is vitally important. Now beloved, I don't need corroboration of modern medicine, but in Josh McDowell's book, New Evidence That Demands a Verdict, he quoted an article from the Journal of American Medical Association that stated this Clearly, and I'm quoting, queerly, all right It's obviously not clear. Clearly, he says, the weight of historical and medical evidence indicates that Jesus was dead before the wound to his side was inflicted. And it supports the traditional view that a spear thrust between his right ribs would have perforated not only the right lung, but also the pericardium and the heart, and thereby ensuring his death. Accordingly, interpretations based on the assumption that Jesus did not die appear to be at odds with even modern medical knowledge. That's an article from the Modern Medical Association. Everything that Jesus went through on the cross, they're saying there's no way physically that he could still have lived. And yet men still would try and discredit it. Why? Because they don't want to believe in Jesus. I want you to know that this was an indisputable death. Secondly, I want you to know there was an indescribable death. In verse number 16, it says, They delivered him, therefore, unto them to be crucified. Beloved death by crucifixion is a death of indescribable pain and suffering. We have laws in our country today that prohibit the use of cruel and unusual punishment In many ways in society they have taken that even to another extreme and i it's And that's why the attrition rate is like seventy some percent. Because life's, you know, hey, I don't have any concerns. I get three meals a day. I get to sit and watch TV. I get to read books. I get to, you know, do what I want to do. I get to hang out with my friends. Punishment is supposed to be a punishment. That's a side note. But what I want you to know, beloved, is back in this day, they would look for the most painful way to kill a man. It is certainly inhumane and it's indescribable. You can take any movie that you've seen, and I've I have never seen The Passion of Christ. I've heard that The depiction there. I mean he was he was uh criticized and ridiculed for making it so graphic. But what I want you to know it was worse than that. They could they couldn't do justice to the brutality of what Christ went through when he went to the cross for you and I to pay our sin debt. Dr. C. Truman Davis, a graduate graduate of the University of Tennessee of the College of Medicine and a practicing ophthalmologist A published author wrote a book about the met about medicine in the Bible, and he describes as best as he can the crucifixion. And so maybe I can't do very well, but if I could give you his thoughts on it. First of all, before we get that, don't forget that he did go to the cross, but before he went to the cross, he was beaten. He was beaten with a cat of nine tails. I saw one of those whips when I was in Israel. this whip with pieces of sharp stone sewn into the end of it and rock and chunks of metal and whatever they could find that would grab a hold of and tear the flesh off of a man. They would swing that whip and it would grab and and and initially those stones and rocks would hit the hit the skin and of an individual and would create bruises, drawing that blood to the surface. Then it would be pulled away and burst the capillaries in the epidermis layer. It would continue to lash him beat him with that and they would pierce through and begin to actually tear the veins and even get down into The arteries of the muscular tissue that held the skeletal person of a body together They have said it was not uncommon for a man's internal organs to actually fall out of the body because there's no skin or anything left to hold. It in. This is how brutal. They of course we know they say about Jesus that he his visage was not known. That he was beaten so brutally you couldn't even recognize him. The pain of just that in and of itself. According to Jewish law, they were only allowed to give a man thirty-nine stripes. We don't know all of the details. We don't know how many stripes Jesus was given. But they would stop before they killed him because they wanted to kill him on the cross. The Bible says that with his stripes we are healed. He was beaten before he even went to the cross, but Davis describes the crucifixion as this, using his medical knowledge. And study of the time period. He said, Simon was ordered to place the cross there on the ground, and Jesus was quickly thrown backward with his shoulders. Against the wood. The legionnaire would grab a hold of his wrist and pound through his hand a heavy square wrought iron nail. Deep into the wood. Quickly moving to the other side, he'd repeat this action, being careful not to stretch his arms too tightly, because they were desirous that there would be a little bit of room for him to flex The cross would then be lifted into place, and his left foot would be pressed down backward against his right foot, with both feet extending toes downward, and a nail would be driven through the arch of each of his feet Leaving his knees moderately bent, allowing him again the ability to flex. Jesus was slowly would slowly sag down with more and more weight on the nails from his hands, with excruciating pain, shooting through his fingers and up through his arms, exploding in his brain. The nails were driven, were putting pressure upon the median nerve, this large group of nerves that travel through the trunk of the arm and into the hands and wrist. He would push himself upward from his feet, avoiding that stretching torment in his hands, and then having placed his full weight on the nails that are now in his feet, again there was searing agony, pain. as the nails would tear through the nerves between the metaversal bones of his feet. At this point another phenomenon would occur. As his arms fatigued, great waves of cramps would sweep over his muscles, knotting them into deep, relentless, throbbing pain. With these cramps came the inability to push himself upward. Hanging there with his arms, his pectoral muscles, the large muscles of the chest, would be paralyzed. Two gay? Why don't you take him uh out, get him some water and make sure that he's all right. Thank you. We're describing what Jesus Christ went through on the cross, the continual excruciating pain that he was in, the collapsing of his pectoral muscles. the large muscles in the chest becoming paralyzed and the intercostal muscles, the small muscles between the ribs, would be unable to act. Air could be drawn into the lungs, but could not be exhaled. He would have to fight to raise himself even a fraction of an inch in order to get even one short breath. As he was able to push himself upward to exhale and bring in the smallest amount of life-giving oxygen, he would do so only through excruciating pain. He suffered hours of limitless pain, cycles of this twisting, one area to the next, joints rendering themselves And cramps and intermittent asphyxiation, searing pain through the tissues that was torn from his lacerated back As he strived to move up and down to get a breath each time again, with his back that was already torn by having been beaten. This agony would continue until ultimately his heart With the coagulation of the blood would reach a critical level. The compression of his heart would begin to struggle so very hard to pump this heavy, thick, sluggish blood to the tissues. that even his heart would begin to torture, be tortured in pain, as his lungs were unable to make even one frantic inhalation Or gulp of air. Beloved, I can't even begin to describe what Christ went through. And I know Uh that in this description there's some here you say, man, why would you describe something so graphic what what Christ did? He he did that for you and I. He died for you and I. He went to the cross willingly. Nobody took his life, he gave his life. On that cross, at any time, he could have said it's enough instead of it is finished. But he died and went all the way to death for you and I. And why did he do that? Because it's an atoning death. He wanted to atone for you and I. What we're saying here, beloved, is that the result of this death, the result of his shed blood was our forgiveness of sin. The songwriter said it beautifully. What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. But God said it better, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. If you're here this morning and you've never been forgiven, your sin has never been washed away by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. There's no way that you can have your sin removed without that. There's nothing that you can do that you could be good enough to try and earn a place or a position in heaven or try and earn your forgiveness But God said He will gladly give you forgiveness because of the sacrifice of what Jesus did on that cross through his shed blood. He paid the price and purchased our forgiveness. Beloved, his death was no accident. It's not something that happened because the mob got caught up in the moment No, it was planned from the foundation of the world that Jesus, God's Son, would give himself a sacrifice for you and I, that our relationship, which was lost In the Garden of Eden with man committed sin, we could be restored to fellowship with God and given sonship, been fought and adopted into the family of God because of what Jesus did on the cross that day. Would you turn your Bibles to Romans chapter five? I want you to see a couple of verses. Romans chapter number five. I just want you to see these verses because it's very clear given to us here the importance of what Jesus did. And that he did it for us when we didn't deserve it. In Romans 5, beginning in verse number 86, he says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died. For the ungodly. Beloved God, God, Jesus did not die for the righteous. Jesus died for the wicked So you could be made righteous in him. He said he died for the ungodly. Verse number seven says, For scarcely for a righteous man would one die. He says, hey. Very rarely, but possibly somebody might die for a very righteous man, yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. But God committed his love toward us and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us, I want you to know this morning that God died for you And he did it while you were a sinner. He did it when you didn't deserve it. He did it when you couldn't earn it. He bought your salvation through the shed blood of his son. That's what Jesus did. But I want you to see, beloved, it took both his death and his shed blood. It wasn't just his shed blood that that you know okay he was beaten and his blood was shed there. He had to die, and he died, and then he rose. But also he had to shed his blood. We see in verses 9 and 10 that both these things are mentioned. He says, much more than being now justified by his blood. Justified means just as if I had never sinned. Your sin taken off of you and placed on Jesus Christ. You given the righteousness of Christ. You didn't earn it, but it was given freely. He says, much more than being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through Jesus. Save from the wrath of God because of what Jesus did. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. So we're justified by his blood, and we've been reconciled to God because he died. They were both necessary. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. As I bring this to a conclusion today Could I illustrate? I told you the other day I'm a visual I'm a visual learner. Uh Caleb and Stephen. And uh I need a couple other people. Um Brad, you want to come up? Um so Let's see one more you want you boys want to help? Alright, come on up. So here's what we're gonna do. Let's just pretend that Um you you died and went up to heaven. You're standing there And the angel looks at you and says, Alright, I want you to tell me the worst sin that you've ever committed, what is it? Lying. That's the worst thing you've ever done? You're a liar. That's what you are, that's what you're known as. You're a liar. And then We see P goes and stands why don't you go stand on the other side over there? Want to find out what's the worst commitment sin you no you're no you let's use you. What's the worst sin you've ever committed here? Use this word. Oh, you said it. You're a thief. That's you're a thief. Now go stand over there. And then We go to this reprobate and we say, What's the worst thing that you've ever done? I'm a murderer. He's a murderer. He's killed somebody. Go stand over there. Then We're gonna say that this is Jesus. And uh You know, I don't know. Is this good typecasting or not? Is she a good Jesus? See Jesus he's gonna come by and he's gonna see these men and what they've done I want you to take these and you're gonna exchange that. Put that on them and then put what they have on you. This is what Jesus did for us. When he went to the cross, yes, we're all sinners. Yes, we all deserve to go to hell. There's nothing that can take that away. But Jesus took our sin. On him. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. That's what God did when he went to the cross. We can't forget that before the resurrection there was a cross, and that it's through the cross that He purchased our forgiveness. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Thank you guys. You can have a seat. Well, we're gonna have an invitation here this morning, and I don't know everybody that's here their their heart condition. But you know where they are. Lord, if there's one here today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, they don't know that they've been forgiven. I pray God you'd give them faith today to trust in your sacrifice on that cross for their sin before it's eternally too late. Use this invitation in Jesus' precious name. As a piano is played, if God spoke to you and you come. Maybe you're here and you do know the Lord's forgiving you. You just want to praise him. You just want to thank him for what that great sacrifice he did on the cross. But let me ask you If you're here and you don't know that your sins have been forgiven, but you would like to be forgiven today, you're just not sure maybe how to do it or what steps to take. We could love to take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure that your sins are forgiven. Would you just show me by an uplifting hand and say, Pastor Caleb, pray for me? I don't know for sure that I've been forgiven. I don't know that I put my faith and trust in Christ. Would there be one? Don't let pride or embarrassment keep you from making the most important decision you'll ever make in your life Putting your faith and trust in what Jesus did for you. Listen, if you could earn your own way to heaven, why did Jesus have to die such a brutal, indescribable death? For you and I. Christian, as we ponder what Jesus did, I wonder, are we living worthy of that sacrifice? Are we bringing honor and glory to God in the lives that we live, in the way that we're behaving, the testimony that we're carrying before this world? The song that she's playing is there's room at the cross for you. I just have to believe that there may be one, two, three in here that you don't know beyond a shadow of doubt, I mean one hundred percent, that your sins are forgiven You might not even know exactly how to do that, but I want you to know that God loved you enough and he brought you here today to hear about his sacrifice. The Bible says, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? How are we going to escape that wrath of God if we neglect the great salvation that He gave us? God provided for us an amazing salvation, the gift of His Son. I ask you, please don't neglect it. Please don't go out of here without trusting Jesus today. I'm available. I'm going to stay right down here as we close and dismiss. If if if you are wondering about that, come and talk to me. Everybody else is going to be leaving and going to lunch and doing all what they got to do. But don't take off without knowing for sure that your sins have been forgiven. Okay? Let's be dismissed. Lord, we love you. We're thankful for your goodness to us. We praise you for the time in your house. And Lord, we just thank you for this reminder of what you did on the cross for us. And Lord, we pray today that if there's one here today that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, they don't know their sins have been forgiven, that God, they wouldn't trust in their religion They wouldn't trust in their good works or their activities that they've done for you, but Lord, they would see the need to trust in the sacrifice of your son. Before it's eternally too late. And we'll praise you for it. God, we ask you to go with us, keep us safe, help us to honor and glorify you in our lives. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed. Oh no, I didn't.