We've seen the character of this man, Job. He loved God. He was perfect. He was upright. He eschewed evil. You know, he was really a trophy of grace For the glory of God. Even God Himself held him up as an example and said, Have you considered my servant Job? God referenced him and looked to him and said, the character of this man, let me just mention to you that the character you develop today is what's going to get you through the crisis tomorrow. You see, Job didn't make it through the crisis by chance. He made it through because he had developed some character, he had developed a relationship with God and And that grew to a point where when that crisis came he was prepared and he was ready for it. But Satan comes and charges him and says, Hey, Job's love for you and his faithfulness to you is only due to the fact that you've been so good to him Anybody would serve you if you bless him the way that you bless Job and so God allows Satan to send a calamity into Job's life. He first attacks his person physically and I'm sorry, his his property affects all of his property and his family and and uh possessions and things. And then uh God allows him to attack his person where he physically is is afflicted. And uh through all of this the Bible says Job sinned not. Neither cursed God with his mouth. He loved God and was faithful to God. You know, even with all of this, he had more character and stood strong in a far greater way than you would see among a lot of casual Christians today. Even in verse number 10, as we concluded last week, we saw that he admonishes his wife and he says, What shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? After all that God has done for us, that God has blessed us, should we be shocked that maybe God would allow something to come into our life? So we see Satan's charge against Job, even all that he did, it did not cause him to sin with his lips. In verse number 10, there, in all this he did not sin with his lips, which you understand that was the charge that Satan brought before God. Satan said, Hey, if you afflict him physically, he will curse thee with his mouth. But he didn't do that. So one might think at this point that the debate's over. You know, that it's all done because Job passed the test. God had won. His man stood strong. Satan's accusations were false. And yet it's not over. I think that thus far we've seen the battle that takes place externally. And as we move into chapter number three, which we're not going to get there tonight, but as we move into chapter number three, we get to start to see the battle internally with Job. We get to see the struggle that he has emotionally facing this ongoing struggle. Before we enter into chapter number three, we see that Job has some friends. His friends hear about his calamity, they think and hear about the struggle and what he's gone through, and like any good friends, they respond and they come to see him. So we're going to see tonight Job's comforters. Now, beginning in verse number 11 for our text this evening, we'll be looking at verse 11, 12, and 13. And we see Job's comforters here, the introduction to Job's three friends. In verse number 11, he says, Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, They came every one from his own place, Eliphaz, the Temenite, Bildad, the Shuhite, and Zophar the Namathite. For for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him. So we know through studies several things about these friends of his, Eliphaz, the Timenite. Eliphaz, the name means refined gold. I don't know how that applies to him specifically. That's what his name means. Maybe he was a little bit more refined in in his presentation Uh but it his name comes from the Edomites, uh originated somewhere in Edom One of Esau's sons was named Eliphaz in Genesis 36, 15. He says, These were dukes of the sons of Esau, the son of Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau. So one of Esau's sons was named Eliphaz, and so the Edomites that came from him through that line, ultimately that's where the name originates and probably what his history might have been But it's notable that the city, the Timenite, that his city, the city of Timen, was a city known for wise people. It is a city known for wise men, men that had great understanding. Matter of fact, in Jeremiah chapter 49 and verse number seven The Bible says, concerning Edom, thus saith the Lord of hosts, is wisdom no more in Timman? He asked the question. There was an expectation that these people were people of wisdom. These people had some real understanding, some real uh gift of knowledge, as it would. He says, hey, is there no more wisdom there? Is it something that's missing? So It would seem to mean that people from there were known to have maybe they were just deep thinkers. This Eliphaz uh seems to hold a position of prominence. in both the way that he communicates as well as the fact that he was the first to speak. He was introduced first. So following tradition of culture during that time you could extrapolate and say it's very likely that he was the eldest because of he was introduced first and because he spoke first and the way that he communicated they believed that he was the old eldest. Um according to Herbert Lockyer, his prominence was more because of his pride. uh being from a city of wisdom, he was probably very likely full of himself. And uh in his communication you can kind of see that and we'll look at that as we get further on into the book of Job and we see the discussion between these men and Job, but Herbert Lockier said this, that he was a religious and I quote, dogmist, basing all of his deductions upon one solitary experience. So he spoke dogmatically, and I've often said about different things when I was speaking that I can only be dogmatic, that is, without reservation, and speak succinctly and directly about things that the scripture is dogmatic about. There's some things we might not know exactly. We might be able to infer or we might be able to think that this is probably the way it was um for instance, the fact that he is the oldest. There's a lot of people in my reading and study, there's a lot of people that said he was the oldest. But there's really no biblical proof to that. It's just they think culturally being the fact that he was introduced So what I'm saying is you can't be dogmatic about that. You can say, well, here's possibly what what was. Well, Eliphaz presented his arguments to Job in a dogmatic, unwavering, unquestioning way, as if there was no possible way he was wrong. And uh, you know, um Herbert Lockier said that that's very likely because of his history and where he came from, being known as a deep thinker, he probably presented himself that way. He views Job's trouble from human experience, from his own human experience. You know, we need to be careful about giving advice or direction to others based on our own human experience. We need to give advice and direction based on the Word of God. That is where the truth is, that's where hope is, is in the Word of God. not on an experience that we had or something in our our particular life, but based off the Word of God. Now sometimes your experience lines up with the scriptures and that can be used in that regard, and that's perfectly acceptable and okay, but we gotta be careful caution against just using human experience for some people they would rely more on their experience than they were the word of God. The Word of God teaches very clearly biblical principle, and they would use their experience to go against that and say that's not what I've come to experience. Well your experience, do you understand there's other other things giving you experiences too? And Satan is the Prince and the power of the air. And he can bring things into our lives and give you experiences. And so we need to base what we believe and what we share off the Word of God, not our own life experience. So we see secondly Bildad the Shuite. Bildad means son of contention. Just notable, that's what his name means. Outside of this book, we don't know much about him as a person individually. uh although he may have been a descendant of Abraham uh from his from Abraham's family. There's some scripture that they follow some lineage and and come up with that, but again not a hundred percent sure about that. Then Zophar, uh the namothite, Zophar, means chirp or leap. Um they believed that he was the youngest of the group. Um he communicated uh with a very know-it-all attitude. Uh and we'll see that as we begin to study his comments, but you know, often young people just have not had a chance to learn what they don't know. That's that's what it boils down to. They they keep learning and they keep learning and pretty soon they reach that age where they pretty much become a know-it-all. They you can't tell them anything I mean you could start to say something to some young people and they'll say I know before you even finish what you're saying. And you haven't even told them what you're gonna say. You know. Oh, what was I going to say then? You know, you know, yeah. It's just it comes out of their mouth without even thinking. I know, I know. You know, and that young people many times they got to grow up a little bit to learn what they don't know And uh then the older we get, the more we realize we don't know. And uh the more we're faced with that. But uh so far uh you know, uh communicated this way. Uh he may have been from Nama, a city on the border of of Eden. So secondly we want to see here these these men, these friends, we want to see their intentions. So we looked at their introduction, kind of the these friends of his that came. We want to see, secondly, their intentions. For they had made an appointment together to come and mourn with him, to comfort with him. And when they had lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and they wept, and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads towards heaven So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him, for they saw that his grief was very great. So just a couple things here about their intentions. First of all, they were moved to be with him. They had heard about what was going on. They had uh somehow had been communicated with regards to the loss. Uh they believe that they may have traveled in excess of a hundred miles or more So somehow word had reached them about his loss and the the problems that he had endured and his physical uh challenges and and the sickness that he was enduring and they said, Man We need to come. And the reason I mentioned the distance that they came is because it wasn't something that was necessarily convenient. It wasn't something that they just happened to be driving by and uh thought they would swing in and say hi. It wasn't something that was just, oh, he saw him or ran into him at the grocery store and so he said, Hey, how are things going with you? No, they on purpose, they were moved to move and go and be with him, to spend that time with them. They made an appointment. It was something that they planned, uh, that they set forth on purpose to do. They left what they were doing. They put their life on hold. And as you see here, they came not just for an hour or two. They came and sat with him for seven days and had some considerable amount of debate. We don't know ultimately how long they stayed continually to the end, but we know it was at least seven days, so it was something that they planned and were committed to for more than just a couple of hours. As they arrived, the the depth of what Job had endured was so great that they didn't even recognize him. His visage was beyond recognition. He was a different man altogether because of what he had been through. Not only were they moved to be with him, but the Bible tells us here that they came to mourn with him That was their motive. That was what they wanted to do. They came specifically to mourn with him, to comfort him. You know, it's something special to have somebody close by during a time of mourning. To have a friend that would come and be with you. I think about Christ when he came to the end of his days, when he was approaching the time when he would go to the cross. The Bible tells us about him going to the Garden of Gethsemane, and we know what transpires there. He goes and he prays, and He he sweats, as it were, great drops of blood. And we know he's praying, Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me, and the burden of it is so great. the challenge of it is so strong, but if you remember before he went to the garden he asked three people to go with him. He he he asked what we would call the inner circle, those Three disciples, and we don't know really specifically why God had chosen those three to be close to him during that time, but he he says, hey, will you guys go with me Watch with me and pray with me. He wanted somebody close by and you know the Bible says that uh that that he went they got to the garden and I've been to the garden of Gethsemane. The the garden itself is not that big. And but the Bible says that Jesus went a stone's throw away. Now if you really chuck a stone, you can get it pretty pretty far. You know, I mean some of you here can throw a stone pretty far, I'm sure. But you probably can't throw it out of sight I mean it's going to be relatively close, and I don't know that that their objective was to try and see how far, but basically like how far you might chuck a stone and and Jesus went that far away. What I'm saying is he probably was still within visible distance of the disciples. Not only that, uh if he was that close, if Jesus was praying and crying out to his Father It's very likely they could hear his tears, they could hear his cries for Jesus, for God to be with him, and for if it be God's will, let this cup pass from me. too much I can't I can't do it. They probably heard the cries and yet what happened in that story? They fell asleep. And Jesus comes back to them and what does he say? He says, couldn't you watch with me? With me. He says, I just wanted you with me here. Couldn't you watch and pray with me for even an hour? Could you spend that time in something that Job's friends did when they came to be with Job, just to be there? What an amazing thing. They showed their love and support. Now I know as a general rule these guys get a pretty good, pretty bad rap. uh through the years and you know that's not without merit. I mean Job himself says they're pretty miserable comforters. That's what he called them. You guys are some miserable comforters. I mean uh but I think as we see here on the onset, I mean, uh that their intentions initially were right. Their their desire was right and They came with the right intentions and had the right heart. I wonder if you and I wouldn't have been in the same boat as these three. Looking at what transpired in his life. Would not have we kind of thought, man, Job, there must be something wrong here. You know, I mean we you understand we believe biblical principle and kind of what they said was theologically correct. But practically incorrect because it didn't apply to Job. But we do believe that God punishes sin. Correct. I mean that's a true statement, right? We do believe that God chastens those them whom he loves. That when a when a believer is in sin, God is going to chasten him, and it's very possible when a believer is on and run from God that God's going to come after him and God's going to chasten him, right? I mean we we know that. It's a true statement. Not only that, we know God blesses those who are faithful, those who are following him. Not perfect, but at least faithful. And so from the outside. In our carnal nature, we may have very well been just like these three guys. We may have been, what's going on, Job? I mean, you remember the disciples over in the New Testament when there was a young man who was blind, the disciples said, Who sinned? This man or his parents? You see, it's a pretty common response that there's a problem somewhere, somebody's messing up. And what did Jesus say to them? Neither him nor his parents, but for the glory of God. So there are other circumstances in which people endure hardship and challenges, which is the case in Job. That's why what they said was theologically correct, but practically inapplicable, because it didn't apply to Job's life. But we may have been there, and that's why I'm saying before we throw them under the bus, which God Himself and Job are going to throw them under the bus in a little while. And we'll get to that in another chapter. But I want you to see that their goal and ambitions here was it was correct. They cried with him, they tore their robes, they sprinkled ashes on their heads, they sat with him for seven days without saying a word. Seven days. I mean, they weren't sitting in easy chairs. The Bible says there in the verse we read, they were sitting on the ground in an ash heap. For seven days without saying a word. Can I tell you, beloved, that oftentimes far more is said by your silence? than by your speech. We need to be willing sometimes to let the ministry of silence do its work. I know it's uncomfortable sometimes, and we feel like we need to fill the void with something But silence is speaking, and your presence is speaking. And you just being there in somebody's hour of need will communicate to them greatly. Even without us saying a word. You know, the fact of the matter is the more we say, the more likely we're going to say the wrong thing. We've been holding Grief Share for a number of years. And can I tell you that pretty much everybody that's been to GriefShare has a story or two of people that said the completely wrong thing to them. Now my goal in Greecehare is to try and help them understand the place from which those comments were made. Somebody comes and they care and they're trying to be a help. Yes, they opened their mouth and stuck their foot in it. But you understand that wasn't their goal. Their goal was to try and love you, and they they all say, I just can't believe they would say that to me at this time. I can't believe they think that, you know, they they would come and say to me, one one person said they they had just lost one of their children and they said, well at least you have four more. You say how in the world would you I mean you think about it like why would you say that? At least you have four more. But here's the thing, the more you try and say, the more likely you're gonna open mouth and insert foot, right? I mean that i it's just crazy. So i it's better to err err on the side of caution and just don't say anything, you know, if you're not sure what to say because It's something that is taken very literal and very hard when people are in their hour of grief. Let the ministry of silence do its work. In Proverbs 1019, the Bible says, In a multitude of words there wanteth not sin. You know, the multitude of words. The more we say, the more likely we're going to say something wrong. Actually in Job chapter 13 and verse number 5, he says, oh, that you would all together hold your peace. And it should be your wisdom. He was saying, hey, if you would hold your peace, it would have been accounted to you for wisdom. Your wisdom should have kept you from opening your mouth. They did really good for seven days. They didn't say anything. Only if they would have kept it up, right? Then they then they began to speak. You know, even if it's true, it might not be the time to share it. We we need to be careful. I mean, even saying uh colloquialisms or uh sometimes even biblical truth. I think sometimes we need to let the Lord communicate that, but you know, kind of trying to tell somebody in the midst of their grief that Hey, the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. That might not be the time to share that. This is biblical truth. That's correct. But you know, when they're in the midst of their grief, when they've just lost somebody, what they're going to say is, okay, God took them away. Now God can communicate that to their heart at the hour in which they're ready to hear it. But maybe if we aren't careful, we'll say something like that, or hey, all things work together for good. You know, I mean that's true. But understand we're not talking about a flat tire. I mean we're talking about something much greater than that. And so we've got to be very careful about how we communicate those things. So I want you to see thirdly here tonight the impact of a true friend. The impact of a true friend. We see how in this battle Job is moved from his possessions to his person and now to the inner man. You know, when a trial continues, it gets harder and harder. We all can endure something for an hour or two. Right? I mean if if as long as we can see the end, we can endure for a little bit. Um we all for a short time can can hang in there as it were. But the longer it goes Nothing in the situation maybe changes. It doesn't necessarily get any worse than it was a week ago or a month ago. Or two months ago. It's it's pretty much the same thing, but that's the problem, isn't it? Is that it's the same thing. And it's been two months now. And anybody that's continuing in a battle like that, even if it doesn't get any worse, it gets harder and harder. You know, uh I don't really enjoy running too much. But all the times that I've been running in my life, do you know what I'm looking for from the first step I take? The end. That's right, the finish line. I'm looking for I mean like whatever goal I set, like I'm gonna run three miles, or I'm gonna run five miles or I'm gonna run ten miles or whatever I I say okay that's my goal. And from the first step I'm looking for that goal. And sometimes I gotta put it out of my mind, you know, like running on the treadmill, don't look, because it's gonna time's gonna pass way too slow if you're watching it, right So you just keep your head up and thinking about something else because uh but the here's the thing is you can hang in there because you know there's a finish line. Because you know there's an end date Because you know this coming to a conclusion, and we see in Job's life here, the problem is that this is just continued and continued. Things that he was never going to get out of or over. It's not going to stop. The nature of a continuing trial is that it compounds and exasperated just by time. Contemplate this. I think that that's one of the greatest torments of hell I mean you think about the fact that in hell there are there are torments that nobody would want to endure for even a minute. And yet the greatest torment of it all is that there is no end. Is that it's never going to stop, is there's not If I can just hang in for another week or another month, I'm going to be all right. No, there is no end. And you've got to realize that it goes on for eternity. This is where Job was in the midst of this ongoing battle, without an end in sight. We know the psalmist tells us weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. That whole idea is that we can endure and hang on for night because we know morning's coming. We know the sun's gonna come up and that we'll we'll get a fresh new day and we can start again. And so yes, we are crying and weeping through this trial, but there's joy tomorrow. I mean that is a very strong theme in the Christian life as we consider or think about just some of the songs we sing, like, It will be worth it all. When we see Jesus, life trials will seem so small. What? Because we know there's an end one day, regardless of how heavy this burden is, regardless of how Uphill the challenge is one day we're going to be in heaven, we'll be with our Lord and Savior, and we'll shed this old flesh and this old achy body, and we're going to be in glory. There's an end in sight. So the impact is that these men came to be with him in the midst of his great ongoing trial. Job comes to the point where he's finally just at the end of himself, he can stop hanging on. He's he's done done he he's done almost done fighting we're gonna see in chapter three he's he's whooped and that's when his friends show up see beloved we need to be a friend like that A friend that'll show up when we're needed most. You know, it's a it's a bond or it is a statement here that a friend can be a bond that is greater than the bond of a family member. I know oftentimes we say that uh blood's thicker than water. And that statement is coming from the fact that, well, many times you have family family relationships. word I was trying to say, I don't know, just escaped my mind, but you have family relationships and those are strong bonds, but you have the relationship in the church through the water, through baptism, that you're brought into the family of God through salvation, you publicly testify before the church in baptism. And you're added to the church after that. So you have that so they say blood's thicker than water and that that family relationship's going to be a lot stronger and uh but you know it doesn't have to be. And we see here in Job's life that his wife Said, uh, why don't you curse God and die? Why don't you throw in the towel? Why don't you just give up? Whatever her motivation or whatever her reasoning is, is she wasn't there for him. She wasn't sitting with him in the ash heap, but he had some friends that showed up and sat with him. You know, in Proverbs 18, 24, the Bible says, a man that hath friends must show himself friendly, and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother You know, there's three levels of friendship mentioned in that verse. First of all, there are those that have friends. We all have uh friends. There's some that they are slightly more than acquaintances, maybe. They they're just beginning friends. But uh then there's those that show themselves uh to be true friends, their their brother brotherly friendship. That friendship that's close, that's a bond. But then there's a friend that sticks closer than a brother. That relationship of the friendship is stronger than the brother relationship. And what I'm saying is we know many times, and rightly so, this verse is applied to Jesus Christ. He is the friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Amen? That he is going to be there even when your brother is not there. But you know what? Sometimes your brother in Christ could be there. Sometimes you could have a friend who is a brother in Christ, a sister in Christ. You can have a friend that's going to stick closer. Maybe when your family rejects you, or your family says they're not going to stand with you anywhere anymore, or your family doesn't understand your commitment to to God or your faithfulness to God's house, they say, Why why why are you doing that? Why would you do that? But you've got some friends that are going to stick with you. And those relationships cannot be overvalued. You see the expectation is that when things are bad, your brother's gonna be there. But there's a friend that's just closer than a brother. You know, it's not always the case with a brother. I mean, you just think about Joseph. He had some brothers that weren't very friendly. I mean, they uh they were gonna throw him in a pit and let them die. until they saw the opportunity for financial gain and said, Oh, let's sell him instead. Same same result. He's gone. He's probably gonna die. We'll just sell him instead. Get some money out of it. I mean sometimes I mean I grew up with two brothers. I know sometimes they're not the best of friends. We're good friends now because God's grace. Now we we got along pretty good. Uh but what I'm saying regardless of the family relationship, you can be or You should appreciate the friends you have that are close, that are going to be there for you when you need it. So whatever the carelessness of their comments in the chapters that we're going to read here and chapters three and on, as a matter of fact, the majority of the book I mean, I think chapter 3 to chapter 39 or something is all their conversation. It's the majority of the book is now their questions and comments to Job and his responses. And as we dig into that, we may address that like a couple chapters at a time and take the whole question and response instead of doing just verse by verse. We'll see as we dig into it. Just some closing comments for you. Be careful who your friends are. You want to have the right kind of friends Uh if you don't know what to say, let the Ministry of Silence do the work. Better not to say anything. Don't offer counsel from your own life experience, but from the Word of God Here's some closing thoughts for you from here, our introduction to Job's Comforters. Let's close in prayer, and then Pastor Gus is going to come for our prayer time tonight.