So you can turn your Bibles tonight to Job chapter 30. Job chapter 30. I want to speak this evening on what I've titled Job's Commitment to Integrity. This is something throughout the entirety of the book of Job that you see over and over again, and we're not going to try and go back to uh You remember Job's wife's question, you know, says, and dost thou retain thine integrity? You know, and uh you know several times this is a word if you Just do a study on integrity just through the book of Job, you'll you'll be impacted greatly. Uh but you'll see tonight uh what it is that we're going to look at with regards to where the title comes from and where the heart of the message comes from as we get into Job chapter 31. But we left off in Job 29 last week. We kind of looked at that on Job where he uh didn't just remember when, but he remembered why. and uh just being able to contemplate and remember what it is and why god God had blessed him. So you get into Job chapter 30 and there's a stark contrast between the memories that he had in Job 29. Where he was thinking about how good things were and how blessed he was and how amazing God was during that time, where he kind of goes back into a state of lament uh and uh kind of broken again and just considering and thinking about where he is right now. If you look back at Job chapter 29 and verse number 7 he is describing through 7 through eleven uh the respect that he had. He says when I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the streets, talking about the position that he had in the community, He says the young men saw me and hid themselves and the age arose and and stood up. There there was a major of respect that he had. I mean even aged men rose The princes refrained from talking and laid their hand upon their mouths. Nobles held their peace, and their tongue claved to the roof of their mouth. this kind of idea of respect. Well we see the stark contrast as we open up chapter 30 and we see here, beginning in verse number one, he says, but now They that are younger, then I have me in derision. That word derision is to mock, to literally to laugh uh to scorn. So he says, now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock. He's saying, These kids of men that I don't have enough respect for that I would put them with the dogs of my flock. These kids are making fun of me. These kids are mocking me. These kids are are laughing at me. He describes this in contrast there, this how he is in derision now and these young people. Let me just say that we need to be careful about whom we give respect to and why we give respect to them. What I see and what I sense in this passage of scripture here is the idea and the tendency of mankind to give respect to somebody who's wealthy. You see, Job had wealth. He had all of his herds, and he had all of his cattle, and he had all of this, and he was recognized in the community as being somebody. But was he recognized as being somebody because he was godly, because he was perfect, because he was upright and he eschewed evil, because he had character, or was he recognized as somebody because he had money in the bank? Because he had cattle on the on on his ranch. Because he had lots of herds. And this is the mentality and the idea of today, many times we tend to give deference to and we tend to give respect to men who have wealth even if they don't have wisdom or even if they don't have character but because they have found a way to earn or make money then we want to we we tend to you know the book of James tells us warns us about that says be very careful that you don't uh give favoritism that you don't give a a place of honor to somebody who comes in clothed in in wealthy raiment, who has rings on their fingers, and and you're going to give honor to them and a position to them because they're wealthy, but uh neglect somebody else because they happen to be poor. And it's just a word of caution as I was studying this and considering like what what happened? Why are these young men mocking him? Why are they all of a sudden have no respect for him? Well, he's no longer wealthy. He's no longer sitting in the gate. He no longer has all that money. And so now they they think, well, we have no reason to respect him. And uh that's not necessarily in the text. There's not a verse I can point to that points that out But I just as I pondered and thought through this, I saw that and wanted to mention the word of caution there. But uh people There's people with such a low level of character that Job says he wouldn't even put him with his dogs. And he elaborates this on a little bit further, verses 2 through 9. He says in verse number two, Yea, whereunto might the strength of their hands profit me in whom old age was perished For want and famine, they were solitary, fleeing into the wilderness in former time, desolate and waste, who cut up uh by their bushes of juniper roots for their meat. Goes on. He gets down to verse number 8 and 9 and he he kind of summarizes again. He says, they were children of fools. Yea, children of base men, they were viler than the earth. But in verse number 9 he says, and now I am their song. Yea, I am their byword. He says, I'm their song. I'm who they talk about I'm their byword. The idea of a byword there is I'm the uh brunt end of the joke. I'm what they are laughing at now. Now they mock and make fun of me and they laugh at him. So we we see initially that there's no respect. They have no respect. And then we see in verses 10 through 19 that there's a great reproach that he's bearing. He says in verse number 10, they abore me. They flee far from me and spare not to spit in my face. There's a reproach there. They spit on him. They don't want to be around him. They try and they stand against him. Just a great reproach. And in verses 20 through 26, we see they had no regard for him. Verses 20 he says, I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me. I stand up and thou regardest me not. Thou art become cruel to me with thy strong hand, and thou opposest thyself against me. There's just no regard, even Though he often had the most and utmost regard for others, yet they considered not him. We see in verse number 27 that he had 27 through 30, he had no there was no rest for him. He says, My bowels boiled and rested not. The days of affliction prevented me. I went mourning without the sun and stood up and I cried in the congregation. I'm a brother to the dragons and a companion to the owls. My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat. My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ unto the voice of them that weep. Just no rest, just continually in this state of derision and state of mockery and dealing with this pain and finding no peace and no rest. The reason I opened up with this is because I want you to see that Job, we know in the beginning, when he was prosperous, when he had wealth, when he had funds, and he had money, and things were going good. We know the Bible declares him to be a man of character, and that he did upright, and that he had integrity. But I want you to see that he also has integrity here. If you look in chapter 31, down in verse number 6. This is the heart of the message this evening. He says, let me be weighed in an even balance. That God may know mine integrity. That God may know mine integrity In Webster's 1828 dictionary, integrity is described as moral soundness, purity Incorruptibleness, uprightness, honest, integrity comprehends the whole moral character But has a special reference to uprightness in our mutual dealings. That's the definition out of the 1828 dictionary, in integrity. And Job says. Hey, let me be weighed by God. Let my integrity be weighed. And so we see Job's commitment to integrity here back up to Verse number one of chapter number thirty-one, we see first of all his commitment, his covenant that he made with his eyes. The covenant that he made with his eyes. He said, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? ladies are this is something that really is more for the men, but Certainly I've seen it can be applicable to ladies in modern society today. We've got to be careful what we look at. Job says, Listen, I've made a covenant with my eyes. This is where the rubber meets the road. This is one of the key passages on moral purity for men. The fact of the matter is A man is never going to go commit adultery if he hasn't at first let his eyes wander If he will at the very beginning put a watch before his eyes, if he will make a covenant with his eyes and not let his eyes wander, not let his eyes grab a hold of that temptation and and ponder and think about those things. He's never gonna go as far as committing adultery because he stopped himself a whole lot long time long time before that. So he's made this covenant His commitment to his integrity is not just that I'm not going to commit adultery, I'm not going to do that. No, he went way over here and he said, Listen, I'm not even going to look at those things that I shouldn't be looking at. And we have got to agree and admit with the Bible regarding this thing of keeping our mind pure by controlling what our eyes are looking at. This is very important. We've got to watch what it is we're looking at in today's world. Job had taught himself to look away from that temptation. That momentary glance that grabs your attention. Satan uses that momentary glance to grab your attention so that he might corrupt your mind. I wonder how appalled Job would be today in 2025 if he came and saw modern society. I mean what condition do you think that uh Job would would would I I I think he just would be beyond words with the condition of modern society In a time when people walk down the streets wearing less than they used to wear to bed. People, you know, just going to Walmart wearing less than than they used to wear going to the beach. And you have the billboards and banners and I mean e even at Walmart in the lingerie section and big large huge banners and they don't put them down privately. You know, when I was a kid, the the uh magazines were held behind the counters at the gas stations. And even though they were behind the counter, they were still wrapped in plastic so that you couldn't see them. Nowadays it's flaunted, it's out there. It's mind-boggling that that you know Walmart and Target and all these other places put essentially naked women up as billboards in the stores. Women in their underwear. And I'll tell you what, men, young men, boys, you have to make a covenant with your eyes. It's a matter of integrity You have to decide, I'm not going to look at that, because but y you need to understand the where that leads The destruction that it leads to, the destruction of the moral purity of the heart of a man and the path that it goes down. It's brutal This is not necessarily a lesson on pornography, but pornography and that addiction that's taking over society today begins because men have not learned to control their eyes. They have not made a covenant with their eyes and said, boy, I'm not going to look at that. It takes the power of God to overcome that. There was a time when lewdness and nakedness was hidden from by and large from society. But it's out, it's prevalent, it's everywhere. It's part of every TV program today. I mean you can't hardly watch anything, even kids programs, and they'll have so much nakedness on there. Our society is being overrun by excess sectually explicit material And you know what, from what I understand, America is still many times better than most European countries As bad as you see that it is here, if you go to a lot of European countries, it's way worse I haven't spent a lot of time in European countries, but I have been in some of their airports traveling through on mission trips, and I've seen it just in the airport. just the the open nakedness, the lewdness, uh that is just commonplace. And uh we as God's people need to purpose in our heart and mind to to make a covenant with our eyes. This is what Job said. You know, we can't control our society, but God makes it clear here that as men, we can purpose to control our eyes. We can decide that we're not going to let that control us. We're going to set a watch and we're going to make a covenant with our eyes. It starts with an understanding that God sees it all. Look what he says here in Job 31, verses 2 through 4. He says, what portion of God is there from above? And what inheritance of the Almighty from on high? Is not destruction to the wicked and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity? Doth not He see my ways and count all my steps? You see, God sees it all. You might be able to deceive somebody around you. You might be able to hide it from family or friends for a while. But that person that that idea of integrity is understanding that God sees it And as we looked at our verse tonight, the verse in which established our thought this evening. Verse number six, he says there, hey, let me be weighed in an even balance that God may know my integrity. He's saying, Before God, I've made a covenant with my eyes. Now many men, and I would say it's a great thing to do, you you covenant and promise with your wife that you're not going to look at those things and be part of that. But you know your wife's not with you everywhere. Your wife's not standing over your shoulder all the time. And so you have to purpose it's a matter of integrity for you to make a covenant with your eyes. And young men in here This is something that plagues our society and plagues the heart of young men. And uh there there's there's an appetite for it. The Bible says the eyes of man are never satisfied. And it's it's like a drug. You can never get enough. It's it's y you feel like, okay, I've got enough today, but then tomorrow you pursue it again. And then you pursue it again. When you go down that path, just like drugs, it leads to a worse and worse and worse condition. And you get into a bigger and bigger mess. How much better would it be to stop all the way back at the beginning when the temptation is there and you just say, boy, I'm not going to look. I've made a covenant with my eyes. I'm going to guard against that. And not even go down that path. Yes. So we see here, first of all, his covenant with his eyes, and then we see his conviction of equality. Verses 5 and 6. He says, If I have walked with vanity, or my foot hath hastened to deceit, he asks the question, or he kind of lays it out there. He says, If I have, if I've done this, And we're going to continue to see kind of his mindset here, but he says, Let me be weighed in the even balance that God may know my integrity He says, boy, uh some, you know, his three friends are accusing him of being wicked, and he says, boy, if I have done this, if I have uh walked in vanity, that that word vanity is just a matter of uselessness. If I have pursued and done things that are of no value in this world. If that's what I've given my life to, if I have been involved in deceit, if I have been deceitful, he says, boy, let God weigh me in the balance. Let God see what I've done. Let him look and he's in what I'm saying here with the idea of his conviction of equality is that he's saying in his heart and his mind, before God and before men, I have a clear conscience And I believe that as best as my knowledge, as much as I can know before God, that God can weigh me, and I'll be okay. That he has lived by a matter of integrity and has done right. We see the conviction of his equality based in his willingness to be weighed. I recall one time in college, we had a pious college student who didn't have a job And so he could spend all of his time studying. You know, he jot to sit in the dorm all day and study and and we were taking our midterms. And so he got up and the teacher asked him, Hey, would you uh would you pray before our test today? And so this college student got up and he began to pray. He's, you know, he's dear God. We pray today that you would reward us according to our effort. We ask you, Lord, you would recognize those who have invested time and energy and study. And that you would reward that and God, if there are those that have not studied, you would judge them for it. That they would fail this test. And there was a good number of us that were pretty mad at him for bringing that We were we were uh not looking for remembrance, we were looking for revelation. We were wanting God to give us something, you know, help us with this test, and we were not happy And the teacher had some wisdom, and when he sat down, the teacher said, don't ever pray that again in one of my classes. He said, I want you to know that every one of us fall on the mercy of God in every situation. And just because you today think that you're studied up and you're ready for this test, He said, it wouldn't surprise me if you failed this test today. You want to stand up and you're pious, you know, oh God, bless me for all of my studying. And, you know, we need God's mercy and God's help in every situation. But this is the kind of idea that Job is saying here, where he says, listen, God, would you weigh me? Can I tell you that when I was taking that test, I did not want the outcome of my test to be weighed against the in my effort and study. I did not want those two to match at all. I wanted to get a good grade. It had nothing to do with how much studying I had done, right? I was looking for revelation. I wanted God to do something for me. But Job is saying, listen, God, would you weigh me Allow me to be weighed and and I wonder tonight, if you were weighed, how how would you fare? Do you remember back there in the book of Daniel, chapter number five, Webelshazzar was holding this great feast and he had all the nobles and the uh you know princes and their concubines and And uh you remember he had a big party and they're all there and they're drinking. And not only are they getting drunk, but they took the vessels out of g of the temple of Jerusalem that had been captured by Nebuchadnezzar, uh Belshazzar's father. And they captured them, and so they took those vessels and they were drinking out of them. And then they're all getting drunk, and this turned into a very sensual, uh, wicked party And do you remember the hand of God appeared out of nowhere there in Daniel chapter 5? You can read it, and he wrote on the wall, meeny, meeny, tickle you farcin. Which Daniel, some verses later, towards the end of the chapter, interprets for him. And he says, This is what it is, Belshazzar, you have been weighed in the balance and been found wanting. I wonder, beloved, with regards to our integrity in this life, how we're living, what we're doing, if we were weighed in the balance, would we be found wanting? Or would we be okay? Now I'm thrilled tonight and I'm pleased that my salvation is not in any way based upon what I do. My good works are never going to be weighed against my bad works because if they were, I would be sent straight to hell. Because there on my best day, I'm still a wicked sinner. The Bible says that our righteousness is as filthy rags in comparison to the purity and the holiness of a thrice-holy God. So on my best day, I'm still a sinner. And I'm glad tonight that my sins are forgiven and that all of that is covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. And my sins are paid for by him, and I'm not talking about being weighed in the balances with regards to my good works and bad works, and I'm going to be weighed and and am I going to make it into heaven or not? That's not what we're talking about A lot of people in the world have this misconception about how that works. But what we're talking about is just a matter of what he's saying is what you say you're going to do, you do. Being a person of integrity. If you say you're going to be at work at 5 a. m. , that you show up for work at 5 a. You have made a a promise to that place of employment and told them that you would be there Monday through Friday at 5 a. m. and unless you have a flat tire or something major happens, listen, you ought to be at work. That's what integrity is. You say it, you do it. You're honest. You give an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. Just being a person of integrity. I wonder tonight if you were weighed in the eyes, not your own eyes. You know, we we tend to tilt the scales in our favor when we're weighing ourselves. I I have been at the airport many times and uh I have joked with people like Brother Glover. about the bags being too heavy and you know just kind of stand in there and put your foot like up underneath the scale a little bit. You put your bag on there and just I have seen people put their smaller bag like they kind of scoot it onto the ground and they put their bigger bag with like the one wheel hanging off and it's on their smaller bag so that it doesn't quite put all the weight on the scale. They're trying to get by with a fifty-eight pound bag instead of a fifty pound bag. They're trying to ski cheat the scale a little bit. Trying to make it lean in their favor. And you know, that's the tendency of mankind when we're weighing ourselves. We want to put it all in our we want to lean it towards our favor. But I wonder tonight if you were weighed in the balance of somebody else's eyes, would they say you're an honest person Would they say you're an upright person, that you you're a person of integrity, that your word is your bond, that you're going to do what you say you're going to do That you you live and practice uh good principles in your life, you have character. Would that be what they would say But you know the greater concern is not just what other people think. I know some people think some people like to say, I don't care what other people think of me. Well, you know, that's a bad attitude. You should care. The Bible says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. So what that's telling us is that we ought to care what people think of us. And we are supposed to let men see your good works that they may glorify your Father which is in heaven. So we are supposed to care what people think. So but the greater concern tonight is if we're weighed in his eyes, in God's eyes, who sees everything. How would we fare? Would we be a person of integrity? Would God come like he did with Job and say, hey, he's upright, he eschews evil? I wonder. Others are watching you. Integrity is a 24-year-old Abraham Lincoln. who was serving as a postmaster in New Salem, Illinois, for the annual salary of $55. 70. That was his annual salary. They didn't say hourly, Caleb. Annually. What people make today is mind boggling. I gotta I opened a bunch of bills today, so I got a lot of numbers in my head with regards to those bills, but yeah, it's mind-boggling, you know. Anyways. Even though this youthful Lincoln showed the integrity as a young man that earned him the name of what? Honesty. Do you know when you live by integrity, you'll be found out? It's going to happen. You don't have to go around and say, I'm honest, I'm honest, just letting you know I'm honest. Did you know that I'm honest? You don't have to go around saying that. It's going to happen in the nature in the course of time, even by accident. Where people will find out situations where you could have been dishonest and you were honest, and they say, man, that's an honest guy. That's an honest guy. And so you when you live by integrity, you'll be found out. Honest Abe was found out because as the postmaster of New Salem Post office. It was shut down in 1836. It was several years before a government agent arrived. The government was fast at doing things all the way back then. Several years before a government agent arrived to collect the government property. This government agent arrived and informed Abe Lincoln, that according to the government records, there was $17 in the office when the office was closed several years ago Lincoln crossed the room and opened an old trunk, took out a yellow cotton rag, covered it with the that was wrapped with a string. Untying it, he spread out the cloth and revealed $17. That he had been holding for several years for a government that he never even knew if they were going to come and get it Seventeen dollars was a lot of money when the annual salary was fifty-five dollars. You see he earned the because he did what was right. When he had the opportunity to do wrong, he did what was right. That's what integrity is Would you be willing tonight to let God weigh you into balances? Job listed off several other areas in which he had integrity in verses 7 through 10. And he's describing, you know, basically, let me be weighed. And he says in verse number seven, he says, listen, if I've turned out of the way, that is God's way. If I've turned out of the way, if I've gone my own path, if somehow I've walked away from God, he says, boy, if I let my heart go after mine eyes, you know the Bible says our eyes affect our heart We know that James tells us that uh we are drawn away when we are enticed By our own lust. That is our own eyes, the things that we look and see and desire. And so Job by making a covenant with his eyes He was able to control his eyes and he says, listen, if I let my hearts go after my eyes, he said, if I let my eyes wander and I let my heart go that way He says if I uh if a blot i is stuck to my hands, the idea if I if I if I had something on my hands like if I got caught stealing If somehow somebody knew that I had destroyed property or if somebody understood these things He says, if I had this blot in my hand, as I read that, I picture a little kid with uh chocolate all over their face. And mom looks at him and says, did you eat the cookies out of the kitchen? And they got chocolate all over the face? And they're like, no. Nope, nope, not me. You know, uh Job is saying, hey, if there's something on my hands, if there's something visible that people can see that that is evident of me having done wrong He says, man, let me be weighed in a balance. God knows. I wonder if you took an integrity test how you would do. Just think about it. Have you been honest in your transactions? You young people, have you cheated on an exam? Have you used a radar detector to try and avoid police? Say uh I'll cheat as long as I can get away with it Have you watched dirty or inappropriate movies alone? Have you hidden income from the IRS? Have you fabricated deductions that weren't really deductions? Have you exaggerated a claim for insurance so you could get a bigger payout? See, these are things that men do that don't have integrity. Because for them the end justifies the mean for the means. For them, uh it's about what they can gain and not just about what is right. Have you ever been given too much change and kept it? I took uh Mom and Dad out and it was my sister's birthday today and it was yesterday so I took my sister out for the for her birthday last night. But we're in the restaurant And uh somebody that I knew came into the restaurant and was sitting on the other side. And so I called the waiter waiter over and I pulled out my emergency fund. You guys know the one bill I keep in my my wallet all the time. I pulled out my emergency fund and I handed it to the waiter and I said, I want you to apply this to their bill I don't know it it'll that it'll cover their bill because there was six or seven of them there, but I said just apply this to their bill. And uh just to be a blessing to them. And they're like, You want me to tell 'em about it? And I said, No, just put it on their bill, tell 'em somebody paid Tell them, you know, we're going to be gone because they came in and we were almost done. But when I'm walking out, I'm like, you know what? I wonder if that waiter is a person of integrity. I just handed her a hundred dollar bill. Nobody else in that restaurant knows anything about. She could just put that in her pocket I'm not saying anything to that family. They don't know that I gave money. I mean and nobody else knows But in my mind, I'm like, maybe that was not very smart. I mean in today's world there are not a lot of people that are trustworthy, right? I mean I'm like maybe I shouldn't have done that. But then I'm like, you know what, the Lord knows I did it to be a blessing. I just I gave it, it's gone. But you know what was awesome? I was walking out the door and the hostess at the front of the door, she leaned over and she said, That was awesome And uh gave her a gospel track. But uh I said, you know, she obviously told the other ladies that this guy gave this money for these other table or whatever because they were standing up there and they were, you know, talking about it and I thought, wow, good. It's gonna go where it's supposed to But I was I was wondering, is that gonna go is it gonna go for them, right? Because today's world, you know, a lot of times people aren't trustworthy But that's how you get found out to be honest when you function in the realm of integrity and you just do what's right because it's right to do. He says in verse number eight. We see this almost uh The contrast here, he says in verse number seven, all those things about himself. He says, man, if I turned out of the way, if I let my heart go after this, if I have any blots on my hands, he says in verse number eight, he says, Let me sow in vain. The idea is saying, God, if I've done those things, then let all of my effort, my sowing in the field be in vain. And this was a judgment that God had told his people that he would give them in Leviticus 26, verse number 16. He says, And ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. He says there, he says, Lord, let me do all this work and and in and and if I've done wrong, then let me do all this work and Lord Let somebody else take it. That's how important it was for Job to be right with God, to have to be function inside of integrity. He said, boy, if I've done that, then just let somebody else take it, Lord. He says, Let my children be rooted out. This is using another agricultural analogy, the idea of planting something, if it's going to be rooted out, it's going to be destroyed, right? You're tearing it out from the roots. You're getting rid of it. And he says, Let my children be destroyed. And if you know the story of Job here, you know that his children are already dead. So it's believed that what he's speaking about here is His grandchildren, as his children were grown and had their own families, if you know from the stories in the beginning there they had come but to come together for a celebration and they all were killed. But it's believed that it's very possible that he had grandchildren. He was probably speaking about them here. That's obviously conjecture. The Bible doesn't tell us that exactly, but with regards to his description here and why he would say, Let my children be rooted out if his children were already dead. It's possibly speaking in regards to his grandchildren. He says in verse number 10 Let me be removed uh from the scene here. You can you can read this the description he talks about his wife. He says, listen, if I've done If I've gone out, let me just read it. Verse number nine, I think it starts there, 31, verse number nine. He says If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or I have laid in wait at my neighbor's door, he's saying, Listen, I've gone and spent time or laying with my neighbor's wife, if I've gone and committed adultery, if I've done wrong like that. He says, then let my wife grind unto another and let others bow down upon her. What he's saying is, Lord, let me be removed. Just take me, take me out of the picture, Lord. Kill me. Because I don't, he says there, he goes on and describes that this should be punished. He says, for this is a heinous crime. Yea, it is iniquity to be punished by the judges. Lord, this is wrong and it should be judged. It should be punished. He goes on, and we're not going to read all of it, but the middle of this chapter here, he describes the idea of mistreating servants, neglecting the poor or the widows or the fatherless. Rejoicing over the demise of his enemies, not caring for the stranger, trying to hide his iniquity instead of making it known, he says, Lord, let me be weighed in a balance if I've done any of these things. Weigh me and Lord, I want to be a man of integrity. I want you to see, lastly, tonight, his confidence in Elohim. In verse 24 through 27, he says, If I have made gold my hope, or have said to find gold, thou art my confidence. He says, if I put my confidence in gold, well, listen to this in verses 25 through 27. He says, if I rejoice because my wealth is great. Or because my hands had gotten much. If I beheld the sun when it shined and the moon walking in brightness, if my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand, I had to do a little bit of study there. I'm like, why would a guy kiss his own hand? I don't care for that at all, right? But what he's talking about there is this period of time uh and it's even prevalent today, I remember When I went to Rome uh and uh we were there in several what would be holy places, right? Uh boy there was lines and lines of people that were going into these places and they knelt down and they I mean one after another. I don't know what they did in COVID, it just hit me, but that back then these people would kneel down and kiss the feet of this saint Kiss the the edge of this particular I mean to the point where it's a solid granite and and a spot is worn off on the granite for the thousands and thousands of people that have kissed that. It is the idea of veneration. Of recognizing and worshiping something. And uh they would kiss these uh statues And things. And so this idea is if I'm worshiping myself, if I'm worshiping what I can do with my hands instead of worshiping you. If my confidence is in me and what I can accomplish, instead of my confidence being in you, God, boy, judge me. Because our confidence is to be in Elohim. Beloved, integrity is what God has, and that's what gives us confidence in Him. Knowing that God is just and right and He's going to do right every single time. He's not up today and down tomorrow. He's not merciful today and judgmental tomorrow. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. God is the same every day. That is what integrity is. Being the same, doing the same, doing right. You know, it's oftentimes people will give you their trust up front. And either your integrity will continue to build that trust. Or your lack of integrity will undermine and destroy it. That's just the facts. Husbands and wives get married, they trust each other. I mean I think it'd be pretty foolish to stand at an altar and say I do if you didn't trust the person that's in front of you. Maybe somebody has done it, but most people that at that point they trust each other. But you know when people function inside integrity over a number of years That trust grows to such a deep and solid conviction between that husband and wife that it is unwavering. But when we do not function integrity in integrity, that trust is undermined And this most important relationship many times is undermined because we haven't functioned in integrity. And we've undermined and destroyed the trust that was given up front. You know, this relationship, pastor and church. is a relationship that we can't take for granted. And a lot of times the church will entrust their pastor With a lot of things. And when a pastor doesn't function inside of integrity, that's found out. And the trust is undermined. We have got to be very, very careful as a church, as a pastor, what I do with the finances of the church, how I handle that. I cannot sign any checks. I don't do anything with the money, obviously. We pay the bills and whatever. I mean I give approval for things. But I'm very, very careful. I try like people sometimes in the four-year they're like here pastor, let me give you this money. I'm like, no, I don't touch money. I don't want to give it to uh one of the ushers and they'll make sure it gets put in the offering where it needs to go. I'll call Don over or Brother Taylor or somebody and say, hey, this person has something for the church. Can you get it put where I just don't want anybody to be like, well, I gave Pastor that money, uh, where did it go? Uh I would rather be we gave it to Don. We don't know where it went after that. You know. Uh I I just I want to be very, very careful. You know, sometimes when uh I'm trying to think of the scenarios. It it doesn't happen a lot, but Dawn's in here. She knows when when uh um oh when I when something gets purchased, like s let's say I go to restaurant depot, restaurant depot will not let you check out with two tickets on one on one cart. So when I purchase, like let's say I purchased three three briskets or something, they won't let you split that. It all has to be one order because they're pushing people through. It's one order, one ticket, and get out of the way. And one of those brisket belonged to me. I'm going to cook it and feed my family with it. But the church paid for it. Well, in those situations, Dawn will tell you, she's the one that records these things, I tell Mary to pay with a check. Because I want a written record that we paid for that brisket. That I don't want to just be, oh, here's here's thirty-five dollars or forty bucks for that brisket. I want to r and and and it gets put in cash and nobody knows. I want a written record, if there was ever a question, we could say, okay, no, they paid that for that first game and that uh you know here's the check number. Because that's where those things, that's where you get found out in the future. And there has to be that level of integrity there in how we handle things in the church so that people can have confidence. That's what we want to do, and we need to handle things in our life that way. Somebody said it's not what we eat, but what we digest that makes us strong. It's not what we gain, but what we save that makes us rich. It's not what we read, but what we remember that makes us learned. And it's not what we profess, but what we practice that makes you a Christian. It's not just saying, oh, I believe the Bible. No, it's living in integrity. Doing right. Doing what God wants you to do. It's what you practice that makes you a Christian. I'm going to ask you tonight, are you walking in integrity? Have you ever had the privilege to go see a movie set? Maybe uh you know, a a uh a large thing out in California or uh sometimes they're pr they're producing things in other cities and you get a privilege You know, nowadays they do a lot of behind-the-scenes shots. They didn't used to do that, like they never let anybody see behind the scenes, but nowadays even online, like you can look up behind-the-scenes shots and they'll show you how they produce a particular set or a movie. You know, when they have the scene on the street or whatever, like let's say in old western town, boy, that from the camera's view That city street looks perfect. I mean the hitching rail is there and and and and the dirt road is there. and the uh barber shop and you have the the blacksmith and the jail and of course every old western town has a saloon in it and every everything is there and and it looks so perfect But when you bring the camera back up just a little bit, you see this not even dirt, it's actually they're inside a building. It's just sand that they put on the ground. And then you move the camera over a little bit and you see the back of all those buildings. There's nothing there. They're inside a big warehouse. It's all fake. And the sad thing, beloved, is that many Christians Lives are organized that way. From this point of view, from what we want people to see about us, boy, we're Christians. We have that facade has been orchestrated and put up so well, so perfectly. Boy, we wouldn't want anybody to think less of us. But are we living in integrity? If they widen the camera a little bit or if they happen to drop by your house unexpected They gonna find something that you know shouldn't be there? They're gonna knock on your door one evening and they're gonna hear some Ungodly TV program on that you're you're you're there watching you're like, oh wait, wait, oh that's the pastor, turn that off quick. It shouldn't matter that I showed up. You know, it's always funny when you s stop by. I mean, I don't stand in judgment of people. My goal is to try and help people. But you know people are concerned about how they look. You'll stop by and visit somebody, and they got that cigarette behind their back like like you can't see the smoke rising up over their head, you know. They're like, oh, okay, preacher, thank you. Yeah, we'll see you later, you know, or they got the beer can behind their back. You know, they just don't want they they don't want anybody to see that, you know. Listen, God sees it. I'm nobody. What I see doesn't matter. But a person of integrity understands God sees it all the time. He sees everything we do, everywhere we are. And we have got to live as a person of integrity that brings honor and glory to God in every situation. Job had a commitment to integrity. Integrity means that our lives are the same behind the scenes as they are on camera. One day a lady wrote in to a uh old-time newspaper article She was looking for some advice. She said, I'm wondering what to do. My husband eats like a slob at home. When we eat out, he puts his best behavior on. But when we are home alone, he gulps his food, he talks with his mouthful, he wipes his mouth on his sleeve instead of the napkin He belches continually at the table. When I complained to him about it, he said, I'm at my own home. I should be able to be myself. And the thing is, is the editor of the newspaper wrote back, isn't it a shame that we labor label our worst behavior? as being ourself and our better behavior as putting on heirs When what we ought to do is be the same, be on our best behavior. In all circumstances. Because that's what a person of integrity does. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm going to ask the pianos to play. We have an invitation here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church where it's opportunity for you to Pray and talk to the Lord. If you were weighed into balance tonight, how would you fare? Do you have a commitment to integrity? A commitment that just stands and going to keep you doing right through it all, regardless.