You can grab your Bibles and you can turn to the book of Job. We've been studying the book of Job, and uh we are probably gonna be in this book for a little while because there's a lot of chapters. Uh it's not one of the shorter books, but uh we're gonna try and walk through this and see what the Lord has for us. We are in chapter number two. Job has endured already such a great and horrendous attack upon his life. Uh just the ex extremity of the the extreme nature of it is just mind boggling to us as we consider him losing all of his fortune and his family and uh you know all of his uh everything that he had here in l in this world. Uh save himself all all at once and you just think, man, how could it possibly get any worse? How could things possibly be any harder? And yet it does get harder And we see this, as we get into chapter number two, Satan again comes before God and pursues the asking the question, can I can I attack him personally? And God gives him the okay. And so we see that Not only are we given a picture of this man's character in chapter number one, but here as we begin chapter number two, we're seeing the constitution of this man. what it is that he's really truly made up of. What is it that's gonna cause him to stop, to quit on God? And we need some Christians that'll just stay faithful and keep going for God. We see that in the life of Job here, that one attack after another, one messenger after another, and he continued to be faithful, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. And then We come into chapter number two here, and we're going to see how he is afflicted again, and yet still trusting and following God. We need to have in our heart and our life a determination to be faithful and to just continue to serve God, to continue to be faithful and do what God wants us to do, even in the face of great hardship. Now the we're gonna look verses one through ten tonight, uh, but we'll just do them as we're going down through instead of reading all of them. We do have a lot to cover. We see here first of all a probing accusation. A probing accusation. He says, Again, there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord. And the Lord said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth. A perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil, and still he holdeth fast his integrity. Although thou movest me against him to destroy him without a cause Satan appears before God a second time. He comes in among him, and the idea I picture there in the portals of heaven Satan coming amongst the other angels and I can see Satan bragging. I can see him talking about, oh, oh, yeah, I was over here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and and I got so-and-so to lie about so-and-so. And he's going on. He says, boy, you remember that guy that said he was a Christian? I got him over his job. I got him to steal from his job. And I could see Satan standing there and and and just bragging about his exploits and all of his accomplishments here on earth. And then God stops him and says, wait a minute. Wait a minute. This is not all your domain, Satan. All the earth has not Chosen to follow you. You want to stand amongst us and brag about how you are turning my creation at your will? But this is not so. Have you considered my servant Job? My servant Job, who has, in the face of unbelievable adversary, adversity, I mean, in the face of it, he has still maintained his integrity. This description, this accusation of Job, how he is continuing to do right even in the face of great hardship. Gives us a picture into who this man was. I'll deal with the idea of integrity later in the book. As we learn a little bit more about Job, so I'm not going to dive into that term tonight, but certainly we need to be men and women of integrity. It was described as a character trait of Job, even in the face of unbelievable hardships, still doing what is right. And then Satan, of course, wants to rebuttal that. So we see Satan's presented argument in verses 4 and 5. Satan answered the Lord, and he said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. But put forth thy hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. Thus far, what we've read sounds very similar to chapter 1, doesn't it? You see a very similar, almost word-for-word description of what happens behind the scenes up in in heaven as Satan presents himself before God and accuses the brethren and God says, Have you considered my servant Job? The only thing different in that is he said that Job was Maintains his integrity even though Satan moved upon God to attack him without a cause. Then we see here Satan's argument. He argues that, well, of course he hasn't cursed you. Well, I mean, after all, you haven't allowed me to touch him He presents the idea that man will give all that he has for his own health, his own life. And in some respects it's a very true statement. Because when it comes right down to it, boy, we take care of this person. It is our nature to protect or provide for or care for ourselves and we've heard it said, I mean i it it All the money in the world is not going to buy you one more day, but if if somebody could spend the money to to buy one more day, if somebody could spend they would give up all that they had to be able to have a year of health. Instead of living with what they have, boy, that statement or argument in many cases is very true. He presents or gives a statement skin for skin. That description of, you know, might be stated like tit for tat. The idea of an exchanging of goods. You see, beloved, this is the foundation of all humanistic religion. Here is a description of legalism. The idea that we only do because of what we get. That somehow it is my actions that allows me to earn my salvation, and therefore that's why I got saved because of what uh because of what I've done. As a repayment for our goods. And that's kind of ingrained in people's minds and how people function. A lot of times they're willing to do for somebody else as long as that person's willing to do for them. If you can have a little give and take, it's okay, but true love, the love of God, is rarely seen. Job uh, or Satan describes this about Job and says, man, skin for skin. The idea that we only do what is best for ourselves. That man would work And give up all he could to secure his own benefit. This is a very similar argument that he gave in chapter number one. The only reason he's following you, God, is because you've blessed him, you've multiplied his goods, you've magnified your blessing in his life He said, if you touch his body, he will curse you. You know, if we are truly honest, I mean, really honest, I believe tonight that we are guilty of this as well. I know theologically we know what we're supposed to say. We loved him because he first loved us. I know that's what we're supposed to say I don't know, maybe maybe it's just me. But I find it very difficult to divorce what he does for me from my love for him. I wonder really. I mean, the whole idea Pastor Rogerson just preached on oh taste and see that the Lord is good Where is it that that goodness is seen in our life? We see it in the good things that He does for us. And God is good all the time, but I wonder, beloved, if Things truly were not as good as we think they should be, how committed to God will we be? Is our love there and present regardless of what God does for us? It is human nature to tie the two together, and we count our blessings and name them one by one, and as long as the blessings are coming, we love Him. Beloved, our love in many ways is bound up in what He does for us. Satan presents that argument And so we see that permission is acquired. Verse number six. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he's in thy hand, but save his life All right, Satan, you think Job's gonna curse me? You think the only reason that he loves me is because what I've done for him, the only reason he's following me is because of the blessing because I've protected his life? Well, I'm gonna say you can't kill him, but you can do anything else to him. He's in your hand, Satan. You do it. God once again allows Satan to attack Job, and this presents us the question is why And this is a question we battle with, like why God? Why would God allow this to happen? We in our own hearts and minds look at the life of Job and we question why, but even in our own life, when things happen, we say, why? I can't imagine what was going through the mind of Job in all that he endured The questions of why and why do good things happen, why do bad things happen to good people? Why does Job have to endure this? He was loving God and doing right. We look at it and say, Like, Lord, why wouldn't you just stop that from happening so many times different challenging things have come in my life and I believe God has power He rules in the affairs of men. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And sometimes they look at it and say, Lord, why did you allow that to happen? Like, why didn't you just stop it? Why didn't you keep me from being so stupid? Why don't you keep me from, you know, open mouth and insert foot? Like why didn't you just stop me from saying that, Lord? You could have done it easily. And now look at the mess I gotta clean up. But y you you just wonder, Lord, why why did you allow it to happen? Well, I don't have time tonight to dig into the why, but I I I'm working on a much greater study that we'll present another time on what does the Bible say about suffering. But we see that God gives him permission, says, go ahead. And so we see the personal attack. Verse number seven and eight. So went Satan forth from his presence of the Lord and smote Job with sores, boils, from the sole of his feet unto his crown. And he took him a pot shirt and to scrape himself with all, and he sat down among the ashes. Satan afflicts Job with this terrible disease. Now we don't know exactly what the disease is or was. Some would say it was a type of leprosy. We don't know exactly, but we know it was a disease of the skin. We know the Bible very clearly he says it was present, it presents itself as boils We know that it covered his whole body from the soles of his feet. I mean getting a sore on the soles of your feet. Mark knows what's that like. You know, sores, I mean that that makes it very hard to do a lot of things. Just because you've got a sore on the sole of your feet trying to move around and function all the way to the top of his head, to the crown of his head. What I'm saying is there was no spot on his body that he was not feeling pain. That he was not the we we know here that it presented as something very itchy. That's a very uncomfortable feeling. You ever had a bad case of poison ivy? Poison oak? And that that's brutal, just trying to keep from scratching because you know it's gonna it's gonna make it worse. But it's like that's the only thing that gives you any relief and then that compounds it and it spreads and you're like, oh I just Just sitting there so itchy, so bad that he was taking pieces of pottery and and scraping his boils, scraping his skin We know that it had a profound impact on how he looked. Look at verse number 12, chapter 2 and verse number 12. His friends came to visit him and said, and when they lifted up their eyes afar off, they knew him not His whole visage was changed. Have you ever gone to visit somebody in a hospital you hadn't seen in a little while? Especially somebody dealing with a very life-threatening disease, a uh cancer or something like that, and you you come in and You're just like, wow. I I had no idea the toll that this sickness had taken on their body. That's what their friends here, they didn't even recognize him. The affliction to his body was so effective that his own countenance was changed. We know that it would crack, the skin would crack and fester and it would attract worms. Look in Job chapter 7 and verse number 5. Job chapter 7 and verse number 5. These are just some descriptions of this personal attack that he was enduring. He says, My flesh is clothed with worms. And clods of dust. This oozing sores would attract worms and dust would collect on it and clod up. My skin is broken and has become loathsome. I did a little bit of study on maggot treatment. of SOARs in they actually do use it in the USA, I was surprised. I know they use it in foreign countries, but They have, especially in situations where you have a diabetic or something like that, where the portion of their uh the their wound will not hear heal on its own because of a lack of blood flow or what have you, they use maggot treatment and the maggots eat away all the dead skin. It turned my stomach just looking at the pictures. It was so gross. But you see here these maggots setting in and eating the sores of Job. So nasty. They say with this one of the one of the dr it drives people crazy when they do this maggot treatment is because it's constantly tickling. It constantly feels like there's something crawling around on your skin and you've got to let them crawl and eat. And it's just like constantly Isn't that corrupt? Just na- I mean this is what he described here. My flesh is clothed with worms. We know that it caused him to have foul breath. Look in Job chapter 17 and verse number one He said, my breath is corrupt. You know, when the body is full of infection, it presents that way. Lot of times you visit somebody in the hospital and they limit their their food intake and Their body is fighting off infection, they've got some disease or something in there, and uh the person in the hospital will have very foul breath. It's not something that they can help. They've been strapped to a you know uh a uh a bed for several days and and you know they're very ill and that's that's the way it is but we see that description here of something he was dealing with We know that it brought piercing pain all the way to his bones. Look in chapter 30 and verse number 17 He said, My bones are pierced in me in the night season, and my sinews take no rest. I had to look up what that word sine use was. I didn't know what it was, but it literally means pain. Means pain. There was this piercing pain all the way down into his bones so much that he could not sleep. That pain that pain would take no rest. It was there all the time. You know how sometimes during the day when you're dealing with pain, because you're distracted, because there's other things going on, you can almost endure it. Like it's it's it's gonna be okay. And then the stillness of the night comes and you're laying there and all of a sudden that just pain just comes out. You know, it's like Where was this all day? How did I ignore this all day? And now I'm trying to go to sleep and it's just painful. Just keep you awake. That's what Job said here. This affliction was like. We know that it killed his skin, it stopped the blood foes so that would that his skin would die and turn black We see in 30, verse number 30, chapter 30, verse 30, he said, My skin is black upon me, my bones are burned with heat. So it created a fever. You know, one of the signs of an infection or of injury of some kind is it creates fever. You have a fever, and man, you know how uncomfortable a fever is. I mean just a fever comes and your whole body just doesn't feel right. It aches. All of these things is a description of what Job was going through physically. That's brutal. And then on top of that, we see oppressed allegiance. Verse number nine. He says, Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. She comes to him and says, Are you still going to hang on to your integrity? Why don't you just curse God and die? Now we get such a small glimpse of this lady whom we simply know as Job's wife. We don't know much about her. She utters ten words here, and for all of history, she's been thrown under the bus. But can you stop for a minute and consider the fact that often we talk about all that Job endured, but you understand that she went through the same thing? That she lost all of her kids? The children that she bore, that she brought into this world, the children that that she raised and loved and cared for? I believe that Job and his wife had a very good relationship. We see in chapter 1 the family getting together and you know, enjoying uh what we would call a party, a fellowship and they would get together and eat and have good times and and and Job would offer sacrifices just in case what they did was displeasing to God and and and Uh uh Job is described as being the most godly man on earth. I think you could say they they had a good relationship. They loved one another, they cared for one another She had lost it all. Now her husband is suffering before her It's quite possible, beloved, that she looked at her husband if you consider what her friends, the three friends come and they assume that this is the chastening hand of God. It could be that Job's wife would look at him and think, you're the reason. Last week I wasn't sure what happened. I wasn't sure why my children died. I wasn't sure why we lost everything. But now that you're sick, we see that you're the reason. That God is judging you for something you've done. She could, it's not told here in the thing, but it would be a logical thing that she might have been thinking in her mind and she might have come to him and said, Boy, why don't you curse God and die? She might have just reached her limit, the end of a rope. It could be that she loved her husband so much she couldn't stand to see him suffering Seeing all the pain that he was enduring and going through and just saying, you know what, that's enough. If you would just let go, if you would just curse God, he would take you home. I believe, beloved, that she was a godly woman. certainly believe she was saved. In the very next verse, Job says, you're talking like, as. A fool. Not a fool. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. He says, Well, you're speaking like somebody that doesn't believe in God. She believed in God. This shows us that you don't have to be a fool to act like one. I also believe that she was a believer and that she loved God, and because in the closing chapters of this book, when we get to the end of the book, we'll see that God condemns Job's three friends. For their false accusations, but God does not condemn her. There's nothing said about that Not only that, when God restores to Job tenfold, he restores to her as well. So we see here something take place that I would like you to consider. This God-fearing woman is being used by Satan. Occasionally, even you and I can be used by Satan We can be used to carry Satan's message. You understand? She was literally delivering Satan's message. Look in chapter 1 and verse number 11. In chapter 1 and verse number 11. He says, But put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. In chapter 2 and verse number 5. But put forth thy hand now and touch his bones and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. This is exactly what Satan is wanting Job to do. And then somehow he is able to take this woman whom loved Job. They had spent their life together. They cared for one another. And you see, beloved, he had within his power to kill her. He could have killed her when he killed the rest of the family, but Job thought, you know what would be more powerful, what would be a greater blow to Job if I could take that one that is supposed to be his helpmeat and turn him into his herder. It would be so much more painful if if she just died. Job would say, Well, the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. But if I could turn her love And cause her to attack him, the loss of her love and her faithfulness in the midst of this battle would be the greatest blow that I could give. And what I want you to understand is this lady was used of Satan. You see, that's pretty bold. Well here, think about this There was in the New Testament a man whom Jesus came to and said, Lovest thou me more than these? He said, Yes, Lord, I love thee. Three times he asked him, and three times he says, I love thee. And he says, you know, though he slay me, he says, uh sorry, mixing the story there in the New Testament, he said, Boy, I will go with thee to death. Peter. But then when Jesus was describing to his disciples that he needs must go unto Jerusalem And he was saying, I'm going to go into Jerusalem and I'm going to be tried and I'm going to be beaten. And he was telling them he was going to be killed. What did God say to him? Get thee behind me, Satan. Peter had come from his mouth the words of Satan. Peter was used by Satan to deliver his message. Here's what I wonder, beloved. I wonder how many of us have been used by Satan to deliver a message. To deliver a message to somebody else in the church. To deliver a message to somebody else. If we have been in or are going through some conflict, you might consider that. Think about it. It was through Job's closest relationship that he is attacked We see here the powerful answer in verse number 10. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the fools, one of the foolish women speaketh. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? And this did not Job sin with his lips. And all this In all of it, Job didn't sin. Job gives us a correct view of hardship here. Job asks, what? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? Who are we to think that we only deserve good? If God sees fit for some reason or cause to send hardship into our life, why not? Have we somehow earned anything else? Have we somehow now we're worthy of only great blessing? We see in chapter 1 that Job is faithful through submission, but in chapter 2 we see he's faithful through seeing God's sovereignty. Realizing that whatever God brings into our life, God is in control. Whether God sees fit to give us great blessing or whether we must endure some hardship. Job looks at his wife and he says to her, listen, do you understand our home? Our heritage? All of our herds? All of that was a blessing from God. Everything that we enjoyed here in this life was God's blessing. Who are we to say that we should not have to endure any hardship? If God sees fit in his sovereignty to give me health and praise the Lord, but if in his sovereignty he seems or deems that I should Maybe carry a thorn in the flesh, then praise the Lord. Job says, who are we to accept the rose and deny the thorn? If God is going to send you or I, beloved, into the lion's den, we must remember He can shut their mouths. If he's going to send us into the furnace, we must remember that he can't absorb the heat. What I'm saying, beloved, is if God is going to send evil your way as he did here to the life of Job that he also sends grace that is sufficient for you and I in the day of evil to be able to endure it. But whatever the case, it is his sovereignty to do so. God is good whether we're going through prosperity or persecution. So as I bring this to a conclusion tonight, I would have you personally consider three things. Do you love him because of what he gives you? Or do you love him because of who he is? Beloved, our test of our love for him is are you willing to lay your life down Willing to lay it down for him. No greater love hath no man than this, and a man lay down his life for his friend But see, God's not asking you and I to die for him. He's asking us to live for him. To live for him. So do you love him because of what he gives you or because of who he is? Are you sufficiently on guard as to not be used by Satan to carry or deliver his message? Well that Job's wife was used. It's very clear that Satan, I mean that Satan used Peter. We're fooling ourselves if we think that we could not as well fall into that group. Are you sufficiently on guard to be sure we're not being used of Satan to carry or deliver his message? To be used by Satan. In his endeavor to discourage the heart of your brethren, are you willing to take a very clear and honest look at yourself? This is not easy to do. Only the most honest and pure of heart will be able to do so correctly. Because every man does that which is right in his own eyes. Or can we say that everything we do is right? Oh, I know theologically we would say that's not true. We know we make mistakes, but when it comes down to it and we're going to argue a point, we argue our own point. We always present our case. Somebody was asking me about something, uh a situation recently, and I I just told them I said the fact of the matter is is you have no idea what happened. You can't know because it doesn't matter who you talk to, you are going to get their viewpoint The reality of most situations is it's probably somewhere in the middle because that's just human nature So are we really, truly, honestly going to search ourselves and be sure that we're not being used as Satan to carry or deliver his message Lastly, are you willing to take the thorn with the rose? We know God blesses us abundantly. We're coming up on this Thanksgiving season. After having received so many good things from God. Who are we to feel that we do not deserve to endure any hardship? Are you willing to trust in his sovereignty and continue to submit to his will Be you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed