Turn your Bibles tonight to the book of Job, the book of Job. We looked at Job chapter number one. That's what we're in. We saw first of all Job's character in verses one through five. Then we saw last Thursday night uh Satan's charge, basically his claim that Job was only serving God because of uh his blessing that God had done uh in Job's life, how God had Blessed. You know, as I was reading that this week, I didn't bring it out in my notes last week at all, but as I was reading that, the it is he said, hey, it's because you have blessed the work of his hands. And a thought hit me, you know what? I want the Lord to bless the work of my hands. I want the Lord to bless the work of my hands. And I just made a few notes about that for future study. Uh, you know, obviously we're past that already, but uh just made a note about that and thought, well, that's a a neat statement to think and consider how God blessed the work of his hands and what we're doing and God puts his hand on somebody and blesses it, and we praise the Lord for that. But tonight we want to look at uh Job's calamity. For the sake of time, I do have uh want to try and go the balance of the book here, verses thirteen through twenty-two. So we're gonna just walk verse by verse through this. We won't read it all by way of introduction. We will read it uh as we go along tonight. But as we begin to read this text, the text that we have under consideration this evening, we're struck right away with the snowball of events That come rushing into the life of Job. It is one tragic headline after another. Now we know that Satan, it is he who is directly responsible for the horrific events that come into Job's life. And in like manner, beloved, we should understand and we should remember that it is Satan who is directly responsible for many, most of the horrific headlines that we read in our papers. From day to day in our world today. The tragic things that come into the lives of people today, we need to remember that it is Satan and it's his uh evil work that is uh bringing this into people's lives. So I would have you see just two points tonight. We're going to look at the snowball of disaster that comes upon him, and then we're going to see, secondly, this evening uh his sustained devotion through it all. But let's look beginning here in verse number 13, we see, and there was a day When his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. There's a couple things I would like to point out here as we began. We look at this verse. First of all, there's a day. There is a day. He said there was a day. There was a day when they were rejoicing, when they were having a great time, when they are they they everything looked like it was okay to them. They were sitting back and relaxing. They were enjoying the prosperity that God had brought into their life. But what I'm saying is there was a day, and you know what? Satan knows when to attack. Satan knows that there's a day, there's a time, and he knows when it's going to have the greatest impact He knows when it's going to bring about the greatest degree of heartache and trial into your life. And Satan's waiting for that day. to attack you so that he can wreak the the biggest detriment or the create cause the most greatest amount of harm to you. That's his desire. And he knows that that day, when it is, and he's waiting for the day to do it. We should heed the warning and remember that there's a day. And beloved, there is no security against future calamity No, it doesn't matter how much money you have today. It doesn't matter how many property you have, how much property you have, your name is titled to you, it doesn't matter how much uh you have in your 401k or what kind of retirement plan you've got set aside, there is no security against future calamity. You we don't know what this world is gonna bring. I mean you think about the horrific things that took place They're in North Carolina and these people one day everything was fine and the next their entire house, their their livelihood, e everything is destroyed and gone. Their whole lives, they may have been saving up their whole life and that it's gone. Everything turned upside down and changed. Beloved, our security is not found in our bank deposit, but in our Lord. He has right away here, he has four messengers that come in quick succession, one after the other. You see the first messenger here in verse number 14 and 15. And there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them. And the Savians fell upon them and took them away. Yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. First of all, it's noteworthy, beloved, that Job's family was greatly blessed. All of his family, his brothers and sisters, and all of his children, all of the siblings, were greatly blessed because of Job. And this is just a quick note here, but you know, we can greatly bless our children where they enter life experiencing the blessing of God that kind of overflows upon them because of the life that we've lived. I feel that I, through the majority of my life, a lot of the blessings I have experienced, I feel like it wasn't because of me. I feel like I really am reaping the benefit and the blessing of a faithful father. And I have experienced that and I've seen it in my life where I have been blessed, and so that blessing has been passed upon me, but you know the saying can be true that sometimes children have to overcome the burden. That their family brings. And so just a caution for us, just a warning for us as parents to be sure that we are passing on the blessing where they can Bask in that instead of having to try and overcome the burden that we were to them. This calamity begins here with this first messenger coming and telling Job, hey, wild men. This band of Sabians. The Sabians were a people of Arabia. They were, they lived a wandering lifestyle kind of like gypsies And they would rob and steal their way through an area and and just live off the spoils and move to a new area and rob and steal and and just exist that way. That was how they existed, but Satan directs their staff. Satan sends them on purpose to Job and they attack and take The oxen that were plowing and the asses that were feeding beside them, they're killed, and then killed the servants that were there. That first messenger scarcely finishes speaking in the second one, the Bible says there in verse number 16, Well he yet spake. There came also another and said, the fire of God is fallen from heaven and hath burned up the sheep. And the servants consume them, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. He comes and says, listen, that 7,000 sheet that you had? And the servants that were tending them, they've been burned up. They have been consumed. Now this fire of God has fallen, is very likely a lightning storm. that came and Satan used. But what I want to just point out here is Quite often, people want to attribute things to God that are not God. This servant came and he said, Boy, the fire of God has fallen. But was it God that was attacking them? God was not judging Job. God was not hurting Job. God was not attacking Job. God allowed it. And some people would say, well, because God allowed it, it ultimately was him. But God was not the one doing this. And many times people like to attribute things to God that do not belong to him that God did not do. It is the pattern of men to blame God for everything. Sometimes even foolish things that we've done. We say, well, look what God did. You know, when we were in the Philippines, there was this big hotel that was just built and Brother Harddecker was driving us around and he showed it to us and he says, man, that's he said that hasn't been been there more than a month. Like it's just just got done. He said, the crazy thing is, is they built that hotel right on a fault line. They know it's on a fault line. The very first earthquake we have, that building's coming down. And he said, I would not stay in that building for anything. I mean I'm not sleeping in that building. They know they built it right on a fault line. And so people would say, boy, look at God sent this earthquake and and destroyed this hotel. No, idiot, you built on a fault line. If you build your house on sta on sand, when the rain comes, it's going to get washed away. You've got to think about where you're building and what you're doing, and even in our lives, sometimes we want to blame God for the mess that we're in when if we really got honest, we would say, oh, wait a minute, I built it in the wrong place I put my emphasis in the wrong place. I I was doing the wrong things, and so therefore it's not God's fault, it's my fault. We see the third messenger comes, and he says, while he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands and fell upon the camels. And have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. This third group, the Chaldeans, came, took away all of Job's camels. We know earlier in the passage that it had 3,000 camels, very valuable animals in this time. And killed the servants. Satan's not letting up, though. That fourth messenger's coming. He says, Well he was yet speaking. There came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee Beloved, this fourth messenger comes and tells us that all ten of his children have been killed. Job hears this announcement. It's uh one thing after the next. I mean you you can think about well initially somebody comes and says, Man, all your all your donkeys and all of your Oxen that we're plowing the fields, they're all dead. And I mean he's like, oh no, man, now I gotta get more oxen. This is not, I mean, how are we gonna get that job done? He's probably thinking about that And then one thing after the next hits him. But then we get here and he finds that his children are dead. Love it there, this is on a whole nother level. I still remember like yesterday. Being down in John Hopkins Shock Trauma Center when Jeremiah was struck by a car. I remember standing in the emergency room there, doctors all over that room, nurses running around, all of the equipment running, everybody working on him and trying to do everything they could to save this baby Jeremiah. 15, 20 minutes they're working, everybody they're doing all they can. Everybody yell doctors are yelling orders, a bunch of police standing around in the room. And I remember the doctor stopping. Turning the machines off. And how the silence fell in that room. The officer stopped moving. Nurses stopped moving The doctor turned, looked at Tira, and said, We've done all we can. And she was struck with the gravity of that and he said, he is gone And she literally fell to the floor, unable to stand, with the grief of losing her child I got down on the floor there in the hospital, put my arm around her shoulder, praying for her. Praying with all these doctors standing around, with all these policemen standing around. But she was so overcome with one child's death. The gravity of this situation we read over, and I think maybe it doesn't really hit us. He lost all of his kids in one day. You know, we as parents we worry about our children. We care for them. And as my kids are getting older, And Alicia's out of the house. I think we worry about 'em more when they're gone th than when the when they were in the house. I mean there's more concern and more prayer for them when when they're when they're older and and You're like, okay, they should be okay, but you know, when they're in your house, you can kind of control what they're doing, you know, you can kind of watch over them. But now you're like, okay, Lord. You know, it's or they're all in your hands because we have no idea. This announcement. These four things brought on to him. Satan was the one doing this. And this here is the greatest of Job's losses of all of it. I think all the other stuff he could have said, you know what, I don't care at all. I don't care at all about the rest of it All of the animals, all the asses, all all the donkeys, the camels, it doesn't matter, but my kids. I think Satan Here is his objective to cause Job to curse God. He probably thought in his mind, boy, if not if if the other things don't, I've got them right here I've got him with this for sure. You know, beloved, when tragedy strikes, we turn to our family. In hours of need, in hours of heartache, when there's all of these problems come, who is it that we want to be with? We turn to those that we love, we turn to our family. Job's family was dead. He had no one to turn to. And in all this, Satan probably thought he's probably standing back there looking at him and saying, okay, as soon as this fourth guy comes and tells him his kids are a bad boy, he's gonna curse God for sure. And he's standing back there and he's probably calling, God, Lord, Lord, do you see this way? Watch, he's going to curse you right here. But we instead we see his sustained devotion. Look at verse number 20. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down on the ground and worshipped. And all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. There's several things here I want you to consider. First of all, we see then Job arose. Then Job arose. You see, beloved, this I believe was a turning point for him. Not that he did not still have sorrow, not that he did not still have heartbreak, not that he wasn't still having uh shedding of tears, but there was a turning point, there was a change in his mindset, there was a moment. where he was on the ground like Giera was weeping over baby Jeremiah. There was a moment where he was down there, uh, but he arose. He came to the place where he said, I'm not going to be defined by this. This is not the rest of my life. I have cause to move forward. He arose There's a time, beloved, that I believe that God is calling for his people to arise. There are times of heartache, there are times of trial, there's times in our life that are dark, but God is not expecting his people to stay there. He would have us arise. He doesn't want you to sit down and put your marker and say, okay, this is where I'm at for the rest of my life. Job said, I'm not going to be known for the rest of my life as the man that lost it all in one day. That's not who I am in Jesus Christ. He arose, he stood up, and God is calling for his people. Sometimes you've gone through heartache, you've gone through hurt, you've been offended, you've been discouraged, you've endured some hardship And some Christians, sadly, they get themselves in that place and they mark that. That's their ground. That's what they're known by, and they can't have a conversation without dealing with that thing that happened 15 years ago. And God's saying, Arise. Get past that. Move on, because there are more important things to live for. I don't have time to spend a a lot on this tonight, but Would you look at Matthew chapter 9, Matthew chapter 9, this familiar story here of a man sick of the palsy? We see in Matthew chapter 9, verses 2 through 8, he says, and behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy. Laying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their face, said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer, thy sins be forgiven thee. And behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemeth And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts? For whether it is easier to say thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say arise and walk But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, then saith he to the sick of the palsee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go into thy house. In verse number 7, and he arose and departed to his house. Beloved Jesus said, Arise, take up thy bed and go into thy house. And he arose and he went and did it. I believe God is calling for his people sometimes. He's brought healing into your life already. He's already healed the sick that caused that pain. He's already healed that problem. He's already said, I've given you victory over that already. Arise! But so many Christians, even though they've been healed of the palsy, they're staying there. They're going to sit there, they're going to wallow in it, they're going to maintain that as a definitive part of their life instead of arising and moving on for God. He arose. God's calling for us to arise. We see here that He did not arise and just completely forget the heartache that he dealt with. He shaved his head. This was a practice for those in mourning. I'm not sure what Timothy is mourning, but uh whatever no, I'm just kidding. He he he chose to shave his head. This was something that they would do in that time, and they would shave their head. They would rend their clothes. This was a a sign of somebody going through great grief. Beloved, there's nothing wrong with grief. There's nothing sinful about asking the question why? There is nothing wrong with Enduring and going through a time of sorrow. But it is almost shocking to us to read the conclusion of verse number 20. Where we see here, beloved, he says, Job arose, he rent his mantle, he shaved his head, he fell down upon the ground. And what? Worshipped. And worshipped. I don't know about you. I think for me I would have been falling down the to the ground and crying out in pain. I would have been falling to the ground and crying out in anger. I would have been demanding an answer for why. I would have been saying this is unjust and unfair. I've been faithful to you, God. Why would you allow this to come? But Job fell onto the ground, and the Bible says he didn't cry out in anger. He didn't lay anything of any unjustice at the feet of Jesus. No, he worshiped. He worshipped. Understand, beloved, when you and I have a right perspective and a right relationship with God, we will find ourselves coming to the end of ourselves. To the end of our arguments, to the end of our questions, to the place where we just worship him Psalms 95, 6 says, O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker. Job recognized God's sovereignty. Job saw God was just in all that he did, and that God was good. Not that everything that happened to him was good, but that God was good. Satan's overriding goal was to permanently silence the worship of Job. It might be noteworthy to consider what Satan did with the animals. You notice the animals that the oxen and the ass were taken. The camels were taken. Well what happened to the sheep? They were burned up. What is it that Job would have used for worship in his time? The sheep. Satan said, I'm going to silence your worship. I'm going to remove every means of worship that you have. I'm going to take away every motive you ever had to worship God. And he expected fully and completely to be able to look in the face of God and say, See, I told you, look at he's cursing you. And yet through it all Job fell to the ground and he worshiped. He worshipped because he had a correct view of gain and loss. We see in verse number 21. And he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Wow. He had a correct view of gain and loss. He understood, beloved, that it all was on loan from God. The young people have to go to practice. You know, you remember Rush Limbaugh? I don't even know if he's on the radio anymore. But Rush Limbaugh used to say, you know, talking to you or coming to you with my brain tied behind my back, with talent on loan from God. He used to everybody used to get mad at him, right? But you know what? That is a true statement. Because every single one of us, whatever we have, is on loan from God. Whatever talent you have is on loan from God. Whatever skills you have is on loan from God. Whatever strengths you have is on loan from God. And whatever possessions you have, or whatever family God has blessed you with, it's all on loan from God. And Job recognized that. He understood that. He says, Boy, I came into this world with nothing. And when the end comes, I'm going to go out of this world with nothing. Beloved, it there is no amount of clothes that'll warm up a dead body. In the end, you you've got nothing. Oh, I know they're going to put you in your finest soup and lay you to rest, but that's just your body. That's just your shell. You're not taking it with you. It's going to go into the ground and decompose unless the Lord comes back. You're not going to take it with you. He says, boy, it all came from God. God's calling it back. He's asking for it. You see, Job was not overly consumed or preoccupied with the gain that God had brought into his life. You know, sometimes when we have too many things, we can get too preoccupied with it. It can become where we're so worried about those possessions we lose track of where they came from. And that that's really what they are, is just things. You see, Job had things, things didn't have Job. And that's how we need to be. Realize God's blessed us with something? Amen. If he hasn't, amen. It's okay either way because it all comes from Him. He praised God regardless. He said, blessed be the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Do you know, beloved, that complaining has never solved a problem? All we have to do is look at the children of Israel and realize how much God despises a complaining heart. You know, I used to say something. I I would say it a lot. My wife just left, but uh she's I'm sure she could attest to the fact that I would say it. Um and it it was basically I know it's not going to change it, but complaining makes me feel better. You know, just complaining makes me it's just like it's not going to help, but just, you know, complaining about it makes me feel better, which is not true. It's not a true statement. Complain doesn't solve anything. It's just like it's like poking the wound is what it is. It's throwing salt in it, you know, it's just making things worse. We need to get a right perspective and understand that God is the one and he's called it up or he's asked for it and it's okay. In all of this, he triumphed. And he is an example to us. Because he trusted God no matter what. Beloved, through his tears, he still trusted. In the midst of his sorrow, he submitted, Your will, God, like Jesus Christ himself, not my will be done, but thine. The Bible says in verse number 22, in all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. Means he didn't blame God. He didn't declare God as injust or unfair. He didn't charge God with anything. He understood where he was. And that, beloved, takes complete trust, completely yielding to God alone. I believe this is the message thus far in this book. We've seen the character of this man, we've seen the charge of Satan against him But as as Job went through this calamity, he endured it all and still trusted. Whatever, Lord. Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. His will is what we must be concerned with. Beloved, everyone here is going to face some test in our life. The magnitude of the test may not be that of Job. But the message of the test is just as important. Are you gonna trust him? Are you going to yield to the Father's will? As we close this section, this passage of Scripture, this passage that describes for us the darkest days of Job's life. the calamity that he endured. This calamity was multiplied beyond our ability even to really comprehend. Beloved, when all that he had in this life was stripped away, he had nothing left to hold on to. Here's the important thing. I want you to get this. When everything else was gone and he had nothing else to hold on to, when he fell. He fell to what he had for a foundation. And when we have the right foundation We too, like Job, when everything in this life is taken away, we fall on God. That was his foundation. And when all of it was left, he had nothing else to grab a hold of, but he just was back down to brass tacks, and that was it. It was him and God. And he fell down and he worshipped God. He worshiped in the face of unimaginable heartache. Oh, that we could be so close to our Father that when everything else is gone, we have Him. Stand to your feet with your