Turn your Bibles to the book of Job tonight, the book of Job. We are going to look at Job's complaint this evening. We've we've thus far we've got a look from above at the life of this man Job, and we've been able to watch from afar as Satan has unjustly robbed Job of everything. Save his own life. And so far in the story, Job has, according to the word of God, according to God himself, he's maintained his integrity. He's continued to do right. He wouldn't curse God. But one wonders how long can a man hold up under such pressures and such hardships As we look, we learn, and we're faced with the reality of the fact that life that is magnificent can very quickly go to the monotonous and then even to the miserable. The transition and the changes that take place in our life from one day to the next sometimes can be very drastic. So we need to learn from Job on how to handle these things, and we need to see and understand some truths from Adam To the second Adam, who was Jesus Christ, every man has known trouble. Jesus Himself said in John 12, 27, Now is my soul troubled. Even Jesus knew times of trouble, times of heartache. This evening we're going to hear from the heart of Job. He's reached the end of his rope, as it were. He has gotten to the bottom of the barrel. He has certainly come to the end of himself, and we're going to hear that as his heart cries out He's held his peace, but he can no longer. And from his soul erupts a monologue of misery that is actually heart-wrenching to hear, to listen to. As you hear the words this evening, I must warn you that it is dark, this chapter 3 of the book of Job. The true depth of Job's pain is made abundantly clear to us as Job is sitting in the ash heap with his three friends That thus far we know that it's been seven days, that seven days his friends have sat with him, although we don't know The time frame from the very first time that somebody came to him and reported and said, Hey, uh, a storm has come and killed your animals or this has happened and your children have died and this has happened and this i we don't know how much time has transpired but you know when you're in the middle of pain, when you're in the middle of hardship, every day seems like an eternity. Every day seems like it's just gonna last forever. And Job has thus far held his peace, but As he begins to open his mouth and his three friends who have graciously sat with him and just waited until Job was ready to share, just waited until Job was ready to express his concerns. I think his three friends are probably like taken back. They're probably in shock as they hear Job's cry. Job's own wife told him to curse God and die. But I wonder tonight, what would you and I say to him? I mean if we sat and listened to him say all of this that we're going to read here You think in your mind literally think about it, okay, if I had a friend who I loved and cared for and he came to me and he said this What would I tell him? What would you say? So let's look here. Job expresses three main areas of concern in this text, and we're going to look at the whole of chapter 3 tonight. So we see first of all he asks a question as why was I even born? Why am I even born? Now follow along as we read these first ten verses where he discusses this and just kind of opens up his heart and and pours out to his friends his concern. We notice the Bible says after this. After after what? After everything that had happened. After his friends had sat with him for seven days, after he had held his peace for this long, after all of that, Job opened his mouth, the Bible says, and he cursed his day. Verse number two, and Job spake and said, Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man-child conceived. Let that day be darkness. Let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. Let darkness and shadow of death stain it. Let a cloud dwell upon it. Let the blackness of the day terrify it. As for that night, let darkness seize upon it. Let it not be joined unto the days of the year. Let it not come unto the number of the months Lo, let the night be solitary. Let no joyful voice come therein. Let them curse it that curses the day, who are ready to raise up their morning. Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark. Let it look for light, but have none. Neither let it say the dawning of the day, because it shutteth up The doors of my mother's womb, nor hid sorrow from my eyes. We see here he curses the day of his birth. This is much like the expressions, or maybe Jeremiah is quoting Job, because Job was written and available before Jeremiah by some great number of years. So maybe he's quoting him, but in Jeremiah chapter twenty and verse twenty fourteen he says, Come, cursed be the day wherein I was born. Let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed. Jeremiah, who certainly was acquainted with grief and knew great hardship, cries out the same thing. He says, Man, it would be better if I had not even been born. Let me say to you tonight that there's a big difference between the questions that Job is asking here and wanting to take your own life. Job is asking the question, why was I born? Why am I alive? It's different than saying, I want to be dead. You see, there's a lot of people that have endured such great hardship, and they have felt that the world would be better without them. But what we see from Job here, I want you to understand, beloved, is that he sought for death through the hands of a sovereign and just God. He was calling upon God, Lord. Why am I here? He was not seeking to end his own life. We know that because in no place did Job cursed God. Oh, he cursed the day he was born, but he didn't curse his God. He continued to Submit to God. And even in this question where he was battling with the turmoil that he was dealing with, he he even in that he was submitted to God and he said, Lord, oh, that I wouldn't have even been born. He declares over and over again in the verses we just read that it the day would be as darkness. You all know that when men and women, when we go through trials It is though the sun is not shining. It is though we are in a day of darkness. We cannot see any light. This is what Job is describing. He says, hey. Even if the light was shining, I pray that they wouldn't see it, or if the m if the sun comes up in the morning, that it would be as blackness as it would be as dark. Let no light shine upon it, he says May darkness and deep shadow claim it. May the cloud settles over it, the darkness overwhelm it. It just over and over again, that idea of he cannot see any light at the end of the tunnel And why not, dear friend, for the hardship that he bears You know, oftentimes after the loss of a dear loved one, there is all the busyness, there is all of the schedules and all of the things that must be done. But you give it a few days, and the reality begins to sink in What things were will never be the same. The memories start flooding in and the great feeling of loss and grief begins to engulf you as it did Job here. And he says, there's no light at the end of the tunnel for me. I can imagine Job as he's sitting there and Talking to his friends. I I can imagine him thinking in his heart, I mean if I had just one child left, I would have cause to live I would have motivation or a reason for being here, but they're all gone. My whole family is gone. Everything that I had in this life is gone. My own health is gone. There's nothing left Why am I even born? He declares that. Why am I still here? Not only does he ask, In this text, why was I born? But he says, why am I still living? In verses 11 through 20. He describes it as, okay, I was born, but why did God allow me to live? He says, why did I not, why died I not from the womb? Verse number 11. Follow along as we read down through verse number 20. He says, Why did I not give up the ghost when I came out of the belly? Why did the knees prevent me? Or why the breast that I should suck? For now should I have lain still and been quiet? I should have slept then and had been at rest. He's saying, if I could have just been stillborn. If I could have just been stillborn, I mean, why was there somebody there to care for me? Why was there somebody there to feed me? Why was there somebody, why couldn't I just have died as a baby and then I wouldn't have had to live and endure all of this pain, he says? He says in verse number 14, with kings and counselors of the earth, which built desolate places for themselves. Talking about those great edifices where these kings bodies are placed. Or with princes that had gold with filled their houses with silver Or as a hidden, untimely birth, I had not been as infants which never saw light There the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary be at rest. He says, if I would have passed away then, I would have known rest. There, the prisoner rest together, they hear not the voice of the oppressor. The small and the greater there, and the servant is free from his master, whereof is light given to him that is in misery and life unto the bitter in soul. He says, why am I still living? Oh that there would have just been a just been, if I could have just been ended right then, it would have been so much easier. I wouldn't have to deal with all this pain that I'm dealing with now, today. He's looking for a way of escape. A way to not have to feel the pain he's feeling, to not have to endure the trial that he's enduring. Let me just briefly remind you tonight that Job is looking for peace and he's blessed that he knows the Lord. But for those that do not know the Lord Escape from this life does not give them peace. Escape from this life immediately puts them into A place that the Bible says was created for the devil and his angels. And Luke 16, we read about the rich man. The Bible says he died and immediately lifted up his eyes, being in torment. Those who seek freedom or peace from the trials of this life, when they do not know the Lord, escape from this life does not give them peace, but gives them eternal turmoil. Oh, I would implore any and all to trust the Lord before it is too late. But, beloved, for those that know the Lord, We know that day of rest and peace is coming. We know that to escape this life, to be freed from the shackles of this mortal flesh. Is a day we look forward to when we no longer have to fight the world, the flesh, and the devil. We no longer have to battle through the days that tend to be long. And we we look longingly for that day, and that's okay. Boy Job was looking at that. If you've lived long enough You've been in the place where you were looking for escape. You've lived through something that you said, you know what? I wish I didn't have to go through this. You may have even been in a place like Job where you said, Boy, if I wasn't here, not that you were contemplating or ready to take your own life, but just the idea of man This is so bad. I mean, it's the worst thing in the world. Nothing could be worse than this. And I'm enduring this. Anybody that's lived any length of time has endured things like that in their life. But you know, let me just encourage you parents, it's our job and responsibility to help our young to go through those times. So that they understand that weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. They need to learn and understand that it's not the end. You see, beloved, there's times in my life where I was at the end, where I thought there was no tomorrow. Where there wasn't anything worth living for. And you look back at those times and you think, wow, how could I have thought that that was so bad? I can remember as vividly this in my mind as if it happened yesterday. I was about six years old, and my parents had instructed me not to carry my $10 bill that I got for my birthday in my pocket, but to put it in my bank. But I was a big boy and I could carry my ten dollars. But I remember it was in my pocket and I remember being at the store with mom and thinking, boy, I got my ten dollars and I get to buy something and I reached in my pocket and my ten dollars was gone. Somewhere along the line I had pulled my pocket out something, I had dropped it, I had lost it. I looked all over the store and of course I was weeping. I mean I had lost ten dollars. That was a world of money to me at six five, six years old. I mean I could not I I could not imagine I was just so broken over losing ten dollars. And you look back and say, okay, that's pretty foolish. But you know what it helped me for when I was about nineteen and I lost three thousand in a foolish investment. So you start to learn, okay, I'm gonna recover from this. It's not gonna be too bad. You know what? What about the first heartbreak? When you were so in love and you thought, boy, this is the one, but then you your heart gets broken, you think, there's no reason to live anymore. I'll never love like that again. And parents, we've got to help our kids understand. Yeah, they will. That weeping endureth for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. That there is there is still a tomorrow. You're gonna get through. Everybody goes through times where they feel like, boy, this is the end. I remember I I described it for you before, but the time as a young boy probably 15, 16 years old, and I got caught smoking. I know. I got I was smoking and and I got caught and I thought boy I destroyed my father's testimony. The whole church knows about this. I've messed up royally. This is, I mean, I felt like it was the end. Like there's no reason for me to go on. I've already ruined everything there is to have that's special and dear. But you know what? Uh we went past that and uh by and large a lot of that is because of the forgiveness of my father and mother that I understood that I was still loved by them and that they forgave me and we were moving on. We need to help people understand that they can get through. And if you're there right now in your life, or if you come to a place in your life tomorrow or next week or a year from now where you say, Man, there's no reason to go on. Can I tell you there is a reason? That although things look so bad today, that tomorrow is not going to be that bad. It will get better. You can go on, and God can bring you through in a miraculous way, and one day you'll look back and you'll see God's hand bringing you through that, and you'll be able to declare that you serve a good God. We see thirdly here that he asks in verses 21 to 26, he says, why am I suffering? He says, why was I born? And I was born. Why did I continue to live? And now that I'm living, why am I suffering? He says, Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery? The answer is no. And life unto the bitter in soul, which longs for death. But it cometh not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasure, which rejoice exceedingly and are glad when they come. When they can find the grave. You say, boy, this is happy when the end comes, when you can finally find the grave. Why is light given to man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in? For my sighing cometh before I eat. He's saying, my heartache, my sigh, my burden is greater than I can't even eat It's there before I even eat in the beginning in the morning, before I start a day, that sign all the time, and my roaring are poured out like waters. For the thing which I greatly feared has come upon me, and that which I was afraid of has come unto me I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet, yet trouble came He said, I was doing everything I could do. I wasn't just taking it easy. I wasn't sitting and rest and kicking back and relaxing. I wasn't being lazy. I was doing everything that I knew how to do. in this life that was right and and still trouble came? Yeah. He's like, why do you allow me to continue to suffer, Lord? C. S. Lewis said in describing this passage of scripture here, he said that Job is declaring that there is not it's not that I am in much danger of ceasing to believe in God. The real danger is coming to believe some dreadfully things about him. The conclusion I dread, Lewis said, is that there is, it is not that there is no God, but that this is what God is really like. He said, I have no no doubt that there's God. He says, But I I I'm looking at this and I'm saying, Boy, the thing in verse number twenty-five, for that which I greatly feared has come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. He says, in the midst of all of it, I was trying to do everything that I could. I was working hard, and yet still I know trouble. And he says the problem is not that I would fear that there is no God, not that I'm going to live as an atheist and say God doesn't exist, but the fact that I would come to believe something that's false about him, that God doesn't care. That I believe that God is not concerned about what's going on in my life. That because of what I've endured, I greatly fear coming to the place that I don't trust Him anymore. In light of hearing this read, I go back to the first question I asked you. What would you tell somebody? That said this to you, that described this level of pain, that talked about this inner turmoil and struggle that they were enduring, what would your answer be? I think we have the privilege of the Word of God and being able to read this in hindsight. And maybe Job's friends would have given a different answer had they had the Word of God to look at But there are some things that we can learn from this that I would implore you to take with you An answer maybe we could get from the Word of God that would help us. First of all, I think it's notable that there is no condemnation in this text. By God for Job's complaint. In this text, and even if you go all the way to the end of the book of Job, we see God continues to commend Job. And that Job did not curse God, although he cursed the day he lived. And although I imagine there's some things in this text that God was not Especially pleased with a lack of trust and maybe starting to doubt. But what we see as we read this, because God is not condemning him here, I think what we see is the patience of our God. God's patience with us as we go through this, beloved. God may not have been very pleased with Job's complaint, but we do know that he understood it. Because Hebrews 4:15 says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but with all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. And God understood the turmoil in the soul of Job. And therefore he had patience and long-suffering with him. We also see and are reminded of the truth that all men endure suffering. Whatever it is that you might be going through, Satan is selling you a will of goods, telling you that you're the only one. That you're the one, nobody else has it as bad as you. You look at other people's lives and you say, boy, they they have it so easy, but you do not know the burdens they're carrying. Just a week ago, Sunday, in our congregation here on Sunday morning. I was aware of a situation in somebody's life, but not many were. Somebody else learned of it, and they came to me. And said, Are you aware of this? And I said, Yes. And they just looked at me and they said, Man, you just never know what people are dealing with. You never know what heartache that person down the road might be carrying. And that is the fact. We don't know. Satan is telling you a bill of goods that you're the only one, that you're you have it worse than everybody else. Nobody's had to walk in your shoes. Nobody can understand your pain. Can I tell you, you walk through the pages of Scripture and you see men who were men of God who went through unbelievable suffering. Read about the stories or what Paul endured. Read about the stories, think about what Joseph unjustly endured. Think about Jesus himself. If there was ever anybody unjustly attacked and ultimately killed, it was Jesus himself. And what he endured. Beloved Vance Havner reminds us in one of his books that he completed shortly before his death, he said, It's nice to visit Disneyland. But Christian, we don't live there. The Christian life is not a vacation or it is a vocation. It is not a picnic. It's a pilgrimage. And we all have burdens to bear. We all have burdens to bear He goes on and says Paul didn't spend his last days writing his memoirs on some sunny beach in the Riviera If we are to believe tradition, we know that most of the disciples died violent deaths. You read through the pages of or the chapter of Hebrews there the list of those men who the Bible says they subdued kingdoms and they wrought righteousness and they obtained promises. They stopped the mouths of lions. They quenched the violence of the fires. They escaped the edge of the sword. These men endured great hardship. So I'm telling you that all men endure suffering. And other men In Scripture and Alive Today have reached the point that maybe you're at, or maybe you will be one day, where they have felt like it's too much to bear, I can't go on We just read here where Job expressed that. Job saying, Oh, that I would have never been born The Bible tells us that he was an upright man, that he eschewed evil, that he was perfect. He was actually the greatest man in the earth. And yet he reached the end of his rope. He reached the point where he all all he could do is look up and he said, Boy, it's just darkness. I see nothing. I see no light. Jesus himself in the garden, you remember Jesus said, Hey Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me He was saying, I can't I can't do it. I can't take it. The burden is too much. The heartache is too much. The trial is too strong. Lord, I can't carry this If it be your will, understanding, beloved, the heart that is present in that, the same heart I believe is present in Job, where he's saying, God, oh, that I would have never been born Not that he was ready to take his life, but he was saying, Lord, if it's your will and you're ready or willing, I'm sure ready to get out of here. But submitting to God. And that's what Jesus did. He said, Oh, if it's your will, let this cup pass from me. You remember Jeremiah, a great godly prophet, who we just read stated the same thing as Job himself. I wrote a five-page paper in college one time on uh, I don't know, probably a 500-page book on the life of C. H. Persian. C. H. Spurgeon was a man given to great depression. All that God did with him, this prince of preachers. And C. H. Version knew great times of depression, debilitating depression, where he could not even get in the pulpit. He couldn't preach. You guys know the story of the tabernacle where They were overcrowded in excess of 10,000 people in the building, and somebody cried fire. There was no fire, but they cried fire, and a number of people were killed trying to escape the tabernacle. For months, C. H. Spurgeon couldn't even preach because he was so distraught and broken over the loss of these lives in his congregation. Great men. Have reached the end of their rope where they said, I can't go on. Elijah said it, under the juniper tree, when he was running for his life In 1 Kings 19:4 he says, But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. He said, Lord, I've had enough. And I tell you back in 2014 when we went through a terrible turmoil here in our midst, Mary would tell you, I would get up every morning and say, I can't I can't do it. I can't go on. I can't make it through this another day. Somehow God brought me through. God gives you the strength to go another day, and then you get to experience and see his guiding hand and the victories that are wrought in the days to follow, if you will just yield to him and let him carry you through. There's been great men in every generation who have reached the end of the rope and said, I can't go on We know there's been great men who have asked the question, why? Sixteen times in the book of Job, Job asked why. God, why? Four times just in this chapter number three here. Moses asked God, why? Why did you send me? This is too much. The psalmist asked God, why hast, why hidest thou thyself in the time of trouble? You see, that's a lie of Satan. It causes us to not be able to see any light. That causes us, like the psalmist, to say, God, why are you hiding yourself in the time of trouble? God's not hiding, but Satan is blocking our view. Jeremiah said, why is my pain perpetual and my wounds incurable? Jesus himself on the cross said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? We know that other good men have asked the question, why? What we learn from them is this, although they cried out in despair, they did not cry out in defiance. You see, in the midst of it, there still was submission to whatever God wanted. Whatever God's will was It be thy will, let this cup pass from me. Lord, it's too much. I can't go on. If it's your will, would you please remove this? Would you please take this away? Would you please get me through this because it is too hard to bear? It's okay to look forward to a day when there will be no trouble. We long for that day We long for the tomorrow when the current burden in heartache is gone. Sometimes I think God allows the storm So that we would long for the sunshine. Because, beloved, the sunshine is never sweeter than immediately after a storm. When you have numerous days of rain and and wind and it's just nasty, you just start to long for the sun. Boy, it would be nice if the sun would just shine. And that sun comes out and you go out and It hits your face and you're like, whoa, this is so beautiful. This is so nice. I think sometimes God lets some things come into our life here so that we'll long for there So that our we our hearts wouldn't feel at home in this old world. So that we'll continue to look towards heaven when the day when every tear will be wiped away. We look longingly for the soon coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when we're carried away into heaven, that place of eternal peace and rest. We also learned from this text that although we don't understand, we might not understand, but we can trust. We can trust. In John 13, verse number 7, Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not, but thou shalt know hereafter. Job didn't know what was going on. Job didn't understand the battle and the testimony that he was for God and how his life was going to be used for the rest of eternity. to be an encouragement and a strength to thousands upon thousands of people. I think with Job now in heaven having knowledge and understanding of that I think if you asked him, Job, would you avoid that if you could, or would you go through it again? I think you'd say I'd go through it again. Although I did not enjoy it, I see what God did through it. We might not understand, but we can trust. Like Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Beloved, if we could just continue to be faithful today, we will have joy in the morning We will have joy in the morning There was a poem written many years ago by Maxwell Cornels. He was a building contractor in the Pittsburgh area, and one day he was involved in an accident. Where he had to have his leg amputated. He later became a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ and Through the years and his walk with God. At one point, God gave him this poem. He said, Not now, but in the coming years. It may be in the better land we will read the meaning of our tears, and then we'll understand. We'll catch the broken threads again and finish what we here began. Heaven will the mysteries explain, and then ah we'll understand. We'll know why clouds instead of sun were ever many a cherished plan, why song had ceased when we scarce had begun 'Tis there some time we'll understand. Why, what when long from what we long for most of all, elude so oft our eager hand Why hopes are crushed and castles fall, up there someday we'll understand. God knows the way, He holds the keys, He guides us with His unerring hand. Sometimes with tearless eyes we'll see, and up there we'll understand. So today we might not know. We might not understand. But we can trust. And one day we will understand. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?