Mention a couple of things. We have several books that we've written. This one is called American Foundations Laid by the Baptists. And if you say, well, I don't read very much, well, that's great. This isn't much. It's only about 115 pages And uh this is a there's a threefold cord. And my argument in this book, and I believe it's it's proven conclusively, I've had pastors read it and uh order cases of it because they're so excited about the content of it. Uh there's a threefold cord that has held America together and really has been the platform and foundation of this great nation that we love so much. And that that is a Baptist cord. The Baptists have uh influenced America spiritually, uh militarily, and politically. And uh my argument is this, if you remove the Baptist influence in the very earliest of the colonial era up to today. If you take that away, America falls flat on its face. It is not the same country that we enjoy today. Our foundational principles were laid by the Baptist. And so that, hence the title, and then of course the subtitle is Why Every American Citizen Owes a Debt of Appreciation to the Baptist. And I hope that you'll have a heart of appreciation. That's a simple book that will acquaint you with American Baptist Heritage And uh then also in reference to what we're going to be looking at today, this is booklet one in a series. Years ago in Bible college I first attended, I walked up to a revolving rack of so-called heroes of the faith And I picked one up and I noticed that it was not my hero of the faith. It was actually someone that persecuted Baptist. I began to look around this rack and I noticed Martin Luther And I noticed Holdrich Wingley and and all these other non-Baptists that actually persecuted Baptist people and killed them. And I decided at that time, all those years ago, if God would ever allow me, I'd put together a series Of Baptist heroes of the faith, so the people could know who the true heroes of the faith are, not people who persecuted others. Baptists never persecuted anyone Uh we believe in soul liberty. That means that uh we we believe that the atheist has the right to stand on the street corner and spew his garbage. Now we don't believe him. We don't agree with him. Uh but if he doesn't have liberty then nobody has liberty. And that's what that's a Baptist principle. It's always been fought for. Uh so at any rate the first booklet is John Clark, the founder of the First Baptist Church in America, and we're going to be focusing on him today. And so there's a total of eight of those, but I just wanted to mention Just a couple of things to wet your whistle in reference to some of the things we'll be talking about this morning. Look very quickly to Psalm 78, verse 1. Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and and known, and our fathers have told us. Note there's a passing on, but you say, Well, that's just a passing on of the Bible. I want you to notice It's also a passing down of the stories and the history of what God has done in our past. Okay, so this really relates to Baptist history quite quite well. Verse 4, we will not hide them from their children Showing to the generation to come, watch carefully, the praises of the Lord and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done One of the things they passed on, and I'll stop right there for sake of time. If you redress the passage at your leisure, you'll find there's five generations that are mentioned in Psalm 78. And one of the things they were passing on is the wonderful works that God hath done. That's the stories, the history of all the things God did. in our past. So I believe there's a mandate, and I generally do a whole session, a 50 50 minute to an hour long session, on the biblical basis for studying your heritage. I'm not going to do that this morning. But I want to jump in and talk to you about this guy, John Clark. And America's First Baptist Church. Now, we believe this guy is very important. Let me tell you how important we believe this guy is. First of all, he's booklet number one in the series. That stands for something. But uh this guy is as important, don't fall out of your seat, as George Washington to American history. He is more important, I would say, than James Madison and Thomas Jefferson. Say, preacher, that's a tall order. How are you going to convince me of that? Bear with me. And let me just put it to you this way. I'll kind of let the cat out of the bag, then we'll go back and we'll talk about all the parts of the cat. Amen? Um if you're excited about Madison, the framers, we call them the founders, Jefferson, man of the wrote declaration of independence, of course the father of our American Constitution, Bill of Rights, James Madison, George Mason, you appreciate these guys, the Adams brothers and others. then how much more should we appreciate those who first brought the principles that they put into those documents? I mean honestly they didn't just fall out of thin air These are principles that were sailed across the ocean and transplanted into the colonial uh system, rather against the colonial system in the colonial era, and then of course our our our founders picked up those principles and entrenched them in documents. But there's cookie cutters that the Baptists made so that they could do that. I believe you'll see a little bit more as we go through this. We actually conduct tours and we lecture, and we'll be doing that this fall, visiting all the sites pertinent to John Clark in New England. And so I wanted to mention that. And there's my son standing in front of what is now the United Baptist Church, Don Clark Memorial Church there in Newport, Rhode Island. And uh there's Pastor Burke. Uh we actually uh he started and you say why would he do this? Well he we started the John Clark uh day, and you say, Why why do that? Well I just thought it was kind of uh uh wrong to push all the presidents in one day and uh then have a crazy day for just about everything you can imagine today. Notice how everything today is a certain day to celebrate something And you know, we thought it incumbent upon ourselves that if we're going to really perpetuate our Baptist Heritage, which is the purpose of the Baptist Heritage Revival Society and a large part of our ministry uh then we have to do things like this. And so Pastor Burt took it in hand to uh launch and initiate the annual John Clark Day. You'll notice it's the last Monday every September, and so we'll do a huge social media blitz Our society will do a massive email bliss, and we'll try every way we can to get as many independent Baptist pastors as possible to get a little bit of history about John Clark and introduce him to their people so they can begin to be acquainted with this important man's life. And so we find this very, very important. Well let's move on. The pivotal Dr. John Clark. What about this guy? Well, God chose to raise up Keymen to unfold his plan for America. John Clark was one such man. Everything he did was either revolutionary. Now this is not uh overemphasized, I believe you'll see this in a moment, unheard of or thought to be impossible. If you think about the infant colonies Just about everything they did was revolutionary, amen, as far as being here in this particular land. And John Clark was on the cutting edge of that. We'll try to share with you how that was. He was a church builder, a colony builder, and an early framer of our sound form of government. I submit for your consideration there a uh an early portrait. Of course this Uh they did not take this with an iPhone, amen, but this was painted of John Clark. And so we have this and we're very thankful to be able to know what John Clark actually looked like John Clark Clark was born in Westhorpe, England, a small farming community. And just to kind of give you an idea of where that's at, He was reared in a family of eight children. Five of his siblings would follow him to the New World, and four of them would settle in Newport, Rhode Island. Now, this is about the time of 1637. when Clark finally sailed to America. Of course, uh many of you probably know of the persecution that had gone on in England for a couple of centuries. under the Tudor family, regardless of who was in charge of England, they would bring with them their religion that would de facto become the state religion, and whether it was a Catholic like Bloody Mary, or whether it was even King James II Charles II, every one of them down through uh the years was a persecutor. And so most of these people, the Baptists, came to America uh seeking liberty, seeking a place they could have their own churches and not be arrested, not be molested, not be thrown in jail. And so Clark came in 1637. Prior to that, he was educated in a local village school at the University of Leyden in Holland. And I'll just move on. I'm going to have to skip some of these. Amen. But when he came to America, he was already a master in theology. And let me just move on very quickly. By the time he reached America, he was a master in theology. Now check this out. As an apologist, he became known as an ardent defender of the Baptist doctrine. Judges and state church constables thought it best for him to keep his mouth shut. Now get the picture. They would arrest this man and he would be preaching the gospel contrary to the state church And they would put him on the stand and they would say, Sir, can you stand up for yourself and tell us why you do what you do or what you believe? And many times they were disappointed. uh that they allowed this man publicly to open his mouth. Because not only did the jury feel themselves compelled to be need to needing to be saved by the grace of God, but the judges themselves would find themselves under conviction and to have to shut him up. And so they didn't like this man. He was he was a very articulate defender of what we hold to as Baptist doctrine. A brilliant man, an expert in theology. Believe it or not, he was actually a master in medicine as well If I could move on very quickly, the infant colonies were in desperate need of doctors, as you can imagine, with all the people here and all the sickness and everything that took place with the pilgrims And then the first Puritans arriving over here. Uh so he was desperately needed to be here in the colonies, and he was an excellent medical doctor. In fact, upon his death he was honored by the Newport Medical Society for his contributions to the infant colony. And so he was a master of theology. He was also a medical doctor. By the time he reached America, he was also a master in law. Now he would use this brilliant mind in reference to law. You'll notice this would guide him through the maze of ever-changing laws that were enacted to stifle religious freedom. It would take a man like this to be able to work around these laws and realize the authority they actually needed to have liberty here had to come from England initially. We'll get to that a little bit later And then also, by the time he reached America, he was a master in civil government. The governmental documents he authored, along with the framing expertise of Clark I would state to you that in reference to anything that was taken from teaching in America John Clark had none of it. All the brilliance he he had with him in reference to civil government, he actually brought that with him as Baptist doctrine and Baptist teaching that he had learned early in his life. Now the framers that we talk about later, they borrowed from what John Clark was initially going to bring here. Let me try to show you how this all worked out. We'll attempt to sum up many of Clark's accomplishments under just two major headings. First of all, he was a church builder, and then second of all, he was a colony builder. First Clark was a church builder. He was a tool used to transplant Baptist principles and practices as well as scriptural authority. in the New World. Now, I'm going to take just about 10, 15 seconds to try to dispel a notion that many people have. And if you've used Bob Jones University curriculum or Becker curriculum or even ACE or any of the others uh that are common mainline obviously all of them have been influenced by the reformed and most of the curriculum have been written by people who lean reformed uh if I can just put that in a nutshell Calvinistic people not Baptist people and uh so they have Roger Williams uh in the history books as the founder of the first Baptist Church in America. I could spend an hour explaining to you why that's impossible, that Roger Williams number one was never a Baptist today in his life that he could not have possibly started the first Baptist Church in America. However, that's what the Calvinist Reform people pushed, and uh they were Puritans, and they they prop up the Puritans as the founders of liberty, when in fact the Puritans were the persecutors of the Baptist and didn't want anyone to have liberty except for Puritans. John Winthrop, of course, was the was the spearhead of all of that. I just kind of read another biography on Winthrop, and it's amazing. They believed everything they did they were doing for God, but they persecuted him But uh so I just want you to understand when I tell you something that you haven't heard before, I would ask you before you just uh dispel it or throw it away, uh come to me, ask me for material information, I can back everything that I say up with a lot of great history. So John Clark was actually the man who's going to found the first Baptist Church in America. Here's how it happened. He and his wife arrived in Boston in 1637 Somebody say amen. This slide took about four hours to make, amen. So anyway, uh I often I show this twice because there's so much work into it. I try to get a lot of miles out of it, amen. But uh at any rate I I I'm trying to give a little levity, amen, helps out sometimes, amen. Uh so they arrive in sixteen thirty-seven, they arrive in the city of Boston. And uh Clark has his eyes open. At this time he learns of Roger Williams, who was banished before John Clark ever arrived, because he was a religious dissenter. Now, may I just very quickly try to balance out what I said about Roger Williams Roger Williams is one of those conundrums of history. It's kind of like Mary. When we look at Mary in the Bible, we know that so many people have worshipped her. People have actually called her co-redemptrics and trusted her to get to heaven. My mother was fifty, crying on a King James Bible one day at our kitchen table, realized she had trusted Mary to get her to heaven for the first fifty years of her life, repented and trusted Jesus Christ and got saved by the grace of God. And we're we're staunch Catholics growing up, three nths of the family that are nuns, went to Catholic school, all of that. But now it seems like Baptists almost You know, we cast the gate Mary and cast her to the side as though she's nothing. She is to be honored, never ever remembered. Amen. to be able to carry that precious baby Jesus and all of that. And Roger Williams is kind of like that. I need you to understand because there's been a lie that's been perpetrated and propped up and passed down that Roger Williams started the First Baptist Church. That is completely false on every single level. But on another issue, I need you to understand Roger Williams was a great man, and he was a friend of the Baptist And God often had people like this who were not Baptists but were great friends of the Baptist, and he was a great liberty lover, and he helped, of course, to found Rhode Island and was a great friend of John Clark and the Baptist people And so please don't leave and say, that guy didn't even think Roger Williams was a good guy. I think he was a good guy. I think he was very helpful, and I appreciate his place in history and I thank God for him but he was not a Baptist and did not start the first Baptist church. So they've got to gotta kinda balance that out a little bit. So when he learns that Williams was banished. Now what they would do was, and I need you to understand this, Puritans were not good people. I'm just gonna I don't have much time so I'm just gonna throw it right out at you. Some of them were saved, a lot of them were not saved, but what they believed was Catholic theology, Reform Catholic theology. They believed that the kingdom was now, okay? They believed the devil's bound, the kingdom is now, and that they had they were the arm of God to go forth and to continue to spread his kingdom on this earth And the only way to do that was to enforce the first table and the second table of the law. I'm getting ahead of myself a little bit, but you are not allowed to have any chance church that didn't not line up with Puritan doctrine, pure Presbyterian doctrine, or Anglican doctrine. You were not allowed to have anything outside of that. And so the Puritan arm was the one that really held control in England. If you were a dissenter, they would first warn you. They would second confiscate your goods, they would sometimes banish you. And by the way, when you were banished, they took away your weapons, turned you out to the American wilderness, and it was basically in essence a death sentence upon your life And uh so they would they did all kinds of terrible things, beat people to death, uh all all that kind of stuff. So when I was brought up, I thought, wow, Puritans, you know, that sounds they must have been really pure. Well Uh in their own eyes they were very pure. Uh the truth was they didn't know anything at all about liberty. So when you read Becca Curriculum and read Bob Jones and all that stuff And they talk about how the great Puritans brought liberty to America aren't not true at all. written again by the reformed. So look folks, if you want the enemies to write your history and you're going to go along with it. I'm not saying those are bad curriculums, broad-based. In fact we've used the Becca. My daughter, one of my daughters that's married, uh finished Becca at fifteen years of age But we supplement it with the proper Baptist history because it's coming from a Presbyterian perspective, and so you need to understand that. I'm not here just to bash curriculum today, but I want you to Realize there's a lot of error that we've been taught. So to understand the truth, you have to dispel some of that. The magistrates' law there in Boston made it illegal to be affiliated with non-approved churches Clark then, under suspicion of being an Anabaptist, had his weapons confiscated. The Calvinist theocracy This theological error is what our Baptist forebears faced in Puritan New England. The Baptists, however, believed in a proper separation. of church and state. By the way, whenever you marry the state and church together, I promise you Baptists are going to suffer because of that. Amen? And so we believe that the church should always shed its righteous light upon the state I'm not against it all. Baptist people running for office, taking office, and yes, letting their principles of the Bible guide them, taking Baptist principles at the table of civil government All that is perfectly helpful and needful, but understand when you marry the state and church together and you try to enforce the Bible on everybody, you are going to violate people's conscience Understand Baptists have always wanted free societies. In other words, we like societies of liberty where people can reject the gospel. Because when people live in a free society where they can reject the gospel, then and only then do we believe that when they've accepted the gospel, they've actually accepted it of their own volition. So we've never tried to get anybody in the kingdom with the sword. We were not Catholics burning people at the stake. We were not Puritans banishing people We just wanted everybody to have liberty. See, isn't that dangerous, no? Because we believe our principles are better principles. Amen? We believe our principles will win the day. The Holy Spirit of God can win the argument in people's hearts. We don't have to try to force them to believe what we believe. So this is what the Baptists were facing. However, a garden enclosed was something actually Roger Williams came up with. And here's what Williams said. He said that the church was a garden enclosed, and that the wilderness outside of the garden was the state. What he was saying was The state should keep their ungodly hand out of the affairs of the local New Testament church. Now, Williams didn't really understand what a proper church was, but he knew this that man's conscience ought to be left between a man and their God, a woman and their God, and the state should not try to encroach upon what we s what we think in our minds. And may I just say, this is why hate crimes are so dangerous. Do I believe some people kill with malice? Yes I do. That's the difference between premeditated and non premeditated and all of that. But when you start saying, Well, this guy did this and we're gonna punish him for this many years Plus he was thinking this when we when he did it. So we're going to punish him for so many more. Wait a minute. Now who becomes the judge of what you think, what's wrong what you think, and what's right what you think, and who's to become the determiner of all of that? It's very dangerous giving the state back the power that the people once owned. And so that's a whole nother message, Amen, on the subject of liberty. Let me move on Baptist principles of liberty versus the state church machine. Here's what you got to understand. Why would they do this? Because they believed they were God's people, the Puritans The city on the hill was first talked about by Winthrop. He was the one who believed that this was the new Jerusalem and that God Himself was going to run his kingdom right here in America So anybody that's defense, we've got to squelch them and stop them and put them in jail. We have to kill them, we'll do it. And this will all be in the name of God John Clark and Roger Williams believe the state should not enforce the first table of the law. They believe this. These are the commandments that have to do with man's relationship with his God. Thou shalt have no other God. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Now should people obey these? We wish they would, but you can't force people to obey these. That's the difference When you do that, you're encroaching upon conscience. They believe that the state should only enforce the second table. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal. Let me just very quickly put it to you this way. They believe that man had liberty to swing his fist as hard as he wants. right here in my area. But once he connects, amen, now he's violated my liberty. Amen. And so he can't do that. And so there's a huge difference there. Say, well, okay, they're bad people. They persecuted. Give us some examples. I'm so glad you asked. Amen. Here's a poor lady by the name of Ann Hutchison When Anne Hutchison came to America, uh they began to descend, her and her husband, and she began to have a gathering of her of her girlfriends that would come and And they would have Bible studies, but they she was teaching contrary to the state church, and she didn't like what the state church had to say. Well they warned Mrs. Hutchison on several occasions that if she did not cease and desist from following her own religion, which she believed according to her conscience, that they were going to kill her. Well, here's what happened with Anne Hutchison, and by the way, we'll show you a statue in just a moment Her banishment was carried out thus, and she was banished. Therefore, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, this is the official document now, in the name of the church I do not only pronounce you worthy to be cast out, but I do cast you out. And in the name of Christ do I deliver you up to Satan that you may learn to no more blaspheme, seduce, and to lie. And I do account you from this time forth to be a heathen and a publican, and so to be held of all the brethren and sisters of this congregation. That's the state church, by the way, Puritans. And of others, therefore I command you in the name of Christ Jesus and of the church as a leper to withdraw yourself out of the congregation If you go to the Boston Statehouse, you'll walk up uh the Boston Commons right there, downtown. They call it Backwater. You walk up to the top of the Commons there, right off to the left, you'll find the modern day statehouse. The old statehouse is downtown uh by the whipping post area in the Boston Massacre site. But right there in the front you'll find there's a big statue on one side and all the way at the other end if you walk down you'll find another statue You're looking at one of the statues. This is a memorial of Anne Hutchison who suffered for religious liberty right there under the hands of the Puritan state church, okay? Now some of you might get a little nervous when I talk about uh joining uh church and state and uh and fighting for separation of church and state, that's because there's been a huge misinterpretation as to what separation of church and state is. I've already explained it if you didn't miss it Separation of church and state never means that we should not be involved in our government and influence our government. Doesn't mean an erasure of God from every aspect of society Throwing the commandments out of the courtrooms, taking the Bible out of school, doesn't mean any of that. It means the state has no right, authority, or lot to tell the church to do anything, good or evil, period. And they should keep their hands uh in their tongue and everything off the church and just leave us alone. By the way, and this all goes back to what our founding fathers believed. You understand that they believed that God was a higher power than the state, and that the state was subservient to God. Now, this was one good thing that maybe came out of Puritan thought. And so the idea was the reason churches have been non-taxable, not tax exempt Not as though we'll give you an exemption, we're in authority over you, we'll exempt you or not exempt you. No, we're non-taxable. How can you tax God? They believed only a higher power could tax a lower power. And since God was always over the state, then the state couldn't even vote whether to or not to tax the church because God is a higher power. All that's getting flipped on its head right now. You understand that. So uh yeah, church uh separation of church and state is absolutely necessary. Those equam the tour, you're gonna get a whole lot more on that. Amen This is Foundersbrook, and this is in a little place called Portsmouth, and we'll talk about Portsmouth. This is the memorial of Ann Hutchison. There's the Boston State House. There's the other statue you'll see. This was a Quaker lady. They were kind of non-confrontational, but they were dissenters and they did exist. in the colonial era alongside of the Baptist, and she was hung to death by the neck on the Boston Square for dissenting against the state church. So Again, this idea. Well, I still think Puritans are good people. I've got news for you. If they were alive and well today, they'd hate you. They'd be killing you and putting you in jail. So don't try to defend the Puritans, especially this preacher You know, there's been a lot of ignorance that I've had about this preachers over the years come to me. Say, Preacher, have you ever read that after this Puritan writer and have you ever read these Puritan books I have to say, brother, I don't think you're reading the right things. I think you need to be careful about that. And they push the issue, and then I have to tell them, do you realize right now if you are under a state church situation with the very Puritan writers that you're reading after? They would throw you in jail, take away your family, take away your home, beat you maybe to death or set you on fire, and here you are trying to tell me to read Puritan so I'm very, very adamant about this. Notice what she said though. Witness for religious freedom hanged in the Boston Common. My life not availeth me in comparison to the liberty of the truth. Thank God for people who stood for liberty, Baptist and non-Baptist alike. Now, so okay, what's John Clark going to do now? He's gonna leave Boston. He's gonna go north, and you'll notice he travels to New Hampshire They're in sixteen thirty-seven, it's way too cold, they decide to sail down around. You'll notice where that little arrow is all the way on the bottom That is Rhode Island down there, and there's a little island that's a part of Rhode Island. It's actually another island, but it's part of the state of Rhode Island, and that's called the island of Aquitnik or the island of Aquadneck. You're looking at it there, actually out the window of a bus as we were traveling through there and visiting this place one time. And here in Portsmouth they would finally land after they left Boston Now why was John Clark and these other people leaving with him? Well, they wanted to be able to establish a Baptist church and have liberty and worship the way they wanted to worship, and so they knew that wasn't going to happen in the Massachusetts colony So Roger Williams encouraged them, go all the way down here, and so they land here. And here they're going to compact together to form the first government in history. That provided full liberty of conscience to all. So you say, how dare you put this man in the category of Washington? Sorry, I didn't see where Washington brought principles of liberty to our country. Amen? John Clark actually did that. Again, I'm not here to dispel or discourage or say these guys were bad guys, but what's sad is here's the guy that actually brought and laid the entire foundation and we know nothing about him. Had I gotten up here this morning, I'm not sure everything you've taught, but if I'd have said, how many could stand up and tell me two or three things about John Clark I wonder in the average Baptist church if anybody's even heard of him. And I've gone to churches of hundreds and several hundred people, and not it anybody in the church, maybe the pastor or the assistant pastor Associate pastor might have heard something about John Clark. I'm okay that's a travesty that we know nothing at all about this man. So again, please don't think I'm shooting at our founders. I just want you to know how important this guy was. Well, there's my wife and I standing in front of a marker there in Foundersbrook in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, and you'll see that little uh bronze plaque there. This is what it is, the Portsmouth Compact And I won't take time to read this, but they compacted together and they had full liberty for the first time in the world, and it was right here in Rhode Island. By the way, later on, that's why Rhode Island was such a holdout and didn't want to ratify the Constitution. That'll take me too long to tell you the whole story about that, but they'd already had more liberty than anybody in the world. And it all started with this. Listen to me, this is the precursor to the Declaration. It's a precursor to our Constitution and to our Bill of Rights. And the next document you'll see they're going to issue Much greater influence is going to be the cookie cutter that Jefferson and Madison are going to consult to and borrow the principles from that will come into our founding documents of this nation So again, this is a Baptist ministry. You can't get away from it. But the devil has tried to hide this from us. And I I assure you, the devil, he doesn't like your Baptist heritage and doesn't like Baptist learning about how America actually became the great nation that it is Alright, I'm going to move on for sake of time. We're just running out of time. Okay. So in 1638, now they move to the south end of the island. This place is called Newport. And here they would start the present uh oldest Baptist church in America still continues today from 1637. It was a traveling church. established on this location in 1638 and exists right down to today on the very site, and we'll be going to visit that again in a couple of months. And so I would encourage you sometime to come on one of our tours or if you can get up there, you can visit that. All right. Secondly quickly, John Clark was a colony builder. William Wilbur Nelson stated from the beginning of the movement that resulted in the founding of Portsmouth and Newport until the Charter of sixteen sixty-three was obtained, he was active in public affairs He served in many important committees and in a wise and constructive way was the advisor and leading spirit in the organization and administration of town and county government. I'm gonna have to really hurry All right, so 1651 finds John Clark pastoring there in Newport, Rhode Island. I'll give you this in a nutshell. An ancient man by the name of William Winter who's about eighty miles north of there, in a little place called Lynn, Massachusetts. He asked John Clark to come and preach the word of God to him. They navigate to the mainland, travel the eighty miles. This man is aged blind, doesn't think he's long for this world, wants his preacher to come one last time, preach to him. Witter was in trouble all the time, thrown in jail. In the Salem court records, we have the statements he made that infant baptism, he said, is the badge of the whore, referencing Roman Catholicism. He said that they who stay while a child is baptized do worship the devil So they go to visit this guy, and obviously because of all the trouble Witter was in, you go read this in the Salem court records Uh because of all the trouble he was in there watching his house. So when the Baptists got to town, they watched them. The next day they went to preach him and they burst in And arrested these Baptists for preaching a non-certified church service there in William Whitter's home. You'll notice Obadiah Holmes, John Clark and an active layman, John Crandall, were arrested and taken into custody. for holding an unauthorized church service. Let me back up for a second. Obadiah Holmes was saved, listen, in the first and earliest uh Baptist revival that was ever preached here in America. He got saved under the ministry of Dr. John Clark, and so revivalism really goes back to the Baptist Not the great awakening. We'll talk about that tonight, Lord willing. And so Obadai Holmes now is the firecracker young preacher, and he's going to go and he's going to be very bold when they get arrested. And they're going to continue to try to preach to the state church constables And Obadiah Holmes are going to focus in on him, try to make an example out of him to try to stop this Baptist movement. Okay? So the first thing they do is what we call Ecclesiastical coercion. Let's try to make these guys go to what we believe is the right church. Hopefully God will open their eyes, and the truth is their eyes have been opened, and that's why they wouldn't listen to anything that was said in this Puritan state church. And yes, I tried to find the funkiest, weirdest looking Puritan State Church preacher I could find, just for your uh viewing pleasure. Amen. Uh but anyway, these guys if you don't read the common prayer book, did know God You know, wouldn't know the Holy Ghost, you know, uh if he bit them. And so anyway, these guys are forced, they go into this church service, all right? And so instead of taking off their hats, they tip their hats and place them back on their head Their statement was, this is not a house of God. The constables were literally ordered to knock the hats off the Baptist men preachers' heads. They sent him in a pew, and this fruitcake is going to preach to him. Amen. John Clark stands up, turns to the crowd, and says, don't listen to this heretic and starts preaching to the people in the pews of their need of Jesus Christ. He shut up a couple of different times. Finally they throw up their hands, drag the Baptist out of the church house, and throw him in the common prison. Then they're going to take him to Boston And which is not far away, if you look at Lynn, Massachusetts, the northeastern suburb of Boston, about 15 miles, 20 miles from downtown. So now they're taken, committed to prison. Holmes, Clark, and Crandall were tried. And by the way, there was really no trial, just a commencement of the reading of the charges, and then they gave them their sentences And the sentences were this, and by the way, Obadai Holmes was slapped in the face and told, The curse of God go with thee. The judge said, I can't believe this trash has been brought into my courtroom. And so they were very angry and they railroaded these Baptist preachers. Clark was fined 20 pounds to be beaten. uh would give twenty uh lashes with a three-quartered whip, which would you know produce, of course, sixty lashes. Crandall was fine, five pounds would be well whipped, and Holmes, thirty pounds or to be well whipped Well, uh of course Crandall was released from his fine. Clark, as he was walking to the post that day to be beaten, somebody pressed money into the hands of one of the state church constables He was released, I believe, against his his own will. We don't have that verified history, but it fits everything else that took place as far as logic would go. And then Obadiah Holmes, they wanted to make an example out of him So they take him to the Boston Post. If you've ever been downtown to the Boston Square and you've seen where the uh the uh Boston Massacre took place about a hundred years uh after this Little over a hundred years after this, you'll find that uh this is the exact spot where the old post used to be. So they take homes down there and uh they put them on the post. Holmes said, agreeing to the payment of my fine will constitute admission of wrongdoing. He said, I've done nothing wrong but obeyed God. They've stripped him to the waste and gave him thirty lashes with a three-quartered whip. This would produce ninety slices in the body of Obadiah Holmes. And uh there's the post behind him when when they beat him He said that I had such a spiritual manifestation of God upon my life. He said that although the pain was grievous, I could well bear it, for God was with me As he was taken to the post, and while he was on the post, he was preaching to the on-looking crowd to keep their faith in Jesus Christ or come to Christ and be saved by the grace of God. So they take him to the post and they they tie him to the post. Thirteen people are arrested for crying out for the beating to stop. It was so violent Understand this is the same sentence as that of rapists in this day. It was an attempt to kill this Baptist preacher. They thought he would crumble in death, ninety slices in his body to the point where the blood ran down and overflowed his shoes Afterwards, when he was released from the post, these two men were arrested, by the way. One of them died as a result of his incarceration. They helped him from the post The State Church Constable came up, looked at his face, thought he was going to crumble in death, and he said, Sirs, you have beaten me as with roses. Amen And you talk about, I mean, that's like grabbing the devil by the neck and spitting right in a snoot. Amen. That's one for the Baptist right there. Hallelujah. Well, the repercussions of what took place here Spread like wildfire. And just as in the old days, the drops of blood of the martyrs became the seeds of new churches, this would result in many standing for God. Henry Dunster, give you one example. Henry Dunster. Who was gave life and property and everything that he had to create Harvard University and uh was there as the first president was forced from his presidency and office and banished Because he stood with Obadiah Holmes and would not bring his own son to infant baptism at the hands of the State Church. Dunster became a Baptist actually And there's much more we can tell you about the repercussions and first churches that were started. Well, Obadiah Holmes again said, yeah, beat me as with roses. This caused a great stir. John Spurr was saved. John Spurr and Hazel were in prison. John Clark wrote ill news from New England. What he did was he wrote this book. They they they sent it back to England to tell the king about how all the persecution was going on and how wrong it was and how they just wanted to have their own churches. I've got to hurry. I'm never going to make it. Amen? And lots, lots more happened. Amen. All right. This just a picture. This is interesting. This is a couple of blocks block and a half off of the uh Boston Square where the where the master site is there. Maybe been there. But you'll see this building and you'll see this is the old prison. Okay? So this is the this is not the prison. This is the site where the prison was, that old rustic In fact, notice what uh Nathaniel Hawthorne said about it. He said the first prayer or he said this in the Scarlet Letter. He describes its appearance as the rust on the ponderous iron work of its oaken door looked more antique than anything else in the New World. That's what he said of the prison Holmes was in. He said, but on one side of the portal was a wild rose bush. We've often wondered, was it that Holmes and the time he spent there you know think it may be feeling abandoned maybe by man that he was looking out the window And smelled the waft of those roses, and what it wasn't on his mind that that encouraged him daily, that the rose of Sharon was watching out for him. Maybe that's why he said, Yeah beat me as with roses. We know he had roses on the mind That's kind of an interesting connection. By the way, if you ever go here, you turn around and look directly almost across the street, you'll see a plaque about similar to this in size. Science that says right here on this spot, the evangelist D. L. Moody, who was not a Baptist, but was saved right on that side, directly across from this. And so that's just kind of a little side issue. Alright, after the beating He went still had to sleep on his propped up knees and elbows for as much as twenty-one to twenty-five days. He couldn't sleep any other way because of all the brutal slices on his body and such. Well, uh then John Clark writes his book Roger Williams then writes a book and it's called Bloody Tenet of Persecution. And uh so when he's argued against, he writes a second volume And he calls it bloody tenant, more bloody still, documenting the persecution of the Baptist and how wrong it was to have a government that way. All right, I've got to hurry. The Colonial Charter The Rhode Islanders, to make a long story short, they sponsor Williams and Clark to sail to England. The purpose is this, to get their own charter, which would literally be a constitution in our thinking which would govern a brand new colony named Rhode Island. But this would not be a colony like Virginia, State Church, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Massachusetts. Would not be a state church whether under Anglicanism or Puritanism. This would be a colony which would be established on the principles of full liberty of conscience for everybody, where God's people could come and worship freely, and anybody could disagree, and that would be fine, and they wouldn't try to enforce the first table of the law. So he went to and by the way, Roger Williams stayed there for a very short time, but John Clark stayed there for thirteen years, writing and rewriting the famed Rhode Island Charter or the Colonial Charter of sixteen sixty three Finally, Charles II, uh while Baptists were still being persecuted some in England, uh authorized this and gave them the famed Rhode Island Charter of 1663. There's a picture depicting John Clark receiving that charter. There's Charles back there with his dog Fifi on his lap. Amen on the right there. And so Clark would get this thirteen years of diplomacy in England. and then sail back to America and Rhode Island would be founded upon this charter. There's a picture of the charter. Climate controlled, uh, fireproof, safe. They've just redone the museum. They're in the Rhode Island State House in Providence, Rhode Island. All right, I've got to hurry. Alright, what did this do? This place wrote out on a platform of complete liberty. It became the freest city-state in the history of the world. govern Rhode Island for 180 years, up to and beyond even the ratification of their own state's constitution after the revolution had been won. This became a pattern for the state constitution. And then, yes, consulted by Jefferson and familiar to Madison, it was influential in the founding of our national documents. It was the cookie cutter that they used to bring these principles of liberty into the founding documents which grant us the liberty to be here today and listen to this loudmouth historian spew this morning and say anything we believe we ought to say. Amen. This mate wrote out the model What did it say? What was the key statement? This is carved into the marble above the south entrance of the Providence State House. Massive, uh ton after ton of white Georgia marble, fourth largest freestanding rotunda in the world, rivaled by the Taj Mahal, the Minnesota State House And um what else the other one? Help me out, family. St. Peter's Basilica. Thank you very much. Thank you. I mean you get an A. So you're not forgotten today. Amen. To hold forth a lively experiment, that's what Rhode Island was going to be, that a most flourishing civil state may stand and best be maintained politically now with full liberty and religious concerns and this put them on a platform of liberty. That's why Rhode Island didn't want to ratify. Because Madison knew their final authority had to reside in the federal government because they couldn't force the states to do anything during the revolution. And we are plum out of time. If you ever would like to see this And prove what I'm saying. There's the words engraved on this fourth largest freestanding rotunda in the world. Building itself is miraculous. John Clark died April 20th, you'll notice, 1676. All the memorials in Rhode Island. Let me let me close with this very quickly. John Clark of Newport was one of the most eminent men of the 17th century. No name of the annals of American history is more important than his, no character deserving of more lasting honor. He went on to say, as a Christian gentleman pure-minded, unselfish, modest, and sincere, he represents the noblest type of American manhood. As a scholar, physician, and Christian minister, he takes high rank as a statesman laboring to establish a commonwealth on the principle of a full liberty of religious concerns. He's been properly called the foremost American diplomat of his age, loved and admired by his fellow citizens. He was the hero of Aquidneck. And so if we're going to know those who entrenched them in our founding documents, wouldn't it be great to know the people that actually sealed the principles here and made it possible for our founding documents, preacher?