Turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Jonah. Before Christmas break, uh we started looking at the life of Jonah. And uh You know, we began to study this just kind of verse by verse and and going through the the book of Jonah. We started looking at what uh we could learn from the life of Jonah and we've looked at several different things. As we studied this out, we saw the obvious directive that God gave him in the beginning. God gave him a plan and said, Jonah, I want you to go do this And uh Jonah, of course, we uh we u saw the observed deception that he Defied the commission that God had gave him and he went his own way and wanted to do his own thing and he began to run from God. And And then we see the opposition was discovered. We saw how God brought a storm into Jonah's life. And uh Jonah uh had to make a decision. What am I going to do? Turn back to God or continue to run from God? The opposition was discovered Today in chapter number two we want to look at how the outlook, Jonah's outlook, was changed. Jonah's outlook was, to keep it alliterated, doctored. Jonah's outlook was doctored. We see this man who was on a run from God change his mind. His outlook has changed, how he felt, what he thought about how God what God wanted him to do was changed. Sometimes God needs to come on the scene and change our mind. He needs to change how we think and what we feel about something The job, the task that God had given him, which he perceived to be so awful that he would choose rather to run from God than to fulfill the task that God gave him. We'll see that that changed in this text, that his outlook was doctored, and he no longer thought of it as being. Such a bad thing and chose to do that. So in Jonah, I want to start reading the last verse of chapter one. And then we're going to read the entirety of chapter number two, where we kind of see this story take shape. It's only ten verses, but starting in the last verse of Jonah chapter number one, reading down through verse Number 10 of chapter number two, he says, Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish's valley, and said, I cried by reason of my affliction unto the Lord. And he heard me out of the belly of hell, cried I, and thou heardest my voice. For thou hast cast me into the deep, in the midst of the sea And the floods compassed me about. All thy billows and thy waves passed over me. Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight. Yet I will look again toward thy holy temple. The waters compassed me about, even to the soul. The depth closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head. I went down to the bottoms of the mountains. The earth, with her bars, was about me for ever. Yet hast thou brought my life from corruption, O Lord, my God. When my soul fainted, within me I remembered the Lord. And my prayer came in unto thee, unto thine holy temple. They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy, but I will sacrifice unto thee with a voice of thanksgiving. I will pray that I have vowed I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. And the Lord spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah. upon the dry land. Let's pray and ask God to speak to our hearts this morning. Lord, thank you for today and the opportunity to be in your house. Thank you for all these, your people who have gathered here today. I pray, Lord, that you would speak to each and every one of us Every heart, that you would take the simple thoughts prepared, and that you would open the words of Scripture to each and every mind, and that you would speak to us where we're at individually. Lord, we're all in here somewhere. At some point, and God we pray that you would challenge us, strengthen us, motivate us to be more of what we ought to be for you than we ever have been. And we'll thank you, Lord. We'll thank you for We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning We want to see, first of all, the discipline enforced. The discipline enforced. You know, when you run from God and you go away from God and you decide that you want to do your own thing. Uh what is the old uh saying, uh there's a payday someday. Right? You you reap what you sow. It's gonna happen at some point, and we can uh sometimes get away with it for a season, sometimes we We can run for a little while, but there's a great fish coming. It says here in verse number 17 that God had prepared A great fish. There was some divine preparation. God doesn't just let us go our own way. God doesn't just let us do our own thing without seeking after us, without coming and trying to change our outlook, trying to change the way we think or what we feel. He does come and seek after us God had prepared this great fish. And you know what? It's a good thing. Because had God not prepared a great fish, this would have been the end for Jonah. See, he would have run from God and these men would have thrown him overboard and there he would have been, sunk, down to the bottom of the ocean. His life would have been done, his opportunity for service would have been done, his opportunity for any more joy or success. Would have been passed. So it's a good thing that God prepared a great fish. God prepared a way for Jonah to come back to him. A very a little bit unusual way. Not a way that we would have thought of, probably, but a way that God had prepared. You know what? God has prepared a way for you to come back to Him. Wherever you are, or how far far you've run, sometimes the devil would tell you there's no way back. The devil would say, You've gone too far, you've messed up too much, you've done too much, you can't give back to God now. But I want you to know God's prepared a way. He might not bring you back on a fish like he did Jonah, but he could do something just as miraculous and take a life that's broken. and destroyed from running from God and put it back together in an amazing way. We serve a powerful God. Anybody that desires to and wants to turn back to him, God has prepared a way. Psalms chapter 40, verse number 17 says, But I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinketh upon me. Thou art my help, my deliverer. Make no tarrying, O my God God is thinking about you. Wherever you're at, in your life, whatever stage you're at Maybe you're not running from God right now. Maybe you're not dealing with something in your particular life. But wherever you are, I want you to know God is thinking about you. God is thinking about you. Isaiah 65, verse number 24, and it shall come to pass that before they call, I will answer. Isn't that an amazing thought? He says that God is thinking about us, and he says here, he says, before they call, I will answer. God knows what you need God knows what your burden is. God knows the hill that you've got to climb, the path that you've got to tread. He knows the way back. And as soon as we decide that we want to make that change, God says, before they even call out Before Jonah ever called out to God, you see in verse number one there he says, then. Doesn't it say that? Then Jonah prayed. Isn't that in verse number one? Before Jonah ever called out, God had prepared a fish. And these men threw Jonah overboard, and God prepared a fish. God has prepared a way for you to come back to Him. For you to get through whatever it is you need to, and before you even call out, God is thinking of you. God knows what you have need of before you even ask. God knows where you're at and what you're going through. You know, Jonah recognized that it was God that did all of this It was God that one that did it. He didn't say, those soldiers or those sailors, they threw me overboard. No, he didn't blame it on the soldiers, sailors. He knew God did it. He says in verse number three there, he says, For thou hast cast me into the deep. He said, God did this because this is what I needed. And God's going to do what he needs to in your life to bring you back to Him. For some, that may just be a message. That may just be something that God opened the pages of Scripture and spoke to you in your devotions. For some, it may be a friend comes to you and says, Brother, you can't go down this road, or sister, listen, I've been praying for you, and I know you need some encouragement, and I'm here for you. And that might be enough. But the sad truth is, is many of us are like Jonah, and we're going to continue to run from God and run towards sin and do our own thing until God brings a storm and we're cast into the sea. Then we'll pray. Then we'll pray. But know this, Christian, that God is going to prepare the way. God is going to prepare the way, and He's going to do His plan in your life. Before you were ever born, God had a plan for you. And his plan hasn't changed. You know, Jonah ran from God, but God's plan didn't change. God said there's a people that need a preacher. And you need to go and you need to preach to them. And I don't know what God has stirred in your heart or what God has motivated you to do. Maybe he said to you, You need to go and be a missionary. Maybe he said you need to surrender to preach. Maybe he said You need to surrender to serve in this area. And you said, no, I don't want to do that. But God's plan doesn't change just because we decide we want to do something else. And God sometimes has to bring some things into our lives to change our thinking. Do a little bit of work. Jonah's outlook was doctored Because of what God brought into his life. God is always there. He's always there. And he's always working his plan. He's going to oversee your restoration. You know, in verse chapter chapter 1, verse number 4, God brought wind into Jonah's life. The storm came. The wind came. And y you know, then in uh verse number seventeen, God brought a great fish. And in verse number 10, Jonah was vomited up onto the dry land. I mean, Jonah was vomited out of this great fish. God's going to oversee the steps to bring you back to Him. Whatever those steps are. We could yield to Him at any chorus along the way. Or we could fight against it. And it would be a harder task and a longer process for God to bring us back, for his plan to be worked. God's plan Gave Jonah a second chance. Jonah had run for God, but God gave him a second chance. Aren't you glad this morning you got a God that gives you a second chance? And a third, and a fourth, and so on. Because we sir do mess it up. A lot. But God's plan is there, and God is working, and He will do what He needs to to bring you back to Him, and He's prepared a way for you to have a second chance. Some people in their relationships, they need a second chance. God can help you have that. God can help you have that. He can give you a second chance in that relationship. You let the Lord work. You yield yourself to Him and God will prepare a way for you to get back to where you need to be. Whatever it is. Just as miraculous as God bringing a great fish to swallow Jonah. You look at your relationship and you say, There's no way. I can't, there's no way it'll ever be back to what it was. There's no way it'll ever be as good as it was. There's no way we could ever have the kind of uh love in our home that we once had. God can bring it back. If you yield to him and let him work. He has a divine program that he wants to see. You know what's amazing here in this text is we see over and over again that God's creation obeys his voice. God's creation the wind obeys. This great fish, God said, Hey, I've got a saint that's going to be thrown overboard here in a few minutes. I want you to go see that boat, but you go follow that boat. When that guy gets thrown over, swallow him. The fish didn't say, yeah, he might be a little big for me. I don't know. I don't like swallowing people a whole. I I'm not going to do that. No, the fish obeyed Of all God's creation, we're the only ones that continually try and disobey, that continually try and find our own way and disregard what it is that God says. You know, uh, Job chapter twelve, verse number seven through ten says, but uh but ask now the beast And they shall teach thee. Ask the fowls of the air, and they shall teach thee. Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee. And the fishes of the sea, they shall declare unto thee Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the Lord hath wrought this, in whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind? All creation knows that God's in control. In Job he says, hey, just ask, ask God, ask the earth, ask the fish, ask the fowl. And they'll tell you, God's in control. But for some reason as Christians we think we're in control. As humans we we we think uh we're in control, but that's the the beauty of the thing that God gave us a free will. And we can choose to go our own way, or we can choose to love God and follow Him. All creation obeys his voice except man. Jeremiah chapter 8, verse number 7 says, yea The stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed time. The turtle in the crane, and the swallow observe the time of their coming. For my people know not the judgment of the Lord. The birds fly south because that's what they're supposed to do. Because God had put it in 'em. God says this is what you're supposed to do and this is where you're supposed to go, and they do it. But my people know not the judgment of the Lord. Sometimes God's working in our life and we can't even see it. We don't even know what it is that God's doing. God is stirring us up. And we're going through some some amazing things or some some some tremendous time of trial and testing. God is doing that to us, and sometimes as Christians, we don't even know that it's God. We can't even see the hand of God. Do you see God working in your life? The fact is that the discipline is going to be enforced when we run from God. Just like Jonah. You know, the darkness was experienced. He says here he was cast into the deed. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish's belly. And he said, I cried by reason of my affliction unto the Lord, and he heard me, out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice. He was cast into utter darkness. He was in the belly of a fish. And it wasn't like some of the cartoons where he sat, you know, and the boat got turned upside down, he sat in there and he started a little fire and he's staying warm, you know. Uh no, he was in utter darkness. This darkness was experienced. Proverbs 13, verse number 15 says, Good understanding giveth favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard. The way of the transgressor is hard. You're going to experience some darkness when you run from God. You know the ultimate ultimately Complete and utter darkness is when we are completely separated from God. You see, God said, I am the light of the world. I think of the type of darkness that we're talking about here is not just that It's become di d dark that it's no longer daytime, or somebody turned the lights off. But when we're separated from the presence of God, When we no longer have his light. You know, we sing that song this morning, it is summertime. In my heart, it is summertime. In my heart, since Jesus saved me, new life he gave me, even in wintertime and summer in my heart. We can have summer In the middle of winter, because Jesus is in our heart. We've got joy of the Lord And the same is true that even in the darkest of nights, in the loneliest of hours, when we have nothing else, if we have God, we have light in our life. But it doesn't matter how much light you have without God. You don't have light. Have you ever felt alone in a crowd of people? Have you ever been in a large crowd of people? There are a lot of people there, but you just felt alone. You know, when you have Jesus, you never alone. But without him, it doesn't matter how many people are there, you can still be alone. This is what Jonah experienced when he was cast into the belly of the whale. Is he separated from God. He experienced this darkness, the darkness that comes from having something between. Our Lord and our Savior, something between us. You know, the disturbing problem is that all sin leads to darkness. And we might have to experience some darkness before we choose or decide to turn back to God. When is the then going to come for you? Verse number one, he says, Then Jonah prayed. When is the then going to come for you? When you choose to turn back to God. I think of the one that experienced darkness in a very real way was Samson. You think about the story of Samson and how he went after Delilah? And he wanted his own way, and his parents tried to tell him, and God continually uh reproved him, but he continued to go his own way, and ultimately played with sin long enough and it cost him his eyes. It cost him his freedom. He was bound up. It cost him his ability to serve God. You know, all sin leads to darkness. We're separated from this light, the light of the world. We lose the ability to see light. We lose the ability to think right until we get back into the light of God. Have you ever tried to walk around in the dark with the lights off? Bob said yep. By the way, I wasn't joking last week when I said Bob Gamble went bungee jumping. He really did go bungee jumping. But it's not fair because he can't see the ground coming, so You know, you're walking around in the dark and uh y you stumble, you trip over things, you Things get in the way, you mean you just can't see. And a lot of Christians are like that. They're walking around without the light of the Word of God. And with the light of Jesus Christ in their life. Even though they're Christians, even though they're saved, they know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. They're on their way to heaven, but they're walking around without the light. In this wicked and dark world. Because sin leads to darkness I just want to point it out here just quickly that there's also uh not a just just a disturbing problem, but there's a distinct prophecy here. There's a prophecy that God gives us very clearly. Uh Jonah experiences darkness, but not just him, Jesus. Did as well. God is teaching us here in the book of Jonah about the time when his Son, Jesus Christ, would spend three days in the belly of the earth. And then he would rise again. As Jonah was freed from the fish's belly and cast onto the shore, God, Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, would raise from the dead on the third day. You know, is because of man's disobedience that Jesus would have to go to the cross and he would become obedient. Obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. In Matthew chapter twelve, verse number forty, the Bible says, For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and God giving us here in the Old Testament a picture of the time when his son, because of the disobedience of man, Jonah, because of his disobedience, was cast into the belly of the whale. And because of the disobedience of man, Jesus would be cast into the heart of the earth. But the exciting thing is that there was a deliverance enjoyed. There was a deliverance enjoyed. He says, here, after he prays, and he goes down and he says, I'm cast down from thy sight. He says, I will turn again. I will pay my vows. He says, And the Lord spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land. There was a deliverance enjoyed. Why was it enjoyed? First of all, it was enjoyed because he remembered. He remembered what it was like. In verse number four, he says, Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight, yet I will look again. Toward thy holy temple. He says, I will look again back to what it was like. He says in verse number seven, he says, When my soul fainted. Within me, I remembered the Lord. I remembered the Lord. Jonah remembered what it was like when he was walking with God. He remembered what it was like that fellowship he had. Can you remember? Can you remember what it was like when you were walking with God, when you enjoyed sweet fellowship with him I mean there might have been some burdens and there might have been some challenges in your life, but hey, the birds were still singing over the back fence and the sun was still shining because God was in control back when God was meeting with you. Back when God was talking to you. Do you remember what it was like? I think about somebody else in the scriptures that remembered. The Bible says that the prodigal son found himself there in the, uh there with the pigs, eating the husk, eating what the pigs were eating And the Bible says that he came to himself and he thought about the servants in his father's house, and he said, the servants in my father's house Have it better than I. I'll go back and say I'm not worthy to be thy son, but could I just be a servant in your house? He remembered what it was like. You know, when we remember what it was like, we'll turn back to God When you remember what it was like to fellowship with him and to have his presence and his leading and his direction in your life, he remembered. When he remembered, he repented. To repent is to turn back To repent is to make a change in our life. You see, we're talking about how Jonah's outlook was doctored, how it was changed, and he was running from God. He was running away from God towards the left, my left. And he turned back. 180 degrees. Repent of what you were doing and make a change. You know, uh just coming down to an altar and saying, Lord, uh I'm sorry for this, would you forgive me? And getting up and going out and doing the same thing is not repentance. It's making a change. It's letting God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, change you from the inside out. We need to be changed. We need to be changed. There's too much of Christianity today that's not looking for a change. They want to gather in the church house and walk out and live life like it was. They don't want to be changed. I hope that you in your heart desire to be changed by an Almighty God. I hope that you desire to be more than you used to be. That you desire to be better than you used to be, that you desire to be a better father, that you desire to be a better husband, that you desire to be a better wife, that you want to be a better Christi That you want to love your Lord more, that you want to be a better witness on the job, you want to be a better worker on the job, you want to be more of what God wants you to be. I hope you desire that Well if you desire it then God can help you make that change. But you know, success is not just brought because we keep doing what we were doing. Success happens because we change what we were doing. He repented. In verse number nine, he says that. He says, But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay that that I have vowed. He repented. He would be willing to do. At one point he had said, God, I'll do what you want me to do. And then he went and did his own thing Here he says, Lord, I'll do it. Romans chapter 2, verse number 4 says, Oh, despisest thou the riches of his goodness and the forbearance of his long suffering? Not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth to repentance. The goodness of God leadeth to repentance. Many people look at the fact that God sends judgment into our lives and we believe in the judgment of God. But you know what ought to lead us to repentance? Is God's goodness. You know in my home growing up I had a relationship uh you know a good relationship with my parents but my dad led the whole Home with strong discipline. And by the way, that's biblical, and I would encourage that, you as a parent. But me and my mom had kind of an unusual relationship. I think I was my mom's favorite. She wouldn't say that because you can't have favorites. But we were close. We're still close to this day. But you know, my dad, he would say, Son, I want you to vacuum this floor, and it better be better by the time I get home. And I can't say I always vacuumed the floor. There was a few times I got disciplined because I didn't. But I did that because I knew the dad was coming home. You know what my mom would do? Man, she she fought dirty. She would look at me and say, Son, that's okay, don't worry about backing the floor. I'll get it when I get home. Oh Mom, you can't do that to me. No, you know, I I mean I I was motivated by her willingness. Her love for me. Her her she says, you know, uh, it's okay, son. Uh I'll take care of it. I'm like, mom. You can't do that. I I'll do it. So I would back in the floor and the next room too. Why? Because of the relationship we had. You know God's love for us ought to motivate us to do what He wants us to do. God's love for us. It should be enough that we just say, okay, Lord, I'll do it. Jonah prayed. Affliction brought on his prayer The storm raged, this storm here. Affliction brought on, he said, out of my affliction I cried unto you. You know, sometimes God brings affliction, and that motivates us to cry. But praise the Lord that it does. You know, there was one sea captain out on the water and a storm came up. And he asked everybody on the boat that was there, he says, How many of you is there anybody here that that can pray that can really get a hold of God And he asked and and one guy says, I can and he says, Good. You start praying, the rest of you put life vests on. We're one short Affliction affliction will make you pray. I mean he's he's one I mean if he is the only guy without a life vest, he's gonna start praying hard. Lord please save this boat. Sometimes that's what's got to happen in our lives for God to get us to really pray. To just really pray and to get a hold of God and see Him do great things. things. Joseph didn't pray before. He didn't pray and say, God, what should I do? He didn't pray before he went down to Tarshus before he got on a boat to flee into Tarshus. He didn't pray. But now he's praying. The Father is always waiting to hear our prayer as we try and return unto him John Bunyan said this: When thou prayest, rather let thy heart be without words, than thy words be without heart. When thou prayest, let thy heart be without words. Then thy words be without heart. I think many Christians come and pray unto God without any heart. The Bible says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Is the prayer casual, nonchalant, without any heart? I'll tell you, when we're afflicted, we might not even have the words to say, but the heart is there. And we cry unto God, and God hears. God answers. He returned unto God. He commits to pay that which he had vowed, whatever the cost. Whatever it'll take, Lord, I'm willing to do it. Have you reached that point in your life where you say, God, whatever? Whatever it would take He declares the source of his victory in verse number 10. And the Lord spake unto the fish in verse number 9: But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. What's the last phrase there? Salvation. Salvation is of the Lord. He declares the source of his victory. You understand this morning that victory comes from God? That salvation is of the Lord. It's from God. You know, by whatever means God decides to bring bring you deliverance. Here Jonah was saved from a by a fish, by a great fish. Whatever deliverance God chooses to bring into your life, remember that it's from the Lord. Maybe a friend comes to you and you've got a financial need. And you you you're asking God, Lord, I I don't know how I'm gonna make this car payment, I don't know how I'm gonna pay this bill, I don't know how I'm gonna solve this need. And a friend comes to you and says, Hey, I got a big bonus this week and I want to give you this five hundred dollars. And you say, wow, thank you so much. You're great, man. It's wonderful to have friends like you. And no acknowledgement of God that salvation is from the Lord. The list could go on and on. Who was it that gave your friend the job? Who was it that made him your friend? Who was it that touched his heart to come and bring you that money I mean the list goes on and on that salvation is from the Lord. Not only salvation in our circumstances. But a salvation from utter darkness. Salvation is from the Lord. If somebody's going to be saved, they're going to be saved because of God. The author and the finisher of our faith, Hebrews tells us. Psalms 2023. Says, the Lord is my shepherd. And as you read down through there, he says, He restoreth my soul. Salvation is of the Lord. I don't know where you're at today and what measure of salvation you need. Some might need some help out of a circumstance. Need deliverance from a relational relationship problem. Some might need help, you know, specific area. But I know that if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior That you need salvation from the Lord. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. That's why Jesus came. And he offers salvation. To all. All we have to do is ask for it. And if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. All you've got to do is confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God the Father raised God the Son from the dead, that He came here, lived 33 years, sinless life, and died for you. You know, the fact of the matter is that if you were the only person on earth, the Bible tells us that for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, if you were the only person on earth. God would have sent his son to die for you. To provide salvation for you. God's provided salvation for you. All you've got to do is accept it. It's a free gift that he offers to any and all. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed this morning. We're talking about Jonah. Jonah, who cried from the belly of the whale, this great fish that swallowed him whole. God restored him to what he was called to do, and God will restore you. He'll restore your joy. He'll restore your relationships. If we just cry on Him when our calamity comes, let's love Him. Let's be faithful to Him. And experience the blessing of God instead of the burden that comes from running from Him. Dear God, I ask you this morning that you view with each and every heart here, and Lord, that every single person would receive To your call. That God they would do what your will is. Some even now are deciding in their hearts whether they're going to respond. Or whether they're gonna flee from you and from your presence, as Jonah tried to do. I ask you, Lord, you'd give them the strength to Respond and do what your will is. We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen