Amen. Well, turn your Bibles to the book of Jonah. I'm excited about our thought for this morning. If you are reading with us the devotional, reading through the Bible with us, you Read the book of Jonah this last week. And as I read the book of Jonah, um just it's amazing, amazing story. And I wanted to bring a thought with regards to that today. Um in the book of Jonah there and the minor prophets. Getting close to the Us Old Testament, to the end of the Old Testament. There's nothing wrong with using your index if you're not uh positive. Sometimes those books that are so short, you can flip right past them. And uh you'll get all the way uh to the end and and if you get to the New Testament you went too far. So the book of Jonah, but As we read this amazing story this week, Jonah, he was a prophet. He was a prophet whose book contains no prophecies. Uh interesting. Now there is uh prophetical things that we learn through typology, which is something that I'm gonna be dealing with this Thursday night in the Old Testament, is the typology that we see. So you can learn something uh uh in God's overall plan through typology. But here we have this book, which contains no prophecies, but it is a narrative of an event or a time in the life of Jonah. But my what truths that we can learn from this literary gem, there's so much that we can be can be gleaned from its pages. With just a little thought, the windows of heaven are opened and we get a glimpse into the character of God Himself. With a little bit of study, Applying ourselves just a little bit, this simple story becomes a treasure trove of truth for the believer today. And this morning I would like to try and lay a platform built around the facts surrounding this. Story that we have in the Old Testament book of Jonah. Then I would like to, in a true expositorist fashion, walk through the life of Jonah. verse by verse. Now we won't walk through the entirety of the book this morning. We don't have that long. But I'm going to attempt to do an expository study of the book of Jonah. It's only four four chapters, so it shouldn't take us that long. We're going to look at this this morning. Let's just this morning just read the first three verses you follow along with me as I read Jonah chapter 1, verse 1 through 3. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Ahmediah, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee into Tarshus from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshus, so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it. And to go with them into Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. This morning I want to introduce the book of Jonah to you and talk about the word of the Lord. He says, now when the Lord of the Lord came unto Jonah, Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity to be in your house. I ask you this morning that you would give me the ability to step aside. Allow me to not worry about myself and How I might appear before men, but Lord, I might lift high the cross, and people wouldn't look at Caleb Betrell, but would look at the pages of Scripture and would see your message for them individually. God, I could never apply this to every person here and everybody's situation and what they might be facing or dealing with or how you might be challenging them in individually. But we know God that you can. I pray that you would open the pages of scripture for us as we dive in and Lord that you would give us a glimpse of your character and who you are and what you have for us to learn today. That you may speak to our hearts, and we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, I want to talk to you about the certainty of Jonah, the certainty of the book of Jonah. I mean, have you ever thought about this fact? This is one of the most widely known stories in the Bible. One of those stories that kids read. They just they they have these little story books. I have one here, The Man Caught by a Fish, and the story of Jonah. And these little storybooks are are amazing. They're they're Bible truths. But the problem with it with the story for many, many people, is that this little storybook gets put on the shelf alongside the little mermaid Alongside uh Pinocchio. This in in in the mind of children, or even in the mind of adults sometimes It becomes just an Aesop's fables. It becomes just a parable uh or a story that is nice to hear or fun to tell, but not really a true story. This morning I hope that in your heart and in your mind you believe the Word of God to be true, and that you understand that this is an actual story that took place in an actual man's life And God actually had a whale or a great fish, as it says in our text, come and swallow him whole. And he spent three days in the belly of that whale, and then the whale vomited him up onto dry ground And he headed out to do the work of God because he repented and turned back and did what God wanted him to do. I hope you believe that this morning. That it is a true story Many do not. Many who even profess themselves to be Bible believers. Many who would stand in pulpits across America today and who have written books. About the Word of God. Try and find ways to explain this story away. They try and I do not understand why anybody that's a preacher of the Word of God would want to undermine the very thing with which gives him any authority at all. We have no authority in of ourself. What Caleb Batrell says does not matter at all. But what this book says does. This is the authority, this is the truth, and I hope that you have it settled in your heart and mind that the word of God is truth. And God, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, had the story of Jonah told to us that we might learn. And see some amazing things. J. Vernon McGee tells of those that would explain away this truth. They say, first of all, you know the story takes place, and you know how Jonah goes down into the belly of the ship. And he falls fast asleep. They say that that all happened. And then Jonah had a dream. And when he awoke, he wrote down his dream about having been in a storm and thrown overboard and swallowed by a fish. He had a dream it wasn't a dream. It actually happened. The Bible doesn't allude to the fact that there's a dream. I don't know why somebody would want to try and take away from the credibility of the scriptures. They say that Jonah happened just as it did, that he went into a boat and a storm arose. And he talked with his fellow mariners, and they decided ultimately to throw him overboard. And then they say that he was picked up by a ship. that had as its mast on the front, or as its mascot, a large fish. And this boat was known as the Great Fish. And so Jonah was picked up by the Great Fish, the boat. That did not happen. It happened like the Word of God says. He was swallowed by a great fish Some tell the story and say that a whale could not actually swallow a man whole. His throat's not large enough. Scientists have proved that his throat's not large enough. They'll tell that to James Barton, James Bartley, who of February in 1891 was swallowed by a whale. In 1891, on record, James Bartley was swallowed whole by a whale. And he was recovered from their stomach. Now I didn't read all of the history to know whether he was dead or alive, but he went in in one piece. So somehow the scientists got it wrong. He swallowed them whole. Now, if the Word of God, through the inspiration of God, said that Jonah swallowed the whale, I would believe that. God is a creator. If you read Genesis this morning, I thought it was really funny. This morning, Genesis chapter one, it says God made the great way. God made the whale. God made all the rules of this world The rules that we rely on and depend upon. And if he wanted to stop the sun, he could. And anything else he wanted to happen, he could make it happen Do you believe it this morning that this is the word of God, that this story took place? I hope so. Jonah was a real man. In verse number one he says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Ameth, saying, You see, we get the name of his father. He doesn't just give us a name, he tells us the name of his father. Look back in 2 Kings if you word that would in 2 Kings. Back in the Old Testament, you have the books of history. There's 12 books of history in the Old Testament. They start with the book of Joshua and Judges, Ruth. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. These books of history. And in 2 Kings, chapter number 14, 2 Kings, chapter 14. Look down in verse number 23. 2 Kings chapter number 14 and verse number 23. He says, in the fifteenth year of Ameaziah, the son of Joash, the king of Judah, Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, began to reign in Samaria. and reigned forty and one years. And he did that, which was evil in the sight of the Lord. He departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto the sea of the plain, according to the word of the Lord God of Israel, which he had spake by the hand of his servant. Who? Jonah. Here in the books of history given to us, we have this man Jonah, and he tells us here, the son of His father, Ahmediah, and the prophet, which was in Gathapir, his hometown So we know his hometown, we know his father, and we know that he was in the time of Jeroboam II History gives us that. There is no question that Jonah was a real man. Look over in the book of Luke. Turn to the New Testament. Turn to Luke chapter 11. Matthew, Mark, Luke. Chapter number eleven. In Luke chapter number eleven Jesus himself is talking. God in the flesh. And he says in Luke chapter number eleven, verse number thirty, he says, For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of Man be to this generation. He God himself tells us about Jonah, and that he was assigned unto the Nineveh. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 12. I want you to see these texts. Matthew chapter 12, verse number 39. Matthew 12, verse number 39. Again, Jesus himself is talking. Matthew 12, 39 through 41, he says, But he answered and he said unto them: An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. And there shall no sign be given to it but the sign of the prophet Jonas. For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, So shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation And behold, a greater than Jonas is here. Christ Himself acknowledges not just Jesus J Jonah as a story, but Jonah and that he was in the belly of a whale for three days and then he went and he preached. Jesus himself acknowledges that. Nineveh was a real place, the place of Nineveh, we see there referenced by Jesus. And Nineveh was a real place. Jonah chapter 1, verse number 2 says, Arise and go to Nineveh. The great city and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. Now Nineveh was a city founded by Nimrod. Founded by Nimrod. Now I'm laying, I'm giving you facts And foundation. We're going to get to some preaching in just a little bit. But I want to lay this platform on which we're going to build some other truths as we move forward through this But Nineveh was a real place. It was the capital city of the Assyrian people, the world power of that day. Nineveh was believed to have anywhere from 120 to 175,000 people in it. This was not just a little village. This was not just a small group. This was the capital of the world power of that day. That would be like somebody from a small town being told I want you to go to Washington DC and declare the judgment of God on them. The United States, a world power in the in the world today, and the capital city of Washington, D. C. He was told by God, go to Nineveh. Now the Assyrian people were brutish, just amazingly harsh and brutal people. They would take their enemies. They were so brutal that when they as a army they were very disorganized. They traveled as an army altogether as families. That's why when Babylon came and overtook the Assyrians They were able to do it quite easily because there was no order in their armies. The ar Assyrian armies would travel as large families. They would just all go together, all their kids, everybody would go. But they were so cruel That stories are told that they would go to take over a town, and everybody in the town would commit suicide rather than fall into the hands of the Assyrians. That was the measure of their brutality. And God called Jonah to go preach to this city of Nineveh, the capital of the world tower of Syria. The Assyrians were on top of the world. They were ruling the world at that time. And Nineveh was located on the east side of the Tigris River. Now, if, let's see how many of you were paying attention in our Old Testament survey class, we did a class on geography. If I was in Jerusalem And I traveled southwest, what large river would I come to first? Gotta say it louder, I can't hear you. Do you remember? I you phrase. Now what river comes next? And how do we remember which one's first and which one's second? You come next to the Tigris River. The reason you know Euphrates is first is because E comes before T in the alphabet. It's an easy way to remember. So if you're in Jerusalem and you're traveling southwest across the eastern lands there you're going to come to the Euphrates River. Then you're going to cross over that, you're going to go about another 150 miles, and you'll reach the Tigris River. This was all Assyrian territory, but across the uh Tigris River there on the eastern side was the city of Nineveh. Now I'm going to just to put this in your mind so you can get it visually. I asked Pastor Gus to get us the joys of modern technology. We are looking here at live satellite of the Eastern Seaboard. Why don't you zoom in a little bit so we can can see there uh just Maryland uh not just Maryland but that region I mean okay you guys know where we are right now there there there about in the center of the screen is Maryland and that's where we are right now Now if you travel about four thousand miles, not quite, but about four thousand miles across the Atlantic Ocean. So s you're traveling eastward You're gonna go across the Atlantic Ocean about 4,000 miles. You're gonna come, you're going too high, I think. Don't go up. You gotta just straight east. Yeah, I think you're too high. Oh, you're you should have done this in maths. There, stop right there. Okay? You've got the Straits of Gibraltar right here at the bottom. I don't know if you can see um this you see Spain, Madrid? Can you see that? This is you have any kind of a circular thing here? Pointer? Something else. Okay. So this is Spain right here. Okay? This is Spain. At the bottom of Spain, this is the Straits of Gibraltar right here. This if you could travel through Okay? Right here at the place of close to where Gibraltar would be is Tarshius. Now we're going to travel across, keep going uh eastward there. This is the Mediterranean Sea, broken into several different seas if you get up into the smaller areas, but the large body of water here is the Mediterranean Sea If you can continue to travel eastward, you come into, let's stop here. Right down here is uh Jerusalem. These bodies of water right down here? You've got, remember that from our studies, uh the Sea of Galilee, between the Sea of Galilee and the Mediterranean Sea is Jerusalem. So Israel, the lower half, the no the uh northern tribes, the tribes of Israel, was where Jonah was from. Now Jonah left and went left his hometown, which was down here, and went to Tarshis, or went down to Japah, which is a a bordering city here. And was fleeing to Tarshus. Now Tarshus is about 2,500 miles by boat all the way over here. The wrong direction, right? Now go back over here. Let's see. The from here, you see this body of water coming down? That kind of that dark line? That's Euphrates River. They join together down here at the bottom for the last 40 miles. The Tigris and Euphrates flow together. into the Persian Gulf. But you cross here about uh hundred and fifty miles or across here and then this other line right here, you see that? That is the uh Tigris River. Now move up there to the Tigris River, the top side there, and zoom into that. Let's see this what is currently right now Masool, the city of Masul. Zoom all the way in right there. So we can see it. This right here you can go there today and see the ruins of the city of Nineveh. You can actually see them today. If you want to get online later, you can look up and see pictures of it. We're not going to show you those right now, because this this pointer's getting heavy What I'm saying is that's it's a real place. You can still go there today and see the ruins of the city of Nineveh. 120,000 to 175,000 people were there. Tarshus was a real place, 2,500 miles in the opposite direction, at the far side of the Mediterranean Sea. Now I want you to consider this. In Jonah chapter one, verse number one, he says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Ametisha. saying. First of all, look at the call, or secondly here the call of Jonah. The call of Jonah. God called him. God spoke to him and the word of the Lord came. unto Jonah. It's a distinctive call because of its origin. I mean you might have your mom and dad call you. They might tell you you might remember the times when mom would call you home late in the evening. Or you know, hey, it's time to come inside. It's getting dark, whatever. You might have a brother and sister call you. I know in my house I have five children. And uh usually when one of them calls the other, the other doesn't respond You know, well who are you? You know, I don't have to listen to you. Well I called you five times. Why didn't you answer? Because I don't have to listen to you. But you know what? When God calls, we need to listen. When God calls, we need to listen. We need to listen to the call of God. He speaks to us through his word. Aren't you glad that God can speak to you? As I opened the service this morning, I prayed that God would speak to every heart individually. I don't have the ability to take the scripture and apply it to you in your life, where you're at and what you're dealing with I couldn't hope to hit every heart here today but the Spirit of God can. The Spirit of God can because he knows exactly what you're facing And many times on the way out on a Sunday morning, somebody's come up to me and shook my hand and said, Pastor, that was just for me. Spoke to my heart exactly this way, and it's just what I needed. And I just say, praise God, because it's not Caleb that did it, it's the Spirit of God that did it Spoke to you. We should be thankful for when God speaks to us, when he talks to us. The word of God is powerful. It's quick, it's sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. And the word of God is used in our life to speak to us It is our responsibility as individuals, as children of God, as believers, to find and know the will of God for your life. He had a call. God called him and told him what he was supposed to do. Next we're going to look at his commission in a few minutes, and God tells him exactly what he's supposed to do. But understand It is our responsibility as believers to find out what God's will is for us. We cannot just ignore it or pretend it's not there and just go our own way and do our own thing and just hope everything's going to be alright. It's not like a brother or sister who told you, hey, pick that up. It's not even like a mom and dad who said, This is what I want you to do. We're talking about your creator and hopefully your savior. Who said, this is what I want you to do. And what an amazing thing to know that He cares enough for you To give us direction. It is our responsibility to listen for that call. Like Samuel of old, who heard the call of God, and he said, Yes, Lord. It's one thing to miss the will of God because we don't know it. And it's another thing altogether to, as Jonah did here, to run from it But my many, many are the Christians who have run from the will of God in their life. They know exactly what God wants them to do. And they run from it. The call of God should move us. When God speaks to us, it should move us. Now I have an illustration this morning. I I I like illustrations. You guys like illustrations? I have a pointer right here. I forgot about this one. Although that's ha that's lighter. That mic stand is lighter than this. This is a pretty stout piece of metal. It's pretty heavy. This piece of metal, what I want you to see is that this piece of metal is moved by this magnet. This magnet impacts this piece of metal and has the power to direct it. Even though it's so heavy, so large, it still has the power. To hold it, to draw it, to move it. The word of God should have that kind of an impact on you and I You see, I also have here another piece of metal that I typically have some somewhere close at hand. This is pretty light. It's not very heavy at all. This magnet does not impact it at all. You know why? Because they're not from the same family. Because they're not made of the same thing. This does not draw or impact something outside of its family, but it has great influence. On that which is. And once you become a child of God, the Word of God, you're in the family of God, and the Word of God should have great impact. on your life. It should affect you. It should move you. It should draw you. You were heading this way and the Word of God should reach out and like a magnet grab you and pull you back in line with what God wants you. The word of God came unto Jonah, and we know the story. We know he didn't respond correctly. But it should impact us. When the Word of God speaks, we should move. The first call of God on any man or any woman is that of salvation. The call Of salvation. He calls you to the cross. Would you hear his call today? Aaron Burr, whose grandfather Was a great evangelist preacher, Jonathan Edwards. Aaron Burr was at Princeton University and they were having a revival, and the revival was sweeping across the university. And Aaron Burr, who was related to this great preacher, this great evangelist, and who knew the word of God and he knew God. But Aaron Burr had in his life and his mind plans And what he wanted to do. If you happen to know Aaron Burr, he became a vice president. Aaron Burr was accused of treason. Because he tried to kill the president. But Aaron Burr, at one point, at this revival at Princeton University, later in life told his daughter this story. He said, my granddad was preaching and revival was swinging across, the sweeping across the university. God was speaking to my heart. Night after night, God was drawing me and drawing me and drawing me and speaking to me. And I was fighting it. I was resisting it because I had my own plans. I wanted to go my own way. Spirit of God was drawing me and one night after the revival I went to my room and I I got down on my knees and I said, God, leave me alone I said, God, if you would just leave me alone, never speak to me again, I'll do the same for you. And he said from that That night until this I have never again felt the call of God. Friend, if God's calling you, don't wait. Till you no longer hear the call of God. God's calling you for salvation. If you haven't trusted Him, you first got to be part of the family. family before the Word of God impacts you and changes you like it could. It doesn't change you much yet. You like the Word of God. I don't understand what all the fuss is about. That's because you're not part of the family yet. It doesn't draw you and motivate you and move you yet. First call is a call to salvation. He's calling you to the cross. Do you hear the Savior calling by his wooing of his voice? Do you hear the accents falling? Will you make him your choice? Why should we tarry when Jesus is pleading, pleading for you and me? Why should we linger and heed not his mercies? Mercies for you and me. Softly and tenderly, Jesus is calling, calling for you and for me. Patiently Jesus is waiting and watching, watching for you and for me Come home, come home Ye who are weary come hourly, tenderly Jesus Is calling, calling oh sinner com Do you hear the call of God? God's calling the sinner home and he's calling the saint back to where he wants you to be. This morning I could go on. I've got three more points. But is God calling you? Maybe God called you and you're here this morning and you're not part of it. And God spoke to your heart and said, You need to be part of the family. Don't wait till the call stops. Maybe you're here and you're a Christian, and God's calling you back to whatever He's called you or told you to do, and you might Jonah. You're running from it. Would you yield to him today? Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. God's calling you. He's calling you home. Do you hear the Savior's calling? Dear God, I pray that you would use this invitation, Lord, the point of decision. Where every soul here has to either respond or reject your call. You're calling, I believe with all my heart on the heart of some Christians to reject respond to you and yield to your your will for them. And you're calling those who haven't trusted you yet to respond and trust you as their Lord and Savior. I pray they would respond today. In Jesus' name. Amen.