Jonah chapter one, if you would. Jonah chapter one. We know the story well. I believe every Christian will know this story well. One of the things that I'm convinced in Christianity that we need. I want to read something to you, then I want to cogitate, ruminate a little bit on those things. The Bible says in verse 1, now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Did you notice that? Every one of these books starts with a very similar pattern. God speaks To a man. He gives his precedence as to who that man is, the son of background, what he is, usually In Jonah's situation, Dana does not tell us who he is, but it tells about his father. What does that trace? It traces the genealogy showing us from the line of thoughts in such tribe. Why? These are Israelite people. Okay? He says a command, first of all, arise. Go to Nineveh, that great city, cry against it. For their wickedness has come up before me. Can I tell you what? Everything around us God knows about. Their wickedness. Remember when God came to Moses? He says, I've heard the cry of my children, children of Israel, and what Egypt has done unto them. Guess what? God knew about it before it happened, right? Sometimes we forget God is in control. Sometimes we think the world's out of control. You ever get that feeling? Huh? But get get us Their wickedness has come up before me. God smells it, God sees it, God hears it. Mm-hmm. The stance of the world is ever before God. And can I tell you so? On the other hand, the worship of God comes ever sweetly before God. Before him. We've got to remember that. What's coming up before God today from your house, from your home, from your church, your community? So it says, but Jonah rose up. Wickedness has come up. Now Jonah rises up. God gives a command. He says, I want you to go. Is that not the command for every Christian? Or just for some people, right? Is that not the command to the church? It is. Mm-hmm. Is that not the command for every believer? We've got a major issue in India now. The word Christian really doesn't mean much. Why, there's too many nominal Christians. Name only Christians. People who go to church but don't do accomplish anything. I use an app called WhatsApp. You ever heard of it? We use that a lot. I teach classes. And so last Tuesday, issue came up in our church. Some issues all the time, somewhere, somehow. So I called a young pastor and I began asking questions. I said, I want you I would like to do your position on such and those things. He said, well pastor, I don't like labels That puts a big question mark on me. I don't like to be identified with Wait wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You know what? We need identification. We need labels. Okay? Whether the world says Baptists are crazy people, I don't matter to me. Okay. I tell people so often I don't associate so much with fundamentalism. Why? Too many fundamentals out there. Movements are going to be there. I understand that. Every age has a movement. But when it comes down to Jonah rises up and he goes against what God says. Can I say to you this morning? We must not go against the command of God. We must not go against the call of God. And we must never go against the identification with God. Don't be afraid to identify with God. Don't be afraid and ashamed of the name of Christ. You know what? The word Christian was given to us by our enemies, was it not? It was not given to us as friends as identification. Same way with the word Baptist. So when he said, Well, Pastor, I don't like identification, I don't like labels, I said, we got some issues and we need to discuss. Jesus called them believers. Would you hesitate to call yourself a believer? Mm-hmm. Right from All through the book of Acts, all through the general epistles, believers. Paul writes to the believers. Paul writes to the church: Are you going to go away from the church? That's the tendency today, is it not? Yeah. It was in Okta, Maryland Thursday, right? Coming back through. And I saw a church that used to be Bible Baptist Church. Today what do they call it? Crossroads church. Crossroads Church. Mm-hmm. They don't like the Bible, I guess. They don't like Baptists, I guess. You understand what I'm trying to say? We've gone away from identification. Paul Jonah says, I want to get away from that name. Why? These people I have an issue with Hmm. Jonah rose up to flee for unto Tarsus from the presence of the Lord, went down to Joppa, he found a ship going to Tarshus. So what did he do? He begged for a ride, right? No, he didn't beg for it. Was he a stowaway? No. You know what he did? He paid to get out of the will of God. Amazing, isn't it? He paid to disobey God. He paid to walk away from the call of God. He was willing to pay the price. So many Christians say, well, I'm not going to do like that. Yes, you do. We were willing to pay whatever the world offers to keep from serving God. My own testimony, when I was seventeen, going on 18 years old, God closed the door in my face because I was determined to go that way. God says, I want you to go this way. What did I do? I was willing to go that door. God closed it. And instead of following God, I went into the work world. And you know what? I had all the benefits. Had all the pleasures, had all the privileges that the world has. And I was willing to pay that price. Because when God turned around about 18 months later and said, Brian, you need to be in Bible college, you know what I said? That's not for me. I tried that. Why? It was too easy. It was too easy. Well the question comes back, the call of God are the comforts of life Not just an issue of fear of God's calling, but I see here something else. He's willing to pay the price and willing to pay the cost of disobedience. Jonah did not go in here thinking, well, I don't know. Maybe this is the better thing in my life. No. He said, Lord, I don't want to go there. I don't like those people. Why you read the third chapter and fourth chapter, you understand what Jonah was trying to tell God. He says, these are the people that pillaged my home. They take our things. They destroy our crops. They kill our children. And I knew if I went there, you would have mercy on them. Remember that story? What does that tell me? If we're not willing to go the way God wants us to go, we're seeking that God's mercy upon the sinners. Did we get God's mercy? Amen? We have God's mercies. Why are we willing to pay a price so God's mercy will not come upon the unbelievers? Yeah, the heathen unbelievers, the lost. Jonah and I I let's see if I can find an article, small one. One of the things that bothers my heart, but at the same time I understand why people do it. When we think whoops, got a little more Gotta love these things. Bible says he went and found a ship going to Tarsus, so he paid the fare thereof, went down into it to go with them to Tarshish. What's he say? Underline that in your Bible. From the presence of the Lord. Not only the blessing of God, not only the calling of God, not only the mercy of God. Now what's He going away from? presence of God. That's a dangerous place, buddy. Going away from the presence of God. I tell people, you know, there's a m thousands of Christians today. They don't have a home. They have been beaten. They have been drawn out of their homes. They're in jail tonight. But you know what? They don't have the blessings of life, but they have the presence of God. Mm-hmm. What is it really you want? Do we want possessions? Are we seeking blessings? Are we looking for the things that would make us great, get us popular, get us big? Or do we want the presence of God? David prayed, Lord, I don't want your presence to go away from me. I want your presence all the time. I would rather have the presence of God than the healing of God. That's a hard one. That's the hard one. Because guess what? This whole body it racks with pain. It hurts every day to walk. A lot of issues come up with the physical body, doesn't it? And when the body begins to ail and hurt, then the mental The emotions, everything else begins to be affected. But guess what? The physical is nothing compared to the spiritual life. Paul says I would rather be present with the Lord than absent, right? He says, I'd rather be up there. I want God's presence Abraham wanted God's presence. Christian, do we want God's presence? Are we willing to pay the price to walk away from God's presence? Hmm? I got two notes up here and I can't find the second one. I hate when that happens. There we go. Ask 100 young Christian men why they were planning to stay here and not planning to go to the mission field. What's God sending where is God sending Jonah? If we understand the story correctly, this is the first Jew going to a non-Jewish community. We call that foreign missions, is that not correct? Mm-hmm. Almost all of them will say that God has not called them to be a missionary. So what do we do? We usually drop the subject and don't challenge them any farther. But if we dare ask them how they knew that God did not call them, can what can they say? They don't feel called? You ever said that? I don't feel called. So then the eternal fate of the heathen depend on how we feel, right? Ask them what this call would feel like, and they probably cannot tell you that either. Ask them for two New Testament verses to show them if they are called or not, and my bet is they will not even find one Ask them if they have ever surrendered their lives to serve God on the mission field. Ask them if they have volunteered and asked God to let them go tell the heathen about Christ. Here's the issue we're facing today in our fundamental independent Baptist KGV searches. Listen to this. The prevailing thought is that God will give an overwhelming emotional experience, a special supernatural Revelation. Is that what God does? Has He done that for two thousand years? Hmm. To those he wants to serve on the mission field, otherwise they should stay at home. So with this play-it-safe mentality, it often takes the precedent over God's command to go. It's better to stay home. Had somebody tell me yesterday. Or not this yeah, just not too long ago. Well, yeah, yesterday. With the coronavirus, don't you think you should stay home? Interesting, isn't it? I mean I know there are germophobes out there. Okay. But if you see the alleys that my wife and I walk into and the homes that we visit. Corona means nothing. Absolutely zilch. I've literally carried babies with hepatitis. TB, dying children, tuberculosis, bleeding infectious bodies. We take them to the hospitals, we treat them What am I saying? We have this mentality, we've got to play it safe, and that takes come precedence over the command of God to go. And aren't we inadvertently blaming God for not calling enough laborers to reach our world? Some say God hasn't called them as a pretext. You know what? They wouldn't go if God did call them. Others, however, have heard the misleading rhetoric that has convinced them to play it safe and stay home. Here's what I like this one. Don't go unless you are 100% sure that God is calling. You ever heard that way? We've heard it, don't we? I'm talking about independence, fundamental absolute. Guess what? I heard this growing up. But there's no gift scriptural instruction how to be sure about that 100%. Don't confuse the burden with a call. We've heard that one too, haven't we? By the way, no scriptural explanation is given to explain the difference. And you know what? Here's what gets me amazingly. The heathen will not care if the message comes from someone who is called or burdened. They need your message, don't they? You see, the whole issue comes back to my convenience. The message must still be told. Whether I'm convenient or comfortable with it or not. Does that make sense? Hmm. I have a question. Was Jonah comfortable to go? What is it? Hmm. If you can do anything else, God hasn't called you. I've said that myself Mm-hmm. And our young people can find a hundred things they'd rather do than preach the gospel. Am I right? I'm afraid our adults can do the same, right? We can find a hundred things to do besides go knocking on doors and hanging up John Romans, right? Uh oh, am I getting too close to home? Hm. While we wait in comfort, the heathen wait in despair. We have too many mama dad mama called daddies and people. Well I wouldn't want to be accused of that, right? Better stay home, play it safe. Well, God didn't call me. My friend, withholding the gospel from the lost is a much bigger sin than going to the mission field without a special Emotional call. We hear over and over about the call to go. When is the last time you preach the command to go? Mm-hmm. The call is subjective. It's ambiguous. The command I'm finding in the scripture is very clear. I tell every Christian in light of this, in light of Christ's command, you better go or have a good reason to stay. Did Jonah have a good reason to get on that boat? Did Jonah have a good reason to pay to go the opposite direction? He was willing to go 2,000 miles away from God's will than to cross a little straight and go into Nineveh. Just a day's journey. But 2,000 miles that way? We don't have cars, folks. We don't have planes. All we got is donkeys and ships. How long is it going to take him to get 2000 miles? Are you getting the picture? Mm-hmm. What do we do? We begin to waste year after year, not knocking on doors. We begin to waste day after day, not even carrying God's word. Mm-hmm. I was thinking as I was running from door to door yesterday. Lord, if we had this privilege in India Mm-hmm. And I said this to every Baptist church I've visited. I would say it to you too. Do we have the freedom in America to do it? Do we? We do, don't we? Then why aren't we doing it? Why aren't we doing it? Are we gonna wait for Washington or Annapolis to pass a new law against it and then start complaining about it? We can murmur and complain all we want, can't we? But the issue is we have the freedom to share the gospel, to preach, to assemble, to distribute literature. To go knocking on doors, to hang these it doesn't take much, you know what? It really doesn't. My daughter was enjoying it. My son would have loved to go. He's like, that who's going, who's going? Well how to go He loves doing that kind of stuff. Crazy kid crying look rock wall the other day and twisted his ankle all up. Couldn't go anywhere. You know what? Can I encourage you today? We have a great privilege. Amen. We have a great command. Don't wait for an emotional call, amen. Don't wait for that funny feeling to come in. Say, yes, Lord, I'll go. You get up in the morning and you have a special call to go to work. Don't do it. It's just a piece of paper. I saw a post the other day. Marriage is just a piece of paper Can I tell you what? Money's just a piece of paper too, but we go work for it, don't we? Same way with marriage, we must work for it. Otherwise every marriage falls apart. Your work, my work, her work, our work. We work for it to save a marriage. Amen. Same way with God's command. We must work for it. It's not a matter of waiting. It's not a matter of seeing how convenient, how comfortable, or that emotional call to go. You see, we're not all called to the foreign mission field they met. But we're called to go. Does that make sense? We're not called to leave. Baltimore, Maryland. We're called to go. Dear Christian Verse four. Then no, but the Lord I like that word, but the Lord. Amen? Here he is running full speed away from God. Against God's command, to a comfortable life, paying the wages of the world to stay away from the call of God. But the Lord. Amen. I believe in second chances. I'm one of those. God called me two or three times, but I was running the other way I praise God for second chances. But the Lord, the Bible says, sent out a great wind into the sea. You know what? There are some of you who are in the wind today. Going through a storm today, going through a struggle today. But every storm is sent by Almighty God. Amen. What's the storm you're going through? God is trying to cause you. It's no accident, amen. I don't believe God has accidents of it Heard a statement the other day, and I posted it, that is, the reality is life is fatal Praise God it's not final, amen. Mm-hmm. Praise God it's not final. You see after this life something greater. And I told people the other day ten out of ten people die. That's quite a statistic, isn't it? Mm-hmm. How about you and I We're going to die someday. But the Lord. Amen? But the Lord. The mercy of God. The love of God. The grace of God. The compassions of God. In mercy, he reaches out and he says, I'm going to send a little storm Jonah's way to get him back where I want him to be. Did the storm change Jonah's mentality? It did, did it? Did the storm change his heart? All the storm did was change his direction. Did you get that? Mm-hmm. He was sleep in that storm. I must have been quite asleep, I'm telling you what. I have yet to figure out. Anybody give me a theological definition on stone asleep. Okay? But that was quite asleep. I can't sleep if anybody else is driving. I have a struggle. I can't even sleep in an airplane. I can't imagine this coming into Texas the other day. I was coming into Austin. That plane. I've always we you can do like this when it's windy, okay? I don't mind that But when the old plane starts to go this way, she's coming down, the old plane goes this way. I got scared. And I've been flying since I was five years old. I have never had that happen before. The woman behind me, her eyes went, wow. There's a guy three seats over and all of a sudden he went like this. It was hilarious! Yeah. We thought we were a goddamn. But you see, how often we sleep in the storm And I tell people this is one of the signs of depression. If you know anything about the human behavior, sleep in the midst of a storm that kind of like this is a sign of depression. He's walking away from God's will. And it will always affect the mind. The Bible sent out a storm. The Bible said God sent out a storm. Great wind into the sea. And there was a mighty tempest in the sea so that the ship was likely to be broken. Can I tell you what? And this is what my fear is. Listen to me closely, and I'm almost finished. My decision to go the wrong way better not break somebody else's life. That shift was almost ready to be broken How many souls in that ship? Mm-hmm. Paul faced the same thing, remember that? But he wasn't running from God. God sent to win. In the book of Acts, remember the story? Yeah. God used Paul to save a boatload of people. No pun intended. But what am I saying? Because of our decisions, our comfort zone, our way of living, how many people are going to perish? You see, if Jonah had not confessed that he served the living God, all those people I believe would have died right there. Jonah would have perished too. What am I saying? But God Amen. But God. Now long story, I know this. But I just want to leave it right here. Where are we running today? What cost are we willing to pay today? To keep from going where God wants us to go