We have been studying and looking in the walking through the story of Jonah. We obviously took a little break for the uh Christmas time and embarking upon a new year to challenge us with regards to that and now we're back into uh This story of Jonah here. Last week we looked at how Jonah's outlook was doctored. Jonah's outlook was changed. You know, initially he felt that what God was asking him to do was a little bit too much. Have you ever felt like that? Have you ever felt like maybe God was asking too much of you? You saying, it's too much. I can't I can't do it. I I I don't want to do it. It's I just Lord please no, not that That's what Jonah felt. Now, whether Jonah felt that because of fear of going to the Nineveh, maybe he feared for his life There is the implication, as we get a little bit further in our text, that we'll see that it's quite possible that Jonah felt that maybe the Ninevites weren't worthy of God's love and forgiveness. Because of all that they had done to them, to his people. We don't know what the motivation was, but of course we know from the study that Jonah chose To flee from the presence of the Lord. But God brought along a great fish, a whale that swallowed him whole. I suppose three days in the belly of a whale would change anybody's mind I imagine it would change mind. He spent three days in the belly of that whale and it changed his mind. His outlook was doctored. What he thought was so bad, he decided it wasn't so bad. And God has a way of doing that for us, kind of changing our mind, doctoring our thinking a little bit. We saw that. God changed Tim. Now we could spend two or three more weeks considering the change in the heart. We could spend some more time pondering his prayer found in chapter number two, and there's a lot that could be learned as we just look at his prayer and study. His prayer. We could spend some time studying and discussing the deliverance that God brought. I mean, can you imagine being delivered by a whale? And I mean you think about the miraculous delivery that God brought. A whale swallowed him whole. Now, I don't know how much room is in the belly of a whale. It's a pretty big fish. But Uh here. I wonder how much oxygen's down there. Wouldn't wouldn't there at least if there was oxygen that was breathable, wouldn't the acidity of the stomach acids Create an environment that just would not certainly not be very pleasant, but I wonder, I mean, could he even breathe? What I'm saying is that this whole method of delivery that God brought was miraculous. Not only was God judging him, but God at the same time was protecting him. God protected him from drowning. God protected him in the belly of the whale, supernaturally preserved his life. I've seen God do that a lot of times. One of the most direct situations like this is scene when somebody's involved in a car wreck. You go to the hospital and you visit them, and they look at me being a pastor or for many years an assistant pastor and I've had him look at me and say I know I know why I was in a wreck. I know why I'm in this hospital. I was running from God. So not only did God judge them and bring them to a place that their outlook would be doctored, but God preserved their life. God protected them from what could have happened. It's amazing how God does that for us. But we're not going to Spend any more time in chapter number two, we're going to move on to chapter number three as we look at his obedience delivered. His obedience delivered. Would you read with me, Jonah chapter three? verses 1 through 3. Let's read those three verses together. And the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the second time. I am saying, Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. So Jonah arose and went unto Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city. of three days journey. So Nona, Jonah took off to do what God wanted him to do. We see here his obedience You know, it starts here with this sick fish. that whale had for three days, having this guy, a full person that couldn't digest. Have you ever had something that wouldn't digest? And your your stomach was just turning, you're like, Man, if I could just get that Chinese food out of my stomach or or if I could just get that uh you know what I some people love 'em. But maple donuts They are so heavy. The ma up in Pennsylvania, the maple donuts, I mean they might be good, but they hit you like a brick. You're like, oh man, if I could just get that out of my stomach. I'm sure this whale was thinking Man, well I don't know what I swallowed. I don't know what that was, but that is just the uncomfortable situation he was in. But God made him a sick fish And he threw up, the Bible uses the word vomit there, vomited him up onto dry land. It's amazing. The word of the Lord came. And the fish vomited him out onto dry land. You know, it's something it would be a great study for anybody to look and see what took place throughout the scriptures at just the word of the Lord. Here we have a fish that at the word of the Lord vomited up Jonah onto dry land. But in your study, you would have to start all the way back in the book of Genesis. And you find that at the word of the Lord, the entire earth was created. At God's word, this world in which we live and enjoy was spoken into Existence. At the Word of God, Jesus was raised from the dead. And here at the Word of the Lord, He spake this word. And And this fish vomited Jonah onto dry land. Then we see the second saying. He says here, then the word of the Lord came unto Jonah a second time. Saying. It's something the word of the Lord came to him again. I'm thankful that the word of the Lord will come to us again. That he'll he will come to us again. But you know it's the exact same thing. that he told them to do the first time. You know, he told them the exact same thing. There was Uh police that stopped this teenage girl. You see, they were called to this neighborhood because there was a car driving in reverse around the block over and over again. And the police stopped her and pulled her over and said, What are you doing? And she says, Well, my, you see, I just got my license. I haven't had it very long, and my mom and dad let me use the car. And I drove a lot more than I was supposed to. So I'm trying to take some of the miles off. She She didn't realize what was done was done and she couldn't change it. It was what it was. God had given him a message, and the message didn't change. Even though time had passed, even though he had run from God, it didn't change the message. The same thing came to him. In chapter 1, verse number 2, he says, Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for the wickedness has come up before me. He was told to go and to preach the same thing. You know, sometimes this this is something that we need in our lives. We need consistency. Consistency. We need consistency in what we say. Consistency in what we do. Jonah didn't have to wonder what it was that God wanted him to do. You know that's one of the most frustrating things for children. If you're a parent in here and you're raising kids, one of the most frustrating things is when a parent doesn't, when a child doesn't know what the parent wants. The child doesn't know what is going to make the parent happy. I mean, some days the foolishness makes you laugh and you have a good time and you play and it's funny to see him be disrespectful. But then other days you get mad and you rip his head off. And he doesn't know what he's supposed to do. That Bible or the verse that we learned back in uh June of last year, and you fathers provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Is that Ephesians six four? Okay. See, I remembered one of them. From last year. That verse, that provokes your children to wrath when they don't know what's expected of them. When they don't know what it is, it's going to make you happy. Sometimes it's okay, sometimes it's not. I praise God that we serve a God that's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He is consistent in the same thing that he told Jonah, he told him again. You know, it's like uh Pastor Derrick and I were talking uh A child was told to go to bed. And I know that your kids are like my kids and they don't want to go to bed. And so you have to say, okay, if you don't go to bed you're gonna get a spanking. And hopefully they go to bed. But there was this one uh little boy who looked at his dad and said, After I get a spanking, can I stay up? He was he was evaluating and thinking, uh, hey, it would be worth the spanking if I could stay up. Now my thought is that father wasn't spanking hard enough. Or the child would not have evaluated that to be an equal trade-off. But you know, sometimes we think that, well If I take the punishment, it'll be different. No, you're going to get a spanking and you still have to go to bed. Sometimes God has to spank us and we still have to do what he told us to do. We might as well do it before the spanking, amen? Might as well do it before he sends us into the belly of a whale. Because it's going to be the same thing. The same thing's going to come to us You know, God is concerned about this world. These people, the Ninevites, were known to be wicked. Yet God was sending them Jonah. He was concerned about them, and he was willing to chasten a man and draw him back so that he could get the message of God's love to a group of people. Not only that, he loved Jonah enough to continue to work with him. To continue to try and bring him to the place where he would respond and do what God called him to do. God has chosen you and I to carry the message of the gospel to this world that he cares about. About. He's asked us to do that. He's given us this calling on our lives that we should carry the message. It's the same for us today as it was for the church two thousand years ago. You don't have to be eloquent. You don't even have to be educated. You just have to be willing. Just have to be willing to carry the message. And our servant here was willing. You know, that's what happens when you have a revival. You get a new sensitivity to the Word of God. It says here that and the word of the Lord came to him a second time. The same thing that came the first time. But the first time he didn't respond to it. The first time he decided to go. And you know when you start to experience a little bit of revival in your life. You get a new sensitivity to the Word of God. Where you used to sit into church in the church house and it just seemed a little bit boring. It just seemed like what he was saying didn't make a whole lot of sense. Or why are we covering this again? Or I've heard that before, and you're just waiting, you're thinking about what's for lunch and how to get out of here, and I mean is he really going to preach that long this morning? But when you start to experience a little bit of revival in your life, you get a new sensitivity. To the Word of God. And it could be the same thing that's been said a thousand times, but somehow it's not coming from the words of the lips of Pastor Caleb. Somehow you're seeing it in the pages of Scripture, and Almighty God is coming down from Heaven and touching your soul, and you say, God, thank you for speaking to me. That new sensitivity. When a relationship is restored, you get a new sensitivity to the Word of God. of God. You know what happens as well in our personal relationships. Have you got a new sensitivity? When you have a personal relationship and it's restored, you get a new sensitivity. to each other. That relationship is restored and you you know, after you you you say you're sorry and you come together and and You know, a husband comes in and says, Oh you've been working so hard, hon. I I see all of what you're doing. You know, uh let me let me help you. And then and and Then the wife looks at him and says, no, no, no, no. You're at work all day and slaving away and providing for the family and don't worry about it. I want you just to relax. And the husband says, no, I can't relax and watch you work. I mean my goodness. Let me step up here, I'll help you do the dishes. Has your has your husband ever no don't don't testify to that There's a new sensitivity to each other. That's a whole lot better than what's happening in some homes. A sensitivity to each other when the relationship is restored. You can have that back. And when our relationship is restored with our Heavenly Father, there's a new sensitivity to what He wants to say to us. That word of the Lord came unto Jonah a second time, and he responded to it. It was the same thing. It wasn't a new message. We're not preaching a new message here. It's the same thing before, but I hope that as our relationship is restored with God, that we'll have a new sensitivity. That brings him to the place where he becomes a surrendered servant. A surrendered servant. That's where every one of us got to get. We've got to get to where we're surrendered so Servant. In verse number three, he says, So Jonah arose and he went unto Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. He did it. Someone said it like this: He had graduated from Seaweed Seminary. And surrender to what God wanted him to do. You know, I don't know. If you and I would just learn to obey, we could graduate from whatever school God's got us in. You might not be in Seaweed Seminary, but you might be struggling through some other things. You might be in some other battle. You might be in some other place, and God's trying to teach us something, trying to get us to respond to Him. And if we would just respond, then we could graduate from that and go on to what God has for us. He was surrendered The sooner we learn to obey, the sooner God can let us graduate. You know the Bible says, if you love me, keep my commandments. You know, blessing Let me ask you this. What was it that took Jonah? And I'm not talking about the fish. I know it's hard when preachers ask a a question. What was it that took Jonah from drowning to the dry land? It was not the fish. I mean, the fish did it. But it was obedience. As soon as Jonah chose to be obedient to God, He was delivered onto dry land. Somebody might be going through something here this morning. Obedience. Blessing starts at obedience. Blessing starts at obedience. That'd be a good thing for us to remember. The Bible says it like this. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, that's the word of God, the perfect law, and continueth therein, He being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. Okay, so we look into the Word of God. We don't just forget it, but we do it. The last phrase of this verse is James chapter 1, verse number 25. The last phrase says, This man shall be blessed in his deed. You want to be blessed? Anyone here want to be blessed? We just gotta we just gotta hear the word and do the word. And God will bless us. Blessing starts at obedience. God sees our obedience as well. Many times we look at it as Christians and we and we like to preach, you know, be not deceived. God is not mocked for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And we look at that from the negative side, and we talk about sin. And when you reap unto the flesh, it shall as the flesh reap corruption But it doesn't stop there. It says, if you reap unto the sow under the Spirit, you shall have the Spirit reap life everlasting. Not only does God see our disobedience, but He also sees our obedience. And he blesses us for it. God sees the good things that we do. God sees what we do for him and how we honor him and how we please him and how we strive to follow him. He sees that and he blesses us for it. You know, God's not going to forget. He wants to bless you for your obedience. There's in Arabia those majestic Arabian horses. I know probably everybody here has seen pictures, maybe videos, and seen these Arabian horses that trek across the deserts there. You know, the Arabian horses are trained. To be completely obedient. They train these horses out there in the desert, and once they get to the conclusion of their training, their trainers do a test that is almost Inhumane. They force these horses to go for days without water. The horse gets to the point where it's almost weak because of the lack of water that he's had out there in the desert climate. And you know horses can smell water. Animals can sense water from a long ways away, and they'll take these horses to a body of water. And they'll let them go. And this horse will run towards this water to try and drink And just before the horse reaches the water, just before he's about to put his snout down into the water to uh drink up that refreshing water, the trainer will blow his whistle. And the horse knows he's to stop what he's doing and come and stand next to the trainer. And if the horse is trained properly, he will not stick his head in the water. He will not take a drink. He will stop, come back, and stand next to the trainer When obedience is observed, the trainer will take him in gratitude And give him all the water he can take. And take care of that horse and nourish that horse. You say, man, that's brutal. But out there in the Arabian Desert, where you're trusting your life, to this animal. You better know you got an animal that you can trust. And that's why they train him so rigorously. Sometimes God's training us. Just wants us to be obedient. Just wants us to do His will. We need to be a surrendered servant. He stands up, he's a surrendered servant, and then we get to see him sow the seed He says, So Jonah arose and he went unto Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days' journey. He went to Nineveh to sow the seed of the gospel, the message that God had told him to Preach what God had told him to say, he arose and went and did according to the word of the Lord. You know, if we would just go do what we're supposed to do, God might show us what's next. A lot of times we're not seeing the revelation of God or God revealing to us what is next in our lives or We desire, Lord, would you show me the next step or would you show me where to go after this? Or I would like to see down the road. And God's telling you, would you just do what I told you to do already? You see, he's given us his revealed will, and we need to observe and follow his revealed will before he'll show us anymore. He sent Nineveh to this great city of wickedness. I'm sorry, he sent Jonah to this great city, Nineveh, a city of wickedness. Because of God's mercy. God sent another preacher to bring them back to Him. Allowed them more time to get right with Him. Ecclesiastes that Ecclesiastes eight, verse number eleven says, Because sentencing against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the Son of Man is fully set in them to do evil. Because sentencing because sentence is not executed speedily, the heart of man is set to do evil akin to continually. That what it's saying is that because we didn't get struck by lightning yesterday We feel like we're okay. And so we go do it again. God hasn't struck me with lightning yet. I mean we we initially step out with a little bit of fear and trembling and say, well, I know I really shouldn't be doing this But I I'm I'm gonna do it anyway, and we do it in God's mercy and God's grace. He he he he waits, he doesn't punish us right then, and we think, oh, and because of God's waits and is long suffering. We get set in our heart and continue to do against him. But you know there's a limit to God's patience There's a limit to it. He's not going to continue forever. At some point, if the people of Nineveh didn't respond, God was going to judge that city. They had to respond You know, you think about the time of Noah, when it was uh every man did that which was right in his own eyes, and their hearts were only evil continually in the time of Noah. God gave them 120 years Of Noah preaching. But at some point his patience ran out, and the people were judged. There is a limit to God's patience. In Genesis chapter 6, verse number 3, he says, And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh, yet his days shall be a hundred. and twenty years. You see, God's Spirit's not going to always strive with us. Blessing starts at obedience. And we just need to respond. Become a surrendered servant. And God speaks to our heart and he draws us and he challenges us and he continues to work with us And maybe he's brought some seaweed seminary into your life, maybe he's brought some challenge into your life, but we still don't respond. I I want to tell you tonight, this morning, that it's not always going to strive with you At some point, God's patience is going to be up. I remember a time in my life where I was not. I was doing some things that I knew that were not pleasing to God. And I was kind of going that direction, and I was continuing down that road, and God was speaking to my heart, and he was stirring me me and he was prodding me and just couldn't just wouldn't let me go and he kept talking to me and I kept heading down that road. But I remember like it was yesterday. I was on the road traveling. I was on a long trip and I was on the road and I was driving down an interstate. I remember God's Spirit speaking to my heart in such a strong way, I thought in my heart and in my mind, I'm not going to make it to the end of this trip. If I don't change. I felt literally like my life was in my hands. I could decide to respond and do what God wanted, or it would be done. And I stopped right then. I pulled over on the side of the road and I cried out to God and my Lord and my Savior and I thanked Him for speaking to my heart. I thanked Him for drawing me back to Him. I thanked Him for bringing me to that place. And I confessed what I was doing my sin before an Almighty God and said, Lord, forgive me, help me to do better. And since that day I have never sinned. No, just kidding. Just seeing if you guys were awake. No, I still have fa failed and messed up and fallen and I've had to confess and forgive. I'm just saying there was a time that I reached a place where I felt like God's fear is done striving with me. I've pushed God as far as I can. I either need to respond or God's done. I don't know if you've ever reached that place in your life. But I want to encourage you this morning that don't keep pushing God. Respond. to him. And you can graduate from whatever seminary God that God's got you in to go on to do the next step. Whatever God has for you You know, if there was a large cliff here, even if if it was just right here, if I was blindfolded. I'm not near as apt at getting around without my eyes as God has enabled Bob and Carol to do. You know, just on the stage right here. If I was up here and I was blindfolded and somebody spun me around ten times and said, okay, now take ten steps in any direction, I'd be like, I don't think so. Nah, that's not a good idea. If you were standing next to a huge cliff and you were blindfolded, would you just continue to walk? Would you just continue to take steps? No. You would know in your heart if I step off that cliff, I'm done. Yet so many of us have felt God's prodding, felt God's drawing, felt God speaking to us, and we continue to take steps in that opposite direction. And God's spirit is striving with your spirit. And you're like a blind man walking for the cliff. It's out there. The next step could be the last one. You step off We would have enough common sense in a life situation to stop and say, hey, I can't continue to walk. Well spiritually we need to do the same thing God's Spirit is driving with you, and I don't know what's going on in your life, and I don't know where you're at. But Jonah responded. He became a surrender. Servant, and he did what God wanted him to do. Would you do the same? Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Dear Lord, we come to you this morning and we're grateful, God, for the continued challenge in this story to respond to you. The fact that you come again and again and again and you bring to us the same message. Your mercy, Lord, your grace in our lives. We thank you for that. We ask you, God, that you would help us to be as Jonah and to respond to that, to restore the relationship. To see you, Lord, do great things with us this year. I pray this morning that each heart here would respond to you and do what you want them to do. In Jesus' name, Amen.