You can turn your Bibles to the book of Jonah. The fifth of the uh I think it's the fifth one, uh the minor prophets. I think it's uh the minor star prophets start with Hosea. Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah. Yeah, it's the fifth one. Uh Uh but Jonah. We have been walking through the book of Jonah, uh and we are to verse number three. Uh although this is only the third week, but uh you know I don't suspect that week by week It will take this long uh for us to get through through all of this, but just how the Lord is led. Um So if you're in the book of Jonah, it's been uh fun for me to study and to read this and just see how the Lord uh opens the scripture up to us and there's so much here in the book of Jonah that is applicable to us as Christians. What a vivid story that we get to read and the truths that we get to glean. Let's read again the first three verses here of the book of Jonah. Let's read it together. A couple of weeks I've read it to you, but let's all read it. together starting in verse number one, reading down through verse number three. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of of a Matah saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa. And he found a ship going to Tarshus, so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it to go with them unto Tarshus From the presence of the Lord. Let me open in a word of prayer as we look at the idea of running from the Lord. Lord, I ask you this morning that you would speak to our hearts, that you would indeed open up these few verses. Verses that we've looked at. Lord, uh now for the third week, and God I pray that there would not be a matter of of repetition or uh something That might be uh looked at as, oh, we've heard this already, but God, that it would be uh impactful on our lives, that it would touch our hearts where we're at, as individual Christians, as individual believers. Believers, as those here who maybe don't know you as Lord and Savior, but God would uh too try and run from you. I pray God that you would open our eyes, give us eyes to see and ears to hear. That you might speak to us from your word today. In Jesus' name, amen. As we've looked at this story of Jonah, we first saw the certainty of Jonah. We looked at the fact that it did happen, kind of by way of introduction Now this is a true story, and we know that it's true. It was recorded for us. And then we saw the call of Jonah there in verse number one. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, and my magnificent thing to have the call of God come to us, and hopefully the call of salvation has come to you. Then we saw the commission of Jonah. He said, Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. And he was commissioned to go and to cry against that wicked city. The wickedness that was ever before God Almighty. And we talked a little bit last week about how the wickedness of man is before God all the time God sees it, not just the wickedness of the place called Nineveh, but our wickedness as well. God sees down into the heart of hearts of each and every soul here, and even when nobody else sees us, we know God sees us. Amen We know he is watching. I'll tell you what, in the day and age that we live today, where you are you are probably on camera almost anywhere you go today. I mean years ago I got into video and uh as a videographer and uh I did all the video productions for a church and a ministry and We would do shooting and any time you did shooting in a public place, anybody in that public place had to be made aware of the fact that you were videoing. And if they were going to be on there and be shown, not be like blocked out or something you had to go get a release form, legally had to get a release form and get everybody that happened to show up on your video to sign it. Or you were liable. Not today. Video is everywhere. I mean there's there there's drones flying over the property over there. They're recording us as we do things and I'm wondering who in the community is wondering what we're doing on the on the new new church property over there. But you know what? You could fly a drone anywhere. You're on video all the time and you think about man I better be careful because they might be videoing me. You better be careful because God might be watching. I guess I should leave the might out. God is watching. Right? God is watching. He said, arise and go to Nineveh. He was commissioned to go and to cry against that great wickedness. And we talked about that Sajab of the pastor, of the preacher of the Word of God. God is to cry against the wickedness of man and to make us aware of where we have fallen short. That's what the law was for. It was to picture to show where wherein we had broken the law and realized that we need a sacrifice. We saw that. We knew that Nineveh was called, I mean Jonah was called to go to Nineveh. God told him to go, but Jonah said, no. No. And he wanted to go do his own thing, and then we introduced the idea of the contravention of Jonah last week. The contravention of Contravention of Jonah, where he wanted to stand against God. A contravention is someone that stands up in opposition to the completion of something You know as well as I do most of the time. We know exactly what God wants us to do. We know where God wants us to go, what He wants from us. He's spoken to our heart, He's touched our heart. He said, you need to do this or you need to do that. And so many times we are like Jonah. We say, no. No, I don't want to do that. God, I'll do this and this and this. But that I don't want to do that. Aren't you happy, God? I said I would do this and this and this, but God, that I don't want to do. And God's calling us and saying, this is what you need to do. Like Jonah of old, we have a rebellious heart and stand in contravention to God's plan. You know, rebellion is celebrated today Rebellion is lifted up. It's praised today. It's made popular and and people look at rebellion and think it's a good thing. You don't think so? Look at Colin Coppernack. He he has won GQ's Citizen of the Year Citizen of the Year Award. You telling me there's not a soldier that stood for something, for for for the for our country, that has that has fought, who has sacrificed, that deserves the Citizen of the Year award? You telling me there's not an entrepreneur that started a company that s employs thousands of people and gives jobs and meets the needs for thousands of families that couldn't deserve the Citizen of the Year award You know, J. J. Wyatt raised thirty seven million dollars for the hurricane victims. He doesn't deserve the Citizen of the Year Award. But what do we praise? Somebody who stands up in opposition. That's human nature. Having a rebellious heart. Jonah chose here to flee from the presence of God. He says here, but Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus, and the last phrase of verse number three, uh, to go into Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. You know, that is our human inclination. That is what we want to do. That is our first response. You know, our first response is not to fess up. Our first response is not to take ownership like a kid who has his He got caught with his hand in the cookie car jar and crumbs all over his face, crumbs on the floor where he's standing there eating them, and mom or dad come in the room and he goes I mean he's got crumbs everywhere, but somehow he's gonna hide it that nobody knows. Nobody knows, nope, I you know, and the guilty the the kids, the look they have I mean you come in, you don't have to see what they're doing at all. You just look at them and say, son, what were you doing? Uh I know you're doing something. But they don't want to fess up. That's our nature. We don't want to own it. First thing we want to do is make an excuse. The first thing we want to do is run and hide. That is the nature of man, and it has been all the way since Adam and Eve in the garden What did they do? They had been given freely to eat of anything in the garden except for the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Everything else they could eat freely of. But they went and And Eve being beguiled by Satan, the serpent, came and and tricked her, and she took of that fruit, and she took it to Adam, and she Said, Adam, you know, you've got to try this, you've got to eat this, and I don't know what Adam's motivation was. Maybe he didn't want to rock the boat, maybe he didn't want to uh go against his wife, but whatever the case may be, he took the Fruit that he was not to eat of. And the and the Bible says, What'd they do? They went and hid themselves. God came to walk with them in the cool of the day and said, Adam, Adam, where art thou? He went to hide himself from this from Adam until today, when we're in sin, we try and hide. We still try and hide. He wanted to run from the presence of God. This is our human inclination whenever we're in sin. You know, the devil will always provide you an alternative route. He'll provide you an alternative route, something else that you can do. You know Tarshish was in the exact opposite direction of Nineveh. We looked at that and we've said seen geographically where they're located twenty five hundred miles in the wrong direction. God will I mean the devil will always provide you an alternate route. Again God's plan. And you know what's amazing is a lot of Christians will spiritualize it. I mean, they'll come down here to down to Jappa. And oh look, here is a boat going to Tarsus on the exact day at the exact time that I need it. It must be God's will. Look at the open door God provided. I mean, what are the chances of me coming here on today and there being a boat going to Tarsus? Must be God's will. When he knew he was going against God's will. But we spiritualize it. And sometimes we take that open door. Oh, look at the open door God provided. And it's not what God provided. Satan provides an alternate route. You know many times, I mean, you think about it, broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. If it's too easy, you might wonder, is this really what God's leading me to do? Now, God can open doors and he can close doors and he can give you a leading in your life, but what I'm saying is you've got to be weary because the devil will provide you an alternate route. Every time. Oh God, I'll do this and this and this, but I won't do that. God says, I want you to do this, and you say, Oh, look at there's a ministry opportunity. God opened up. I'm going to go and I'm going to serve in the choir. And God wants you to serve in the parking lot ministry, but you don't like being outside where it's cold. Say, God, I don't want to do that. But you know what? I'll serve in the choir. And you do something else. Whatever it might be in your life. The devil provides an alternate route, but I want you to know that all the devil's apples have worms. Doesn't matter how pretty it looks, how good the opportunity, all the devil's apples have worms. You know, it's a hopeless impossibility. It's our human inclination to try and run from God, but it's a hopeless impossibility. And we know that in the back of our mind. I mean, how could we run from God, right? Yet since the time of Adam until today, man has tried to run from God. We cannot flee from the presence of God. Psalms 139, verses 7 through 12 says, Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or whither shall I free from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me, yea, the darkness hide not from me. From thee, but the night shineth as the day, the darkness as the light, and both are alike to thee. It doesn't matter how far you go Or how black the night, God can still see you. We can't run from the presence of God. It's an impossibility. And we think a new location, or going to some other place, or doing something else, or finding a new congregation, we can't run from the presence of God. You know, we can't flee the presence of God and we can't forget who we are. We can't forget who we are. We are God's creation. We are one part of this small world, this one small part of this great big world. I was listening to this week to uh uh Advice to college students and this gentleman was talking about how when he graduated from college he was going to impact the world and he had all these dreams and ambitions and He he you know he had the world by the tail and he was a college graduate and he got in his car and he left school and he drove all the way to this City of Chicago, and there in Chicago he went up into the Willis Tower, which was the Sears Tower, and he was up there on the Willis Tower, and he was looking out over this over this great big city And he knew nobody in town had no place to stay, no job opportunities. And he said And right then it hit me how tiny I really was in this great big world. How tiny we are as a creation of God. Now praise God that He loves us and He's concerned about every hair on your head. God Almighty is concerned about you, but you know what? We can't forget who we are in this picture. We are His creation. Like if you had some ants crawling on your counter in your kitchen. Say, man, these ants aren't supposed to be there. And you sweep 'em up And throw them away. Without a thought. Without any effort, without considering even I mean if you have a spider crawling and has made a web there in the corner of your door jam or in the the the behind the couch and you pull the couch out to clean and there's a little spider there. Without a thought. We're just a small part. Just a small speck in God's mighty creation. Now praise God and His love, He's concerned about us. But we can't forget who we are. It's a hopeless impossibility to try and flee. From the presence of God. Satan himself, one of the greatest angels ever created. In Isaiah chapter 14, God said, How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which dost weaken the name of the I will ascend up into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. Ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High. And God, without a thought, took all of Satan, cast him from heaven. And all those angels that were following him. You and I need to remember who we are in this world. Jonah. chose to flee from the presence of God. Not only that, Jonah chose a failing provision. He chose a failing provision. You see here in our text, verse number three, but Jonah rose up to flee into Tonushi from the presence of the Lord, and he went down to Joffa and he found a ship going to Transhea. So he, what's the next three words? He paid the fare thereof. He paid the fare thereof. When you run from God's plan, you're on your own. You're going to pay the fare thereof. Whatever it is, you're going to pay it There's always a cost to run from God, and you're going to pay it. Whatever that fare is, you're going to pay it. John chapter 1, verse number 5 through 14 says, and this is the confidence that we have in him. That if we ask anything, according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he heareth, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petition that we desire of him. God wants to answer our prayers and provide and to meet our needs. But not where we'll run into Tarshis. Jonah had to pay the fare thereof. He lost God's provision. You know, many would rather pay the fare, the cost of sin. Than the cost of surrender. Many would rather pay the fare of sin than the fare of surrender. You know, there is a cost of surrendering to God as well. To do God's will. And many look at the cost of serving God and they say, Oh, you know what? I don't want to do that. But they look at the cost of sin and they say say I'll do that. How foolish and unwise of a choice is that? You know, I asked Pastor Gus to get me this picture. This at one time was the most expensive dessert in the world. In the city of New York, you can go and buy this dessert today. It will cost you twenty-five thousand dollars. Twenty-five thousand dollars. This little bowl of ice cream It's topped with the highest grades of cocoa, edible gold, shavings of luxurious truffle. This was declared by the Guinness World Book of Records at one point to be the most expensive dessert in the world. It has the most expensive cocos from 14 countries mixed in. It has five grams of edible 24 karat gold. Topped with whipped cream. I had whipped cream on my pie last week. Shavings from the la La Madeline El Truffle is served in a golden goblet, decorated with diamonds. And served with a golden spoon that you get to keep when you go home. So you get to take the golden spoon home as one of those that have eaten the most expensive dessert in the world. That's pretty foolish. I don't know. I don't know why you would want to eat gold anyway, but Even if you even if it tasted just unbelievable, twenty-five thousand dollars for this dessert? That's foolish And do you know you'll be in the same place when you're like the prodigal son, and it says that he came to himself and he realized where he was. And you'll realize that the cost of sin was such a high price you should have never paid it. But then it'll be too late. It'll be too late. Choose today to choose the to choose to to pay the cost of surrender instead of the cost. The fare always looks good on the surface, but it's a lie of the devil. The Bible says then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin will When it is finished, bringeth forth what? Death. The bread of the seed is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravity You know, something that you must consider is that disobedience always leaves a scar that is rarely, if ever, removed. You know what's amazing here, this book of Jonah? We haven't got to it yet, but you know in the latter chapters here, Jonah went and did what God wanted him to do. do you know Jonah preached and had what was probably the most magnificent revival given to us in recorded history But what is it that most people talk about when they talk about Jonah? That he ran from God and God had to judge him? You see, it left a scar that these many thousands of years later still is not removed. Sin will leave a scar that rarely, if ever, is removed. I think it'd be better for us to choose the cost of surrender instead of sin. Look at Isaiah if you would, Isaiah chapter 1. You can turn back. into the major prophets through Daniel, through Ezekiel. Look down at verse number eighteen. Isaiah chapter number one, verse number eighteen, through verse number twenty. He says, Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow, though they be as Red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land. But if ye refuse And rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. You have the ability to have your sins forgiven, to be washed, to be clean, to be to to have all of your sins wiped away. And if you be willing, you can do that But if ye rebel, ye shall be devoured. But it's a choice God presents to each and every one of us. How many of you have ever made a bad decision that has become the joke of your family? Something happened in your life? Something you did at some Christmas So many years ago or as a child you thought you were gonna do this and now every time you get together for some reason that comes up. Like they keep bringing it up, they just won't let you forget that one bad decision that you you made it's left a mark that just doesn't want to go away. It was you were just a kid and it was just foolishness and they keep talking about it. You know one thing I did And today to this day I don't have any idea what was in my mind. Why in the world did I do that? And why did my sister let me do it? My oldest sister, she was the first one to get married. And I had some white shoes, all white shoes, and for some reason I wore my white shoes for her wedding. We are there all dressed black tie, all standing up in front, all these people, black tie, black shoes, black tie, black suit, black, and there's Caleb with his white shoes on. To this day, she's like, why did you do that in my wedding? I mean, look at my wedding pictures. I still have them all these years later. There you are in your white shoes. Like, why did you let me wear white shoes? You shouldn't s I mean, what in the world? You talk about dorky looking. I really look dorky. But I hey when I was seventeen I thought I was cool, you know. I was I'm gonna be different. I'm gonna wear white shoes. I'm gonna be an idiot. That's most most teenagers are that way until they wise up. Yeah, tell their wise up. The foolish things we do a lot of times leave marks that we never get past. Choose to follow God first. Jonah had some false partners. You know, you get into this world and they'll hang with you as long as you got the money. They'll hang with you as long as you're providing the fund But here are these false partners. He was in this boat and they said, hey, who is it that caused this problem? And you know what happens? They threw them overboard. Your friends will throw you overboard. We're not going to stay with you. It's amazing how little we put up with in the house of God. And or how much how little we demand of our friends in the world, but how much we demand of the house of God. Everything at church has to be perfect. Everybody at church has to agree. You just right. Everything in the house of God has to line up a certain way, but our friends who are little more than leeches, we still hang around. We still talk to, we still connect with. You know, somebody put this together. The reason that I'm giving up on all sports, football, baseball, basketball, winter, he's decided The reason he's given up on all sports, attending any sports of any kind, is this. Let me give you a few of them. First, every time I went to a game, the first thing they did was ask for money. The people I sat next to at the game didn't seem that friendly. The seats at the game were hard and uncomfortable I went to mini-games, but you know what? The coach never came in my house. The coach never came to visit me The referee made decisions that I didn't agree with. The game went into overtime, and I was getting I was late getting home. The band played some numbers that I didn't know. It seems that games are always scheduled when I want to do something else. I suspect that I was neck I was sitting next to some real hypocrites. They came just to see their friends and talk. They weren't really interested in the game. I was taken to way too many games as a kid by my parents. So I'm gonna stop going to games today I hate to wait in the traffic jams that get in the parking lot after the game. That's all in fun and facetious. You guys are all sitting here like like a bump on the log. But you know what we're talking about. Things in the world are all okay. But these friends that are false, that aren't going to hang with us, we don't demand much of them. But when we come to the church house, we demand it all. Jonah chose some very frail protection. He chose some very frail protection. You see, he went down into a boat. You know your boat is only a secure Or you're only as secure as the boat you're in? He had very frail protection. How weak and small is our protection? When we're away from God. I would rather have no insurance and God's protection than the best insurance that man can buy and not have God on my side. Without God's protection, you begin to build your own failing plan. You you build bank accounts and insurances and stocks and whatever you can to for To provide yourself some type of security. And there's nothing wrong with planning. But if that's what we're looking for, for protection, you realize how weak that is? It could all change in a heartbeat. I had a personal friend some years ago that in one night, one night of the stock market changing, he had his investments all invested in dot com stock during the boom And in one night he lost it all. Went to bed, very wealthy, got up in the morning, and owed people money In one night. Oh, but I'm wealthy. I'm doing good. He was talking about retiring at like 31 years old. He lost it all. Where's your security? It's only as good as the boat you're in. This here we see started a downward path that Jonah was on. Jonah went down to Joppa, the Bible says. He went down into the ship. Jonah went down into the belly of the whale. You understand that anytime you're running away from God, you're on a downward path. You're on a downward path, and you know how hard it is to stop running when you're going downhill? When you're running downhill, how many of you have ever tried to stop? I w we were in Israel and had a group of people there, and Pastor Courtney Lewis, who pastored the Cornerstone Baptist Church in Chicago, he was with us. And we climbed up this hill and I don't remember what hill it was. I think we were in the Valley of Elah, which is where David and Goliath were And he climbed up this hill to overlook the valley, like on one side of the mountain where the Israelites or the Philistines would have been. And a number of people climbed it. Well, he decided to run down. And one gentleman ran in front of him, somebody that was about 10 inches taller than him. That 10 inches helps a lot in your stride. Well he started running down this hill and there's about 40 of us there watching and he started getting speed and we're like, oh no. Oh no Oh no. And I turned the camera on. Oh no. Oh no. I started videoing. And he was coming down that hill and you could see it. Like his legs just didn't I mean he was moving as fast as he could and there's no way he could stop but his legs wouldn't move any faster And all of a sudden, going downhill, the top of his body went a little faster than the bottom of his body, and at a dead run, faster than he's ever run before, he was Into the gravel. This piece of skin right here, it ripped the whole thing off. Just it had a whole chunk of skin. And and y I got it on video. So I sent it to him. When I was there with his pa with with his church, I was preaching to his church family and I said, You guys want to see your pastor? And uh I sent them the video, but I gave him the discretion of whether he wanted to show it or not. But running downhill is hard to stop. And when you or I are running from God, you're on a downward path, it's hard to stop. It's hard to stop. Don't get going to the point where you're moving so quick you just you just can't get you you end up falling so hard you've got damage that you just can't get away from it. from. In conclusion this morning, are you fighting against God? Are you fighting against what God wants you to do? Are you choosing to pay the price of sin instead of the cost of surrender? How many of you have lost God's provision and God's protection because you're doing what you want to do instead of what God Has asked of you. Jonah's disobedience has brought him into a storm. Are you in a storm because of a similar situation? This morning you respond to God as God speaks to you. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. As we have an invitation this morning. An invitation is a time for you to be put into a ballot box. You're there. It's time for you to cast your vote. It's time for you to make a choice. This same old choice that was presented to every soul in every situation. Are you going to choose Caesar? Or are you going to choose Christ? You're going to choose this world? Or choose your s choose choose the world That's the invitation this morning. Respond to God or choose your own path. I hope this morning you choose the cost of surrender over the cost of sin. Lord, I pray that as the pianist plays, your people will respond to you. Do what you've called them to do. If there's one here today that hasn't started on their journey with you, they don't know you as Lord and Savior, I pray God today would be the day that they would settle that. And they would cast the ballot to choose Christ, to choose salvation over every over over every other option where we pray. In Jesus' name, amen