So we're back in there. You might want to put a bookmark there. We're going to be there for a few weeks as we walk verse by verse through this. Last week we started on a journey through the life of Jonah, who went on a journey himself. But we began to seek for each m morsel of truth that we might glean from the pages of Scripture. We're going to walk through this just one verse at a time and see what God has for us in each verse, how it might be applied to our lives, and what truths we might glean. Last week, we did little more than introduce the book of Jonah, gave you some background information, and then we gave our first point, just one point, we dealt with the certainty of Jonah. and the idea that it did happen. We talked about where it was. We last week introduced some stuff to help you with geography of it. How many of you know uh if you're in Jerusalem, and you head east, what is the first river you're going to come to? Euphrates. Euphrates, correct. And that's because E comes before T, and T is the what river is that? Tigris. Now at its widest point, the Euphrates and Tigris are about a hundred and fifty miles apart. Now uh the city where Jonah was supposed to go, the city of Nineveh was about 500 miles from his hometown, northeast of where he was located just below Jerusalem. Now uh let's just for reference sake, let's put the map back up. It's going to be good for you to be able to picture in your mind uh where this is at. And so you have the Mediterranean Sea. And I've got to turn around. I'm not going to pull out my pointer this week. But on the left side there you have the Mediterranean Sea. Down towards the bottom left side of the screen is Jerusalem. You got a pointer there? You guys probably can't see the pointer, can you? No, it's too small. But you know what I'm talking about? That dark, darkish gray area there, just below that, you've got that little body of water You see the little body of water there? Zoom in some more. Can you zoom in some more? Okay, that's Jerusalem down there. Okay? Now, northeast. You're going to start traveling northeast. You're going to about 500 miles. You're going to come first to see that body of that line there, the Euphrates. And 150 miles across there you get to the Tigris, the other uh river that you can see there. Then up in the top side in the middle of the screen there is what is currently Masool, and in Masool is the city of Nineveh. That is where he was supposed to go. Now I'm just out of curiosity, how many of you went and looked at Google Earth and looked at the pictures that you can see? You can see Nineveh right now. You can see the ri the remains, the the uh Not remains. That's a body. What's the uh what's the city? The ruins. You can see the ruins of the city of Nineveh. It's still there. You can actually see it today. Now zoom out and uh let's put this in perspective that's where he was supposed to go that is five hundred miles northeast of where he was but he went to what what what did he try to flee to what place Tarshus. Okay, Tarshus is in modern-day Spain. The body of waters you see there is the Mediterranean Sea. If you travel all the way through the Mediterranean Sea to the to the Straits of Gibraltar that that pass over into the Atlantic Ocean. Right there, middle of the screen, far left is Spain, at the top side of Spain, and the bottom of it is Tarsus And that's where he was fleeing. That's 2,500 miles in the wrong direction. The exact opposite of what he was supposed to do. Now we looked at that last week, and that's review, because repetition is the key to learning. And so just wanted you to have that in your mind. I want you to know that this is a s this happened. This is real. It's not just a fairy tale. You can still today still see the city of Nineveh where he was supposed to go. Then we talked about the call of J Jordan, I'm sorry, the call of Jonah And the Bible says in verses 1, let's read verses 1 through 3 of our text here. You follow along as I read it. This is what we're going to deal with today. Jonah chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. He says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amethai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. Verse number three, but Jonah rose up to flee into Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Japah, and he found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it to go with them unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. Last week we dealt with verse number one. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah. Aren't you glad that the word of the Lord came unto you? The first call in anybody's life is the call of salvation. God calls and he desires, he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He wants everybody to be saved, to go to heaven. extended the invitation, as we talked about in Sunday school today, to everybody. If you don't go to heaven, it's because you refuse the invitation, not because God doesn't want you there. You know what? It's a distinctive call because of its origin. It's a call from God. You know, of all the calls that we get, the call from God you don't want to miss. How many of you ever missed a phone call? My wife misses my phone calls all the time. It's really frustrating. That's because the kids usually have her phone or they turn the the ringer off and I call home and she doesn't answer. She misses my calls all the time. But I love her anyway Anyways, you know one of the reasons we miss calls sometimes is because our battery's dead. You ever had a debt battery? You're waiting on a phone call and the battery's running down, you're like, man, I only got like three percent left. It's gonna go I'm waiting on this call. You know, if you don't want to miss the call of God on your life, you better keep your spiritual battery charged up. You gotta keep your spiritual battery charged up. God wants to speak to you. He wants to communicate with you. He wants to touch your heart. Change your life. And it doesn't just happen. Sometimes you've got to get plugged in, get charged up spiritually, so that you're in tune with God and He can speak to your heart. You get plugged in in church. You get plugged in when you look in God's Word and you begin to let Him speak to you directly. Don't miss the call of God and what He has for you. Then we talked about the commission, or we looked at the commission of Jonah, verse number two, that's where we're going to take off for today. The commission of Jonah. He said, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it for their wickedness. Now I have no idea how long it's going to take us to get through Jonah, but we'll just go verse by verse and see what the Lord teaches us. I'm excited about what the Lord's given us for First of all, uh we we looked at this city of Nineveh. We know where it's at, five hundred miles northeast of of Jonah's hometown. How many of you remember from last week? Approximately how many people were in the city of Nineveh? Anyone remember? Or do you have notes? 120 to 170,000 people. Approximate size of minimum. See? Repetition is the key to learning. 120 to 170,000, about that size is how many people were there. This wasn't a small village he was called to go speak to. It was a large group of people in the city. It was a great city. The Bible says here, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city. This was the capital city of the Assyrian people The Assyrian people we talked about last week how they were brutal. Just brutal people, murderous uh people. Anybody that wasn't with them, they would just kill 'em. Not just kill them, but in a torturous and vicious way they would take their life. And this group of people is where he was called to this great city. This great city. It was the capital of the power house of the world of that day. What I see here is that you know that phrase that fullness leads to what? Forgetfulness. Fullness leads to forgetfulness. That great city. They were experiencing great wealth. They were experiencing great prosperity. They were the top of the world of that day There was no more prosperous city in the world than the city of Nineveh, the capital of the Assyrian people. And man, they were on top. But you know what happens when we're on top. We forget how we got there. We forget God's provision and God's blessings that put us there. The problem is, is when things are going good We forget who gave those good things to us. Now, this is something that we're dealing with in America today in an exponential way. We are a prosperous people. I mean, we here in America, things are going good. Even when things are going bad, we've got it so good I mean, most of the world will be glad to have your worst day. We've got it so good, fullness has led to forgetfulness. This great city of Nineveh forgot to recognize God. This is Thanksgiving week. In your fullness, don't forget to recognize God. Don't forget it was God who gave you the means to earn that money to be able to provide that meal or the ability to go work that job or the mind to be able to understand how to do those things. You say, well I did this all myself. Just like that. You could be in a wreck on the way home today, and you could be a vegetable the rest of your life, dependent 100% upon the care of your loved ones. It's God's blessing on your life that you woke up this morning with the ability to stand, to breathe, to walk. To roll, to scoot. Amen, Doctor Keller, Amen He gets to church early because he doesn't want to hold anybody up. He says it takes me too long to get through the doors. So I come early so I don't hold anybody up. You can come whenever. We're glad to have you. You're not in anybody's way. If it gets so bad you can't scoot in, we'll carry you in. Be glad to do it. Whatever you have, you understand you're experiencing the blessing of God. We cannot forget that in America, where a little bit like it says in Revelation, because thou sayest I am enriched and increased with good and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched, miserable, poor, blind and naked. We don't know where we've come from, and we don't know how bad we are, because we're rich, and God called Jonah to go cry out to them and tell them what their wickedness is. wickedness was. But they had no idea. They didn't even understand. They didn't even comprehend how bad things were. My, we're that place today. We're calling Things that are evil and wicked good. Saying, what's wrong with that? We got to get back to the Bible Recognize that it all came from God. First Corinthians 4, verse number 7 says, For who maketh thee differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? What do you have that you did not receive? When you think about it, nothing. You say, man, I got 2020 vision. Yeah, but God gave it to you. Man, I got a photographic memory. Yeah, I was talking to somebody the other day and they said they was Pastor Tom. He said, I got a photographic memory. I just forgot to put the film in God gave it to you. What hast thou that thou hast not received? Now if thou dost receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? Yeah, it'd be like me. Where's uh Frank? Is Frank here? He's not in church. Gonna have to get on him. Uh Andrew, come here. This is Frank's money. It'd be like me handing this to Andrew. And now him glorying and look at this money I got. Look at this this money I made. I just gave it to him. What hast thou that thou hast not received? He didn't earn that. Now it's pranks I gotta I gotta have that back. Whatever we have that came from God, we're rich and increased with goods, we need to know where it came from. and where we are. This great city, he says. Then he says here that he was to cry against it. Go out and cry against it. Sometimes people say, hey, how come the preacher raises his voice all the time? Well you want a little secret? It's to keep you awake. That's why I move around and on occasion jump on the pulpit. Not not very often. No, it's to illustrate. To emphasize, in the book of Isaiah 58, verse number 1, the prophet there was told by the Lord, he said, Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet. And show my people their transgression and the house of Jacob their sin. That's what God told the prophet to do. Cry alone! Lift up your voice like a trumpet. Call out. Show the people where they sinned. And this is what God told Jonah to do. Go to Nineveh and cry aloud. Lift up your voice, Jonah. Lift it up like a trumpet and let the people know where they have sinned. That's the job of the man standing behind the pulpit, whether it's me or somebody else. You say, man, I wish he wouldn't get meddling. I mean he's getting right down there where the you know rubber meets the road and messing with my life now. That's the job of the pastor, to preach the word. And let the word of God touch your heart. Don't get mad at the messenger. You know, get mad at God if you want to get mad, but I wouldn't recommend that. Just respond. Let God change you from the inside out. Man, what a glorious thing. He was to cry against it. Our motive as a preacher or as anybody working with people, our motive to cry out against sin Sin should be a motive of love. Love for God and love for men. Not out of anger. Not out of uh pride like the Pharisees and and oh look at me, I'm so much better than anybody else and and uh I just I'm just gonna point out where you messed up and you messed up and you messed up. Not out of pride like the Pharisees, but out of love. Our motive for letting people know what the Word of God says is because we care about them. It's like my child who is there and going to run out into the street. I don't call out to them and say, hey, don't go in the street because I'm mad, because I think that I'm better than them, because I think I've learned so much and they don't know anything. It's because I love them. And I don't want them to run into the street and get hurt. And sometimes the preacher of the gospel gets up and he says, Hey, you shouldn't be going to those places. Hey, you shouldn't be talking like that. God's not pleased with that. And it's not because I think I'm better than you. Because I care about you and I want you to please the Lord with your life. And I hope you respond to him and not to me. It's like Jeremiah chapter 9, verse number 1. He says, Oh, that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears. That I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughters of my people. Jeremiah talking about his heart. He said, if my eyes were just fountains They could continue to flow that I might weep day and night. Let me encourage you, and this is a challenge to me as a preacher, to have that kind of a heart for you as a church family. A heart of compassion, a heart of love that weeps for you, to see you be and do what God wants you to do. He said, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry aloud again. He said, cry out against it. Why? What does he say there? What does he say in the text? Why is he supposed to cry out? For their wickedness has come up before me. Their wickedness has come up before me. You know that the wickedness of man and you're a man or a woman Mankind, the wickedness of man is before God always. Our wickedness, what we do in our life That God is not pleased with is before God all the time. The city of Nineveh and the people of Assyria had reached a stage of wickedness that was just almost unheard of. They couldn't believe what they were allowing to take place and happen in this wicked city. And God's patience had come to an end. And God said, I'm going to give them one more chance. Jonah, go tell them where they've messed up. And if they repent, I won't destroy them. But if they don't They're done. Do you understand that God's wickedness, God, that the wickedness before God, at some point, His patience is going to come to an end? Not just with a nation, but with each individual You cannot continue to run against God. And just because God hasn't hit you with a bolt of lightning yet or struck you dead You can't continue to head that direction and expect God's patience to just forbear forever. Now, I'm thankful for kindergarten teachers. Kindergarten teachers. I mean, you talk about somebody that has patience. Working with kindergarten children, that's somebody with patience. Those kids. I don't know how many of you ever ever heard about this teacher working with a child to put her to put uh his boots on This kindergarten teacher was down on the floor to helping this child put his boots on in the wintertime. You know the snow boots, they don't hardly go on anyway, and these were a little bit too small, and she was working like crazy. I mean she finally got the first one on and she worked worked really hard and she got the second one on and by then she had basically worked up a sweat. And then uh the they they got it done and she stood up and the kindergarten looked down, she looked down and he said Teacher, they're on the wrong feet. She thought, Well, I can't get mad at him. I should have noticed that. I mean here's a kindergartner telling me they're on the wrong feet, so she gets down on the ground, they almost didn't come off much easier. And she just goes to work again and she can't help get him to stay still and put the boot on and push and she works really hard getting him off and then she gets him back on And when she gets him back on, the boy says, Teacher, these aren't my boots. Oh, she's about to get fed up now. She's really frustrated and she she Gets down on the floor and she finally gets him off again and he says, They're my brothers, and my mom made me wear them today. So she really exercising her patience, she gets her boots the boots back on the feet after all of this extenuous effort, gets them back on and finally gets them stood up in the boots. in the on the right feet and all that and she says, Now where are your mittens? And she said, I stuck them in my boots. I don't know if she took them off to get the mittens out. The patience of the kindergarten teacher. You know the patience that God has with you and I, at some point, He's going to stop being patient He sent somebody to cry aloud. He sent somebody to tell you, hey, stop going the way you're going. We've got to respond to him. Psalms 103, verse number 8 says, The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He is. He's slow to anger. But how long are we going to test him? How long are we going to push him? You know, in America, we're at this place, the place where Nineveh had reached. Where our wickedness is ever before the Lord, and I don't know how long it'll be before God will judge us as a nation. We might not be able to change what America does as a whole. But you can I, you and I, can sure change what we do. And you know, just like I know, when we are going against God and not doing what God wants us to do. How long are we going to test him? How long are we going to test his patience? Jonah had a job to do. You need to know and understand God's plan. For you. You know, your plan, God's plan, and his provision are connected. They're connected. He says. I lost my notes. See you thought I had this all memorized. No, I have ten pages of notes up here. God's plan and God's provision are connected. This in verse number three, turn your Bibles to verse number three or look Look down at verse number three. He says, But Jonah rose up to flee into Tarshus from the presence of the Lord and went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going into Tarshus, so he paid the fare thereof. God's plan and and his provision are protected. You uh you and I need If we want to experience God's provision, we've got to be inside God's plan, doing what God wants us to do. God's will is for your welfare. What God wants you to do is for your welfare, it's for your benefit. Inside of God's behest, doing what it is that God's asked is where you and I will experience God's blessing. When God asks you and I to do something, we We should do it. Every time the word of God is preached, every time you read the word of God in your devotions, letting God speak to you is so that we might be changed from the inside out. So I want you to see actually the contravention of Jones A contravention is to stand in opposition to. A contribution is to do something against. Jonah was called to go to what city? Nineveh. And instead he fled to Tarshus. Tarshus was 2,500 miles away from Nineveh. Jonah stood in opposition to what God wanted to do. You know as well as I do that most of the time, most of the time, we know in our heart what we're supposed to do. We know what God wants us to do. It's not this unknown entity, it's not this unknown equation, it's not that we're just wondering about it. Most of the time we know exactly what God wants. And yet we don't do it. It's like a child with selective hearing. Have you ever said to a child or heard an adult say to a child, um Did you hear me? You know the adult says, I want you to pick up all your clothes. And then in a minute you turn and you say, Did you hear me? The question really is not, did you physically hear me? The question is, I know you heard me. Why aren't you moving? Why aren't you responding? I told you to pick up these clothes. And when God speaks to us, we need to respond. 2 Peter 3, verse number 5 says, For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old and The people here in 2 Peter were willingly ignorant of what God wanted them to do. They had selective hearings. They were saying, oh no, I don't want to know that. I don't want to hear that. It's like the that's like sometimes I know this would never happen in your house. But let's say I'm downstairs and I tell Melissa to go tell Caleb to come down and unload the dishwasher. So Melissa goes upstairs to tell Caleb. And she starts to tell him, Dad said that you need to come and and Caleb's in the middle of putting Legos together and he's really excited and he doesn't want to go anywhere And so he goes, la la la la la la la And Melissa goes, Dad said you got he's like I can't hear you. La la la la la. Dad said you have to come down and put the la la la la la Many times as Christians, you and I are doing that to God. La la la la. God saying, I want Want you to you need. God's trying to speak to you. But we are willingly ignorant Of what it is he's trying to say. We just don't want it. And I want you to understand this morning that that's on us. We need to respond. God is talking to a lot more people than the people that are responding. In Jeremiah 5, verse number 21 through 23. He says this Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding, which have eyes and see not, which have ears and hear not Fear ye not me, saith the Lord. Will ye not tremble at my presence, which have placed the sand by the bounds of the sea? by his perpetual decree that it cannot pass it. And though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet they cannot prevail. He says the ocean With all of its power and might, even in the strongest of hurricanes, God set the bounds of the sea, and that hurricane may try And exceed its bounds, it may come up and it may swell beyond its bounds. But what happens in a few days? In all of these, all of these thousands of years, it's gone back to within its bounds. where God said it. And he says, Hey, you have ears to hear and you have eyes to see, but you're not listening to me. Don't you fear me? Don't you fear me, the God of the universe who is able to set the bounds of the ocean. Don't you hear me? Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Is God speaking to you? God saying, Do you hear me? Maybe God's called you this morning and knocked on your heart's door and said, you need that salvation that He's talking about. You need to know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. You need to respond and get that settled today that you can be sure of your home in heaven. Maybe God spoke to you that way. Maybe God spoke to you and said That he's been dealing with you for a while about doing something in your life, quitting something or starting something, and you've been putting it off. I encourage you to respond before God's patience. Wears too thin. Lord, I ask you this morning that you would use this invitation in our hearts and we would grow by the decisions that are made this morning. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.