But maybe another year I'll get to the other characters. But this morning we want to look at Joseph. So follow with me if you would in Matthew chapter one, verses eighteen through twenty-five, where we uh read about Joseph and his Participation in these miraculous events. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, basically saying that it happened like this. When, as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph. Her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her public uh a public example, was minded to put her away privily But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth the Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophets, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child. and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is being interpreted, is God with us. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bid him, and took unto him his wife, and knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Of all the characters involved in the Christmas story, Joseph stands alone in one aspect. And that is that he comes across as the strong silent Titan. Actually, it's quite interesting that Joseph doesn't say a word. If you read the text here or in Luke or I mean y you you read the text about the birth of Jesus Christ and before and after Joseph has no comment. We have last week, like we studied about Mary and and we studied about her, how she came across and she was praising God and she said, Oh, I'm gonna praise him and with her whole body, soul, and spirit. Uh, you know, she had lots to say. And you think about the angels. The angels came and they announced the birth and and participated. And the shepherds, once they heard, the Bible says they went and told it abroad. And told everybody, all these people have much to say, but Joseph, he has nothing to say. And as I began studying, I thought, well, if he doesn't say anything, what are we going to learn from him? Have you ever heard somebody say that what you're doing is speaking so loud that I can't hear what you're saying? I think that's what we have here with Joseph. We get to learn from what he does in this situation, how he handled himself, and I think what he did in his silence speaks volumes. So let's see first of all here his personal concerns this morning. In verse 18 through 25, it says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when, as his mother, Mary was espoused to Joseph. Before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. You know, this was the love of his life They had they were engaged or betrothed. They were promised to one another, essentially looked at as husband and wife at this point, yet had not come together. He loved her with all of his being. He would wake up in the mornings and he was as those that have love in the air. They're counting down the days. They're looking for the hour when they will actually be married. They'll be joined together in holy matrimony and that love and excitement is there. Some of the younger of the crowd are still reminiscing about those days, looking back at that time and I mean, you could think about Joseph. All the preparations had been made, the place for where they were going to live, the provision for his family had been secured. A means of supporting them had been acquired and he had, okay, here's how we're going to support the family, and everything had been laid in place, and here was the love of his life. They were just waiting for the day that they would be married. He loved her with all of his heart. And she thought, and he thought that she loved him. But then he found out she was expecting. I mean, how would you respond? The love of your life some weeks before the wedding. Just want to let you know I'm with child. What Oh yeah, it was a miraculous thing. What? No, no, I mean it was a m I mean it was just uh I mean how do you tell Joseph about this situation? And she comes and she tries to to explain to him and and can you see him going through this and and s looking at the love of his life and dealing with this, saying, What how in the world? How could this happen? In his mind, I mean you can imagine him wrestling with should he make a public display of her. Should he shame her before everybody? Legally, he could have brought her before the people and charged her And she could have been stoned for this sin. Her explanation of this pregnancy was unbelievable. I mean what in the world? Oh, tell me another one. You believe that, and I got a bridge to tell you. You know, I mean uh just You can see him in his human in his humanity trying to deal and to grasp with this, even though he loved her. Yet I want you to understand that his love for her was so strong he wanted no harm to come to her Although he would have been justified in doing so, although he could have done so and everybody would have would have patted him on the back and said, Man, you did right, and I'm so sorry for what you're going through. Everybody would have been in his in his corner. He didn't even want to shame her. He didn't even want her to have to bear shame. So he thought, well, I'll just Put her away privately. We'll just do this where nobody knows, so she doesn't have to bear the shame of it. Do you see his compassion and his love? You see his mercy that's being extended to his wife to be. He could have demanded justice, but you hear no accusations come from his mouth. He could have demanded explanation. He could have demanded why would you do this to me? But you hear no pleas or cries for explanations. Good has said, I loved you with all of my being, and you've betrayed me. But he did not. I wonder, how do you react? You see, Joseph The angel hasn't come to him and told him yet. Right now, all he has is Mary's word. And I wonder how do we react when we perceive that we've been done wrong. It might not even be actually the case. Sometimes our perception Is that man, they did this to me, or they did this on purpose, or whatever it might be. I think we could learn from Joseph And hold our tongue. That might help help us. You know what's amazing? I studied this, I thought about this. You know, it would be 33 years later. When the baby that was in Mary's womb would have the greatest atrocity committed against him that's ever been committed against another human being And the Bible says that he answered not a word. He too held his tongue. We've got some pretty good examples of holding our tongue. Perceived or otherwise, when an injustice is done to you, how do you react? So we see the divine response in verse number 20. And on down he says, But well he thought on these things. He was in his heart musing on these and thinking about his love of his life and what to do and maybe we could we could make it so she's not shamed, so she's not hurt. And we want to make it as good as we can for her in this bad situation Behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife. For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. Hey, God came and said, hey, what Mary said is true. That which is in her was conceived of the Holy Ghost. She hasn't betrayed you. She is fulfilling obedience to God, her Father. She is doing what I've asked of her and and listen fear not to take her she she has been true to you she loves you And Joseph heard the words from God through the angel, and he believed them. He said, Okay Okay. Do you believe the words of God? When the words of God come unto you and they say, Fear not Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Be troubled for nothing. Fear not. Do you believe the words of God when they come and say, give and it shall be given unto you? How does that work? Do you believe the words of God? See, Joseph, all he had was the angel's word in this situation, but he believed it. We have here a Bible full of promises and principles of God given to us that sometimes they are unbelievable. The promise is so amazing. We look at it maybe with apprehension or with a measure of unbelief and think, how can that be? How does that work? But could I encourage you today to believe the words of God? As Joseph did. He had no proof. He had no sign, but he had faith. to believe God. He said, fear not. There's four fear nots given to us in this Christmas story. Ye have, first of all, fear not salvation that's coming. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings, which shall be all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour. Which is Christ the Lord. You have the don't fear the impossible, which we read about last week with Mary, when he said, Fear not. Mary, the Holy Ghost shall come upon thee. Don't forget for with God all things are possible. She says, how is this going to be that I've never known a man? And God says, fear not. With God all things are possible. Then there's fear not unanswered prayers. Zacharias, the Bible says, fear not, Zacharias, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. And then we have the fear not here for Joseph. Fear not, Joseph. You can take her as your as your wife. She hasn't betrayed you. She loves you. Friend, you can take God at his word. We should not fear our horizontal relationships. Do you understand it's because of our vertical relationship that we can have the faith necessary To trust God in every situation. To know that He's in control and to be able to make it through whatever it is We don't have to fear because of our vertical relationship. For with God nothing shall be impossible. It's illogical. It's impossible. It doesn't make sense. But with God nothing is impossible. The fact of the matter is, this wasn't about Joseph. It was about Jesus. He said in verse number 21, and she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. sins. Jesus means Jehovah is salvation. His very name means Is a description of what he came to do, to seek and to save that which was lost. For he shall save his people from their sins. This is what Jesus was to do, and this was about him, not about Joseph. And we so we see Joseph's prompt conformity. Verse number 24, he says, Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bid him, and took unto him his wife. And knew her not till she brought forth her firstborn son and called his name Jesus. Joseph was being asked to raise the Son of God. Can you imagine the responsibility? Can you imagine the the burden of that? I mean, God comes and says, hey, I want you to raise my son. He's going to be born into your family. You're going to raise him. And some people would say, man, what an amazing opportunity. What a joy. Well You think about the story here as we as we go down and think about what Joseph was put through. What he had to go through to raise Jesus. The son of God. Yet he did as the angels said, and he obediently did exactly what he was supposed to do. He took Mary as his wife. He did not know her in a biblical sense, did not know her until baby Jesus was born. I mean, you know many young people that have saved themselves as they should, kept themselves pure and clean until the marriage altar, until they come together. They look forward to that day. They've waited their entire life. They've kept themselves for this person And Joseph got married. But he had to wait a while longer. We're married now. But he still had to wait. And he did it out of obedience. He waited. And then the angel said, You're going to name of Jesus. Joseph may have had in his mind his whole life what he was going to name his son. Boy, I'm going to have a son one day, and I'm going to name him Matt Jr. You know I I'm gonna name him uh Caleb. I'm gonna what I I've got this dream and I've got a you know what? But that didn't matter because the angel had said, Hey you're gonna name him Jesus And he obeyed. He did exactly what he was instructed to do. How are you doing, Christian, on the obedience level? I'm doing exactly what we're supposed to do. We might have it okay here, and oh yeah, I'm doing this and I'm doing this, uh, but there's this few little things here. That I'm just kind of asking God to accept. Trying to, you know, not ready to to give up or give in or let go. But Joseph conformed in every aspect. He was obedient in everything that he was supposed to do. Think about it. He didn't have the nicest honeymoon. Not much of a honeymoon at all. Uh traveling all the way to Bethlehem Didn't didn't get to stay in a nice resort, didn't get to to put his head down on a nice pillow. Because he was married to Mary. And And she was carrying Jesus. You see, certain things had to be fulfilled. All this was done that it might be fulfilled. What God had said through the prophets. There was a lot of prophecy that needed to be fulfilled. There's certain things that had to take place. He had to be in a certain place. And all this was dumped on Joseph. Could you imagine him on the way to Bethlehem thinking, this is not what I signed up for? I mean, what what about this aspect? Okay, the baby's born. Finally, now we get to go home. Oh, Joseph, guess what? Because you are now caring for Jesus, the Son of God, there's the king, and he wants to kill him. So uh no, you don't get to go home. Your job, your career, your home that you got ready for your family, I don't know when you're gonna get to go back there. You're going to Egypt What? Egypt? I had plans. I was gonna, our house is all ready to go, and I've got a job, and I've got a career ready to go. Nope, you're gonna go to Egypt and I'll let you know when you can leave. Think about that. Yeah, I can see Joseph saying, I so w what did I get myself into? What in the world, boy, is this gonna be Twelve years of this or 18 years of this or I mean My goodness. But he conformed. I don't know. I mean he was human like all of us. I'm sure that there's times that he wrestled in his mind with what he had been asked to do, but he did it. He obeyed. He conformed to what it was asked of him. We're supposed to, Christian, trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. That's what we're supposed to be doing. We might not understand, it might not make sense, and and how it's supposed to all come out in the end, we we we just we don't see it. But we're supposed to trust and obey. Just trust and obey, and you will be happy in Jesus. He had a promise from God, even though he didn't know the plan. God protected them and at the same time fulfilled prophecy that had to be fulfilled. In chapter 2 and verse number 5. He says, And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. The prophet said they were going to be in Bethlehem. He had to go to Bethlehem And then he said in Matthew chapter 2 and verse number 15, he says, and was there until the death of Herod. Why did he go to Egypt until the death of Herod? It says here, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt I have called my son. You see, each of these things are inside of God's plan. He understood, he knew that Herod was going to be there, that Herod was going to kill them, that they were going to have to flee, and that they would flee to Egypt. But he had to be given some direction. God said, Hey, you need to go to Egypt. Why? Well, because this is what's going to happen. This is what I said would happen. What if Joseph would have said, No, I think I'm going to go somewhere else. But no, every aspect of the story was fulfilled as it had been said. Look in verse number 23. And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth. That it might be fulfilled, which is spoken by the prophets, he should be called the Nazarene. Again, they ended up in Nazareth. Why? So that it would be fulfilled the plan that God had laid out, the pattern that he was to follow. And Joseph willingly did it. We see his progressive commitment through the life of raising of Jesus. Being a father to him. Adopting him, loving him as his own, caring for him and training him, teaching him how to how to work, teaching him how to use the tools of his trade. Preparing him for life, teaching him many lessons. He continued to follow the Lord's will as he raised Jesus for God. What a responsibility. As we began, I said, can you think about the responsibility of raising the Son of God? Raising Jesus, God in the flesh, the Son of God. But let me throw this out. If you have children today, I want you to understand that you've been given a responsibility to raise the children of God. God has a very special place in his heart for children. He said, suffer not the children to come unto me. God loves children. And we've been given as parents the responsibility to raise them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, to train them, to prepare them, to love and to serve God all their days. to do with their life as God would want them to do. It's not too much different. God has gifted them to us. It's a heritage of the Lord, the children. And we have an amazing responsibility and a tremendous weight to train them up, not for us. Not for what we want to do, not to turn them into the doctor that we want them to be, or to turn them into the ball player that we think they can be, not to live our dreams through them. But to raise them up and point them to God. Say you want to do what God wants you to do. Whatever God's will is for your life, that's what you want to do. And as a parent, I will be thrilled, and your Heavenly Father will be pleased. It's our responsibility to raise these children as one of God's children You're going to do it successfully the same way Joseph did, with a continued commitment to do what God wants. A continued commitment to conform to his will and to be obedient and follow him. Don't let the cares of this world pull you away. Don't let the inevitable uh offenses that come because we are human and we're dealing with humans Distract you from your mission. Don't let the devil get in and get you bent up and turned sideways. You've got a responsibility to do that's of utmost importance. And you've got to be remain committed to accomplishing that. That we might be like Joseph was, all of his days following the will of God. God doing what God wanted. Let's close in prayer. But we thank you for today. We thank you for these lessons that we've been able to learn about Joseph and his life. Lord, I pray that each of us would Learn a level of obedience that is like Joseph. To conform in every aspect, to be exactly and do exactly as you instruct and teach us to do. Lord, I pray that when offenses come that we might be like Joseph and we might hold our tongue. That we might, when we feel we've been done unjustly, we would not answer like this world does and respond with vengeance. And respond with anger, but we might answer like Joseph did and like Jesus did, and hold our tongue and answer not a word. Lord, I pray that you would help us as your people to follow you all the days of our lives and bring honor and glory to your name through the testimony you allow us to have. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.