Um to begin here this morning we're gonna kind of a few weeks ago Somebody asked me uh about the joy of the Lord. Uh they kind of were just talking to me about that, the the joy of the Lord. And And provoked by that question, I ordered a book, uh which I'm about halfway through right now, uh, by Robert Murray McShay, which I've enjoyed reading some of his stuff recently, so I'm like, well, I'm gonna get his his book, the title of it's The Believers Joy. And uh I've been reading that. I began a Bible study, uh just going through the Word of God and studying uh the joy of the Lord and uh where it comes from and uh what what uh destroys it and just kind of studying out the joy of the Lord that that as Christians we're supposed to have. And uh so this morning I'm going to preach on joy that is real. Joy that is real, and I'm taking that word real and making an acronym for my outline this morning. So uh the points are resting in his plan, enjoying his provision, abiding in his presence and looking for his person. These are the things that define or look at when we talk about joy. that is real. There are so many songs that we sing even in the midst of a couple of the songs we sang this morning. there was reference to the joy that we have as Christians. Uh we sing the song, There's joy in serving Jesus. We sing there's joy, real joy, wonderful joy, uh J-O-Y, down in my heart There's so many songs that talk about joy unspeakable and full of glory, full of glory. Uh so many songs about joy, and uh you guys could probably even think of uh a few more, but just are the that message that's in a lot of the songs we sing because the joy of the Lord is something that can be and should be in the heart of the believer. Now when we're talking about this idea of joy, we need to be sure that we each understand that there is a difference between joy and happiness. People often uh think of the same think of them as the same thing. They consider them to be maybe uh you know very much very similar or that they are One and the same. It just depends on what words you want to use. But really, they're not the same. Happiness, beloved, is an emotional state that depends on what's happening That's what happiness is. You see, happiness is a feeling. So happiness is a what? Feeling. It's a feeling. It's an emotional state. It's something that is dependent upon what's happening around us. I mean, I'm happy when I win the baseball game And be Pastor Gus. Amen. I'm happy when somebody gives me a compliment. I'm happy when I get a check in the mail. But you know, I there's things that happen. I mean, even I'm happy when somebody tells me a good joke and and I get to laugh. Happiness is reflected oftentimes on your face It provokes a smile, maybe even outright laughter as you hear a good joke and it causes you to just uh begin to laugh. It's reflected on your face Happiness is there's nothing wrong with happiness. It is an emotion that's a God-given emotion. It is a feeling that's enjoyed, and we're pleased when we get the opportunity to feel happy. But what we need to realize is that happiness is also fleeting. Happiness is not just a feeling, but it's fleeting. What I'm saying is happiness comes and goes. Happiness changes based on the circumstances You know, we like getting a check in the mail, but this week I got a uh notice in the mail from our wonderful government of Maryland that told me I I had a $435 fine Now it's just a matter of some misfiled paperwork, but now I've got to go through the process of contacting them and making sure they get the correct paperwork and and get the fine removed so I don't have to pay it. I mean I was not happy when I saw that four hundred and thirty five dollar bill. I'm like, what is this? And then I read the rest of the letter. I'm like, okay. Uh I can at least I don't have to pay four hundred and thirty-five dollars. But I do have to go through the process of getting a hold of somebody of the government and figure out how to get this Fine taken off. I mean, you see circumstances change. And you know what? It can be something as simple as some rain when you were planning to be outside. All of a sudden that happiness is gone because the circumstances have changed. So you need to understand that happiness is fleeting, but joy is firm. Joy is something that is a state of mind. It is a firm something that comes from within. It is not conditional upon circumstances. Joy is found in Jesus Christ. It's something that rests in him. It's not a rush of emotion. It is not a feeling that overtakes you that comes and goes. Joy is a deep, settled gladness in your soul that comes. From knowing all is well with God. And if all is well with God, then things are all right here on earth And things are alright with my future in heaven. That is where the joy of the Lord comes from So we're going to take that acronym RILL and we're going to look at that and see the position that Christians should have in our heart regarding joy that is real. First of all, it's found in resting in his plan. You understand, beloved, that the Christian, the one who is saved and knows for sure that he's on his way to heaven, that he can rest in God's plan. Regardless of what happens in the world, regardless of circumstances, there's a great ebb and flow in the circumstances of life. There's days that are exciting and they're fun and we get to enjoy them, and there's days that are tremendous burdens and heartaches and struggles that we carry. But uh our our joy is be able to rest in God's plan that we can say no matter what's taking place here, no matter what is on the agenda for tomorrow, I know who holds tomorrow. And I know that it's going to be okay. Why? Because I know that God is in control and that He has a plan. Would you turn to Romans chapter number eight? We'll be there just a moment. I got a lot of scripture to share with you. I'm not sure how much we'll have time to turn to but I want you to know the beloved that the majority much of the world lives in fear of uncertainty It's fear of the unknown, fear of what's going to happen in the stock market, fear of what's going to happen in the global economy, fear of what's going to happen With these wars that are around the world, fear of the uncertainty of tomorrow. But beloved, the Bible tells us that God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of a sound mind God doesn't want us to dwell in fear. Why? Because we know who's in control. Because we know that he's on the throne. And it's going to be okay. We don't have to fear uncertainty. I don't have to fear the storm, beloved. I don't have to fear the sickness Because I know that God's in control. Romans chapter 8, that very familiar verse in verse number 28. Let's read it together. And we know that all things work together for good. to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. Beloved, we know that all things work together for good. There are circumstances that come into your life, and you may not be real happy about them, but you do know that God's in control. And you know that if something comes into your life, understanding that God has a plan you know that it is either for your good or his glory. And you can rest in that plan. You can say it's going to be alright. Because I know that I have an opportunity to glorify God as I go through this hardship, or I have an opportunity to grow spiritually and become a stronger Christian and be used greater in the kingdom of heaven because of what I'm going through today. Oh, it doesn't make me very happy, but it doesn't steal your joy. Joy is resting in God's plan. Boy, most of the world lives in fear of death. Turn to the book of Corinthians. You're in Romans. Turn over to Corinthians chapter number 15. Let me let me look at that because and verse number fifty-four. First Corinthians fifteen, fifty-four. He says, so when this corruptible, that is this body that's corruptible that's fading away, shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written Death is swallowed up in victory O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin And the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Beloved, we do not have to fear death. We don't sorrow as those that have no hope. We know where our home is. We know what lies after the grave. We're not in the position where we don't we just wonder and the uncertainty of an oh I don't know where I'm going to be, I don't know what's going to happen. No, because of the word of God is clear To the to as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. For whosoever c shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And you have the promise of God that you know your eternity is in heaven. And can I tell you this morning If you're here and you don't know that beyond a shadow of a doubt that your sins are forgiven, God wants you to know. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And you don't have to fear death this morning because God has promised you a home in heaven for those that have their sins forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. We don't have to fear death. You see, beloved, what we need to do when we're resting in God's plan is we need to learn to see things from God's perspective. It's been many, many years ago I heard a preacher describe as a young boy Crawling around on the floor, toddler. He described looking up at his grandmother as she did needlepoint. They said she was there doing this needlepoint and I was sitting down on the floor and looking up and He says he had been doing it a while and boy it sure looked like a mess. And and I'm sitting down there and and I looked at grandma, I said, Grandma, I I don't know what you're doing. I just want to let you know that it's a real mess. And after a few minutes grandma kicked me up and put her put me on on her lap And I got to see from her point of view that she was, by minute detail, crafting an image of immense beauty From my point of view, down below, I was looking up at the bottom and I didn't understand what she was doing. It looked like a big mess. It looked like everything was going everywhere, and it didn't make any sense But as I sat on her lap, I understood that she was crafting an image of great beauty. And what we need to understand, beloved, is that God is crafting an image of great beauty in your life And from our point of view, sometimes we look at it and we say, oh, it's a mess. Look at what I'm going through. Look at how this is going and how that is going. But beloved, if we find joy when we rest in his plan and know that God is doing something magnificent. The thing is, can you trust him today? Can you trust him to know that God is doing something magnificent? Boy We sing the song, the windows of heaven are open, the fire blessing is falling tonight. There's joy, joy, joy in my heart, since Jesus made everything right. There's joy. Because we rest in his plan. I gave him my old tattered garments. He gave me a robe of pure white. Now I'm feasting on manna from heaven, and that's why I'm happy tonight. The joy of the Lord, resting in God's plan, even though circumstances of life come and go, and we have good days and bad days, and there's things to be excited about and things to be disappointed about, but we can have joy because we're resting in His plan. Secondly, we know we are enjoying his provision. Boy, what what did he provide? There's so many things he provided. I had to just stop writing stuff down. It could be quite quite a list when you think about or consider things that God provided. Would you turn to the book of Acts? You're gonna go back a little bit in the Bible there, you're in Corinthians still. Uh Matthew, Mark, Luke, John Acts. That's what you want to get to. And Acts chapter number 13. What I want you to know is that God has provided forgiveness for you and I. God provided forgiveness. It was his plan to send his son to die. And God provided the means through which man could be forgiven of his sin. We see in Acts chapter 13, verse 38 and 39. He says, Be it known unto you, therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sin. And by him all that believe are justified from all things from which he could not be justified by the law of Moses He says, Hey, the law just puts you in bondage. The law. could not justify man. It could not forgive you of sin. All it did was point out the fact that you had transgressed the law, that there was a law that you transgressed. He says, but by this man that is Jesus Christ, you are given forgiveness of sins. And by him all that believe are justified from all things. Are you thankful this morning that you've been forgiven? The forgiveness of God You know, try as they might, no one could keep the whole of the law. Doesn't matter. I mean, as good as if you say as good as you want to be, they just couldn't there's no way to keep it all And you see, if I transgress in one point, I've transgressed in all. As if I if I break the law in in one point, I've broken the law. And that's where the law was a hard task, Master, because nobody could keep it. But Jesus came to me. When I could not go to where I where he was because of the sin that was in my heart, Jesus came to me and he offered me forgiveness that I could be restored in my relationship to him. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Jesus came and gave himself and God the Father sent his son so that you and I could have forgiveness. Beloved, I'd like to uh take just a moment and illustrate this. And we we we need some younger kids in here. Uh we get our our youngest kids are getting older. I'm glad of us all of us adults aren't getting older. Just the kids are getting older. Amen. Um Caleb, I want you to come here. And uh Lucas, would you come here? Um you guys are kind of big, but you can you can handle it. All right, Lucas, you're gonna be Jesus. Okay? I don't know is this good typecasting or what, but you're you're gonna be Jesus. Caleb, you're gonna be a wretched sinner. Okay? This is probably good typecasting. Uh I want you to stand on that pew right there. Now he is in on earth, he is a wretched sinner. The Bible tells us that the wages of sin is death. You guys know this, that there it a wage is what I earn and I've earned death, which the Bible says in the book of Revelation, death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. So the Bible speaks about well, you're going to die physically one day. Wherefore as by one man sin entered to the world, and so death by sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. So we're going to die physically one day, but the death that is talking about in the book of Revelation there is a separation from God forever and ever where we eternally spend eternity in hell paying for our sin. But our goal is to be forgiven and get over here to heaven But there's a great gulf fixed between. Right? God sent his son. Come here I've got something for you on the ground right here that you've got to pick up and carry. And what I want you to do is show everybody what you got there. God sent his son to die on a cross. Would you bring that cross and lay it down right here? The cross, long ways, functions as our means of forgiveness. We have no other way to get from where we're at as lost sinners. To a state of forgiveness where we can be justified just as if I had never sinned. God cannot, for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God, without God is perfect and God cannot allow imperfection or sin into heaven or in his presence. So the only way that all that sin can be taken care of is by the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and he came and died on a cross so that we could by the way of the cross Why don't you step down on that, Caleb, and cross over to heaven? We can by the way of the cross be forgiven and go to heaven. Are you thankful this morning that you've been forgiven? That the cross was Jesus came and died on the cross for us. Thank you guys. Can you put that cross back over here? This is what God did for us. He provided that for us. We have that. Isaiah 61, verse number 10 says, I will greatly rejoice. In the Lord. We're talking about joy this morning. I'll greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God. Why? Listen to what he says. For he hath clothed me with the garment of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness. I'm going to rejoice and have great joy. Why? Because God saved my soul. He forgave my sin and he took this wretched old man and he clothed him in a robe of righteousness. The righteousness of Jesus Christ that was imputed or given to me, even though I don't deserve it. Boy, God provided forgiveness. Not only that, he provided freedom. John 8:32 says, And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you. Free. You shall be free. You shall be free indeed, beloved. He has made you free. What? Free from the bondage of the law. Free from the bondage of sin. Free from the the uh Taskmaster or the bond of Satan. You've been freed for that. Boy, just last Friday night we went to the prison for the very first time. And we were uh, you know, locked in a room. I told uh brother John Dugan, I said, here here's the red panic button. If anything happens If something w if it's out of control, they say just hit that button and the everything's gonna lock down and a whole bunch of guards will come quick. And uh Brother John says, Oh, I saw it already. I w I know I was looking for it when we came in And uh so we were in there and uh we we sat down with the guys and we sang some songs and I said, listen gentlemen, we would like to pray for you. Is there something going on in your life that we could pray for you? Is there something that we could take before God? Maybe you've got a relative that is sick. Maybe you've got a a family member that needs prayer. Maybe there's something going on in your life that we could pull up before God for you. And one guy looks at me and he's like We in jail. He said, that's what we need. I said, yeah, I understand that. And he says, no. He says, here's the thing. They they they they both the guys looked and they said, well Listen, what we want to do is we want to get out of jail, but we want to be able to not come back to jail. We want to get out of jail and somehow avoid the uh pattern or the habit of men to come back to jail. He says, when we get out, boy, would you pray that we would do what was right so that we wouldn't come back to jail? And what they're saying is they wanted to be freed from the bondage of sin From being locked in to doing the things that put them there in the first place. And can I tell you that by the end of the night, on on Friday night When we shared with them the the freedom that's offered by putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, both of those men bowed their head and trusted Jesus and asked God to forgive them of their sin. And they got the first step in being freed from that bondage. Now they have the ability with the power of God to do right. No longer are they locked in the bondage of that sin. They're able to overcome. Boy, it is the liberating power of Christ that sets men free. The power to say no to the world, the flesh, and the devil is now inside you, and you can live free from those habits. And from the regret. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Boy, what a joy it was to share with those men. Can I tell you that honestly We had 15 men, well sorry, 14 men signed up to come to the meeting, and only two showed up. And at first I was pretty disappointed. I mean there was four of us there Four of us, you know, got dressed and drove down to the prison and prepared to hold a service with these men, and only two showed up. But I think God in his providential plan had two guys show up that needed to be saved and were ready, were looking for something. And had that room been full of other men, those two guys might not have been willing to bow their head and trust Christ. They might have been too worried about what they look like in front of their other the the the guys from the prison or whatever. And and you know what? One of those guys only has two more weeks in jail. He's going to be able to come to two more Bible studies and he's released. And I said I looked at Mark and I told him, I said, Mark, God put you in here tonight so you could get saved. You know what? He said, I have been trying to go to a Bible study for six months. He said, I've put my list to go to a Bible study for six months. This is the first time they've ever assigned me to a Bible study. I said, Mark, God put you here. I said you've got two more weeks to be completely grounded in the Word of God and ready to walk the Christian life. She said, You better be back next week. We're gonna go over it with you. Uh but I hey when you get out we'll help you too. Listen, to be free from that bondage of sin, not only has he provided forgiveness and freedom, but he's also provided his word for us. Jeremiah 15, 16 says, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of my heart. You see, beloved, we're talking about the joy of the Lord. Thy word was the joy and rejoicing of my heart. Can I ask some of you Christians that have been saved a long time? Has there been times when your heart was heavy with sorrow and you got into this book And started reading the promises of God, and God lifted that sorrow. Sorrow may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. The word of God should be something that is precious to you that you get into and you feed off of, and he says, Hey I found your words, and I did eat them, and they were as unto me joy and rejoicing of my heart. Oh, you remember When those two men were walking on the road to Emmaus, they were walking with Jesus, and they said, Did not our heart burn within us? Well he talked with us, by the way. Where the word of God should do something to feed your spirit, to feed your heart. This is what God provided. He provided his word so that we could be strengthened, so that we could be fed, so we could be nourished spiritually. Not only that, God says that he'll provide your necessities. Philippians 4. 19, but my God shall supply all your needs, all your need according to his riches and glory. Amen. Beloved, God's going to provide what you need. Now sometimes we have our needs and wants a little bit mixed up Sometimes we feel there's some things we need that God hasn't provided, but that's because we don't understand. Uh the Bible says with food and uh raiment learn therewith to be content. We we sometimes, especially in our consumer mindset In our materialistically driven society, we tend to feel like we need things that we don't really need. But God says He'll provide your necessities. And we could go on with the things that God provided. This book is full of the promises of God and things that God does for us. Man, if you would just muse upon what he's provided you, uh it would bring joy to your heart. We learn uh the joy that is real comes from abiding in his presence. Turn to John chapter 15. John chapter 15 In John 15, these are familiar verses as well. Somebody's been in church for a while, but I want you to know John chapter 15, verses 10 and 11. He says, if ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love. Even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love, these things have I spoken unto you That my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. You see, we're talking about the joy of the Lord, and he's saying, boy, I have learned in my life, and I have kept the commandments of my father. And in that I have great joy. In that I I I rest in the love of God and I enjoy the full love of God. And that to me It brings joy to my heart. And what I'm I'm telling you this, I'm sharing this with you to learn to abide in me. Why? Because if you will, if you're abiding in Christ, who is full of the love of God, you will know the love of God. You will experience the love of God. And he says, if you do that, my joy will remain in you, and your joy will be full. You see, beloved, that joy is not dependent upon the circumstances of life that come and go. That's a joy that rests in your heart and is present and is there for you in every situation. Good or bad. In 1 John 1, verses 3 and 4, he says, That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. That ye may also have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with His Son Jesus Christ. And these things we write unto you. That your joy may be full. He says, Boy, we've got great fellowship one with another, but truly our fellowships with the Father and the Son. And I'm writing this to you so that your joy would be full. What I'm saying, beloved, is you need to learn how to abide, to spend time with God, to find joy in that. Abiding in his presence. If you want your joy to be full, learn to abide in his presence. We sing that song I come to the garden alone While the dew is still on the roses, and the voice I hear Falling on my ear, the stone of God discloses And he walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me I am his own And the joy we share as we tarry there none other Has ever. That's what that song's talking about. The joy of tarrying, abiding in the presence. The songwriter said, Boy, there is no joy like that. Abiding in his presence. Being full of the joy of the Lord from learning how to tarry Lastly, this morning I want you to see this joy that is real is found in looking for his person. 1 Thessalonians 2. 19. 1 Thessalonians 2. 19 says, For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? Now, beloved, this is the soul winner's crown The crown of rejoicing. The apostle here talking about the idea of the joy that he's experienced as what? He says, are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming. He's saying the joy that we're going to feel when we get to heaven and those Mark and Austin in the prison on Friday night put their faith and trust in Christ and they change their eternal destiny from An eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven, forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. One day The four men that were there are going to be up in heaven, and Mark and Austin are going to come by and they're going to say, man, thank you. Forgiven your Friday night to come down to the prison and share the truth of the Word of God. Thank you for telling me about Jesus who gave his life for me. I was looking for something. I just didn't know what I was looking for. And when you showed me the truth, I saw the truth and it set me free. And what he's saying here is the joy that you'll have there is incompared. It's the crown of rejoicing. It's joy of being in his presence. But there is another crown that the Bible references in 2 Timothy 4. He says, For I am now ready to be offered at this time of my departure is at hand. The Apostle Paul saying, I fought a good fight, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. The crown of righteousness are those, he goes on, he says, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me in that day, and not to me only, but to all them also that love his appearing. This crown here, the crown of righteousness, is a crown that's given to those that look longingly for his presence, for his person, when he's going to come again. And we get to we we keep our eyes on that eastern sky and we keep in mind the fact that this world is not our home that we're just a passing through. That there's treasures laid up for me somewhere beyond the blue. And we're going to go and be in heaven someday. We're going to be in the very presence of Jesus Himself. I remember um the song John O'Rice was singing and uh he was singing the song and in the middle of it he said He's talking about going to heaven. I can't remember what the song was right now. Some of you might know because you've probably heard it, but he's he was singing and and he in in the middle of it he stopped singing and he says, Man When I die, he says, don't cry for me. Don't cry for me because I'm going to be in heaven I'm going to be with my Savior. I'm going to be with the Lord who I loved and I longed to see. And I'll be rewarded with it, being in His presence, being with His person, looking for that Beloved, there's joy for the believer who looks for the soon return of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Job says in 33, 26. He says, he shall pray unto God, and he will be favorable unto him, and he shall see his face with joy. Beloved, one day we're going to see his face with joy. We're going to see his face with joy. Boy, in Romans chapter 5, we're told that we have joy because we have hope of glory. In Romans 5, 1 through 3, he says, Therefore, being justified by faith That's how you're justified by putting your faith and trust in Christ. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. There's cause for joy right there. You have peace with God through Jesus Christ. Then he says, by whom also we have access by the Father unto his grace, wherein we stand and rejoice. In hope of the glory of God. You see, we have we can hope in the glory of God. For all have sinned and come short. What's the rest of that verse? For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But here he says, hey, we have hope of the glory of God. Why? Because by faith we've been justified. And we've been made at peace with God. And now we have hope of the glory of God, and that is God's perfection, of being in his presence, who is perfect. What an amazing thing. Oh, the song just over in the glory land. He says, what a joyful thought. That my Lord I'll see just over in the glory land. And the kindred saved forever be just over in the glory land. Beloved, real joy. It's something that rests deep in the soul because we understand that God has a plan. That whatever comes, God's going to provide. That He said He would never leave you nor forsake you. That through it all you have his presence, and that one day we're going to be able to be with his person. That's where the real joy rests. And I hope as believers you have the joy of the Lord. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?