So the device I use to uh uh speak from and I have got very accustomed to it. Uh I had to you can't take any devices into the prison. Uh it has to just be, you know, paper. Uh you can't no smartwatch, no phones, nothing like that. And so I went in and I've been using my phone for a watch for years and so I had no watch uh in the prison and uh just not used to that and then happening to use paper I I really missed having the device Um however because it's six years old, uh the battery is kinda on the glitch. It's on its way out, right? And it just will rant like it said 48% and then it'll jump to six percent left So if tonight's service ends quickly, you'll m you'll know you'll know what happened. Like, amen. We're gonna To wrap it up, praise the Lord. I think the Lord said we're done. But uh we'll see. Of course, we we mentioned this morning uh the idea that Just really talking about the joy of the Lord, right? And the joy that we have, and we know that that's supposed to be part of our lives and uh that uh really we we all those circumstances impact our happiness and that is understandable you you have a bad day you you have a hardship that comes into your life uh there are people present here that are enduring some very major uh hardships and trials and Uh there's things that come, you know, sorrow and loss and these things, they they inf they uh impact our happiness, and that's okay. But we get back to ultimately understanding the joy that we have comes from knowing that God's in control and where he is at and that ultimately we're going to be with him. And so we can still have that joy, even though circumstances are bad. But, you know, sometimes Christians wonder, well, I'm supposed to have this joy of the Lord, but I don't. Why is the Christian life so miserable, or why is it so hard for me? Why do I not have the joy of the Lord? And So I wanted to speak with you tonight for a few minutes on the idea of joy that's AWOL. Absent without leave Uh it's AWOL, right? It's gone. It's it's absent without leaving. You don't know what happened to it. Just somehow the joy that you're supposed to have is not present in your heart. Well, let me remind you that the Bible says in 1 Peter 5. 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. I want you to understand that it is Satan's plan to devour your joy. Satan would try and you bring things into your life that would devour the joy that you should have, that God wants you to have, that is part of the Christian experience, part of knowing the Lord as your Savior and the journey that He has us here on this earth to go through, but Satan's going to do all he can to devour that. So I want you to see several things, and this is by no means an exhaustive list. It's only the ones that I could think of that come up with an eye, and so uh no there are other there are others and there may be in your life something the Holy Spirit will bring to your heart and mind, but I wanted to share with you a few that through my study that kind of jumped out at me that I think are important. And these are tools Satan will use to devour your joy. First of all, I want you to know that Satan w uses isolation. To devour your joy. Satan uses isolation. Beloved, God has designed us to be a social people. God has designed us to interact with one another. When God created everything here on earth, you recall in the book of Genesis, God created it and he saw it and he said it was good. And he kind of walking down through creation, he said, boy, it's good. It's good. It's good. Right? But then there was one thing he said that was not good. Do you remember what that was? Right. Esau man and said, Yeah, he ain't gonna make it on his own. It's not good for man to be alone. He needs somebody with him. He needs a help meet. He needs somebody to spend his life with God. plans for man to uh most men there is I believe teaching in the New Testament. We see it's God by God's design for some people to spend their life uh in service to him and He gives them the ability to spend their life and to be alone. But for most people, it's God's plan for them to have a mate to share their life with. It's God's plan for man to have friends A man that hath friends must show himself friendly, and there is a friend that's taken closer than a brother. What I'm saying is that God designed us to be social, to have relationships to value, appreciate, and and invest in those relationships. Can I mention to you or maybe remind you that modern society today is challenging that? It is i there was a day when there was a sense of community in a neighborhood. You you you knew your neighbors. You needed some sugar, you could run over there and get a cup of sugar from your neighbor. You know, you you needed some milk or whatever, but now you just go to the grocery store and get it. They're open at all hours. I went to the grocery store last night at like eleven o'clock. Uh forgot something that I needed for this morning. I'm like, oh I gotta go to the grocery store. And uh We you know you can you can do that. My neighbor would not have liked me knocking on the door at eleven o'clock. Uh of course I could have uh you know uh but What I'm saying is that there was a time when we had that kind of sense of community and and friendship and you knew your neighbors, but today, in today's world, the fact of the matter is there's people that don't even know the name of their neighbor Yet they talk every day to some guy in California online. They're investing all these times in these relationships with people across the world that they are never even going to see or meet probably, never going to talk to, never going to in interact with. And they're isolating themselves and allowing social media to fill that gap. But I want to tell you it doesn't do it It's not how God designed us to be. And you know, in today's world, people want to just throw away their relationships Like, oh, I don't need to bother trying to solve this problem with them. I just won't talk to them anymore. I'm just gonna go and do this. I'm not gonna bother. Uh oh, I can talk to these friends online. I don't need my my neighbors. I don't need this individual. I don't need that person. And so we don't take time or we don't work at the relationships like we once did, and that isolation Satan is using to steal your joy. Loneliness is a real problem today. We saw the impact of loneliness in 2020 in the COVID crisis. The real direct devastating effect of the lockdowns and people unable to interact People unable to go and spend time with family or to be able to go see their mom and dad in a nursing home or to be able to make a hospital visit and sit with their relative in their hour of need And and that isolation, we saw it, the direct effect was what? Depression. Suicides. Because God designed us to be a social people, what I'm saying is Satan will use it. He'll put it in your heart and mind, like, oh, uh, just be alone. I just want to be alone. I don't I don't want to be around anybody. And sometimes you feel like that. I've told you before, like at the end of a service, now if I'm preaching on the love of God, that's okay. Especially if I preach something that's a little direct. Like at the end of the service, all I want to do is during the prayer, I want to go to my office and hide. I'm just gonna go to my office and hide. I just want to, you know, be be alone. That's just who I am, but we need to invest in relationships. We need to take the time, and Satan's going to say, oh, don't hang around after church. Just get in the car and leave right away. Because that's the easy thing to do. You know, on the way out, just say, oh hey, see you later. Bye. Yep, good talking to you. Okay, yep, it's raining. All right, bye. That's the easy thing to do. You know it's hard to stand there and talk to Pastor Gus It takes work. You know? I mean you gotta invest some energy and try and think about something besides chocolate chip cookies to talk to them about You know, you gotta try and broaden the conversation a little bit. I understand that, but that's what relationships are. And so you have to Push away Satan's desire to maybe isolate and say, no, I'm gonna invest in these relationships. I'm gonna take time to do that. Let me encourage you to be here at church And then participate. Fellowship with one another. Show up a couple minutes early. Amen? And stay a couple minutes after. I mean I praise the Lord we have people that hang out and I remember Brother Hunt Uh after you know he had been here for a little while he says, you know, I came from a church where after church, just fifteen minutes after church the place was empty. I mean, it's gone. And he's like, I wasn't used to the way around here people hang out for, you know, sometimes on Sunday night, we'll be here till 9. 30. You know, church is over at six. Okay. And sometimes we're hanging out here talking and fellowship, and that's how you build relationships, and that's how you ward off loneliness, and that's how you ward off The isolation that Satan wants to bring to steal your joy. Stay in church. Stay active. Serve together. That's what I enjoy doing. I enjoy serving together. You know, it's hard for me to just stand around and talk. Like just stand around. Mary does not have a problem with that. But for me, I have a problem with that. Not because she likes to stand around, but because she's a much better communicator than I am. Uh but me, you know, if we're gonna, you know, let's get a job, let's do something together, let's work together And I will work with you all day long and we can talk and fellowship and and and get to know one another that way. To me that's just easier to do it that way. Uh because we're doing something. We have something we're accomplishing together. So that's why my kids work so much. Uh that's the easiest way to spend time with them. Let's go work, all right? Amen. So somebody asked Mary and I just recently, they s they said, why do you have so many people over to your house? And we said, Oh well it's you know it's a good thing to do. And they're like, I know, but like you do it all the time. Like you have people over all the time. I don't know how you do that. Why do you do that? Well, it's because we are on purpose trying to invest in relationships. We are on purpose trying to establish times where the church family can be together. Where they can uh build that relationship and ward off that isolation. Satan's gonna try and encourage you to isolate. Sometimes you feel You know, it's a self-fulfilling prophecy. You feel lonely and you feel all alone and there's nobody that cares about me and Satan's putting all that stuff in your mind, and so you think, well, I'm just gonna be alone And so you feel alone and you feel isolated and it gets worse and worse and you just continue to isolate more and more and it just takes you down that road and it'll steal all your joy So isolation is a tool that Satan uses. Another tool that Satan uses is ingratitude. Ingratitude. Turn your Bibles to Philippians chapter 4, Philippians chapter 4. These are familiar verses, but I want you to know that thankfulness and joy is inexorably linked together. Thankfulness and joy are, they are connected. They go hand in hand. And when we exist in a spirit of ingratitude and without thankful hearts, We lose joy. He says in Philippians 4, verses 4 through 6, he says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. He goes right into, he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. Thankfulness tied right here with rejoicing, with joy. They go hand in hand. Ungratefulness will destroy your joy as fast as anything. You see, when a person reaches the place that they feel that they have earned or that they deserve Every good thing that comes into their life. They they deserve all of it. Or they they feel like uh anything unpleasant that comes into the life they do not deserve. That life has been unfair to them, that somebody has been unjust to them, somebody has been unkind to me. And and they uh rise up against that because things in life haven't gone well. Must I be carried on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize and sailed through bloody seas? You see, people reach the mindset of the place where every good thing in life that comes to them, they feel like they get a raise at work and they're like, well, I deserve that. I work hard. Instead of being thankful that God orchestrated or brought it about where you could get a raise and the joy that comes from that gratitude is gone. Because you're not thankful. Everything you have, you know, sometimes young people can get this way in their home. Everything that mom and dad does for them? Well that's their job. If they didn't want to do it, they shouldn't have had me. That's what their parents are for. They're supposed to feed me. They're supposed to put clothes on my back. Everything that they have been blessed with, and they have no gratitude. And they have no joy and they're unhappy and they're miserable because their parents are tyrants or their parents are whatever they want to call their parents. You see, they've completely lost sight of the fact that they could have been born. And I thought about going down some roads here, but you guys know there are many young people that are living in some horrific circumstances. They are enduring and dealing with some truly horrific things week in and week out. And boy, they would be singing the praises of God to live in the home that you're living in. They would be so thankful to have a mom or dad that one time in their life told them they loved them. That one time in their life showed compassion and care. But young people get so used to it they lose all their gratitude for what's been given to them. They think anything in life that is un that they don't like is unfair and they shouldn't have to live with it. They they've lost all their joy. They're miserable. Ungratefulness is rooted in discontentment. Philippians 4. 11 says, not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. You see, ungratefulness and discontentment goes hand in hand, and that is comes from an overinflated view of ourself. We few that feel that we deserve all these things. When there's people that would love to just have a job, any job. There's people that would love to be in this country. There's people that would love to be in the place or position that we're in, but we've gotten so used to it And we're so discontent where we're at that we want so much more that all of our joy is gone. Well you see, all of what should be heart of gratitude and thankfulness for how good God has been Counting your blessings and naming them one by one is gone Ungratefulness, discontentment comes from an inflated view of self and it comes from a deflated view of God and others. You see, only when we see what God is doing and we can find satisfaction in His provision, in what He's given us. We find contentment there and we realize this is what God has provided, this is what God has done, then joy will come. Then gratefulness comes. Alright, can I teach you a word tonight? Another tool Satan uses is infelicity In felicity. It's going to be on the screens, right? You can see you can see how to spell it. That is the condition of being unhappy. Infelicity, the condition of being unhappy. You know for some people it is just their condition. That is just It's just who they are. They just want to be unhappy. They just choose to look at the bottom side of everything. They just are negative by nature. They are a half empty kind of person. I mean that everything in life, there's always something wrong. There's always something bad. It is just the condition. It is a choice. You understand, we make a choice Whether to have joy or not. And Satan would love to bring it to the place because when we are unhappy, when we are discontent, when we are not grateful We're choosing to say God has not been as good to me as I want. We are choosing to say God is not meeting my needs. God has not met my expectations And therefore, I have a right to be unhappy. So it is the condition of being unhappy. You know, sometimes we let life circumstances temporarily impact our happiness and and that's understandable. We began with that. We know that Things come in and and hardship comes and sorrow comes or or heartache and heartbreak, those things impact our happiness. But it is a choice to let them steal your joy. Because you have to go a step beyond just Man, I'm unhappy about this situation to saying, you know what? God is not on the throne. God is not in control. God has not met my expectations. God is not sufficient. Therefore I have no joy. I'm going to let that steal. It is a choice, the condition of being unhappy. You know I've tried to communicate or I work hard to try and communicate to the church family the importance uh The idea Let me back up. We talked this morning about the joy of the Lord and and that was foundational to tonight's message because we need to understand that where that comes from so that we are careful not to make that choice to let Satan steal that. We n things come into our life and they impact our happiness because the happenings change, our circumstances in life change, but we it is a choice to let that let Satan use that to steal our joy. We need to have a proper understanding of the joy of the Lord and rest in that so that Satan doesn't steal it. You know, beloved, it's possible for you to have sorrow of heart and yet still have joy in your soul. The two can coexist. Do you understand back in June? They that they were both existing in the heart of this man. As I gave away my daughter. On one hand, there is sorrow of heart. Because my daughter is gone. She's leaving me, right? She's she's going, it's only a couple hours away, but and she's coming this week to visit, so that's exciting Uh but you know she's gone. And so on one hand there's sorrow of heart because she's getting married and and the dynamic of the family's gonna change and Now when we go on family vacations we gotta drag the son along along, you know and all of that. Uh I mean we need we get the joy of building that relationship And uh, you know, he he just texts me this week, but uh that I don't need to go down that rabbit trail. Um just stay on track here So what I'm saying is both of them existed, but then there's joy and happiness for her and and the joy of her getting married and doing it right and having a right relationship and letting God direct them in their lives and They're going to serve in a ministry. And so they both existed in the heart. Jesus, who is our greatest example, obviously had joy. This morning he says, Hey, uh I have the joy that I get from my Father, and I'm communicating this to you because I I want you to know my joy, and I want my joy to dwell in you that your joy may be full. And so we talked about that verse this morning, but Jesus had lots of joy, but I want you to know Jesus knew sorrow. Jesus wept when Lazarus was in the grave. At the loss of his dear friend and the situation and the heartache that those whom he loved That sorrow was present even though he had the joy of the Lord in his heart. He stood over the hill of Jerusalem there and wept for his people. The in in Luke chapter 19, verses forty-one to forty-four, he he wept for them, he cried out, and he just he he saw them as sheep without a shepherd, he saw them not understanding what God was doing in the time that was at hand and and he he he wept for them. So on one hand he has joy in his heart because of the love of the Father, but there's also sorrow present there What I'm saying is they can they can both exist. Don't feel like because you have sorrow that you have no joy It is a choice to let the joy of the Lord depart. You can still have the joy of the Lord even though you have sorrow presently. Sorrow endures for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. Why? Because we know that God is holding tomorrow. And that today has been rough. Today, heartache has come. Today or this week or what where you're at right now, whatever you're going through right now is I'm I'm right now in the middle of this Hard, brutal thing. But I know the Lord. And I know I'm going to be with him. And I know he's in control. I know he loves me. And so I still have joy, the joy of the Lord, even though I'm carrying sorrow presently. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 10, 2 Corinthians 6:10. You can turn there. While you're turning there, I'm going to read to you 1 Peter 4. 13. 1 Peter 4. 13 says, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. And when his glory shall be revealed, you may be glad also with exceeding joy. He says, hey, rejoice. Even though you're a partaker of the suffering, even though you're with him in this hardship, you have cause to rejoice In 2 Corinthians 6. 10 he says, as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing As sorrowful, yet always rejoicing. He says, I I'm I have sorrow of heart, yet I'm rejoicing. Because those two can coexist when we understand what true joy of the Lord is. Turn your Bibles to John chapter 16. John chapter 16. In John chapter 16, verse number 20 and 22, uh through twenty-two. But just look beginning in verse number twenty, John sixteen, he says, Verily, verily, I say unto you That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice, and ye shall be sorrowful. But your sorrow shall be turned into joy. And then he gives an example here of that heart That has both existing and what happens here, he gives the example. He says a woman, when she is in travail, has sorrow because her hours come. But as soon as she is delivered of child, she remembereth no more the anguish. I think pretty much Every mother going through it has said, I'm never doing this again. This is with this is it. I am done. But When you get that little one home and you hold them in your arms and you get to love them and you see the joy they bring, the anguish and the heartache is forgotten. He gives that example and he shows how that is. In verse number 22, he says And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice He's saying the sorrow you have right now, I want you to know that one day God is going to be able to turn that, to change that, into rejoicing. So we we sorrow yet we rejoice. It's a fact That we choose to dwell in misery or to turn it over to God and still have joy. The poet said, I have in my hand two boxes which God gave me to hold. He said, Put all your sorrow in the black box, and all your joys in the gold. I heeded his words, and in the two boxes, both my joys and sorrow I stored. But though the gold box became heavier each day The black was as light as before. With curiosity I opened the black, I wanted to find out why, and I saw in the base of the box a hole which my sorrows had fallen out by. I showed the whole to God and mused. I wonder where my sorrows could be. He smiled, a gentle smile, and he said, My child, they're here with me. I asked God why He gave me the box, why the gold and the black with the whole. My child, the gold is for you to count your blessings. The black. Is for you to let go. You see it's a choice You can choose to grab a hold of the sorrow. You can choose to grab a hold of the hard thing, the inconvenience, the mistreatment. the accusation, what whatever you can choose to grab a hold of that and allow yourself to be miserable. You can choose to dwell on that and let that become the focus point. And instead As a Christian, what we're supposed to do is we're supposed to learn how to turn that over to God and still rejoice. Because we have God to turn those sorrows over to. We have God to give that heartache to. So we hold on to the blessings and focus on those and turn the burdens over to Him. Now tonight you can help me solve a debate. Is it pronounced Ill responsibility or irresponsibility? You see, I was right. I I was discussing my outline with my wife and she started laughing and I said, What are you laughing at? She says, you always mess up that word. And and uh I said, what? She says, you you always say ill responsibility, it's irresponsibility I said it is not. She said it is too. Now you guys know that I would not argue with her about something like that. She's definitely much smarter on that than me. And uh even if you told me tonight that it was ill responsibility, I still would believe her that it's your responsibility. Okay. Um Because she's that's her forte. She's good at that. But I gotta give her a hard time about it. So uh our last point here tonight is uh maybe the hardest. Uh it's not our last. I guess we've got one more after this Um but I'll try and hurry. So irresponsibility. Understand, beloved, that the most miserable individual is one who is not doing what he knows he's supposed to be doing. That's a fact. We just walked through the book of Ruth in our Old Testament survey class here on Sunday mornings in Sunday school and Naomi's such a great example of this. You remember how she left where God had her? And she described and talked about how that she went out full and came back empty. How Naomi went to a place where she wasn't supposed to be and they existed there and ultimately she lost her husband and and lost her sons-in-laws and now she's, you know, ultimately we know she said Call me, don't call me any more Naomi, call me Mara, for I am bitter of soul. You see, when we go and do things we know we're not supposed to do When we aren't doing what we know we're supposed to get done, joy is gone. Think about the prophet sitting under the juniper tree holding his own little pity party. He said in 1 Kings 19, verse 4, he says, But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and requested for himself that he might die. And said, it is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father. He says, you know what? I'm done. Just Lord, just kill me. That's not where he was supposed to be. He was not doing what he was supposed to be doing, and he was miserable. When somebody functions in the realm of ear responsibility, not doing what they know they're supposed to do, they're going to be miserable. They're not happy. And then they start to blame it on the other people around them. Because they're the ones not fulfilling. You see, they know you you go to work and you know your boss isn't happy with you. Because you're not doing the job you know you're supposed to be doing. And so you don't have a good relationship with them, you don't communicate with them, you don't talk to him. And then you start to justify it. And then you start to get solidified in your position. And you start to look for other things. It's because ultimately boils down to we've started because you know and you weren't doing what you were supposed to be doing. There's people sometimes that uh They are active participating parts of the church. And then for one reason or another, they start missing And you see what happens. I mean, I think we ought to be in church, amen. We ought to be in church. But what happens is after a few weeks of them not being here, they start to feel guilty. Because they know they should be in church. And if they don't come back pretty quick Uh they start to get solidified in their position, they start to think, well, I can't go back now because whatever but what what's everybody gonna say? I can't tell you how many people have told me that over the years. I've gone to visit them and says, hey, we'd love to see you back, hope things are going well. He's like, well, I can't I mean I've been out so long now, I mean I can't go back. What's everybody gonna say? I said they're gonna say hi, great to see you. They're gonna be you know, uh you stop worrying about what people think. Let's let's worry about what God knows. Okay. And and ultimately they they know they're not doing what they should do and they feel guilty about it, and they're allowing that to keep them from doing what they should do. And so it's getting worse. And if they if they don't fix it, they're going to start to justify it. They're going to start to say, oh well, uh I don't have to be in church to worship God. I can worship God anywhere. You're right, you can. Hallelujah. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, you ought to worship God everywhere you go. And ought to culminate in worshiping God in His house. Just because you worship God on Monday doesn't mean you can miss being in God's house on Sunday. But ultimately, what it boils down to, beloved, is you know when you're not doing right And you know you're miserable. When you do what you know you're supposed to do, there is joy in that. You get it you get the job done. Yesterday we were uh on the way to the boat ride with the uh girls and one of the girls in the car was talking about how she's not very good at math. And she says, well, really, it's because last year when I had homework, um, either well I didn't do it I mean basically she just she just owned up to it. You know, she's like I I'm not good at math because I didn't do my homework. Well That's the result. That's what happens. When you don't do what you're supposed to do, it puts you in the position where you're not as good as it as you should have been and now you're miserable Now you don't like it. And so what how you fix that problem is you just start doing what you know you're supposed to do. I could give you lots of examples in my life of things that I didn't do that I was supposed to do, but this is not confession time, so we're going to move on. You know, I think about Nehemiah in chapter 12 and verse number 43, but the joy that the people had when they completed the wall. When they finished the job that God gave them to do. Let me read that verse to you in Nehemiah 12. 43. He says, And the day they offered great sacrifice and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. They had great joy. God gave them great joy. Why? Because they did what they were supposed to do. So Satan's going to use this tool in your life to try and devour your joy by getting you to be irresponsible. Just not doing what you're supposed to do. Let's go on to the last one. The last one really you could almost this one could be one point and we could put everything else underneath it. Because the last one is iniquity. Iniquity. Really, the others could be considered sin. Sin. Him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. When we're not doing what we know we're supposed to do, it's sin. So we could summarize the others in ingratitude and ungratefulness and these the these things All under iniquity, but turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter 51. This is familiar verses, but this story of David here in Psalms chapter 51 Okay. So you guys look down at verse number 12. We see David cry out here, and he says, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. And uphold me with thy free spirit. You see, the joy that David had was Awal. It was gone. And you guys know the story of his sin with Bathsheba and all the heartache and heartbreak that came following that. But his joy was gone. It's hard sometimes to get people to see the path of sin will not make you happy. But ultimately when David reaches the end of his rope, when he's gone as far down that road as he can go, he he just gets to the end and he cries out to God and he says, Would you restore unto me? me the joy of my salvation. The joy that I once had, the joy that I know I should have, the joy of the relationship with you, would you restore it unto me because I know it has been devoured by the iniquity that I committed. He understood it and he acknowledged and he admitted it and he cried out to God that his joy would be restored. You see, he stopped pretending that everything was okay. During that year where he was existing, he didn't have any joy, but can I tell you he still showed up at court? He still functioned in his role as a king He still met with his princes. He still gave commands to the army. He still was fulfilling his duties that he was supposed to do, but he was doing so without the joy of the Lord If I could put it into today's imagery, we would say, boy, he still showed up to church, but he didn't have any joy He was still going out on visitation, but he did so without joy. He was participating in the activity, but he didn't have any joy. He was working in vacation Bible school, but he didn't have any joy He served in the sound ministry, but he did so without joy. He sang in the choir, but he did so without joy. What I'm saying is he was still functioning and fulfilling the roles that he was supposed to, but he was miserable. And ultimately he got to the end of his rope and he said, Boy, I can't go on like this anymore. God, would you restore unto me the joy of my salvation? We see he wanted a lot more than just to be forgiven. Yes, he asks for forgiveness, and we know at the moment of our that we come to him, if we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We know at that moment we we we confess that he forgives us, but David was looking for more than just that. Look down at verse number 10. He says, create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. He wanted a clean heart. He wanted a right spirit. Beloved, if we are going to see revival, we have got to ask God for a right spirit Satan tries to disrupt and and get in and foul the spirit of the Christian. David said he wanted a clean heart. He wanted a right spirit. In verse number 11, he asked for God's presence. He said, Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. He said, Lord, I I am asking you to forgive me, but Lord, would you clean me? Would you wash me whiter than snow? Would you give me a heart that that that is everything's been taken care of? Would you Come and dwell with me. Love me back into your presence. Let me abide with you again. Would you allow me to joy the joy of my salvation? He wanted his joy back I don't know if you're here tonight and you're Joy's AWA. You might have to get to the place where you cry out. Say, Lord, restore unto me the joy. Bring back the joy. Satan, the devourer, has brought some things into my life that have Stolen, devoured the joy that I should have as a believer. And I'm asking you to restore it. What are you letting steal your joy tonight? Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed