And you should be in the book of Jude. You have the outline there, what we've been going through, and it's been a fun study for me, as I said, enjoyable. Just to see uh this come together. Uh my wife was proofing the outline that I gave you there uh tonight. Uh and she says, man, was it hard to come with all up with all these A's? And I said, actually the I's were harder. Several of the I's I I got recommendations from you guys on to be able to plug the eyes in there. But uh it really came together, I think, uh, overall, just giving a very good picture of what this book holds for us. Tonight, as I said, because I feel like we're at a point, uh, we're going to try and wrap it up. I could have easily turned these last few verses into two or three messages uh very easily. Obviously we've all heard entire messages preached just on verse twenty-two and uh you know some having compassion making a difference and that verse in itself holds a a powerful message for us all. But uh in light of the outline and the flow of the chapter, I also felt like this kind of encapsulates a thought uh as you're coming together here to the conclusion of this. Would you look at verse number 20 there? Let's read those concluding verses and then get into the message tonight. He says, But ye beloved Build up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost. Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And of some having compassion. Making a difference, and others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy To the only wise God, our Savior, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen. You know, what a an amazing uh uh conclusion to this book that we've had thus far. Uh this book uh has thus far been a warning. It has been a cautionary tale for us as he described for us the character, the conduct, and the condemnation of the apostates that had crept in unawares. These apostates that had crept into the church unawares had had begun to spread and began to grow, and because it was something that was undetected, Many people weren't even aware of it and thereby were being overtaken by it. And he said, Listen, there's something happening here that is is of detrimental impact to the cause of Christ, and we have got to beware of it. We've got to stand up and and and look at what's happening and he's describing for us the the apostasy and what's taking place and how God's going to judge it and and really it's it's kind of thus far been kind of discouraging I mean you look at the book overall and it's been it's been one thing after the next of really how bad things are. You know sometimes we get our eyes on how bad things are and Satan loves to use the tool of discouragement Satan really loves to use that tool of discouragement and and he he he says, look at what I've done and look at how bad things are, and we sometimes maybe get the idea that uh things are so bad that We can't change them. Things are so bad that you know what what could possibly fix this problem. And and even in the world today, the the the situations and and the scenarios that people face as they even come to Christ They're coming with so much of the weight of sin and the damage of sin on their lives. I praise God that He can give hope no matter the scenario, no matter the situation, no matter the person, that with God there's always hope. Satan would try and discourage you. He's thrilled when the Christian gets his eyes off of Christ and puts their eyes on him and see what he's doing instead of what Christ is doing. But God doesn't leave us discouraged here in this book. He doesn't just list off all of these things and how bad things are and the problems that are there, but He, the author, obviously through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, decides to give us some hope right here at the end. To kind of, I entitled it inspiration. To kind of give you some inspiration, to kind of show you that it's possible, even with as bad as things are, God's still on the throne. God's still in control, and with him all things are possible. He gives us here a powerful reminder, the wisdom that we need and the way that we should stand. And he reminds us that God Is able, and we can be victorious through him. Satan's won some battles, but he's lost the war. And between now and then it is the job of every believer to grab from the ranks of Satan every soul we can. With the power of God, we are to bring into the family of God, and yea, even bring them into the army of God, that they too are going out. And reaping souls from the army of Satan. That transformation takes place. And it's possible with God. So if we're going to do that, if we're going to succeed, if we're going to have that victorious spirit, we've got to have the right mindset. First of all, he kind of describes our mindset for us, what it's supposed to be, and he says here, the advancement, the mindset of advancing, the mindset of moving forward. He says, but ye beloved, build up yourselves in your most holy faith. Building up holy faith is a progress of moving forward, the spirit of advancing, continuing to grow. That foundation that was laid, Jesus Christ He laid that for us. We're supposed to be building on that. It's supposed to be the spirit of a Christian through all of our days is to continue to build. Strong's says that term building up there means to finish the structure For which the foundation had been laid, to give consistent increase in Christian knowledge and in a life conformed thereto. That's what we're supposed to be doing, that build-up. Consistent knowledge, continuing to move forward in your knowledge and understanding and growing in the Spirit of God. Doesn't matter how long we've been in church. Doesn't matter how long we've been reading the Bible. Doesn't matter how long for one, we're prone to forget. Amen. Sometimes we just forget But secondly, there are some things that we're supposed to be learning and adding to our faith and incorporating as part of what God would have us to be and to do. Every stage of life has different lessons for us to learn. Even one passage of scripture that you read as a young man or young lady like this has a completely different application for you when you're there and when you're where Matt and Lauren are. Where they have a family and they're raising children of their own and and the the application and and the implementation of that scripture in their life brings on new meaning. And then as life transitions and your your life changes and your responsibilities change, it it it changes again. And God can bring one passage of Scripture back to life for you and begin to teach you fresh and new great principles from His Word, even though you've read it a thousand times. We are called to be adding to our faith. We know that in 2 Peter 1, verses 5 through 7. It was never Christ's intention for the saved to sit until his return. He uses the word here which uh implies personal responsibility. He says, but ye beloved, build up what's that next word? Yourselves. Yourselves. There is that personal responsibility there that we that's something we do. It's not something that mystically happens just by osmosis in the background. But it's something that we give constant effort to, that we on purpose build up. Sometimes I've had some projects at the house And, you know, for instance, let's say the smoker I wanted to build. You know, I bought that the the box for that. Two and a half years before I ever started a smoker. I mean I was planning to do it, you know. It was it was sitting there, it was in the yard, it was something that I was gonna do, but for two and a half years it just sat there Nothing was done on it. We've all had projects like that, things that we're gonna get to, right? We're gonna do that. We're gonna build that. There's the the the project's been started. I bought some pieces. But that's where it sets But we can't afford to do that in our Christian life. We can't afford to take the foundation that was laid by Jesus Christ and just let it set We have got to continue to add to our faith, to continue on purpose, build up. Ask the Lord to help us to build up. Ask the Lord, how can we strengthen our faith? How can we grow in the Lord? What's the next step for us as believers? We're to be advancing, always advancing. And we do it through prayer, beloved. Through prayer. He says there, build up yourselves in your most holy faith, praying. in the Holy Ghost. Both aspects of Christian growth are given here, this studying and supplication. Spending time in the Word and spending time in worship, talking to the Lord. You know, the Bible is how He talks to us in prayer, is how we talk to Him. And that idea of here of praying. It is prayer that's to be led by the Holy Spirit. So not just praying, but praying in the Spirit, letting the Holy Spirit lead our prayers, letting the Holy Spirit direct us as to what we should be praying for and how we should be praying. And I think there's a couple things worth mentioning here. First of all, that if we're praying in the Spirit, it's not a memorized or wrote prayer. It's not something that uh any Christian that has a relationship with Jesus Christ does not want to talk to him by just stating memorized prayers. Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take These memorized and wrote prayers, and there are many of them out there. Even the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer, which was given to us as an example of how to pray. It was never meant to be the actual words that we just memorize and just say. It's to be prayer that we're communicating with our Heavenly Father, praying in the Holy Spirit. Secondly, it's of utmost importance that I mentioned that praying in the Holy Spirit is not unintelligible prayer. It's not prayer that other people can't understand. Prayer that's an unknown tongue. It's intelligible. It is, it has meaning. First Corinthians chapter 14, verses 14 and 15 says this. For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful. What is it then? I will pray with the Spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I think that's pretty clear He's saying if you're praying in an unknown tongue, it's not profiting you. So what are you going to do? He says, well, okay, I'm going to pray in the spirit. And I'm going to pray with understanding. So praying in the Spirit is going to be prayer with understanding, prayer that is intelligible. Praying in the Holy Spirit. is a result of walking in the Spirit. We see secondly the Spirit here, the idea of an assignment that He gives us. He says, keep yourselves in the love of God. Keep yourselves in the love of God. This is not keeping yourselves saved. We know, of course, that We're always say once once saved, you're always saved. You can't lose your salvation. Uh and I don't have time to teach on that tonight because we've got a long ways to go with all these verses. But you can't lose your salvation. So it's not a matter of keeping yourself in a place where God still loves you. I think the Bible is pretty clear that nothing can separate you from the love of God Amen. Amen. The Bible's clear on that. He gives that to us. He tells us that. It is in Romans chapter number 8. But it's an idea that you remind yourself of the love of God. And that he always loves you, for it's not his love that's in question. In Matthew 22, verses 37 and 38, he said, Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and the great commandment. I mean the idea of keeping yourselves in the love of God is showing how much you love Him. How much do you love him? Keeping yourself in re a constant reminder of the fact that he loves you. Uh have any of you kids ever been afraid that your parents were gonna just kill you? Like they just as soon as they found out You were dead. It was gonna be in. It was gonna be over. But then you reminded yourself of how much mom loves you and m mom would never let dad kill you, right? He may want to, but he's not what I'm saying is that idea of reminding you that how much God loves you is reminding you there's nothing you can do that'll change God's love. He will be disappointed, we know that. But his love is always there. Have you ever had to say to yourself, this too will pass? There's an idea, beloved, that you know whatever cloud is blocking the sun, whatever burden or struggle you're facing. Sometimes it's such so heavy that in your mind you you're just like, well, I know that it's gonna pass. I I right now it's too much, but I know at some point this will be gone That this this this this too will pass and it's gonna be okay. Right now it's covered the the sun's covered with a cloud and and and it looks bleak and dark and I don't see a lot of hope, but I know that I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that behind those clouds there's the sun. And and and it's gonna pass and the sun's gonna shine again. I know that I think the idea here of reminding yourself of the love of God is sometimes in life you look and you think, man, it's so hard, the struggle is so heavy, the burden is so great, the challenge is so strong I'm not sure. And he's saying, remind yourself, remember that God's love is sure. That his love is still there and it is with you and He He is there for you. It's a confident mindset that we have. A confident mindset because we know that God loves us. He tells us to be looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. We know Titus 2. 13, very similar, says, looking for that blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. No matter what, we have hope because we've enjoyed and been blessed with the mercy of God. And the mercy of God guarantees us eternal life. The God of this world blinds the eyes of men, but Christ allows the Christian to look with heavenly eyes. And we can see, we can have hope, even when things look dark. It is the mindset of advancing. He gives three action words in here. You know how I told you Jude loves a three-point outline. He gives three action words here. You may want to circle those in your Bible, but he tells you here that you're supposed to be building. That's edification. You're supposed to be praying, that's supplication. You're supposed to be looking, that's expectation. And that's the mindset a Christian is supposed to have. And we're going to be victorious, having that right mindset. Building, praying, and looking. To be victorious. You know, have you ever gotten into the car and it was so hot But you could endure because you knew the AC was coming. Now, recently, I have not had that pleasure because my AC is broken. But can you im you know you know what I'm saying? You get in a car and the sun's been beaten down on the car and you sit in there and the plastics are so hot, everything and you're just like sweltering, just like let's just get some air moving, but you're just enduring for a little bit because you know the AC's coming. Listen, beloved, whatever happens in this life, we know Jesus is coming. We know we're going to be taken out of here. We have the joy of the Lord and we have hope of heaven and whatever challenger is, we know he's coming. And and we can endure for a season. Because God's still on the throne and He is still coming. And we get to look forward to that. Then we see, secondly, here our mission. Our mission in verses 22 and 23, and what an important mission this is, you could plug the Great Commission right into this mission. He says, and of some having compassion making a difference. And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. I have written here a word that's a little less used, altruism. My wife laughs at my outlines. For those of you that that word does not connect, it's a principle or practice of unselfish concern. Devoting yourself to the welfare and the care of others. That's the word altruism. Devoting yourself to the welfare and the concern for others, of the principle, the practice of unselfish concern. He says here, some having compassion, making a difference. We are called, beloved, to make a difference in this world. And he clearly tells us the only way we'll make a difference. Is by having compassion. Now Bill is here on the front row. I'm gonna put you on the spot for a second, Bill, but uh you you remember our first phone call? I talked to you for about an hour and twenty minutes. Anyways in that phone call, over and over again, you thanked me, you said thank you for just taking time. Just talking to me. I didn't know him from from Adam. He just called up the number that's on the grief share website and said, Hey, I've lost my wife and I need some help. I was in the middle of men and boys camp out. I was out there with all the men and the boys I just turned it over to them and I walked around and and talked to Bill for a while. Because he was hurting. Compassion is the way we make a difference. It's the way we make a difference. And that's what God calls us to. To have concern. To have compassion. I wish I could have the kind of compassion my dad has for others certainly something to strive for. As I've watched his example over all these years. But it's compassion that makes a difference. Let me also say that you won't make a difference if you are not different yourself. You won't make a difference if you're not different. What why would somebody want what you have? If you're just as bitter and angry and upset as they are? If if life is so unfair and and and if you have dealing with all the stuff that they're dealing with and you have no hope Why would they want your hope? We have to have something different. And we do have something different, but sometimes we forget to tell our faith. Sometimes we forget to leave our burdens at the cross, amen. And live our life in light of the glorious hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That other peoples would see the difference in you and through compassion be drawn to Christ. Amen. We're to make a difference. People are dying and going to hell. And beloved, we talk about how bad the world is. But are we reaching them? We talk about how wicked it all is and how ungodly it is and how there there's it you know it's it's just evil day But do we care enough to pull them from the fire? Do we care enough to be a witness It's almost as many Christians are content to stand by the fire and complain about the smoke, but not do anything to get people out of it He tells you, he goes a step further in verse number 23 and tells us that we are to be aggressive in this pursuit of reaching people with the gospel. That's what he says here. It's pretty bold, really. He says that in this verse number 23, I think he uses the word grab, doesn't he? Or he says pulling. He says, and others say with fear Pulling them out of the fire. He's like pulling them out. He's like, there's an urgency. There's a a a burden here. There's something that has to be done. And you gotta go and you gotta like hey listen, you called them Hey, listen, you handed them a track. Hey, listen, you tried the the soft way and it didn't work. So he's saying, go grab them, go pull them, pull them out of the fire, because their soul is at stake It's something worth our effort. There's to be an aggressiveness about our reaching the lost. The idea of going after them any way that you can. Now, beloved, we of course don't compromise our convictions. We don't lay aside repentance It's not it does no good to give them a false profession of salvation. It's no good to say, hey, one, two, three, just pray this, and and you're good, and I have another check on my belt. It does nothing but make them think they're saved and one day they're going to wake up and at the judgment seat they're going to be standing there You're going to be reminded and they're going to be reminded. They're going to say, I thought that guy led me to I thought he showed me the way. Giving them false profession. No, they need to understand the truth that they're being saved from their sin. I mean, who doesn't want to go to heaven? Hey, you want to go to heaven? Pray this prayer and you can go. Why not? No, they need to understand there's a penalty for sin and they're being saved from that penalty of sin and that Jesus Christ paid it. It's not quite as popular today. We still have to hate sin, beloved. He says here, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. That flesh there is not talking about our physical flesh, but it's talking about that flesh that we despise. That that Unregenerate flesh, the flesh of man that is always at war with the Holy Spirit, that flesh that would do evil. That sin nature is part of men. He's just hate hating even the garment that's spotted by it. You remember Lot's family was rescued from Sodom by an angel? Do you remember that angel had to grab him? Said, okay, it's time to go. Let's go. And pulled them. Sometimes you might have to pull them to church. Now let me just encourage you to be led by the Spirit when you're when you are being aggressive with people. Being aggressive when somebody's not ready can have the opposite and can drive them away. And we've had conversations about this, being careful how how what we do and how we do it. But there does need to be some importance and some urgency about getting them to Christ, about giving them the gospel before it's eternally too late, pulling them from the flames. And then he concludes here with some thoughts concerning our master in verses 24 and 25. He gives us first his ability, now unto him that is able. Praise God, we serve an able God. An able God. He is able to deliver you. Ephesians 3, 20 and 21 says, now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. According to the power that worketh in us. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus through all ages. The world without end. God is able He says here he's able to keep you from falling. Beloved, your path might be difficult, but God can keep you from falling. What an encouragement. When the majority of this book has been pointing out how bad things are. How the apostate nature has crept in and it's unawares and and the warning and and and God's gonna judge it But then he says, hey, don't worry. God's able to keep you from falling. God's able to keep you from going that way. You have hope as long as you're staying with God. Even though the way is rough, he can make the way smooth. He is able, beloved, to present you faultless. To bring it all the way to the end, and not because of what we've done, but because of what he's done, to present us, faultless before him. We know of course I will never be faultless on my own. But because he's going before me, because his righteousness was placed on me. I can be presented faultless before the Father, unblamable, purified from sin because of Christ. And that, beloved, gives us motivation for adoration. Verse number 25. The adoration. He is the only wise God and our Savior. He is our Savior, and one day will present us faultless before the King, before the Father I hope each and every one of you here know Jesus as your Lord and Savior tonight, that you can c you claim that without question and without doubt. Not that you know about God, but that it has been a day or an hour where you put your faith and trust in God to forgive you of your sins. And his blood washed your sins away. If that's the case, then you have cause to adore him tonight, to give adoration to him. Because of what he's done for you. He is the only, the only Savior. There is no other Savior. No other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. He is the only Savior. Then he goes on. He says, all glory, majesty, dominion, and power are his. That glory means dignity and honor. Majesty means greatness. All dignity and honor, all greatness. Dominion means might and strength or power. And power has the meaning of authority and jurisdiction. All authority, all majesty, all strength, all power are his now and forever. Amen. You know, Jude brought this letter, all these verses, to conclusion with the word amen. That word amen means so be it. So be it. Despite all the efforts of the apostate in this world, beloved, God will reign. God will reign, and He'll reign with power and majesty, for He is God. Amen? Amen.