You can turn your Bibles now at this time to the Book of Jude. We have been studying and looking at the book of Jude, just kind of going verse by verse through this text and Hopefully you've been gleaning some insight for your personal life with regards to the main message of the book is contending for the faith. Contending for the faith. We get down here in verses 8 through 10, which we'll cover this evening, and I've entitled this The Instructions. uh some instruction that he gives us here regarding this contending for the faith. Look down in Jude and begin re begin as I read from verse eight through verse number ten. He says, like I like Also, sorry, like, why let me put my glasses on. Likewise, also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. Yet Michael, an archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses. Durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. But these speak evil of those things which they know not, but what they know naturally as brute beast In those things, they corrupt themselves. It's very important, beloved, where we get our instruction from. It is vitally important where we begin to learn of the scriptures, where it is we're being taught, and where your theology is coming from. There is an abundance of sources out there today, places that you can go and get your theology. And the plethora of options that are available is numerous. It's endless. But they don't all line up with the book. That is the heartbeat of this passage of scripture is that there's a lot of teaching that doesn't line up with the Bible. And if we can, and we understand that it's possible, we can be trained falsely, we can be taught something that is not in the book. And how much easier is it going to be to learn the truth instead of have to unlearn falsehood? And then learn the truth. So it's vitally important where it is we're getting our instruction from. I ask you, where are you getting your theology from today? Is it from the average radio broadcaster? I mean the the the televangelist, the uh you know radio preacher, you just listen to whoever's on there and whatever's coming across the airwaves and well he's on the radio, he must be must be good Of course, the internet, the discount books from the bookstore. This is one of the reasons why we have a bookstore. Really, it's the primary reason. I know you thought the primary reason was for soda pop and candy, but the primary reason for the bookstore is so that we have solid books. Books that are from people that are writing things concerning the Word of God and construction for your family and discipleship and all of these aspects of the Christian life that are written from a biblical standpoint. And you can trust the sources that are there. Because there's a lot of sources out there that you can't trust. And so it's vitally important. We see here in our text and aid a group of people that had adopted what's called dreamers theology. Dreamers theology. He says there. Likewise also these filthy dreamers. I wonder how many of us are guilty of dreamers theology. We're going to get into this and dissect it a little bit and maybe get a greater understanding of it, but Where do we get what we know about God? God's law? What do we believe about that? Is that determined through Our eyes and how we view life? Or is it determined through the Word of God? The truth of the Word of God A lot of people establish their truth based off what they think or what they feel, and that becomes truth for them. Instead of what the Word of God says. An example of this would be a very common theology, and that is, a loving God would never send anyone to hell. Isn't that a very prevalent theology today? It's put out there, and people like that idea of God that God is so loving that he would never send anyone to hell, and so that theology is propagated and people adopt it and they think about it and they say, this is what I know about God. I know that He's a loving God and that He would never send anybody to hell. But that doesn't line up with what the book teaches. And the truth of the matter is, God doesn't send them to hell. They choose to go by rejecting God's provision to escape hell. God and his love provided a means in a way that they could escape hell, but they decide not to accept it, and so they choose to go there themselves. But I'm saying that philosophy, that idea that's prevalent in society today, is dreamer's theology. It's just what they like to think about God, and so that's why they adapted it. Another one is that man is inherently good. There's just a few bad apples out there. You know, as a general idea, men are pretty good people And there are some good, even moral and upright people in the world. But you have to go back to what the Word of God teaches us about the heart of man and the sinful nature that we all come from. And but for the grace of God and some disciplined upbringing and parents that instructed correctly. The depravity of man is real. And the sinful nature is there. And any one of us are able to commit the most vilest of sins. And so we must understand that and get our theology from the book, not from what we feel. These men here are described as ungodly men. As we stated numerous times over and over in this passage of scripture, these men are described as ungodly. And let me remind you that just because you carry a Bible or you walk through the doors of a church, it doesn't make you godly. There is a way in which you live that is godly living, or there is a way in which you live that is ungodly. We see here, first of all, in verse number 8, the account of their dreams, these dreamers. Likewise also these filthy dreamers. Defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. There's the description here of those that would be Apostate, those that would be false teachers. There's three very clear distinctions here that first of all there's a defiling that takes place The defiling of holy things, the idea that word filthy is given there. We know what that means. It's defiling, filthy. I mean, some of you ladies you see the kids coming into the house with their shoes and they've been out in the mud And and and you you're trying to catch them and stop them and say, hey, get them shoes off, they're filthy. You're not tracking that through my house Well, these dreamers, they defile themselves with the filthiness of this world. They're living in a dream. Where they have established and made up their own rules. The Bible here describes them as having defiled the flesh. That is giving indulgence to the corrupt passions of their hearts. We know 1 Peter 2, verse number 11 says, for us to abstain. From fleshly lust. We're not to give in to the passions of our heart. We're not to defile ourselves with the wicked desires of the heart of man. You mark it down. This is a telltale sign of any apostate teacher. There is a defiling of the flesh It might not be readily known. It might not be prevalent right now like you might not know it right today, but it usually comes out at some point. You guys all know, it's been many years ago now, but the group led by David Koresh, that cult leader. uh the branch the Vidians, I think they were called. But uh David Koresh, as soon as he began to be the leader of that group, He very quickly adopted polygamy and taught that it was not only his right but their privilege to give themselves to him. He took to his wife, or to hit as as his wife, as young as twelve years old. There's a defiling of the flesh. There's a wickedness that comes when somebody's an apostate, when somebody is teaching false doctrine. Because they're not being led by the Holy Spirit. They're not being guided by all truth. And so that defiling comes. And you may see somebody out there and you might not know it yet, but you can mark it down as part of the Description and characteristics given to us by God of someone that goes this path is that there is a defiling of the flesh. We see also that there is a despising of dominion. They do not like authority. Now this dominion here is speaking of the rule of God Very clearly in the original languages, which I'm not a Greek scholar, so I'm not gonna try and get into that, but it's it's talking about the the ruling of the Almighty The ruling, the authority over them. But beloved, when God's authority is rejected, man becomes an authority unto himself. Because we know that all the authorities that there are are ordained of God. And you can mark this down as well as a characteristic of a cult leader, of an apostate. They don't like authority. You hear these groups, these fringe groups out there talking about the government and how they don't want to follow the government and how the they they're gonna stand up against the government and they don't want anybody telling them what they can and can't do and Listen, there's things that the government does that I don't care for. But there are legal means by which we can go through legal processes of election. and uh changing the laws where we could get those put into a place where the government would line up with the word of God But we don't get the privilege. Hey, he says, render under Caesar the things that are Caesar's. You don't get the privilege just to say, well, I don't think that it's constitutional, and so I'm not paying my taxes. Well that's fine. You can go to jail too. Okay? I mean that's what's going to happen. And you'll hear groups Define the authorities that be, the powers that be. The fact of the matter is they're living a dream world. You know, in my dreams I can fly In my dreams, I am filthy rich. I have been having a dream for almost my whole life where I randomly find a million dollars. I have found a million dollars in so many places. Like in the construction jobs, we open this wall and there's a million dollars. And I driving down the highway, I see a cooler. And I'm like, oh, I'm gonna stop. I pull over and there's a cooler there. And I open it and there's a million dollars. Now you know it's drug money. And the rest of my dream is how am I avoiding these drug lords who are trying to catch me and kill me, right? But then I wake up and what happens to my dream? Yeah, all of that's gone. Reality hits. Reality it hits you in the face like, man, I don't have all that money. I can't pay these bills. What am I going to do? It's reality. And this dreamer's theology, although at times sounds good and it's pleasant to the ears and good to listen to, it's not reality. They're gonna wake up. You know these people They can't be instructed, they can't be told because they don't like authority. Doesn't matter what anyone says, doesn't matter what the Bible says, the preacher says, their parents say. They they're they're they know better. You know, Proverbs 26, 16 says, the sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason. They know better. Seven wise people could come to them and tell them this is not going to work, but they know better. And they're gonna go do it. They don't like any authority. You know modern society has elevated rebellion to the point of a virtue We've undervalued obedience. I mean what happened to just old-fashioned, respectful obedience? Just just obedience. But man, we we have elevated it today. We have praised those that question everything. We know God puts a premium on obedience And if we are going to be obedient to God, then we are also going to be obedient to those authorities He's put into our life. Whatever those are, government, local ordinances, parents, teachers, whatever those authorities are. We're going to obey them. And a telltale sign of an apostate is one that will not. You know, in the end, we know all rebellion is going to be put away. Because in the end, the Bible says that every knee will bow. And every tongue is going to confess that Jesus is Lord. Maybe they'll be able to continue to dream until then, but the day's going to come when they're going to wake up and reality is going to hit. We see there's also a degrading here, he says Likewise also these filthy dreamers, they defile the flesh, they despise dominion and speak evil of dignities. You hear them speaking about the authorities. Kids, you hear somebody talking about their parents bad, that's a telltale sign. You should not be hanging around that person. They have got the wrong kind of heart, and that is not what you want to be feeding into your spirit. There is a lack of reverence. There's a degrading, a tearing down. The dreamer is not content to just ignore authority. He has to attack authority. He has to speak evil of it. This is a mark on an ungodly man. The characteristic of an apostate who despises authority and wants to talk bad about them, wants to continue, find a way to knock them down, to bring them down. We see this in all these groups that are out there. The French groups. It's prevalent. This word dignities here Comes from a word that means worthy, means praise, praiseworthy. A person in authority, a person that should be Respected, should be looked up to, and yet they're torn down. They speak evil of these things These are the marks of an apostate. They're dreamers. And through their dreams they defile themselves Then we see in verse number nine the an argument with the devil. Very interesting verse, this argument with the devil. He says, yet Michael, the archangel When contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. You know, it's not very often, beloved, that we get to see behind the curtain That we get to see what's happening on the other side. I mean we get a small picture uh uh window uh into that scene uh with the life of Job. Where we hear about Satan coming and saying, you know, can't can I attack them? Does God does Job so serve thee for naught? I mean look at how you blessed him. And we see that battle raging a little bit. And again we get a small glimpse into the spiritual warfare that takes place. You understand the spiritual warfare that takes place, the principalities and powers that we wrestle against It's not just in our heart. It's not just between us. It's not just in our life. There is a spiritual warfare, a spiritual battle taking place, even in the heavens. Where those that would defy and stand against God challenge even the angels of God and God Himself. There is a dispute that we get a picture of here. This argument over the body of Moses. It's commonly understood that Satan would have Moses' body buried into a place that everybody would know where it was. That's what he wanted. But God, in his infinite wisdom, decided to take Moses' body out and have it buried where nobody could know where it was. Because you know that if Moses' body would have been buried where we knew where it was, that even to this day, I'll bet you there would be a shrine of some kind established and set up. where, you know, at least the Jewish nations, but probably all Christian people, would travel to to try and see. Because we we like that kind of stuff. Now I'll tell you what, I really enjoyed going to Israel. I I enjoyed seeing the places that Jesus walked. I I just it's just Amazing thinking about standing there on the Sea of Galilee and and the fact that Christ was there and these amazing things, you know. But I remember when we went down to the Jordan River and we're looking at the Jordan River and and uh our guide there in in Israel, he he's given us the tour and telling us about all this stuff. You know, he asked us, do you want to get baptized in the Jordan River? And we said No, not really. That's kind of yucky water. I'm not naming, you know. No, I don't want to get down in this in this river And anyways, we none of us got in the water. And and he said, I'm just kind of shocked. Like normally it's a much more emotional experience for people when they see the Jordan River. And it is the idea of these spots, these locations that somehow we venerate them and make them to mean something spiritual. I mean it's neat to see from the aspect of that Christ walked these streets. But I don't believe what I believe about Christ because I saw the streets he walked on. I believe it because his book tells me. And God knew the heart of man and the way man would lift up and would ultimately probably begin worshiping the dead body of Moses. I was reading there in Deuteronomy for studying this and the story of Moses' death, you know, and his very own. I was a little disappointed because it said that Moses' eyes did not wax dim And I'm like, well Lord, I'm only forty-seven and my my eyes are already waxing dim. Like forty that's I mean a hundred and twenty years and he didn't need glasses. I was like, Lord, I don't know if that's fair. That's a sideline. Nothing spiritual about that. But you know how we want to praise and worship. get a hold of something tangible. And God knew that that would be the case. And so we see this argument here, this struggle between the archangel Over Moses' body. Over this, we learn a couple of things. Michael, this archangel, don't you see that he had proper fear. This is not a fear of Satan, because we know, beloved, that the victory is the Lord's. We know that Satan can't do anything except God allows him to. But what Michael the archangel had fear of was fear of assuming the place that belonged to God Taking God's place, of pronouncing judgment on this demon, pronouncing judgment When it wasn't his place to do it. And you will hear many false prophets pronounce judgment You will hear them stand up and declare, I pronounce judgment on you today. I pronounce I I declare unto you today. You'll hear If you hear a preacher, a teacher, or somebody using language like that, should put up some radars for you. He had a proper fear, didn't want to assume the place of God. This is a far cry from Kenneth Copeland And other prophetical preachers who stand in the place of God. They speak as it were In The Place of God for Man in March of 2020, Copeland stood on his television program And declared to the world that he healed COVID in March of 2020. That he could heal COVID, that if they would just touch their TV, they could be healed. Just come and touch the TV right now and you can be healed. You can be healed of this. And he went on to pronounce judgment, to declare that COVID-COVID was done. And of course he he blew the power of the Holy Spirit through the airwaves and COVID ended in March of 2020. I don't know why people listen to these kind of folks. I don't know how in the world. You know that Kenneth Copeland is one of the wealthiest televangelists I mean he he has more wealth than four or five other major televanders put together. How is it that people listen to this stuff? I mean how many times do you have to be wrong before people realize you're a false teacher? He said, and I quote, I stand in this place as the prophet of God, and I demand that COVID end. But it didn't happen. You see, the archangel of God He said, there's some things that are in my purview, and there's some things that belong to God. And I can't step over into that. I'm not going to do that. He said, I durst not bring against him railing accusations. I'm sure that if the archangel had flesh, Like we do, that he was battling, this old flesh. You know, there's some things that we want to we want to give people a piece of our mind, right? We want to tell people we just want to say what we want to say. We want to give them some railing accusations. But he said, I durst not do that. And he said, the Lord rebuke thee. He didn't say, I rebuke thee. You're as wrong as the day is long, and I say you're no. He said the Lord will rebuke thee. He had a proper fear, and that was not a fear of Satan, but a fear of assuming the place that God should be in. He had a proper faith And that his faith was in the Lord God to rebuke Satan, not faith in his own power or faith in himself, but faith in God to take care of it. He exercised here some great restraint He let God have his place. Now I'm going to tax your memory a little bit, but a few weeks ago I had the uh I taught at adult Sunday school and I taught on vigence And ultimately, I said the the exercising of vengeance, when we take it upon ourselves, we are assuming, do you remember, God's place. We are taking God's place because God is the one that sits on the throne. God is the one that acts in judgment, and he is the one that distributes and gives out vengeance. And when we take that, we are assuming God's place. We're not letting God be in his place. We've got to exercise some restraint. How much better would our relationships be if we exercised restraint with this right here? The archangel said, oh boy, I had some things I wanted to tell him. I was ready to let him have it But then the Holy Spirit spoke to me now. I'm taking some great liberties with the scripture here. I stepped away from the bulb, right? I'm applying it to us. I'm saying you're the Holy Spirit comes in and says, Hey, maybe you shouldn't say that to your wife. Maybe that's not the best way to have a harmonious relationship. And you were ready to let her have it, but you exercised some restraint. I can tell you I have been there both ways. I have been there where I didn't exercise restraint and I said some things. And man did I feel like an idiot and a heel and I I was so wrong and I had to come back and say, hon, I'm sorry. I I did I said that and I should have never said it And there's other times that through the power of God and his grace I exercised restraint and afterwards I was like, Man, I'm so glad I didn't say that. Thank you, Lord. It wasn't it was wouldn't have been worth it. I mean as soon as you say it you know it's not worth it. As soon as you say it, you're like, I got it out, but now what do I got to deal with, right? Now we're gonna go down the road. Uh what did my son Timothy say the other day? About Mary mom mom and I. He said, my my mom and dad and I wasn't there st I heard this second hand. He says, My mom and dad don't have arguments. They have what what did you say? No, it's something about stress. Stress, stress re I'll have to ask Mary because she heard it, but I thought, oh that's funny. Yeah, that's pretty good. Uh they have stressful discussions or something like that, he said. I know you don't have those in your home, so I'm glad that I can be a good example for you Exercise some restraint and you'll be pleased. We learned this from Michael. Then I want you to see the acceptance of their destruction. The acceptance of their destruction. Verse number ten. He says, but these speaking evil of those things which they know not Okay? But these, he's talking about these, the apostate, these people that are dreamers, these people that are living in a false theology, they speak evil of things that they don't even understand. But what they know naturally, as brute beast, in those things, they corrupt themselves. There's a contrast presented here between the knowledge that is gained by understanding or the knowledge gained by learning. and that knowledge that was granted to them by God. The first is a knowing, that is a knowledge gained by understanding. That first know in there refers to knowledge gained by learning. Things that they know, and it's described here as things that they don't know. They speak of things that they haven't learned. They haven't taken time to study. They haven't taken time to fully understand. And yet they're speaking bad about them. They're speaking evil of those things. Things that they don't even understand. Things that they're ignorant of. Tell an evangelist, Benny Hinn Said this. And I quote: Adam was a superbeing when God created him. I don't know whether people know this or not. But he was the first Superman that really ever lived. First of all, the scriptures declare clearly that he had dominion over the fowls of the air and the fish of the sea, which means that he used to fly. Well of course. How can you have dominion over birds and not be able to do what they do? I'll prove it to you, he went on. The word dominion in the Hebrew clearly declares that if you have dominion over a subject, that you do everything the subject does. In other words, that subject, if it does something you cannot do, you do not have dominion over it. I'll prove it further So far he hasn't proved anything, but he's going on. He says, I'll prove it 30. Further. He says Adam not only flew, he flew to space. With one thought he would be on the moon. For the Bible declares that he had power over the sun and the moon and the stars. Adam had dominion over the universe. He had dominion over the fish. He could swim and never run out of breath. As so did his wife. They were both superbeans. Okay. That is a direct quote out of one of his messages. Yeah. Dreamer's theology. Just manufacturing things. Just made it up. On broadcast to millions of people. And people listened and swallowed and took it in and accepted it because it came from Benny Hen. Speaking about things that they didn't know anything about. You can only be dogmatic where the scripture is dogmatic. We don't have the freedom to elaborate and just come up with our own ideas about things. One day when we get to heaven, we can ask God, hey, could Adam fly? Well right now you're just making that up out of the clear blue sky. You have no grounds for that theology Now let me just say this that we had better know what we believe. What I'm saying is it does us no good To point at somebody and say, they don't have any idea what they're talking about. If we are not ready To stand and defend our faith. If we are not ready to have an answer to give of the hope that is in us, What I'm saying is we need to know what we believe and why we believe it. We need to know the word of God. Through learning. He talks here this first no is is they speak of things they never took time to understand, they never took time to learn, they never took time to really grasp. And so instead they live by those things which they know naturally, which they know in their Spirit. That second note there is dealing with knowledge granted to us by God. These are things that we just know because we're created by God, because He put them in our hearts. We know that if you drop something, it's going to fall. It's a law of nature. There's that understanding, that knowledge. There's things that we know if if you If you slap somebody, it's going to hurt. I mean, you just know it's going to sting, right? And if somebody's swinging towards you, you know that's going to hurt, so you move. You duck. You get out of the way if you can. Because those are things instinctively that you know. You don't even have to. I mean you see something out of the peripheral peripheral How many of you guys have ever seen that seen that little clip where uh a baseball flies right at the camera and you're see you're you're watching it and and a baseball flies at the camera and it looks like it's gonna hit And you jump. I mean it's coming. It's in your iPad or in your phone and it's coming at you. And you still you jump because it looks like it's coming, it's going to hit you. Instinctively, you know when something's coming at you, it's going to hurt. These are things that they know that way. We call it natural instinct. This is the heart of experience-driven worship. Okay, this is what's at the heart of experience-driven worship, which is a lot of the worship that's out there today. They want to feel it. They want to have an emotional experience. They want it to mean something in their spirit, not because the Spirit of God came and touched their heart and challenged them spiritually, but because the music built them up and and and the dynamic of the of the entire presentation brought them to a place of an emotional uh excitement and and boy wasn't that so amazing The emotional-driven experience of worship that's prevalent today. Everyone wants to have a feeling. And if they felt it, it must be true. You see, they're going to their natural instincts. I felt it. So I know this about God. even if it's contrary to this book. And they will stand on their feelings against the Word of God. How many have declared that they have had personal revelation from God because they know it, because they had it in their spirit? God gave them a revelation and it came to them, and they're declaring that. But the Bible is very clear that the revelation is closed. There is no margin for that. There's nobody getting new revelation today. And yet these people that stand up and declare their new revelation for everybody to hear, they know it, regardless of what the word says. Completely disregarding the fact and the clear teaching of the scriptures, they had a natural experience, and that trumps the Word of God every time. Instinctively, their thinking is not, I'm sorry, instinctive thinking is not biblical thinking. This is what he's talking about, your natural instincts. He describes them here. He goes on, he calls them brute beast That is living like an animal. They are not engaging their brain and learning the truths of the Word of God. They are living like an animal, functioning from natural instinct alone. Ruled by nature. They have not pursued any further understanding of God. These are apostate men, men without any true spiritual knowledge concerning God. Only living inside of a natural instinct. The natural instinct, you know that it is the natural, and and it it goes on this last part of this verse. He says here, this brute beast, in those things they corrupt themselves. In those things, here's the acceptance of their destruction. Because they're driven by natural instinct, in those things they drive themselves to their own destruction. And I don't know of a more clear illustration of this then, that illustration of a wolf. Who will, by his natural instinct to desire blood, will suck, lick the frozen blood off of a knife And he will continue to lick that frozen blood until unbeknownst to him he's actually drinking his own blood. And it's used as a means to capture or to kill wolves that are destroying herds. Driven by a natural instinct, they corrupt themselves The heart of man is desperately wicked. Our natural instinct cannot be our driving force. It has to be the truth of the Word of God. And as we bring this to a close tonight, I want to ask you. Are you driven by natural instinct or by the Word of God? Do you have maybe a little bit of dreamer theology? Maybe just like to think about God in the way you like to think about him instead of how the Bible says we're to think about him? You see, as we're talking about contending for the faith, the first place that you and I need to contend is in our own heart. Because our own heart would desire to drift. Our own heart would desire to go away from God. Our own heart would desire to to dream and think about God in ways that maybe don't line up with who God is. Because they fit inside of our realm of experience instead of the Word of God We're all given to dreaming a little bit. I don't think it'd be too much of a stretch tonight to say we might have a little bit of dreamer's theology in our heart. And we need to get back to God and We need to say as the psalmist did, O God, search me. Search me. See if there be any wicked way in me. Is there anything in my heart that's not lining up with this book? Is there anything here that I need to turn over to you or that I need to yield to you and let God have his way Or we need to contend for the faith first in our own heart