Well, we have been uh looking at the book of Jude. It's been a uh fun study. We're tonight getting to verse number 17 through verse 19, and uh the title for the messages that I've preached, I have tried to keep them uh succinct and within two or three verses or so and uh I've tried to have a title that uses the letter I And so I don't know if I'm in a brain fog or what, but if you want to help me out as we get through the lesson this evening, if you can think of an I for this title, all of these have been titled Contending for the Face Something. So it might be Contending for the Faith, the instruction, contending for the faith, whatever, and the the letter I was the title. And I don't have one of those for tonight. yet I may come to me later, but I thought, well you can help me out and give me a title for the message this evening. But contending for the faith, look down in verse number 17. He says, But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own ungodly lust. These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the spirits So we see here uh this evening I'm gonna go in a little bit reverse order because I I feel like the the attributes that are listed here are a little bit of a of a repeat. He's kind of been walking through the chapter and he's talking about the apostates and he's describing what they're like and kind of the pattern and habit uh for which They they tend to go. And uh so tonight I'm going to look here and not spend too much time, but verse 18 and 19 is the attributes of these apostates, those people that were going to be coming, and they were going to be uh living this way and he's of course admonishing them and encouraging them to to be be cautious and watch out for these characteristics that are listed here. We see those characteristics listed in verse 12, verse 16, verse 19, you know, just over and over again. But the idea of those that are scoffers Those that would want to mock and make fun of the things of God. Doesn't the world love to mock God? I'll tell you what, I uh it was so so irritating to me uh and and In almost vulgar, but I I heard a uh somebody sent me a link to a comedian that his entire bit was just about mocking God And and just making fun of of creation and how God you know, oh God did this but he can't do that and and all of this kind of uh I mean the the foolishness of it and I just think man uh the patience of God. You know, the the the mercy of God, because I don't understand why God let him walk off the stage. Just the complete and utter disrespect for who God is and this world just mocks God and makes fun. But we of course know that in the end every knee's going to bow and every tongue's going to confess that Jesus Christ is the Lord. They may mock now, they may make fun now, they may scoff at the things of God now, but one day they will not. We know it. Their habit is to live a sinful life. He says here that they walk after their own lust Listen, this world doesn't know how to live any other way but to satisfy and fulfill their own lust, their own desires, the direction they want to go. And it starts as young people when kids aren't ever told no. It c boils down to just, oh, I this is what I want and and so I want it and and kids get what they want and and over and over and over again and then they live their life thinking that's what life's about Just get what I want. If this is what I want, that's what I should get. Almost like they're entitled to it because that's what they want. So they should get it, right? Well, no, that's not the case. And so it's a worldly philosophy, a worldly mindset that people allow to sink into their hearts and they live a sinful life walking after their own lust, just desiring to please themselves whatever they want. We see here that they separate themselves. They separate themselves to go do what they want to do. They walk their own ways. They live sensual lives. Boy, don't we have that in the world today? It seems like everything is based on sensuality. I mean it doesn't matter what it is that you're trying to to sell or to promote or to uh talk about in in today's world and with the marketing and all that we have, it's built around sensuality. And the problem obviously there's lots of problems with that, but the real hurt is the younger generation of girls that get an image and a mindset that they have to portray themselves that way to be attractive That they have to be sensual, that they have to expose themselves, that they have to live that way, and that's what's attractive. And so they follow after that sensual lifestyle. And it puts them in bad places in a bad way and opens them up to so many hurtful, hurtful things. We see here, lastly, and I'm going to come back to this at the end as we conclude, but we see that they're spiritless They're spiritless. He says, having not the spirit. This really is a contrast between what a Christian should be. Because, beloved, we're supposed to be led by the Spirit of God. As Christians, we are supposed to let the Spirit lead us day by day. And these apostates They are people that at one point they claimed to know Christ. At one point they planned to follow after God or said they knew God, and yet here they're living in the in God says they're spiritless. They don't have the Holy Spirit. Now, Christian, you and I, we have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is guiding us into all truth. There's a lot of things that the Holy Spirit does for us, but sadly there's many Christians that are living as though they don't have the Holy Spirit Oh, they have the Spirit. We know when you're saved. We just had a lesson in Sunday school on the the Holy Spirit. And you know it's salvation. You get the Holy Spirit. But you as a Christian have to daily yield to the Holy Spirit to allow him to direct your life. And this is something that is a continual process. I was talking to one of the men in the church just recently within the last week, and he was talking about how the Holy Spirit had talked to him about contacting somebody. And in his heart and mind, you know, he's like, I really ought to do this. But he said, well, I'll do it next week or I'll do it later, and he didn't do it. And the person passed away. He just didn't see. I mean, we've all been there. The Holy Spirit spoke to us and said, This, hey, why don't you call this person or why don't you write this person? Why don't you do that? And we think, well, I'll do it later. And the opportunity was gone. But sadly, many Christians lived the entirety of their life without ever letting the Holy Spirit direct them. without ever letting the Holy Spirit lead them. You know, Romans chapter 8 has a description, and we're not going to spend time there, don't turn there. I'm just going to read these for you. But what the Holy Spirit does for us as a believer, the Holy Spirit liberates the soul, according to verse number two. He indwells the body, according to verse number nine. He quickens. The believer in verse number 11. He leads or guides the believer in verse number 14. He is a witness, bears witness with our spirit in verse number 16 He guides us or helps us in prayer, verse number 26. And he intercedes with us or for us with the Father, verse number 27. That's all in Romans 8. What the Holy Spirit does for us. And yet a lot of times as Christians we don't even consult or think about the Holy Spirit. We're just living our lives. I'll tell you the joy of living a spirit-filled life. There's nothing like it. To know that your steps are directed, to know that God is leading and that He has brought you to that place and He took you uh you know by this and and uh divinely uh orchestrated events to put you in this place at this time. And you look at it and you say, wow I'm so thankful that I just followed the Holy Spirit and look what he did today. So let's let's live Holy Spirit-filled lives, not be guilty of this where they're apostate. Now, the heart of the message really comes from verse number 17, where he says, But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. He said, remember, he calls them his beloved. Beloved is a term of endearment, and you know that I find it very comfortable to use that term. And it's part of my ongoing vocabulary. It's just I I I say it many times without even thinking, you know, but beloved, it's it's the It's this church family that God has put together. This is a term of friendship, a term of endearment, a term of close relationship, of respect, and longing to see the best for. And he looks at them and he and he calls them beloved. I mean we're familiar with that term as far as we know. Remember that God the Father, he looked down and saw his son and he said, This is my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. God used that in description of his beloved son and Paul used it in Romans chapter number 12 talking about the saints and uh the uh Paul again if you want to attribute Hebrews to him, used it in Hebrews, and uh Peter used it in 1 Peter chapter 2, verse number 11, describing the saints. And so that that term of endearment, that way of thinking about them, is that they were close to him, somebody that he respected and loved. And he tells them, he says, Hey, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken. Remember the words of Christ. You know, God's creation is an amazing thing. As we think about, you know, we just drove up through a bunch of states and over a whole bunch of bridges and got to see a lot of waterways. And uh, you know, I mean you you just behold the the creation and what God did. And you you see that and and it's it's majestic. And it's amazing to contemplate and think about. But at the same time, although we can see God's power, Creation doesn't tell you about God's mercy for you. Creation doesn't tell you the old, old story. Creation doesn't tell you what God's plan or desire is for your life and how you should live it. But we have the words of God that tell us those things. It is the words of God. He said, remember ye, and he has the apostles there, he says, as they, as they, of course, we know that Holy men of old, as they were inspired by the Word of God, by God, to write the words. But he says, Remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, the words of Jesus Christ It is his word, beloved, that changes lives, and it should be the delight of our heart. Psalms 19 Passage of Scripture dealing with the Word of God. We know that the Word of God converts the soul. It makes wise the simple. It rejoices the heart. It enlightens the eyes. It endures forever. It is true and righteous altogether, and more to be desired are they? And silver and gold, in the honeycomb, the words of God. But how careless and forgetful are we of the words of God many times! He admonishes us and encourages the saints to remember the words of God. As we contemplate and think about the words of God, if if they really do do all of these things, can Wouldn't we want it? It's like a miracle drug. It's like uh it it except it's not it's not snake oil, it's real. You know, there's so many things people tell you, well, listen, if you uh, now Dr. Keller, you know I love him. I mean, he was a blessing. But he thought alfalfa would cure anything. Okay? You know it's alfalfa. And I imagine alfalfa has some very good benefits And uh, you know, he gave me some and and I and I took it for a little while, but when I saw what it was gonna cost me to replace what he gave me, I said, Man, he was pretty generous to give me that because that was an expensive bottle of uh alfalfa But you know sometimes there's things people say, well this will this is gonna you know help your memory and this is gonna ease the pain in your joints and and you're no longer gonna wake up sore in the morning and this is gonna do all these things for you just take this faithfully Listen, we have promises about what this book will do for us. Promises, not from man, not from somebody, but from God Himself that tells us the amazing power of this living word. The words of Jesus Christ. We saw last week, last Thursday night, in Psalms 119, how it helps the young man cleanse his way. It guards the heart against sin. This passage of scripture is about apostasy and how to avoid going into apostasy. How do you avoid going into positive? Remember the words of God. Remember the words of God. Now you you're you I know you know All the way back there in the book of Genesis, Satan's first attack was against what? The words of God. Has God said? Calling into question the words of God, what I'm saying is this is important. This is powerful. This is sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing, dividing asunder, soul and spirit. The words of God. He says to us, remember those words. Well, can I ask you tonight? Do you have a hope of remembering something that you've never heard or read? In Acts, he says, I cannot help but speak the things which thou cannot help but speak the things which thou hast seen and heard. You have to have seen it and heard it. You know, most of you did not go to uh where were we? New Hampshire? Massachusetts? We drove through a lot of states, I don't remember. It's funny because Matt was was talking, we were we were actually loading the truck today And he says, you know, we arrived here at four o'clock in the morning on Sunday and and we've been in the building ever since. He said, I actually didn't even look outside. I don't even know what's around the building. Like we were in this building from Sunday until we were loading the truck this morning And I said, I know. There's a bunch of shops right across the street. I didn't even ru realize that, you know. We just been in there working. What I'm saying is that most of you didn't go And you couldn't describe or tell anything about that building or the people that are there or it because you haven't experienced any of it. I'm saying unless we get into the Word of God, we have no hope of remembering it It's going to take time for us to read it. The Word of God. It makes wise the simple. It's a lamp and a light to our feet. It brings peace and comfort to our heart. Yeah. But sadly many of us are like the Saint in Amos' day. When they had a famine of the Word of God. Have you ever, those of you that are parents, I know this has happened. Maybe it's happened to you as an adult, it's happened to me, but you know You you sit the kids come in and they say, Man, I'm hungry. And mom says, well, there's a bunch of food in the refrigerator, and they go in and they're like, I can't find anything to eat. You know, or or maybe you've gone to the refrigerator and you're hungry but you're looking and there's nothing in there that you really want. You know, you're like, uh There's nothing in there I really want, you know. And that's the thing. Sometimes there's a famine of the Word of God, but it's not because we don't have it. It's not because there's not something there for us. It's because we don't want to invest the effort that it's going to take to make that thing. We don't want to get all of that out and have to clean it up. It's a little bit more work than just grabbing a Pop-Tart. And so we decide, you know what? I just think I'm not that hungry. It's going to take too much work, so I'm not that hungry. But we need the Word of God. In Amos they said, Behold, the days will come, saith the Lord, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst of water. But of hearing the words of the Lord. Wow. A famine of hearing the words of God. You want to avoid going into apostasy, hear the words of God, and we need all the words. We know that all scripture is inspired by God. We know it's all profitable. And we need it all. I know the Book of John is fun to read. The Book of James is one of my favorites. That that that practical book, the just the real practical life lessons, and and I enjoy that, but we need it all. It's all the Word of God and it's all profitable. This book is something beloved that we should value because it is more precious than gold or silver. You know, we say that to us, we say, boy, it's it's more precious than gold and silver, it's more precious than rubies and diamonds and gold and uh you know it's but do we really believe that I wonder if you had five pounds of gold, if you would forget it and leave it in a pew at church. I was telling the guys in the van, I says, man, I got a prize today. You see, I didn't have any clean clothes to uh wear home, so I had to do some laundry last night. And when I pulled the clothes out of the dryer, there's a whole bunch of money in there. I mean money was falling everywhere out of there. I think it belonged to Matt, but hey, finders keepers. I said, man, look at this. This is exciting. Look at that. Wow, look at this. Boy, I was pulling out these twenty dollar bills and getting them flat again. All right. Big price, you know If we would get into the Word of God, we could get some prizes, some gold, some silver, some precious things. We've got to let the Lord impact us for us to feel and know the value of this word. As I try and bring this to a conclusion, I want to tell you something. If you don't do it now, There will be a day that you will remember the words of the Lord. Currently, you have the power to put it out of your heart and mind. Currently you have the ability to disregard the teachings of the Word of God and His Word. And live your life however you want, maybe in line with some of the descriptions of that group found in verse 18 and 19. But there will be a day that you'll remember. And I'm drawn to the story in Luke chapter 16. Where he says, there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple, and a certain beggar named Lazarus. Which was laid at the gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed from the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table, moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores One day I wanted to preach a message. Thank God for the dogs. It's not developed completely yet, but thank God for the dogs. Verse number twenty-two he says, And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and Seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom, and he cried, and he said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I'm tormented in his flame. And Abraham said, Son. Remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest Thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things, but now he is comforted and thou art tormented. What I'm saying is the day is going to come, maybe at the judgment seat of Christ, but you'll remember the words of God. And you know, we we we have 1 John 1. 9 in this amazing passage of scripture, and I praise God for it If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of all sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Amen. You can come back to him at any time. But I think as Christians, sometimes we we we get a little too reliant on that, 1 John 1. 9, and we say, oh, just 1 John 1. 90 Go ahead and go go live in sin and you can just get forgiven. But do you know what 1 John 1 9 doesn't do? It for praise God, he forgives you. But first John does 1-9 doesn't take away the scarves. That's right. 1 John 1. 9 doesn't heal the hurt. 1 John 1. 9 doesn't give you back the lost time. That prodigal he was taken back by the Father, and we praise God for it. That example that was set of our Heavenly Father that's there and waiting. But you know all that time that they had in between, and all the scars that that young man had on his life are there. I praise him that he'll forgive us. But you can look back and the time will come where you remember the words of God. And you say, boy, I need to go back to that. But it's very possible you're going to have some very painful scars that you have to live with. Because you neglected to remember them today. You neglected to remember his words and the decisions you're making now I would implore you and I as Christians to remember the words of the Lord