That. That is that is y you hear the phrase fire and brimstone, and that's because they were burned. That's because it was consumed. And that fire and brimstone, the judgment of God, is something that many people recognize and see, and Sodom and Gomorrah was a picture of it. And uh God will not let the world continue to mock him, to laugh at his law, his long suffering, his long his patience with man, although it is extremely long, there's a time if man will not repent. That man will be judged for sin. Ultimately, we know that if if God tarries, I mean at some point he's going to come again, and man will stand before God and give an answer of everything done in their body, whether it be good or bad. We know that that day is going to come. And so that day of judgment is coming. And it would behoove us to get ready and to warn others to be ready. Then we have the account of their dreams. In verse number 8, we talked about this, the dreamer's theology. He says, likewise also these filthy dreamers. They defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak of e speak evil of dignities. And the the dreamer's theology, the idea that uh whatever they want for theology, whatever they feel about God, and we talked about that, about how people, uh it's an experience driven religion instead of faith-driven or fact-driven, the Word of God stands as the truth instead of truth-driven, they they they are experience-driven. And they will take an experience that they had walking down the alley in the middle of the night sometime, some experience that they had. And completely disregard scripture because this experience is what defines their their faith or their religion. And that's not Bible. It's dreamer's theology, and he gives us an account of that, and then in verse number nine, we see uh the argument with the devil. Yet Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. And we learned a few things about this idea that Uh even the archangel understood his place, his position, and knew it wasn't for him to uh stand and rebuke Satan and uh that he turned it over to God. And put let God have his position, which is in stark contrast to a lot of false teachers who like to stand up and rebuke this and that and and uh even Satan himself and the angels said, Listen, I know that God has power uh to do what he will, but I don't. And he he let Satan Let God deal with the devil. And we're given a uh some insight, a peek behind the curtain, as it were, to that conversation and what took place there Then we see in verse number 10 the acceptance of their destruction, but these speaking evil of these things which knew not, which know not, but what they know naturally As brutal beast, in those things they corrupt themselves. They allow themselves to go, and there's two types of knowledge given to us in this verse. We discussed those, the knowledge that we have naturally, things that we just understand, things that are innate to us, things that God gave us an understanding of. And there's knowledge that we are that we learn through following God and being obedient to God and and his word. And he describes these for us. And we learn that instinctive thinking is not necessarily biblical thinking. And uh instinctive thinking, that is thinking that is the natural man, the natural things that we understand, if we tend to rely on the natural man, it's going to lead to corruption. And we see that here in this verse that in those things which they understood naturally as brutal beasts, they went back to their natural instinct, like a beast does, and began to function that way. Instead of in faith, instead of following God, they went back to what they understood to be true naturally. And he says, in those things they corrupted themselves. And uh much, much there about that. Now we are going to begin tonight in verse number 11, and uh we see here in We're going to hopefully get verse 11, 12, and 13. And thus far we have gone one point for each verse. Verse 12 and 13 are together. But first of all, we see the apostates here. or the anguish of the deceiver. So we see the apostates in verse number 11. He says, Woe unto them, for they have gone the way of Cain. And have ran greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Korah. Now we see here three descriptions And here would be a good little homework study for you to take the book of Jude and look at how many times Jude was a good preacher. If you look in this chapter, notice how many times, whether it's an illustration or a description or a list of facts, that he gives them to you in threes. Be a little study for you. You can start at the beginning and just see where he we've talked about a couple of them already tonight in the verses we reviewed. But you can look and say where how many times does he give it to you in threes? There's three of these and there's three of these and there's three of these. Now don't do it during the rest of the message. But you could study that out on your own if you if you would like to. But he gives us here, here's one of them, he gives us three lists. uh those irreverent type people, those people that went away from God, and these examples, first of all, is the way of Cain. Now you know the story here and because uh the group we're here with, I'm not gonna take time Each one of these lists, these three people, could be a message in and of themselves in its entirety without Hey, in my research, I found a message that a guy that preached four messages just on the way of Cain. What I'm saying is it wouldn't be a stretch at all to preach a message on each one of these, for they're very uh all-encompassing and merely impact us today, but we're going to go through them quickly here. We know the story of Cain and Abel, both of these men that brought their offering, the sacrifice to God, in Genesis chapter number 4. And Abel's offering was that blood sacrifice, and God accepted it. Why? Because it's what God told him to do. Because he was being obedient to God. And in faith, he brought that and did what God said. But Cain wanted to worship him his way. And wanted God to accept it and be happy with it. He wanted to do how he wanted to do it. I think there's other examples in the scriptures of that. There was a group of people that wanted to get together and and uh carry the ark Remember that? And they they wanted to do it their way. And Ozah lost his life because he he wanted to do it his way. And listen, this is so fitting for a lot of Christianity today because people uh you know they've got fast food mentality when it comes to their faith with Jesus Christ and that's they just want to do it their way. Everybody have it your way. And uh let's let's just you know, get in and embrace it and you can do do whatever you like to do and hey whatever's good for you that's fine it's good for me too and we're all just going to be happy and love Jesus together. But you see, God said there's a way to do it And we need to follow God's way. And we can't be about and just like embrace every uh human philosophy or idea that comes down the pike. We've got to test it, challenge it with the scriptures and see if these things be true. That's what we're supposed to do. And the way of Cain was a way where he wanted to do what he wanted to do. And you know Cain's offering was rejected. This was a symbol or an example of the work of his own hands It's the difference between you're saved by grace or you're saved by works All the way back here at the very beginning, there is that contrast, that challenge that Satan brings on the scene where man can be saved by his own works. But God says, no, you're saved by faith. And so from that time until this, there has been a offshoot or a false teaching, a other gospel That man could earn their way to heaven by some type of works, by the work of their hand. The Bible says that his works were evil. In 1 John 3:12, he says, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one. And slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Why did he do it? Because his own works were evil, and his brothers were righteous. He slew his brother because his work was evil and his brothers were righteous. Amazing That's not a picture of the world today. He didn't act in faith Obey God, he wanted to do what he wanted to do. In Hebrews 11, verse number 4. He says, By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous God testifying of his gifts, and by it, he being dead, yet speaketh. His faith still speaks. He was obedient and did what God wanted in Cain So the way of Cain is a way of pride, it's a way of carnality, and really is the foundation of cults. Whatever cult you want, take a pick. Because it's here I want to do it my way. This is how we're going to get to heaven. This is what we're going to do. This is our faith. This is it's all our own instead of following God That is the way of Cain. Didn't we see the error of Balaam described for us? We know the story of Balaam in Numbers 22 through 25. Balach had hired Balaam. Balaam wanted to do it because he wanted the money. He wanted to, he he desired to curse God's people because he wanted to get the money for it. But he realized that God had blessed God's people, and he says, Well, how can I curse the people that God blessed? He says, I'm I'm at a conundrum here because I can't really do that. You see, God bless these people, so I can't curse them. But desirous of gain, he devised a plan, a means through which God would curse his people. And he says, hey, why don't you get the Moabite women to come on over and Infiltrate the Israelites, cause them to intermarry, cause them to worship other gods, cause them to sin. With immorality, and God will judge them, God will curse them. But the error of Balaam is the desirous, uh, the desire of gain Regardless of what it cost. You see, Balaam was for sale to the highest bidder. 1 Peter 5:2 says, Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not being constrained, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. The man of God, the preacher, should not be greedy of filthy lucre, amen? Amen. And I and I agree wholeheartedly. But do you know what? None of us should be. It's not just the man that stands behind the pulpit. Obviously, this is an admonition day. 1 Peter there is a requirement for the pastor if he's going to hold the position. But I think it'd be good for any believer to not be greedy of filthy lucre. Balaam gave up his integrity for some income. Now I wonder what are we guilty of that? Are we guilty of the error of Balaam? Going after that, and that is going after income, regardless of the cost, regardless of whether it's right or wrong. Let me uh get real practical. And I really don't have time because I got a lot of ground to cover tonight. But listen. We were joking around today out here and it made me think of something. And I've heard of this happening a lot. If you go buy something at Walmart and use it and return it Because you just wanted to use it for a day? That's wrong. Now if you buy something and it's broken, or you buy something if it's not what you thought it was, That's one thing, but if you know exactly what it is and you need it for a day and you're like, well, I I'm gonna I'm gonna go buy an air mattress because grandma and grandpa are coming to town for a week Grandma and Grandpa are going to sleep on the air mattress for a week and then at the end of the week I'm going to return it like I don't need it. That's wrong. That is trading your integrity for some income. That is going after the error of Balaam. And that's just one simple example. But just because Walmart would take it back, you no longer can stand with a clear conscience before God and men. And if you've done that, you ought to get it right. That's not right. And we could give you other ex other examples, but that's the idea. I know on one aspect we say, oh that's right, we shouldn't be greedy of filthy lucre. But when we get real practical, I wonder. How much of uh how many of us are guilty of letting our integrity go or letting our integrity slip a little bit because it's more profitable Or more advantageous monetarily to do this or do that. Instead of this is right, this is what we do, no matter the cost. You see, the error of Balaam, his Christianity was for sale. And Christians shouldn't be for sale. So many people today love God until their love for God conflicts with their love for money. Uh I I don't even think I should chase this rabbit. This this thing of uh Listen, you do what you want to do. I'm not giving you permission. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying you you do. You and I, we do what we want to do. You put a priority on what you want to put a priority on. And if God's house and the things of God are the priority, then they will be the priority And if earning money and getting overtime is the priority, then that'll be the priority. You're the one that decides. You make the choice. The error of Balaam was money's gonna be my God. I'm going to go after that. And even in our very good fundamental churches, we have many of us who are guilty of going after the way the heir of Balaam. It's something Satan tempts us with. And I'm talking about from the pulpit all the way back. It's something we have to continue to be careful of. I'll get real personal here, another thing I don't have time to talk about. Some years ago, well you guys know, um I bought a Honda ST eleven hundred. Amazing bike. I liked it. I went, I picked this up, bought it someplace in Pennsylvania. I don't remember. Some of you might remember because I probably told you, but I don't remember I literally don't remember. I I don't I th I think I gave 3,000 for it. But we went inside for the guy to sign over the title and he says to me, You want to put a thousand bucks on there? Because then you only have to pay taxes on a thousand instead of three thousand. And I said, sure. That as soon as I did the Holy Spirit struck me like a like hit me with a bat. And I'm like, well, what can I say now? Oh man, what am I gonna do? And and for the next day and a half. So when I went to the DMB I told them, I said, listen, the guy put a thousand bucks on there, but I paid three thousand for this. I didn't know how else to make it right at that point What I'm saying is Satan can tempt you at any time with filky lucre. He can he can hold that out, and any one of us can be guilty of that. The question is, how do you respond when the Holy Spirit says to you, that wasn't right? And you say, oh, but the money is more important and you quench the Holy Spirit and you put 'em down. And you say, I'm gonna get I'm gonna do this anyway. That is being guilty of the error of Balaam. So we need to move on the There's so much here. They they put a stumbling block before Israel. Balaam did. You know, there's a description in Second Peter two, fifteen and sixteen. He says, Which having forsaken the right way and gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Asor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness, but was rebuked for his iniquity, the dumb ass speaking with man's voice forbade the madness of the prophet And this the donkey's the one that had to correct him for doing wrong. Because he put this stumbling block before Israel. You know, this is the whole word of faith movement. I don't have time to get into it, but there's a big word of faith movement that's putting a stumbling block before the church. Not just here, but across the world. And sadly, This idea that word of faith movement is being broadcast across the entire world thanks to TVN and other religious broadcasting. And the face of Christianity is the word of faith. And this the word of faith is all the all of the people like uh Joel Olstein and and Benny Hinn and uh Joyce Myers and uh Todd White and uh Kenneth Copeland, um Creflow Dollar, you know, all of these guys are word of faith movement. And it's the it is summarized in the pro Prosperity Gospel. What I'm saying the sad thing is, and I saw it in India, you ask Neteen about it. That is what they're battling over there in India. When somebody comes with the truth of the gospel and declares that, yea, all that live godly, all that live godly shall suffer persecution when the truth is preached, what they have to overcome is all the false teaching that these people have been taught that they can proclaim health to their bodies, that they can they can call uh you know God's blessing down on their lives, and they're gonna be wealthy and rich, they're gonna have American prosperity If they just have American faith, this is what's being sold around the world. They're putting a stumbling block before the people of God all over the world. And I know that one day they'll answer to God for it. We see thirdly here in this verse the naysaying of Korah. Korah and others rebelled against God and challenged the authority of Moses and Aaron in Numbers chapter 16. Of course we know that ultimately what they were doing is rebelling against God. Nasain is to speak against, to contradict, and Korah was envious of power and position, and their envy left them With a sinful heart. They weren't satisfied to serve, but instead wanted to be served, and they rose up in rebellion. Ostensibly against Moses and Aaron, but ultimately we know it was against God Himself. We see moving right on in verse number 12 and 13, I've put these two verses together, the analogy. He gives us here uh a bunch of illustrations. Um I think there's five of them. Um but he kind of describes, typifies, shows what these kind of false prophets are. He says, this is what they're going to be like. This is a description of their character. This is a description of who they are. And the description is quite poetic, but at the same time very powerful. He describes him first of all as spots. He says, you have spots in your feast of charity. Let's read verse number 12 here first. He said These are spots in your feast of charity. When the feast with your feeding, sorry, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear Clouds they are without water, carried about of winds, trees whose fruit withereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots. Now, this is a description of these apostate people. A feast without charity. This is the charity feast or the love feast was supposed to be an expression of love. Where they gathered together as the body of Christ, and it usually took place after the Lord's Supper, but they had come in and perverted it. You know, especially in the Church of Corinth. They had taken this love feast or this charity feast, this time of of coming together and feeding and and and helping, encouraging one another, and perverted it. In 1 Corinthians 11, verses 20 and 22, he says, when you come together therefore into one place This is not to eat the Lord's Supper, for in eating every one taketh before another his own supper, and one is hungry, and another is drunken. What, have ye not houses to eat, to drink in? Or despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. You see, they had perverted this. And he describes here the spots in the feast. And this spot here is also used for a word that describes something hidden just under the surface. Have you any of you ever had a spot on your skin that Started to create some concern. I wonder what's going on here. This last week I had I got a bug bite right here. You can probably still see it's not much of a bump, it's almost gone. But this this spot started to swell. It started to grow. It started to started to change colors. I just I'm like, hmm, this is concerning. There's something under the surface here that's not supposed to be there. There's a something the body's rejecting and pushing out, you know, there's a spot there And I think about different spots you get in the doctors, they want to uh biopsy it and make sure that it's not cancerous. You get different spots. It's a spot that's there that's going to create trouble. Well, this is also from the time frame where men would have been uh you know sailors and and in the water and and it describes a a reef, a coral reef or something right underneath the surface, that you're sailing on smooth seas. Looks all good, uh, but there's a spot there, and it's gonna create a big problem because you're gonna hit that with your boat and get sunk And what he's saying is, everything's looking fine, but there's some spots, and it's going to sink you. You're going to be in trouble. He says, you feast without fear. They were serving only themselves and their own sensual pleasures. To function without fear is leaves the Christian in a bad way. The apostates had perverted their own feast or perverted the feast that they were supposed to and used it to their own means in the promotion of great immorality in the church. Instead of it being a time of giving and glorifying God, it had become a time of gluttony and of guilt. He describes them here as clouds that are without water. This is the appearance without the application. You see, the farmers would have understood this. They always needed rain. They would have been encouraged when they saw rain a rain cloud coming, being blown in. They would have thought that, oh finally there's rain for the crops. We need the rain. And can you imagine how discouraged they'd be if that cloud passed over and no rain fell? In Luke twelve fifty-four Christ says, and he said unto the people, when you see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway you say, There cometh the shower. And so it is. He says, when you see a rain cloud, you expect rain. But these apostates are described as people that are clouds without any rain. In Psalms 25, I'm sorry, Proverbs 25, 14, he says, Who so boasteth himself of a false gift is like cloud in wind without rain. Who so boasts himself of a false gift. I think of Todd White, and I don't not encouraging any of you guys to to go listen to these people, but Todd White is a uh basically a Rastafarian. I mean he's got long dreadlocks down to here. Uh and uh he was saved or came to Christ. By his testimony, he came to Christ in a Bini Hinn meeting, where he was by his testimony basically struck by lightning. Both himself and the two guards or two ushers that were with him were blown back like ten feet, and that was the experience where he came to Christ. I don't know all the details or ramifications, but Todd White goes around and he's on the internet all the time performing this leg length lengthening uh miracle. Where he'll find somebody on the street and talk to them and ask, Do you have you have any back pain and oh you know what? The Holy Spirit of God's telling me right now that your legs aren't the same length. Let's look. And he'll he'll have them sit down and and uh take their legs and say, bring the camera in here and uh they'll look at their legs and one leg shorter than the other. And he says, all the back pain that you've been experiencing is because of this. We're going to pray right now in the Spirit and the power of God. He's going to lengthen this leg and he'll begin to pray and he'll begin to pull on the leg. And if you lift the legs, for me, if you lift them very far at all, these hamstrings start to really pull tight. Some of you can stretch pretty well, but I cannot. But if you start lifting that leg, you're going to start feeling that. And he'll lift that leg and he'll say, Do you feel that? Do you feel it? Do you feel what God's doing right now? And he's lifting his leg. And then he takes the shoe. And begins to slide it off so the camera can see. Begins to slide the shoe off, but it you know it's it's slutle. He'll he'll kind of like shaking, he's bringing that the the heel of that shoe out, and he's lengthening the leg Miraculously. I mean he's done this hundreds and hundreds of times. He's all over the internet. He pastors a great big church. Right now he's trying to raise money to buy a multi-million dollar complex to host his church, have his church in. Tons and tons of followers. He's been proven wrong. This lake lengthening technique has been something from old carnival shows that they did years and years. I mean, hundred years ago they were doing this. And he somehow miraculously is healing these people. Yeah. It's big promises, but no provision. That's what he's saying. He said, who boasteth himself of a false gift, and they're like clouds and wind without rain. There's nothing there. And the sad thing is they're offering hope to so many, and they don't have any hope to give. These false teachers. It's amazing. All the hype, but no real hope. There's nothing there. I watched an interview with a family that spent almost everything they had to go to take their son who had a debilitating disease and he couldn't walk, and they flew their family to go to a Benihin meeting and and got there. And they they worked and went through the crowds and finally got to the front so Benny Hinn could pray over his son and Benny Hinn on national television before everybody Prayed over this boy and declared him healed and told him to rise up and walk. God had given you new legs. He's healed your body completely. The boy tried to rise up and he fell on the ground. And Benny Hinn went right on to the next person and healed the next person. I might say with the certain with the exact same measure of successfulness. But those cameras went on and all that. Well the news agency went to the home of this family and asked them Are you disappointed that your son wasn't healed? And they're saying, well, we're certainly, yeah, we're disappointed. Do you believe that Benny Hen is a is a false preacher or false teacher? And they said, oh no. No, there's something that we weren't we weren't ready to receive that blessing. There's something that we were missing and and we just wait for God to bring that. But oh we we just sent another thousand dollars. to Benny Hinn's ministry because we want God to heal our son. It's falsehood. It's mind-boggling how many people buy into it and follow it. But what a descriptive characteristic. Clouds that are without water It's there, but there's nothing there. He says, trees whose fruit withereth without fruit, twice dead. Pluffed up by the roots. Now I'm going to give you some homework here. I want to know, I want to better understand those words twice dead. That's one aspect of that verse that I have not been able to study out. Like what does it mean twice dead? If you want to do some homework and help me with that, that would be awesome. Twice dead. I I really am not sure. What is he saying exactly when he says twice dead? So that's something I don't have an answer for, but you can dig it up and let me know what it is. Okay. But he says true trees here without fruit. You know, beloved, as Christians we're supposed to be fruitful? That's God's command as Christians. We're supposed to be fruitful, and here we are, trees without fruit. Plucked up by the roots. What a description of the true extent of their depravity. They're still standing, but they have no fruit. I think about this tree right out here that fell over. You guys are seeing the tree that's over here on the neighbor's property? That tree that looked really green And then it fell over. But if you go over there and look at it, all the greenery you see is a vine that was growing up through it. And a tree that happens to be growing like from the side, it grew over into it. The tree itself was 100% dead. There is no life on the tree at all. We were trying to figure out how to clean it up. Pastor Derek said, well let's burn it. It'll burn quick. But that probably we'd probably be in trouble for that. So we're not gonna burn it. But uh yeah, it's gone. I mean it's dried out I think about that here. He talks about this idea of no fruit, completely dead, still standing, might even look green, but nothing there. What a contrast this is to the Christian that's to be planted by river or water. They're supposed to be producing fruit in its season. He describes them as raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame. What a description here. This raging waves. Here he's saying that they will go the way that they want to go. They're like a raging wave. There's no stopping it. The destructive power of water is just amazing. Any of you guys see the the the floods in St. Louis? Oh my goodness, streets to total I I've taken kids there to St. Louis, Missouri many times and gone candy selling down some of those streets. I was seeing four feet of water. Going down the street, cars being swept away. It's just unbelievable. The power of this water is gonna go where it's going, and y nothing's gonna stop it. He says like a raging wave. People that are just going to do what they're going to do, disregarding God's will or God's plan. And also they stir up and spew dirt everywhere they go. Isaiah 57, verse number 20 says, But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. We see here they bring it to the surface. All that dirt and nasty stuff that's down there when the rave you know, Mary and I, when we went on one of our vacations to uh I think it was the Bahamas for our twentieth anniversary. You know you you're supposed to you're in the Bahamas, supposed to go snorkeling, right? So we we went out and we went to go snorkeling and we paid a boat driver to drive us all the way out there. We paid to be instructed on how to snorkel. We paid for snorkeling gear and got into the water And then he told us, well, we just had a hurricane come through here and the water's really dirty and you can't see anything. You couldn't see fifteen feet. He said, yeah, there's a shipwreck down there, about a hundred feet down. And normally you can see it, but right now you can't. Now why he didn't tell us that when we were on shore and we could, you know, but that idea that that the storm churns up all the filth And this is what he's describing here, that somebody that lives this way, ultimately it becomes a shame to them. It becomes a shame to them. I mean I just think about Todd White and this example of what he's doing, this this leg lengthening thing like ever like You know, you know what's amazing is he hasn't yet to go to any hospitals and he and heal anybody. He's he's uh You know, I've watched probably 30 of those videos, and not one time have I heard him talk to one of those people that he lengthened their leg about Jesus Christ's saving power to forgive them of their sin. That's the message he should be carrying. Now he has a very dynamic personality, very energetic. Very captivating when he speaks, but he's not speaking truth. Becomes their shame. I guess it's time to quit. I think of this how you the description here where he talks about how it ultimately shows what's coming up there. Well how does the verse say it? I gotta back up and see here. Um how far my notes. He says Raging waves of the sea foaming out their own shame. That foaming out of their own shame. And I think of the verse that out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. What comes out ultimately becomes their shame. And let me give you this last one, the wandering stars. What an amazing that you think about just a star that's shining for a moment. It's quite beautiful, but not stable. Do you know um you see a falling star? It's bright. It's it's beautiful for a little bit. But then it's gone. It ultimately ends up in blackness and you never see it again. And I think about that from the fact that you know that star, although it was really pretty. Nobody can be guided by that star. Nobody can find their way. A sailor is not going to look at a falling star and say, oh, that's the direction I need to go. No, he wants a fixed point in the sky He uses the fixed point to find his way. Praise God we have a God that's the same yesterday, today, and forever. We have a fixed point. And and Christians that are tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, they're not the kind of people that you can follow. People that move from one church to this and to that. You know, you after you've been in the b in the in the ministry enough years, you you you get some experience. And you you get to see the result of both aspects of those that follow God. And those that don't. You get to see the results of people that what is commonly referred to as a church hopper. You know a person that comes into a church and they're really bright for a while? They are the answer. They are the future of the church. They're the news. I mean, oh look at them. They're coming in and they got all this hype and excitement and and they maybe they bring a lot of money to the church or maybe they're really skilled in music and they bring a lot of musical talent to the church and they come in and everybody's excited about them being there and oh look at all what we're doing but then you wait a little while and what happens they get upset. Either it's a pastor or somebody of the church offends them. And then they go down the road to another church, and they're bright for a little while, but then they burn out. And there's no stability there. Now that's an application. It's not the interpretation of this. But it's an application, we need stability. We need consistency. We need to be faithful. These wandering stars. As I bring this to a conclusion, and I'm going to wrap this up in about two minutes. So I want you to go back to verse number 11 and look at just those first three words. He says, woe unto them. Woe unto them. He said, listen, there's some caution here, there's a warning here. There is a coming in, there's a future state that is inevitable if you follow the pattern that these three men have set. He said, Woe unto them. You know what my mom, she's here, you know what she used to say? She would say, son, you're cruising for a bruising. She would she what she was saying is if you continue to do what you're doing, you are in for a heap of hurt. That's what she was saying. And that's what he's saying. He's saying, woe unto them. Use some caution. Listen, there's a way, the way of Cain, the error of Balaam. And the main saying of Korah, those that proceed to follow that activity, there's a future state that's not good. God's going to judge it. He is not happy. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse number 11, he says, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. I think that's what Jude was saying here. He says, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, knowing there's a holy and a righteous and a just God in heaven. I've got to implore you. I've got to preach to you. I've got to tell you there's a way of Cain. There's a heir of Balaam, there's a Nathan of Korah, and those that follow after that are going to be judged by a thrice holy God. Woe unto them. So I ask you tonight. Are you pursuing any of these patterns in your life? Are you letting any of this creep in Where you wouldn't be pleasing to God. Cain sought his own way and suffered. Balaam tried to gain the world and lost everything. Korah was punished for his rebellion. Mark it down. Ungodliness brings its own fruit. And it's a fruit that we don't want to pick