I'm looking forward to it. All right. Grab your Bibles if you would. I told you uh the other week that we would be starting to study tonight on the book of Jude. I've been looking forward to this uh study on the book of Jude. I don't expect it to be too long of a study because it's not too long of a book. Amen. Should be relatively short Some years ago when I was asking for your recommendations about a book to study for the summer, uh, you know, I told you don't pick a big one uh because I didn't want to, you know, be trying to Teach through Daniel in Revelation or something. But nobody did pick Jude at that time either. I was listening to a message by Bob Jones Sr. and he was speaking to the college. uh at Bob Jones University and and he asked the students, he said, how many of you have heard a message preached from this pulpit out of the book of Jude? And apparently the number was pretty small because he said, We have failed you. He said, we have failed you. This book and the message it contains for Christianity today is vital. And uh he said it's something that they needed to remedy with regards to teaching and preaching this book, and I was stirred to get into it and uh do some study. Although through times I've I've quoted the more well-known passages of Scripture, we had a missions conference theme out of you know, twenty-two, but uh there's so we might know or be familiar with a couple of verses, but I've never preached the entire message that I know of or certainly never preached on the book itself and so been looking forward to it. If you're there in the book of Jude now uh just look at the first three verses with me. I want to read those to you. The Bible says here in Jude Verse number one through three says, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, a brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, and called. Mercy unto you, and peace and love be multiplied. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. That verse number three is the heart of this book. It is the theme of the book. It is the message of the book. To contend for the faith. Contend for that faith that was once delivered unto you. And although this evening I don't expect us to be able to get into verse number three, I thought it it would be critical that we at least mention it because it is the heart of the book. It is the focus. And so I would want to take an entire Certain t lesson and just deal with that thought of contending for the faith as that is the main thrust of the message, but we're going to begin tonight and give you a little bit of foundation and introductory information with regards to this book. And so first of all, we see the author here. The author is mentioned, his name is on the book, obviously, but Beginning right here, he says, Jude. He introduces himself. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James. And uh this Jude is a name that is the English form of the name Judas. And according to Lockyer and all the men of the Bible, there are five men in the word of God named Judas or Jude. And uh so of those five men, sometimes I know we kind of mix people up if they have a name or we're, you know, I mean you say Judas And all of a sudden we're thinking of the one Judas, right? The the traitor, the Judas Iscariot, that that that one who betrayed Christ and then went out and hung himself and and we think of him and so you think Judas, well surely he's not the author of this book. Well no, it's not the same person. It's a different person. But so of the five, I'm just going to give these to you. There is going to be a little bit of teaching tonight. And we'll try and uh squeeze some preaching in there, but hopefully you got your Bibles and you're ready and uh eager to learn about this. Uh but we see that there is the disciple that we all know uh that betrayed Christ, Judas Iscariot. Then there's the apostle that's a little less known, but Thaddeus, in John 14, 22. And some people believe that this Jude and Thaddeus were the same Lockier says they're different. I'm going to defer to him because I did not try and dig down into it far enough to determine one way or the other. I just know that I've heard people say that they were one and the same, and then when I looked in Lockyer's book, he he says they're different. So this would be one of the five, the Apostle Thaddeus. And then there's a Galilean who stirred up sedition after the birth of Christ in Acts chapter 5 and verse number 37. And there is one whom Paul lodged with in the street called straight in Acts 9:11. And then there is the prophet sent with Silas to Antioch in Acts 1522. So then here we have this. Jude, who is the half-brother of Jesus and the writer of this book, says here a couple of things that are pertinent for us. and maybe applicable where we could uh apply some things to our lives as we consider these thoughts. In his introduction to himself, he says, I'm a servant of Jesus Christ. This word servant here is a bondservant. It is one who has been freed, no longer has to serve, but decides, chooses to serve because of love. This was prevalent and common in Bible times, and it was practiced that the servant who was freed, and he was free to go, but decided to stay They would have his ears pierced with an oil on the door of the owner's home. But I just pondered and thought about the fact that you and I have been freed by Jesus Christ. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. Amen. You shall be made free. We've been freed from the bondage and the penalty of sin. Therefore, the love of Christ constrains us. We should have the spirit in the mind and the attitude of Jude that, hey, I've been set free, and because I'm free, I want to serve my master. I want to serve him. Judas says he is a servant of Jesus Christ. Now this is pretty fitting, pretty amazing when you think about this. Because he also says that he's the brother of James. Now what does that make him? If he's the brother of James, whose brother is he? The brother of Jesus. Now which one of you, young men, would want to be the servant of your brother? Y yeah. T Timothy raised Caleb's hand. Yes, Caleb wants to be a servant. Yeah. I mean it's pretty amazing when you think about the fact that he grew up with Jesus Christ, that this was his brother, and yet he came to the place where he believed not just in the fact that He was his brother here on earth, but in who he was, who he said he was, the Son of God. And he put himself under his brother and say he's the servant. Of Jesus. Why we should be willing to be a servant of Christ. He is the brother of Jesus It also is amazing to me that his parents were able to teach some level of humility to their children. Because you think about the habit of name-dropping that people have, you know, kind of like, oh yeah. I had uh I had lunch or dinner this evening with Dale Money. Yep. Now we didn't have dinner. Uh might go out afterwards, but uh you know I mean we just drop names, but I just think it's something he doesn't start with, yeah, uh by the way, I'm Jesus' brother. Just letting you know. I mean, he doesn't say that. And you know what's amazing is James, who he says, I'm the brother of James. James says the same thing in James 1:1. He says, James, a servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say I'm Jesus' brother. There's a level of humility there that these kids came away with that's pretty impressive. As a parent, for me, it just kind of said, you know what, I need to be thinking about that in my training and my instruction and trying to help the young people that I have the privilege of influencing to have that humility. And it's not about uh how much recognition we get or how important we can feel um but what God has called us to do. Yeah, it's in John chapter seven, verse number five, we we hear that All of his brothers, all of Jesus' brothers, did not believe on him. It was not until after his resurrection that they believed on him. There's a principle in the scriptures that a prophet is without honor in his own country. And sometimes we need to be careful about this. We have no idea. We we look at one of these young people right here and we say, Anner, man, he's pretty good guy. I mean Sort of athletic and and and you know, I mean, but school's not his strong point. I mean that's not we just look at him and say, you know, I've never really seen him do much as far as education goes. And I can't imagine him really doing, you know, really as far as, you know, school, but you have no idea, but he could be one of the next Bible translators. But if we are if we are careful, we'll take somebody here that God wants to do something amazing with, and we'll look at them and we'll say, oh, they were too much of a goof off to do that. Or they they weren't they they they weren't smart enough to do that or they weren't dedicated enough to do that. We can't and and we'll put them into a box and God could pick them up and do something miraculous with them. And we've got to be careful about that. That we let God lead them and we get behind and support and try and help them accomplish whatever God wants them to do. It's certainly something we have to be weary of, because aware of, because uh prophets without honor in his own country. Any of you kids ever done something stupid? Yeah. Yeah all all of us adults could raise our hands too. Amen. But aren't you glad that that one thing is not what defines you? But that's not what makes who you are today? And we've got to be careful that we don't do that to the young people. That we allow God to mold them and make them and grow them into what He wants them to be Having lived and learned with Jesus Christ, having watched and walked with the new church. All through the beginning, you know, Jude was still alive all the way. You know, this book is right before Revelation You know how many of the church have been killed by this time? How many of the church have been persecuted and what had happened? He had seen a lot He learned a lot. Right before we get revelation given to us, where we find out where we're going to be, Jude says there's something important you guys need to know as a church. You need to know that there's apostasy that's going to be coming and you've got to stand up and contend for the faith. It's going to be coming. He watched it all. We see the author, secondly, we see the audience that he was writing to. He says, Dude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, he says, to them that are sanctified by God the Father. And preserved in Jesus Christ and called. That's pretty descriptive who he's writing to. Now, this is called one of the general epistles. Because it wasn't written to a specific church, like the Church of Corinth or the Church at Rome. This is a general epistle, like the book of James. Where it's written to Christians in general, to all believers of the time, to those that were going to be faced with these challenges. Here we see, maybe you could call it a pastor's heart. We see Jude here concerned for the people, burdened for what was taking place in and around them. He warns them. First of all, he's writing to this group of people that I want you to see, I've said they were cleansed by Christ. Or they were sanctified by God. Sanctified, you know, means to be set apart. To be set apart. God has a plan for you. God has a purpose for you that's so big it's beyond your comprehension. If we would yield to him and allow him to do it, we can't imagine what God would do in and through us. God has a plan for you. Whatever it is. We were sitting down, Mary and I were sitting at the rehearsal dinner, sitting across from Clint. And he says, I have something to tell you. He said, You're not going to believe this. He said my family, my parents grew up in a small little bitty town on the edge of Ohio. It's like as far in Pennsylvania as you can get without going into Ohio. It's in Pennsylvania, but it's right on the edge of Ohio. And he says it's a little bitty, no name town. There's nothing there There was the church that we attended wasn't much to write home about. Little bitty country church out in the middle of nowhere. And the pastor that was there was getting old. Now we hadn't been there in many, many years, but On occasion we would stop in town 'cause for an area we'd stop in and we'd go to church there. And you know, the pastor was getting older and older and and And the church was dwindling down and dwindling down and we thought, man, the church is gonna die. There's no nobody, there's nothing here. He says, then we went there on a family vacation and we went in for church one day, and there was a young, vibrant, dynamic preacher there. And we thought, man, what's this guy doing here? Like, why would he come to this backwoods? No name, nothing out here. Like, and how did he get here? And they find out he's from California. So they go ask him, they say, how does a young preacher from California get out here? And he says, Well, I'll tell you, when I was a teenager, I had a good youth pastor. And My youth pastor was working with me, but I got away from God. I was running my own way. I was doing my own thing. He says I was in another city. Walking down the main street or some town and uh my youth pastor from California saw me. And he came over to me and he called me out on how I was living. And he said, God has a plan for you. And you are wasting your life on self and on sin. God has something he wants to do with you. You will be amazed if you'll just let him do it. He said, and then he turned and walked away. And them words rang in my heart. He says, but as he began to talk, He began to talk about his youth pastor, and we said, Your youth your youth pastor's name was Steve from California? And then they said, Steve Samuel? Which is Mary's brother. Mary's brother was his youth pastor. And he just saw a young man that had potential and said, you need to yield to God. You have no idea what's God going to do. If we would just surrender, he was sanctified, set apart for a purpose. God has a plan for your life, just like that of Jeremiah. We don't know what it is, but you remember the prophet Jeremiah, the Bible says that before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, and before thou cameest forth forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. God had a plan. He set them apart to accomplish and do something specific. The process of sanctification is a process that takes place over time. There are some who believe that the work of sanctification takes place at salvation and then is done. Now there is an aspect of it that takes place. There's positional sanctification that takes place. You are positionally made righteous in Jesus Christ. It's not our righteousness, it's Christ's righteousness. His righteousness, we're clothed in his righteousness, and positionally we're made clean because of what Christ did for us. Amen. But there's also progressive sanctification that takes time. It's the ongoing process of purification that takes place in our life, where we day by day yield to Him. And although some believe it happens at one time, I know from my own life experience, and more importantly, from the Word of God That there is a process of sanctification that takes place as we yield to him, day by day, and slowly conformed into his image and made more holy. The Bible says in 1 Thessalonians 4, verse number 3, he says, For this is the will of God, even your sanctification. That ye should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. There is that ongoing process of sanctification that takes time. And then one day there'll be perfect sanctification. When we're removed from this old flesh and we're taken up into heaven and made like him. Until then, we've still got to deal with this old flesh and we've got to yield to God This is who he's writing to. He's writing to saints that are positionally sanctified, but they're in the process of sanctification by yielding to him. And then he says to these saints that they're covered by Christ. He says preserved in Jesus, but I wanted to alliterate it, so I said covered by Christ. So they were cleaned by Christ in sanctification. They're covered by Christ. I'm thankful today that my salvation is not dependent upon me. I have never understood why somebody would teach that you could lose your salvation. I don't understand the appeal for it. Actually, in the study for this message. I read a commentator that was teaching on the necessity to contend for the faith, and here he was teaching that you could lose your salvation. He said the power of salvation comes from God. But in order to keep it, you have to keep the faith in God. If that's the case, how do you know you ever had enough faith? How do you know when you when you've kept enough faith or or if your faith is strong today? Or or maybe today it's weak and tomorrow it's strong? Did you lose it and not get it back? I I don't know. I don't understand it. You once you you are secure, you are safe in Jesus Christ. It's it's by him and through him and him alone and I have nothing to do with it. I can't I I didn't get it, and so I can't lose it. God is the one who did it. It's all in him. Covered by Christ. Preserved. It's Christ's perfection, not mine. 1 Peter 1:5 says, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. Kept by the power of God. Not by my own power. That word preserved there, according to the Strong's, means to guard, to keep an eye upon. to prevent escaping from, which implies a military-level force You're preserved, kept, covered by Jesus Christ. In John 10, 27 and 29, the Bible says, My sheep hear my voice. I know them and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall sometimes perish. No, it is never perish. Amen. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them to me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand, and that includes you and I. It is all the work of Jesus Christ, and we are secured by Jesus Christ. We know that there's nothing temporary about everlasting. And he said he would give unto them everlasting life. And then we see that they're called by Christ. They were called. You know, ultimately, to begin with, we're all called through the gospel. We're called to Christ through the gospel. The Bible says in 2 Thessalonians 2. 14. He says, whereunto he called you by our gospel to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. All are called, but some don't respond. The message goes out for all, but we've got to respond. We're called because of Him. Not because of what we have. Not because of the strength we have or the skill we have or what we have to bring to the table. It's all because of him and what he did. We have a holy calling. 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 9 says, Who hath saved us And called us with a holy calling. Not according to our works, but according to his own purposes and grace, which he has given in Christ Jesus. We have a holy calling, something to live up to. We have a heavenly responsibility in that calling In 2 Peter 1, verses 10 and 11, he says, Wherefore, the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure. For if ye do these things, ye shall now befall. For so an inheritance shall be ministered unto you abundantly, unto the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You see, the Bible says the just shall live by faith. Without faith it is impossible to what? We have to be living by faith. We have a heavenly responsibility to do so. Not that we're forced to, not that we're made slaves, but that we choose to, like Jude, because of love, to be a servant of Christ. What a privilege we have to be adopted into the family of God. As I thought about this, you know, Jude was Jesus' brother. Steal some thoughts from Michael Jr. He said, Man, what was uh what is it like to be Jesus' brother? Imagine your mom and dad like, why can't you be more like Jesus? Like, why do you disobey and he always obeys, you know? That was a lot of pressure in the home there. Jesus is your brother. But what's amazing is you and I adopted into the family of God, we too become brothers with Christ. The Bible tells us that in Matthew chapter twelve, in verses forty-six through fifty, he says, While he yet talked to the people, behold his mother and his brethren stood by, desiring to speak with him. Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brother stand without, desiring to speak with thee. But he answered, and he said unto them that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand towards his disciples, and he said, Behold, my mother and my brother, for whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven The same is my brother and sister and mother. Been adopted into the family of God and you get to be be a brother with Jesus. Amen. I won't be much longer. I want you to see in verse number two the appeal. He says, mercy unto you and peace and love multiplied. This is a prayer request. This is A desire that they would have this in their life. He's appealing to God that this would be present in their life, that they would experience and know mercy, that they would know love. And peace. It's a prayer on behalf of someone else. You know, mercy is God's compassion and love in our lives. I know everyone here is thankful for God's mercy. You know what's amazing? It's not just it's not just a compassion and concern for another I mean, we can hear about this first Bible and the idea and think about these 4,000 was it that don't have a Bible, don't have one ounce of scripture in their language, and our heart can be moved with compassion, and there can be a level of concern there. But do you know mercy goes beyond that? Mercy moves in to start doing something about it. And I'm glad that our Lord and Savior is a present help in our time of need. He's not just up there looking down, and man, I feel really sorry for Caleb. He sure messed it up again. He's sure gonna hurt this time. He's not just looking down at that and saying, well, look at that. No. He says, well, let me let me help him. Let me meet their need. Let me let me have some mercy. And I'm thankful that God's mercy is present and helpful. He brings peace. The person who's made peace with God can receive the peace from God, and then they can have the peace of God in their hearts. That starts with making peace with God. I hope tonight everybody present here has made peace with God. That that's been settled. Then you can experience that, the peace from God that comes in your life. Not that you won't ever have a storm a storm. You see, God doesn't say he would remove you from the storm, but he does bring peace in the storm. You can be going through a great trial and have a measure of peace that the world doesn't understand. It's a peace that passeth all understanding. Because God is with you. Yeah. There song It goes I've had many tears and sorrows. I've had questions for tomorrow There's been times I didn't know right from wrong, but in every situation, God gave me blessed consolation. That my trials come to not only make me strong, but through it all, through it all, I've learned to trust in Jesus And through it all I've learned to trust in God, the peace in the storm. And he prays and asks that they would have the love of God. In their life. I'm pleased this morning that nothing can separate you from the love of God. We have that love, and nothing can separate that. But if we were honest, there's sometimes we feel like It's not really there. There's sometimes we may wonder, God, do you still love me? You know, have you forgotten about me? We know the truth of the principle that He said he would never leave you nor forsake you, but there's times in our lives when, whether it's because of trial or test or or maybe because of our own sin, we we wandered far from God. And we turn our eyes back heavenward and we look for God in His presence and say, Lord, are you there? And I'm pleased to tell you tonight that every time you do that, God will be there God's love will be present and you can know his peace and his presence and his love in every hour that you determine or decide that you want it. But his prayer for these people is that they would know the love of God. Oftentimes when folks are going through a terrible time of heartache or trial I will pray for them and ask that God would almost in a physical way come down and be so close to them that they would almost feel as it were a a warm embrace from God Himself to carry them through that struggle. That's what he's praying for these people, that they would know the love of God. It is that love that constrains us. Because immediately following that, he comes to the point and he says, Listen, you've experienced the mercy of God. You have the peace of God. Now let me tell you, the love of God is right there with you. But hey You've got all that. You need to contend for the faith. Contend for the faith. We're going to get into that, the admonition found in verse number three next week, contending for the faith. But tonight I wonder, are you the kind of servant that's serving God out of a love? Do you feel that God has forced it upon you and made you do some things, or do you say, Man, all of what God's done for me, I want to serve Him? Are we raising and training our kids in the right way and teaching them humility and teaching them to follow Christ and maybe it displaying the kind of mercy that just doesn't have compassion or concern but goes beyond that and actually makes a difference in somebody's life. You see, it's the love of God, beloved, that allows us to see the potential, not the problem. It's the love of God that causes us and motivates us to give when we're not going to give it get anything in return. It's the love of God that would cause you to put another 150 bucks in your gas tank so you can minister for God and so you can be at church and so you can go out soul in your pass out John and Romans. It's it's it's not normal and it's not natural, but the love of God motivates you to do it. I don't know where you're at tonight. Man, I hope this is a prayer not just for us individually that we would have these things. But that those whom we love and care about would experience and know these things in their life.