Let's get into the Word of God tonight. Grab your Bibles. You should know where we're headed. We're to the Book of Jude. We've been looking at the Book of Jude, just kind of walking through it verse by verse and uh just gleaning what we can and trying to be exhorted and challenged with regards to this matter of contending for the faith. And we certainly live in a wicked day in a time when when uh we need to be contending for the faith. When uh I'll tell you what, it it wouldn't take much uh to di without standing, without upholding the faith, uh it's gonna get taken away. It's gonna get stolen. Uh everything we stand on and believe in It is mind-boggling. Uh the I I don't even know if you want to call it adrift, but it's the the headlong run after uh the wickedness of the world that the church even is involved in today. And uh it's mind-boggling. And so we need to be contending for the faith and standing for that. And we have been looking at this, so I know you're familiar with the text and with the verses. We're going to begin tonight in verse number 14. And uh hopefully covering down through verse number sixteen. Uh and we'll see here in verse number fourteen says, And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these things, behold The Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds. And when they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches, with ungodly sinners have spoken against him, these are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lust. And their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage. So these verses here we're going to get into and and talk about tonight. And I just want to pause. And last time we were together, I meant I get I sent home a little bit of homework. uh for those that would like to uh and dig into the threes that are found in the chapter or how I was joking about Jude being a good preacher because he presented everything in threes. Now it's not doesn't hold true for the whole book. There's some things he presented more of and examples and such, but there are many threes. I didn't know if anybody had opportunity to kind of read through and nail those down and what those threes were All right, nobody did their homework. So uh that's all right. Uh I did it for you and uh we uh we've been studying this so It kind of begins in verse number two, where we see the threefold appeal, the prayer that he has there. He prays for the saints that they would have mercy, peace, and truth. And then he gives threefold illustration or three uh illustrations about what happens to those who walk after their their own way and not after the way of God and He gives the illustrations of those apostate people that are found in the Old Testament that the Israelites would have been familiar with in those verses 5 through 7, where we see Israel. the angels and Sodom and Gomorrah. He gives all three of those. And then he gives descriptions of the apostate in verses 8 through 10, where they uh defiled their flesh, that is, they were immoral. They rejected the rule of God, which means they were insubordinate. And they were speaking evil of dignitaries, the ill reverent. And uh three again, three examples there he's given. And then uh he gives uh three warnings concerning these ill reverent uh apostates. He says, hey, uh what is going to happen to them? And so he gives three examples of that. And he gives the way of Cain, the heir of Balaam, and the gain saying of Korah. And realizing that there's going to be judgment when men go their own way and do wrong. And we're not there yet. It's later in the chapter, but he talks about building your faith and he says how to build your faith is by praying in the Holy Ghost, keeping in the love of God. and looking for the mercy of God. And we'll get to those in a in another week. I imagine we've got a couple of lessons more. But we'll begin tonight here in verse number 14 and 15. These verses go together as we see what I've entitled the anathema prophesied. You know, an anathema is that which is despised or loathed. But that definition goes on and it says a person or thing accursed or consigned to damnation or destruction. That is the ruling. It is a a judgment. It is a stand of a person that has been judged against. This is what he says here in Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied these things, saying, Enoch prophesied some things concerning these apostates. And so we want to see those things tonight. We're going to look at these couple of verses, and uh we'll see the prophecy the prophet, the prophecy, and uh the punishment that he lists out here in these verses. And so, first of all, we see the prophet. The prophet we see is the seventh from Adam lived before the flood was a long, long time ago. But we know about Enoch, one particular characteristic that we are told about him, that we all know what it is. Enoch, what? Walked with God. Enoch walked with God. And in my study and preparation, I almost got stuck right here at this point. And that was it. And that we weren't going any further tonight Because just that idea that Enoch walked with God and is God's people that ought to be a characteristic of us. Regardless of who we are, whether we stand in front of a class or whether we sing in the choir or whether we vacuum the floors. Whatever we do as a Christian, it ought to be a habit of our life that we walk with God. What an amazing testimony that Enoch walked with God and he was so close to God so so much closer to heaven that he walked right on into glory instead of being taken up. And I'll tell you what a testimony that is. I think as Christians, we've got a long way to go with regards to our walk with God if we're going to set Enoch as a standard. If we're going to set him as an example, then we certainly have something to shoot for. We have some area we can grow. Amen In our walk with God. Enoch walked with God. We praise God for that. That's told us in Genesis chapter 5, 22 and 24. We see in Hebrews 11, verse number 5, that Enoch pleased God. What a worthy ambition for us to desire to please God. You know, I know that uh Brother Greg in enjoys what my what my brother always used to say is that putting put that puts a smile on God's face And just picturing that and thinking about the idea, when you do something that you know honors God, you can just in your mind just see your Heavenly Father smiling at you. What a joy, what a privilege. Sometimes On occasion. It's getting less and less now that my kids are older and they're much cooler and all that. But you know, when they were younger, they certainly enjoyed, they would do something and they would look for the smile on Dad's face They would look for when dad was pleased, and they still do that, and I praise God. I'm certainly an unworthy parent to uh have kids that still, even as teenagers and and as young adults, look for their dad's pleasure And I'm I'm excited about that and thankful. Uh the other night I came home from Mexico and I got home late, twelve thirty. Now, somebody asked me in the van, is Mary going to be up for you or the whole family waiting up for you? I says, oh Mary will be up, but I don't think the kids will be up. But I was wrong. I came in the house and everything was off and everybody was asleep. They figured h he'll get in. So Mary tried, but I I just was too late. She fell asleep on me Uh she told she apologized in the morning. She says, I'm so sorry. I was trying to stay awake, but it just kept getting later and later and I fell asleep. I said, that's okay, honey. But what I'm saying is that I walked into the house and uh I turned the light on. And the living room was spotless. The kitchen was spotless. Everything was put away. Everything was in its place. And the kids know that I value that. They know that I appreciate it. When I come in and things aren't put away, I'm like this house is a mess. So many and I came in and I know that the reason they did that is because I was coming home. Well listen, what are we doing because we know it pleases God? What are you doing on purpose? Not because you know you're going to get a benefit, not because you know God's going to bless you for it, not because you know that there's going to be a return with that investment, although praise God He is a rewarder of them that diligence will seek him. But what are you doing just because you know it pleases God? Because it pleases God. I hope you came to church tonight because it pleases God. That's that's one thing we do. We just do it because we know it pleases God. We're just gonna be in God's house because you know it makes God happy. This prophet he pleased God. You know what, beloved? Enoch lived in a wicked day. The Bible says about the day in which he lived, which we know were in the days of Noah. You know the illustration given to us in the Word of God about, so shall it be. As it was in the days of Noah. The day is coming, and I don't know where we're at in God's timeline. Nobody knows the day or the hour, but we know that things are going to get bad. The wickedness is going to be prevalent. Every man's going to do that which is right in his own eyes, and uh seeking his own pleasure, and that things are going to get bad, and that will be in the days like it was in the days of Noah. And what I'm saying is Enoch walked with God and he pleased God in a time when it was wicked. And you and I cannot use the wickedness of society and the debauchery that's all around us as an excuse for not pleasing God. We still can please God, regardless of how wicked and defiled this whole world gets. We can't miss the beautiful picture that's given to us here as we contemplate and think about Enoch and how he was taken. He was taken in that wicked day and taken up into glory. He didn't die. He was taken up. And he was taken up before the judgment that came through the flood. That is a picture for us. A picture of how one day we too will be taken up. We're going to be taken out of here before the flood. We're going to be caught up together with him in the clouds. And those that are alive and remain, you know, they're going to be caught up together. That's going to come. That day's going to come. And we're looking forward to it. But he's a picture of what he's gonna what's gonna happen with us. It's gonna be before the judgment comes. There's the prophet. We see the prophecy that he gave. Concerning, it's amazing, he gave a prophecy concerning the second coming. He says, Behold, the Lord cometh. With ten thousand of his saints. This is pretty remarkable when you consider the fact that Enoch lived some 3,000 years before Christ came the first time. And yet here he is prophesying about when Christ is going to come the second time with ten thousands of his saints. In 1 Thessalonians 3, 13, he says, To the end he may establish your hearts, unblameable in holiness before God, even your Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his saints. I've heard people talk about how they've got a ticket to heaven. There's even a song about a one-way ticket to heaven. I don't remember the words about it, but uh there's there's about having a ticket to heaven. And it's a one-way ticket, and I'm going there, amen. And people have joked about it and looking forward to it. But you know what? We actually have a round trip ticket because we're coming back with him The Bible says that we're going to come back. We're going to rule and reign with him. And so we've got a round trip trip ticket. This, of course, the second coming of Christ is not to be confused with the rapture where the rapture takes place before the second coming A lot of times those get mixed up, you know, we we refer to them, you know, uh maybe inadvertently uh w in a general sense. And some people would call it the second coming and would uh divide it into several different segments. But the rapture, God doesn't set his feet down here on earth. We're caught up together in the clouds Then you have the tribulation. After the tribulation, you have the second coming. And that's what he prophesied here about that time, the second coming. Behold, the Lord cometh, he says. The Lord cometh. That word cometh there is, according to the scholars, which are a lot smarter than me. Brother Reardon is working. on taking Greek because he has an institute there and he's trying to teach some of that and I I don't know. I don't know how he does it all. Well, you study in Greek, but this the scholars say this word presented here is in a past tense. Although it's prophesying of a future event. You say, well, that doesn't make sense. Well, it does when you think about the fact that he stated it in a past tense. As if it already happened. He is stating it with a conviction, with a a surety, with a confidence, as if it had already happened. He cometh. Behold, he cometh. That that phrase, behold, he cometh is only found uh three times in the Old Testament. In Isaiah 26, 21, he says, For behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also shall disclose her blood and shall no more cover her slain. And in Micah 1, verse number 3 he says, For behold, the Lord cometh. For out of his palace and will come down and tread upon the high places of the earth. It's stated as if it already happened. Anything that God says is going to happen, it's going to happen. You can count on it. To put it into modern vernacular, you can take it to the bank. Because God promised it. We know that Revelation 2220 says this says that he's going to come quickly. Behold, I come quickly. In the twinkling of an eye, he's going to come. And that's going to happen. You know, this world's interested in that time, saved and lost alike. are interested in the end times. Lots of different movies have been written about it, lots of different books have been written about it. Especially when there's catastrophic events around the world. Storms, earthquakes, wars, an event like 9-11. Something like that happens and and and books about end times and prophecy and those kind of things fly off the shelves. Tim LaHaye's series on uh Left Behind. Uh last I heard it sold over 65 million copies. There's an interest in what's going to happen. But the sad fact is many people are going to false prophets. They're going to listen to their horoscope. They're listening to fortune tellers. They're listening to people. That are projecting what their own mind is on what's going to come instead of going to the book. Because the Bible tells us what's going to come, amen. The Bible tells us about that time. Even Tim LaHaye in his series on uh in his books, I watched an interview uh with him talking about his books some years ago because there's several things that are doctrinally incorrect in those books. So if you read them for entertainment, that's one thing, but don't read them for doctrine There's a lot of there's some things in there that are not right. Um and he said in this interview, he's like, well we had to change some of the you know minor things doctrinally to make the books more sellable. So he's more worried about selling books than s than than sharing true doctrine. I I don't know why you wouldn't just put the true doctrine in there He knew in his heart like what was right. There's some areas that he knew he was changing because it fit the storyline better uh instead of holding true to the doctrine of of that time about what's coming. So a lot of people have some real Misconceptions with regard 65 million people or more have some real misconceptions about that time period because they've got them from Tim Leigh's book instead of from this book. What we're to understand here is that it's coming. The prophecies, sure, it's gonna happen. Amen. And that prophecy holds in it a judgment, a punishment. He says here to execute judgment upon all. And to convince all that are ungodly, I mean the number of times he says ungodly in this verse, uh it ought to let you know that's the key word, amen. That's the that's the key thought here with regards to the ungodliness of man. Beloved, He's coming, He's going to punish, He's going to judge the ungodly. The purpose for Christ's coming is to execute judgment upon all the ungodly. Very clearly, that's emphasized there, that's stressed there. In 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 8 and 9, he says, In flaming fire, taking vengeance on all them that know not God. And that obey not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. How clear is that? He's taking vengeance on those that know not God and that refuse to obey the gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the the that He came and He died for them. If they refuse to accept that, He says, Hey, you're going to be judged. He's going to take the Bible and says, Vengeance on them here. And he says, verse number nine, he says, Who shall be punished with an everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power? Beloved, this is not a random, careless, hateful judgment cast upon all men just care just carelessly. I mean, some people picture this this mean, angry God who is up there just looking for the opportunity to rain down fire and judgment upon people No, we know that He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God's love is extended to all mankind, and the message of the gospel is to be carried forth by you and I to a lost and dying world. We present them with that truth that they might come to the saving knowledge of Christ and accept that, but if they reject it, They'll be under God's judgment. They'll be under God's judgment. It's the ungodly that he's going to judge. Psalms 1, verse number 6 says, For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. The judgment here is on all the ungodly. You know, sometimes we think about uh the uh establishment of ungodliness we we kinda c we can set our own standard on that sometimes. We can decide what what is ungodly and what's not. You know, well he's a murderer, obviously he's going to be judged, or he did this and he's going to be judged, and and and so on. But see, God's the standard. Not what we think or how we feel. You see, beloved, when they're faced with the reality, that is, with the truth of their sin. The Bible says they're going to be convinced. He says in this verse here, sorry, in the beginning, oh The beginning of ver uh verse, I don't have the verse written down there. I think it's fifteen, right? To execute judgment upon all. I didn't have the verse written down, but to execute judgment upon all and to what does it say there? Convinced all that are ungodly. You see, they're going to be convinced. Ironside says that that means to convict or to persuade. It's I think both sides. It's going to be, listen, you're you are going to stand guilty. And you're gonna know it. You're gonna be fully convinced. You're gonna know that you're guilty. He's gonna convince you of that. The truth is gonna be laid out. Yeah. And we see in verse number sixteen the Acts proclaimed. What type of people is this? What is their How do they act? In verse number sixteen, he said, These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lust, and their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's uh persons in admiration because of advantage. There's a list given Containing the behaviors of these men that had crept into the church. They had, if you go back to the beginning, they had crept in unawares. The apostate. the personality of them. We've got men and we see first of all there are men that are partaking in murmuring. Murmuring. This word of course is grumbling, it's complaining, used throughout the Word of God. We know that God is not pleased with murmurs. Because it's showing that we're not pleased with what He's done for us. That's one of the biggest problems with the children of Israel is God was caring for them, God was leading them, He was directing them, He was providing for them, and yet still they murmured And God wasn't happy. His wrath was brought out upon them. Murmuring is rooted in discontentment, a dissatisfaction with what God's done for you. What parent wants to care and provide for an ungrateful, self-centered child who's never satisfied, who it doesn't matter what you do, they're not happy. The parent says, why should I do anything for you? God looks at us after all he's done for us. And we're murmuring and complaining. We're discontent. And God says, look what all I've done for you. Where is the gratitude? Where is the appreciation for all that you have? Instead of the discontentment because you don't have what so and so has. You know, if there was no such thing as an iPhone, you wouldn't be discontent for it, would you? If they didn't ever come out with a new version, the version you have would be good enough. But the new version says, hey, and then you're you're in the foyer at church and Joe comes in and he has the new one. 'Cause he always up to date on tech, right? Joseph Techie, right? So you guys know I'm messing with you. But he and you're like, man, what what does that do? And he's like, well it does this and this. Well mine does that too, but probably not as fast. I need to get the new one. You know. It's just we're like, well uh we we get discontent with where we're at God's not pleased with that. We need to have a content spirit and satisfied with what God has given us. Amen. He has blessed us so much. Yeah. Then we have complaining, which is, you know, of course very s similar, but this word literally means to find fault or blame. So y you have a habit of finding fault? Uh find uh or or placing blame Say, well, it's just constructive criticism. You know, finding fault with the problems with this or problems with that or problems with this or or or always wanting to blame it on somebody else who did this And I remember one time when we were kids, and I've told you this story before, but we were eating, my mom was on a health kick and we're eating all this healthy food and we're all eating these apples. And uh there was apple cores getting left around the house. And you know, just left on the counter. And of course they start to draw uh gnats and whatever. I mean leave fruit out like that is not good. And and mom was fed up with it. And and she says, you guys gotta put your apple cores in the trash. And every time she asked, like, whose apple core is that? Six kids in the house and not one of us left that apple core there. You know, nope, wasn't me I think I saw David eating an apple. You know. I think I saw Melissa with an apple. Uh we all it was always somebody else's fault. And uh one day there's an apple core in the living room there and nobody did it, and so dad pulled a cell in the living room and he says, Okay. He grabbed the paddle, he says, one of you did it, so I'm just gonna spank all six of you. Unless the one that did it wants to own up to it right now. And the guilty party stepped forward. To be honest with you, I don't remember who it was. I just remember standing that line being afraid that I was going to get whipped for somebody else's crime Uh but he's like, You gotta own up to it. Yeah, we just don't like owning our own mistakes. We like to cast blame. That's kind of what he's saying here, this complaining, finding fault and blaming others. And oh my goodness, he says, walking after their own lust. You know, beloved, there's so much in the Word of God with regards to this lust. Lust is a passion or desire for something, and it can be something good. This word lust is translated desire several times in the Word of God and it's put in a good connotation. But 95-98% of the time, that passion or desire with regards to the scripture is when we're drawn away and enticed of our own lust. When we are seeking after that which God doesn't want us to have And he says, man, these men they're walking after their own lust. What he's saying is that they're not surrendered to God's will. They want their own will. In Galatians 5, verse number 16, he says, this I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You see, walking in the Spirit is following after God. It's surrendering. Oh, yes, Lord. Okay, is this what you want? Yes, Lord. Okay, Lord. But when we're not doing that, we fulfill the lust of our flesh. That is what we want. That is our desire. Somebody that walks after their own lust is immature in Christ. It's a sign of immaturity to be unable to tell yourself no. 2 Timothy 2. 22 says, flee youthful lust. You see the young person, the younger they are, the less likely they are to be able to say no to themselves. Hopefully they get training and they start to learn to be able to say no. But as Christians, we've got to grow up into the Lord and let the Holy Spirit lead us and put aside our own lust, our own passions. Flee those youthful lusts. Then he says here these they were boasters. Mouth speaking great swelling words. Great swelling words. I just think about uh a lot of false teachers. It seems like they are very gifted with speech, with communication. They're very entertaining or very uh easy to listen to. Um sometimes I thought it would be nice to have a good appealing accent, you know, good Irish accent or or something like that that people would would enjoy. It's kind of uh it's it's different. You could even like Go south and you have an accent, you know, you have a southern accent, whatever. It's just kind of entertaining a little bit more. But you know what? That's not what changes people. God has to do it. But a lot of these apostates, false teachers, they're very gifted with their tongue. They're very easy to listen to. They boast of great things, great swelling words. I think about the idea that It's very similar what it says about the Antichrist, that the Antichrist is going to speak great things, great blasphemes. It's a gift. And it's a sign of the apostate. Then we see uh this idea of respecter of persons, lastly, you know, only helping those that could help them. That person's in admiration because of advantage. Giving time and energy and effort to somebody because you know that they'll help you. Not just because it's right or just because they need encouragement or whatever else, but These are pictures here of these apostates, but you know what? I think sometimes we fit into some of these categories. We personally have some of these things that kind of maybe we get close to and we need to guard against So they're not prevalent in our lives. We need to guard against that tonight. What I want you to realize this evening is that the way of the ungodly is hard. And that the end of the ungodly is even harder. And as Christians, beloved, we should stay as far away from ungodliness as possible. We should stay away from it. It doesn't have any room in the church. We need to keep it out of God's house. We need to keep it out of our lives. We are to stay away from even the form of ungodliness, right? Just the appearance of evil, let alone partaking of it wholeheartedly I'll tell you, I watched an abomination this week. A drag queen standing in the pulpit of a church. Not just now there are churches that are holding drag queen events. Yeah. But this church had elected this drag queen as a pastor. What shocked me is this drag queen opened the service in prayer and said, God, let the meditations of our mind and heart be acceptable in thy sight. Think of what an abomination. Part of a church. I'm saying if there aren't people that will stand and contend for the faith, that's the direction this world will go. And as God's people, we've got to stand personally. It begins at home. It begins in our houses. It begins in our lives. Or we say these things are unacceptable to God. This appearance of evil, this walking so close to the world that you can't really tell us too much apart from what the world is and what we are. We're gonna we're gonna get further away from that. You say, boy, we stand out more. Yeah we do And the more wicked the world gets, the more we'll stand out. God hasn't moved. The world moved. Titus 2. 12 says that we're to deny ungodliness and worldly lust. Deny it. Romans 118 says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all Ungodliness. The wrath of God is revealed against all ungodliness. I think here we have two great contrast. We began talking about doing those things that put a smile on God's face. Man, what a joy that is to be able to put a smile on God's face. But beloved, whether you're a Christian or not, when you partake of ungodliness, he says, for the wrath of God is revealed. The wrath of God is revealed. That's the exact opposite. And I know in your heart and in mine we desire to put a smile on God's face, and we certainly don't ever want to be in a place where the wrath of God is poured out on us. But I know Satan's real. And the flesh is weak. And there's times Where we are all guilty of giving in and partaking of the ungodliness of this world. But I'm glad I've got a God that says if you're faithful, He's faithful and just, to forgive us, to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You can give back to the place where you have a smile on God's face.