Well, you should be in the book of Jude. That's what we've been studying, looking at this uh admonition to contend for the faith. It's been fun so far. We began looking at an introduction to the book where we learned about the author, the servant of Jesus Christ. And uh then we looked at the audience, the who he was running to. Uh those are in verse number one. And uh then in Verse number two, we listen to his appeal, his prayer, where he begs God and asks for mercy and peace and love to uh abound and grow in these saints' lives. And then we saw secondly the importance of the book and why it was so important for us. And we get to the heart of the message in verse number three where he tells them the admonition to contend for the faith. That's the heart of the book. That's the message through the entire thing is the reason and uh uh motivation for contending for the faith. And then we saw the affliction in verse number four, where he mentions these certain men that had come in, they had crept in unawares, they afflicted the church. They had infiltrate infiltrated the church with their perverse doctrine. And just so that they would understand the gravity of the situation, he proceeds to give them three illustrations. Of what happened to some others who went against God and God's plan. So tonight, beginning in verse number five here, we want to look at these three illustrations. that he gives us. Look in Jude chapter number one, verses five, six, and seven, where these three illustrations are listed. He says in verse number five, I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this. How that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not. And the angels, which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting change and under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Lord, we come to you tonight. We ask that you would bless our time around your word, that you would use these illustrations that are given to us here as a reminder. As he begins verse 5 with stating, this is just a reminder of what you do and how you handle these situations. And Lord, I pray that it would challenge us as Christians to contend for the faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we see first of all here in verse number five, the agnostics, they have this group of people that are guilty of the sin of unbelief. They didn't believe, which essentially is what an agnostic is, somebody that doesn't believe. They just don't believe. And we see that he says, I will therefore put you in remembrance. As I studied for this, uh several commentators uh kind of chased a rabbit trail right here with regards to this idea of putting him in remembrance, and they just went off on the idea that that is really what preaching is all about. It's not necessarily sharing truth that nobody's ever heard before. If you've been in church for for any length of while, you've got the Word of God. You're reading this book. You you maybe if you're a brand new Christian, there's things that are new and and you're learning and and you're growing, but after you've been here a while, you're not going to hear something new every Sunday. It's going to be putting into remembrance the things that you've heard. And uh I think it was Matthew Henry, they got pretty uh you know straightforward and he he was saying that uh listen The fact of the matter is, is you need to be reminded. Because we're pretty forgetful people. And he got pretty plain in his language and talked about how forgetful we are and And why we need to be reminded uh of these truths and and why preaching, that's the job and the goal of the preacher is to remind us of the principles and the truths of the Word of God. And this is what Jude is doing For God's people here. He says, I know you know this already. I know you understand this, but I want to put you in remembrance of these things. Though ye once knew this, How that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed and they believed. We see he describes here first Israel's deliverance, that God had saved them out of the land of Egypt. We know that God saw the affliction of Israel. God saw them where they were at and he knew exactly what they were going through and God knows what you're going through wherever you may be in your life. He is not ignorant of what of your struggle. He's not ignorant of your suffering. Exodus chapter 3 and verse number 7, the Bible says, And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt. He saw them. He heard their cry and he delivered them. He delivered them in a miraculous way. He saved them. That means he rescued them. He he came on the scene in a miraculous way. And you know the story. You know the story of the plagues and how God brought the plagues on one after another, these ten ten plagues, and it it's you read the story and it's just mind-boggling when you think about how hard-hearted uh you know Pharaoh was. Like why in the world wouldn't he Just let them go. He kept uh you know saying yes and then saying no and then saying yes and then saying no and and as soon as the the plague was gone He went right back to where he was. And we say, man, how hearted what how hard hearted was he? But then I think about our own lives and I wonder, you know what, so many times And so many Christians and I'm just as guilty as them, but I've seen it many times. People are sick, they're afflicted, they're down on their back, and they say, Man, if God will get me out of this bed, or if God will allow me just to go back to church one time Well, I'll be at church every week. I'll be faithful to God. If God will just get me out of this bed, and then what happens as soon as they're out of the bed? One, two weeks, and then they're gone, just like Pharaoh. The frogs are gone. And so he's going to go back on his word and his commitment. God delivered his people miraculously. With that last plague, that great picture of the protection for all those that are under the blood of a spotless lamb. That picture that stands to this day is a testament of what Christ does. What happens for us is the blood of Christ protects you and I. Then they're freed. Essentially, God not only provides for their deliverance, but he provides for them and the The Egyptians, they give them money. Here, take my gold, take my animals, take these things. You guys just go, just get out of here. And God provides for them and all that they're going to need for this journey they're on. And then their backs are up against the Red Sea. And uh you know the story. They're they're afraid. They call out and say, Man, We should have just stayed in Egypt. Now we're going to die out here. But then God delivers them miraculously across the Red Sea. It's this amazing and miraculous delivery that he's talking to them about. Truly he saved the people out of the land of Egypt, just as Jude declares. But then something happened to them. Unbelief came in. Unbelief settled in. Do you know that over 60% of professing Christians today deny that salvation through Christ, that salvation is through Christ alone? Unbelief. There are many perverse doctrines, and I don't have time tonight to get into or deal with all of the things that uh creep into the church and and that God's people need to contend for, but it's mind-boggling today that over 60% of professing Christians in America today do not believe that salvation is through Christ alone It is a prevalent truth that threads its way through Christendom today, that all roads of faith lead to God. That it doesn't really matter if you're a Muslim or a Hindu or uh any any other group of people if you have faith, that leads to God. But that's not what the book says. That's not what God's word says. And false teachers like Joel Olstein, who on national television tell the world that Muslims are Christians too. Okay. That is not correct. They don't believe in the same gospel. They don't believe in Jesus Christ as the Savior for your sins. And he has a national or even international platform. And wouldn't state the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, they believe in God too. He says, I traveled a lot with my dad, spent a lot of time in India, and uh I know that they're passionate about God too. But they don't believe in the same God. Their God would have them kill you. In just ten years from twenty twenty ten to twenty twenty, we went from forty-seven percent of American Christians. to 25% of American Christians that hold to basic biblical worldview. And that is The divine attributes of God, the accuracy of the scriptures, salvation through Christ alone, and the deity of Christ Those basic things. In just 10 years in America, we've gone from 40-47% of people that said they believed that to 2020, we're only 25%, almost down by half in 10 years. Things are bad, folks. Things are ahead of it, and it's because we're not contending for the faith. It's because there's not people standing up for the virgin birth of Christ. They're allowing people to say that Christ was just a man or that he was just an angel or that he was just a prophet instead of saying he was God in the flesh. He was all God and he was all man and he came and lived a sinless life and gave himself a sacrifice for you and I I want to remind you that it's because of Israel's unbelief that they were destroyed. After all of God's blessings, and after all that God did for them, because of their unbelief, The Bible says here in Jude that afterward destroyed them that believed not. They didn't believe, and so God did not allow them to go into the promised land. God didn't allow them to experience the blessing of God. In Hebrews 3, verses 17 and 18, the Bible says, But with whom he was grieved forty years. Can you imagine the God of heaven being grieved with you for forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness, and whom swear that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not? He was grieved with them because they believed not. For some reason, you know the story. They got to the edge of the promised land, and for some reason they went in to check things out They went in and said, send some guys, just check things out. And these men were overwhelmed. They were amazed by the bounty of the promised land. And the magnificent and glorious things which God was going to provide for them in this land. And truly it's a land that floweth with milk and honey. They came back with the report of the bounty that was present there and said, man, this is a miraculous thing. And how many people have come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and looked at the Christian life and said, wow This is amazing. Look at what God does. Look at what you can have as a Christian. Look at the miraculous things that God does for those who believe. But not only were they overwhelmed by the bounty, but they were overwhelmed by the battle. They saw the hardship. They saw the challenges. They saw the giants and they said, oh, yeah, it looked good, but there's some giants there. The Christian life looks promising and the victories that we can have through Christ are amazing. But I just don't think I can do it. I remember years ago, a young Christian came to Heritage Baptist Church where I was an assistant pastor. And he began to grow. He was making so many great decisions. He was so excited about God, was getting involved, and was serving the Lord in the church, and was just thrilled about the Christian life. And then over a period of about a month, every month and a half, his whole spirit changed. And he got so discouraged. He started missing church and I met with him and I said, What what what's going on? What w you know y where's all that passion and that zeal for the things of God? He says, Well, I was excited about those things, but I just look at the Christian life and say, I c I can't do it. Look at people like you and say, I'll never be that good of a Christian. So why try? I look at other men in the church or other people of the church, and I say, I could never be that good. I'm so far from that. Why even try? I said, you don't ever have to be as good as anybody else. The Bible says they that compare themselves among themselves are not wise. Because you just be what God wants you to be. And in God's power and God's strength, you can do it. He said, I don't think I can do it. You ultimately got out of church. Because he was discouraged because of the battle. Right. Because of unbelief. He got out of church Where they saw the giants. Only two faithful men, Caleb and Joshua, came back with the right zeal and passion to go forward for God because they trusted God. And they said God would give it to them. You know, if you're going to do right, you're usually going to be in the minority. There was just two. The other ten said no, but these two said God could do it. The beloved, because of those ten, an entire nation was swept in unbelief. And they wasted away in the wilderness. I wonder how many Christians today are living in the wilderness of Christianity because of unbelief. They're wandering wandering aimlessly through their Christian life because they don't have enough faith or belief to believe that God can do it in their life. That God can do it in and through them. They look at somebody else and say, oh, it's amazing what God's doing with them, but God could never do that with me. I could never get victory in my life like that. But you can Just believe in God. So many miss the true and powerful miracles of God because of unbelief In Matthew chapter 13, verse number 58, the Bible says, and he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. And he did not might many mighty works because of their unbelief. Now I could tell you, and anybody that knows me, if you've been around here a long time, I could tell you that I don't look at myself as somebody that has really strong faith. I look sometimes like my my face, like walk on water, Peter kind of face, my face like Hey, God's gonna do it. We're just gonna take out a loan. We're just gonna trust God to pay the bill. My faith is I I'm much more reserved And I don't know if that's good, but I'm much more reserved, and sometimes I wonder if we don't see great and mighty things because of unbelief. God didn't do great and mighty things in their mix because of their unbelief. We say, I know God can do it. But I want to step there first. I want to answer there first. I want I want to see first. I just want you to understand tonight, we're talking about contending for the faith, and we're talking here about the idea of living in unbelief, and this is a wicked thing. The Bible says in Hebrews 13, verse number 12, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. An evil heart of unbelief. And it could be, he says, take heed, brethren, it could be in any one of us. And the more of us that evil heart of unbelief exists in, the more restricted the power and the presence of God is in this church. But the more of us who are living and walking and exercising in belief, the more liberty God would have to do great and mighty things in our midst. It's amazing. We see secondly here in verse number six, the angels. They're guilty of a sin of rebellion. In verse number six, it says, And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation. He hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness and unto the judgment of the great day These fallen angels. Now you guys know the Bible, and I put you in remembrance of these things. I know that you know these things already. But the Bible, the Word of God, we know that the Bible indicates that a third of the angels rebelled against God. They rebelled against God and his authority, led by Lucifer. They rose up and they said, hey. We're not content to stay here. We're not content to function in the role in which you had commanded us to do. You're not content to to act in the way in which you had the boundaries that you had set up for us. We think that we can be as gods. We think that we can do this. They left their habitation, they left the boundaries, the place that God had set up for them, the state, the position given to them by God. Peter writes about this same thing and states it in a very similar way. In 2 Peter 2, verses 4 through 6, he says For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them unto chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And he spared not the old world, but saved Noah on the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the were world of the ungodly. and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemning them which overthroweth, making them an ensample unto those that should live ungodly. He gives three examples there. We're substituting the one about Noah. But how God deals with those who do not function in the role in which he commanded. In the way in which he planned. It's rebellion against God's design, against God's plan, and God's order of things. These angels And God judged even the angels. Even the angels God judged. And God will judge rebellion Any who would stand up and rebel against God's plan. It doesn't matter who you are, for even the angels were punished. He hath reserved them in everlasting chains unto darkness, unto the judgment of the great day. There is an everlasting punishment. for rebellion those who stand against it. You know Uh how many of you know that Harvard was started as a Bible college? It was a Christian school. Harvard was a school to train preachers. Harvard's own Rules and Precepts of Harvard College. Can I read you a couple of them? Rules and Precepts of Harvard College Number two is, let every student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well. The main end of his life and studies is to know God. And Jesus Christ, which is eternal life. John 17, 3. And therefore, to lay Christ in the bottom as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and learning. And seeing the Lord only giveth wisdom, let everyone seriously set himself in prayer in secret to seek it of him. Proverbs 2 and 3 That's number two. Number three, every one shall so exercise himself in the reading of the scriptures twice a day, that he shall be ready to give such an account of his proficiency therein. Both in theoretical observation of the language and the logic, in a practical and spiritual truth, as his tutor shall require, according to his ability, seeing the entrance of the word giveth light It giveth understanding to the simple. The fourth, that they eschew all profanity of God's name, attributes, Word, ordinances, and times of worship. To study with a good conscience Careful to retain God and the love of His truth in their minds. Else let them know that Notwithstanding their learning, God may give them up to their strong delusions and in the end to a reprobate mind. Now the school that has this as their rules. I don't know how many of you are aware that last year elected as their president of Chaplains an atheist. They elected an atheist to be their head of chaplains. He's called the godfather to all hu all humanist movements. And as such, he's the overseer of the roles and assignments of 40 chaplains on campus. This, beloved, stands as a testament to why we must contend for the faith. When a school whose very foundation was designed to prepare men for the ministry And pointed people to Jesus Christ as the only foundation for all learning, can hire an atheist. Currently, according to a poll done in 2019, a graduate from Harvard is two times more likely to be an atheist than anybody in the general population. They're training them to be atheists. This man's name is Greg Epstein. And he said, we don't look to God for answers. We are each other's answers We are the answer. Essentially, we are gods. Essentially, I don't want to live inside of the bounds which the Creator stated for me. I'm going to rebel against that and set myself up as God. And this is a prevalent teaching, even in Christian circles, where we are little gods. I want you to know that God is not pleased with that. And God will judge any who step outside of the bounds of their role or their place that God had ordained for them to be. We see thirdly the abominable. That is here this sin of an abomination. These men and women, these people of Sodom and Gomorrah, in verse number seven. He says, In Sodom and Gomorrah, the cities about them in like manner giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance He says it very clearly there, very plainly, that what God did to Sodom and Gomorrah is an example. It was done as an example for us to know How God would deal with sin like this. He described here this group of people, this sin that was in like manner that is That is, it wasn't natural. It wasn't how God planned for it to be. They went after strange flesh. And we know the story of the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah. The homosexual acts, the prevalency of wickedness, the story of Lot. I mean the two men came to his house I can't I still cannot read that story and just my mind be blown When he stands there and he says, I've got two daughters who've never known a man, take them and do what you will. But let these men alone. And the words that he says there are just mind-boggling to me because he says, for they've come under my roof. Basically saying they've been they've come here for protection, so I must protect them. And in my mind I'm thinking, what in the world do you think you're supposed to do for your daughters? The wickedness of this society which God destroyed is described for us in Romans chapter one. Again, familiar verses. I know you all have read them, you know them. The Bible says in Romans chapter 1, verses 26 and 27, he says, For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. For even their women did change the natural use unto that which is against nature. And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another. Men with men working that which is unseemly and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. I don't know, you can't really get much clearer than that. You can't get much plainer or simpler than that, those verses right there on the sin of homosexuality. I don't know how anybody in any church Can stand up and say it's acceptable. It's it's mind-boggling. It's it's it's it literally it is it's just Unbelievable that somebody could stand up in a pulpit as a homosexual and a group of people would sit and listen to him preach the word of God and the truths of Scripture. When the Bible very clearly says that his acts are an abomination to God. And yet, in the world today, because we don't have people contending for the faith. This is acceptable in churches all over the world. We know, beloved, that we're close, that we're in the last days. Even so, Lord, come quickly. Because you know, I uh so maybe I'm a chicken, but I look at this, you know it's gonna get bad. Things are gonna get worse. This is gonna get pretty rough. So I'm saying, Lord, come right now. I'm ready. Because it's going to get bad. We keep going down this road towards this type of filth. Ezekiel describes this time in Ezekiel chapter 16, verses 49 and 50. He said, Behold, this was the iniquity of their system Sodom, pride. See if this isn't a description of our nation today. The iniquity of their sister Sodom, pride, fullness of bread, abundance of idleness. was in her and her daughters. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me. Therefore, I took them away as I saw good. That's mind-boggling. You know, today in the world you can identify as anything you want. I heard the other day of a cyclist that's breaking all records. World records, winning races like crazy, setting new standards for times in every uh cyclist race. He's a motorcyclist that identifies as a bicyclist Why not? If we can identify as anything we want, where does it stop? God's gonna judge this sin just just as he judged Sodom and Gomorrah That wicked city in Genesis chapter 19. We live in today in a day when they call evil good and good evil. I heard just today from Brother McPherson that his church that he grew up in, where a large portion of his family is buried in the cemetery out back, the church was vandalized. this week because of the role V Wade overturned. It's amazing that people in society Can scream and holler and fight for the right to kill an innocent baby. And then go and vandal and destroy a peace-loving, peace-preaching church and feel they're justified. They're call evil good and good evil. Would you think about this with me? Do you know that those that are homosexuals in our country Now, I want you to engage your mind. I'm almost done. But do you know that those that call themselves homosexuals, those that would identify in that ever increasing Acronym in some form only make up about two percent of our population You know, you can't go anywhere without being inundated with that philosophy. Even the most basic commercials are promoting that filth. And as I pondered and thought about this, I think, you know what, it's only two percent of our population. Do you know according to the 2020 census, 60% of Americans identify as Christian. Sixty percent. This is an indictment on us. Why is it that two percent of the population can turn the world upside down? Turn it on its head. And 60% of the country that professes to be Christians can't. Because 50 years ago they began to contend for their lifestyle And Christians went in the closet. We know in the Word of God we saw that a small group of men turned the world upside down. And we look at it, and this goes back to the first point of unbelief. But we look at it and say, well, it could never happen today. But when you think about the fact that only 2% of our society Has made that mindset so prevalent, it is so popular To be homosexual or to support that lifestyle that is everywhere today. We have an entire month dedicated to promoting it It's only two percent of society. I think we need to start contending for the faith. Start contending for the truth. Because God can turn it around. God can. We're reminded here. We're given these biblical examples of how God deals. With those who are guilty of the sin of unbelief, or the sin of rebellion, or the sin of fornication. It is the gravity of such events that lead us to contend for the faith in a new fervency Because what's important is at stake. We can't afford to be casual about it. We can't afford, beloved, to just be careless. God has called us to contend. But are we liber are we willing to do it? It's not very popular, it's not very woke to be a Christian today You know, in the eighties and the nineties it was kinda woke to be a Christian. The politicians they like to say they're Christians and all that God can turn it around. But I think God's people are gonna have to start contending for the faith. Standing up For truth and righteousness. H. A. Ironside said, where false teaching prevails, ungodliness abounds. And that's our country today. False teaching is prevailing and ungodliness is abounding. We need to get back to the truth.