Turn your Bibles to the Book of Jude. We are studying the Book of Jude. Fun, important little chapter in the Word of God. Uh lots of truth for us, some sayings found in this chapter that are very familiar to us, things that we would just quote. just grabbed and and used many times, but a lot of the a lot of the book is is left unread and and well maybe not unread, but certainly unpreached and and untalked about. So I wanted to take time to just kind of walk through the book. Look down if you would and just follow along as we read the first four uh verses. We began last week by covering the first two, and uh tonight we will cover verses three and four. Follow along, he says, Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called, mercy unto you and peace and love be multiplied. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith Which was once delivered unto the saints. For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men Turning the grace of our God into liciviousness, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. We began last week looking at verse number one and two, and first of all, took a little bit of time talking about the author, the writer of this book This Jude, not to be confused with the four other men who bear the same name in the Word of God, but we discussed this Jude and his importance, and then we looked at the audience. that this book was written to describe those that are sanctified of God the Father, that are preserved in Jesus Christ, and those that are called. That we have a calling of God, something He wants for us to do, and we looked at those, and lastly We uh looked at the appeal of Jude, this heartfelt prayer that he had for the saints to experience mercy, peace, and love, that those things would abound would be multiplied in their life. And we left off last week just mentioning what's going to come this week in in verse number three, the admonition. This is the heart of this text. This is the heart of this book. This is the cause and the purpose for which Jude was motivated to write. It was the thing that was needful for him to write, and that is that men should contend for the faith. His inclination, his desire was to write concerning this common faith. The common faith. Now, it should be understood that this is not to mean commonplace. This is not to mean common as in the definition of no rank, of no superior excellence, simply ordinary. We, of course, know that our salvation is not. of no rank, that our salvation is not ordinary, that it does have superior excellence. There is nothing more excellent in the Word of God or in our lives than the salvation offered and given to us by Jesus Christ. So we know it's not talking about common with regards to something ordinary. What it's talking about is something common in regards to something that is shared among all. It's common to all of them. They all had this salvation. And I praise God that from the beginning of the Old Testament until now The salvation offered has been a common that is the same salvation to all mankind. I love it that when I go to a mission field, I may not have much in common with them I have a different language that I speak and different food that we eat and different clothes that we wear and different cultures that we experience. But it's amazing how you go to the mission field and you walk into a church And immediately you have a common salvation. You've got something that bonds your hearts with them, your brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. Because you put your faith and trust in him and in him alone. And man, it gives you a bond that supersedes, that goes over the top of everything else that this world holds onto so dearly. We've got that salvation in Jesus Christ. And he said, Boy, I wanted to write to you about this common salvation. I wanted to just extol the blessings and the benefits of the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ and the brotherly love and the kindness that is ours because of it. And he wanted to preach uh uh one of those fun messages. He wanted to give them something exciting talking about the common salvation. But Something happened and he said, Oh man, I wanted to do that, but I can't. And I think of it sometimes a pastor or preacher will have a message in his heart and his mind and he's in he's desirous to preach that message and he'll begin studying and preparing that message and think, yeah, this is it. And then God will just put a message on his heart. God will just say no That's not what is needed for this hour. What's needed right now is this, and he'll change the message. He'll change the direction he was headed. I think that's what happened to Jude here. He said, man, I wanted to just preach to you about this common salvation. But something came up. Something happened. So I don't know what he saw or what he heard, what illustration or story came into his heart or what news he got, but something came to his heart and mind. He said, Boy, I I've got to warn the people. I think about a Man, uh boy maybe walking with his father. You're walking and you're just talking, just chatting, shooting the breeze. Maybe uh even talking about some things that are of importance in life. You're given some instruction. But then a car begins to careen out of control and it's it's just coming down towards you. Well, the What the conversation that you were involved in no longer is of such importance. That is not what's captivated your heart and mind. All of a sudden what you were saying disappears and you say Oh, get out of the way! And you push them out of the way or pull them out of the way. And there's there's uh something so important, something so necessary that we've got to forget all of that, and we've got to deal with this That's what Jude's saying. There's a snake inside the fence, and nobody knows about it. And we've got to warn everybody that it's there. It's important. We've got to let people know. It says that he gave all diligence to write unto you. He had invested some time. He had invested some effort already in ro in desiring to write about the common salvation, but God took that out of his heart and mind and said there's something more important that he needed to cover. See He had heard the warnings of Peter, he had read the warnings of James, his brother, concerning the apostasy that was coming. Maybe he had just happened to catch a news broadcast about something that took place in the church of Jerusalem. And he said, man, I need to let everybody know. We've got to stand against this stuff. There is a need for us. He gives them an imperative declaration to contend for the faith. To contend for the faith. He says there, it was needful for me to write unto you. Something I had to do. The Spirit of God motivated me. And to exhort you, he says. Exhort you. That word exhort means to encourage, to embolden. To cheer, to advise. He said, I have to write and warn you. I have to exhort you. I have to cheer you on. I have to advise you concerning this. I have to show you the importance of it. Again, Jude had been around long enough to see and to learn a few things. He wasn't a novice. He had watched. The apostasy creeping into the church and saw the damage that it was causing. He had watched Paul and Heard Paul describe the saint as a soldier of the cross. He watched Peter and John as they fought for the faith that was handed to them. He said there's something coming into the church that's creeping in. Church, we need to stand against it. He said you need to contend for the faith. That word contend means fight It means fight. It means to battle, to strive strenuously for, contend for the faith. We're all supposed to be contending for the faith. All of us. Not just the pastor or the staff or missionaries on the foreign field, but every believer is supposed to know what they believe according to the Word of God, and they're supposed to contend for that faith. The faith that was handed to them They're supposed to fight for it. All of the sanctified that are mentioned in verse number one. All of the saints that are mentioned in verse number three, it's all of us. If we've been sanctified, if we've been saved and bloodwashed, and we're to be contending, fighting for our faith This faith, of course, is not the faith of salvation. I praise God that we don't have to contend for our salvation. We're not talking about that saving faith. What we're talking about is the whole of the doctrine that is the truth of the Word of God. We are to contend for this. All of it is important. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It is profitable. Not just John 3. 16. But all the truth of the Word of God is worth living up to and standing for. The whole of this truth. Truth as it was delivered to you. The same truth that was delivered to the apostles. It's amazing when you consider and think about you know how people value things that are old? And I'm certainly not saying you shouldn't, but it's it's amazing how you go some places and they have these museums and they say, man, uh you know, these buildings have been here since 1725, you know. Or the house we live in was built in 1890. You know how impressed people are about that? They're like, 1890? Really? Wow. It's amazing. And and the older things are, it's like in in this part of the country we've got a lot of things that have been here for a long time. And man, people really like it. And then and then you get back in the fifteenth century and fourteenth century, you're like, man, it was how far back can we go? This was delivered to the apostles. And we still have that word with us today. And it's to be the same faith This is so important, beloved. What was delivered to the apostles is what we have. And there's not to be anything added to or taken away from this truth. I don't know why people today, in all there's nothing new under the sun from this time till now. uh there's been apostasy and nothing new about it. But it's amazing to me how people gravitate towards somebody who says they have new revelation from God. It's mind-boggling to me. Why do people like that? First of all, I don't understand being narcissistic enough to be able to say I have revelation from God that you need. that that that only God could only speak to me and I'm going to impart this to everybody. But why does the world, why does so many people, even in Christendom, why do they gravitate towards that? I was listening to in researching for this, I was listening to some things, and the complete foolishness, the utter Just crazy things that this guy was saying as he was standing around. He's like, I'm prophesying to you a revelation from God that somebody in this auditorium today is going to experience a hardship. Really? Amazing. What a prophet. But not just any hardship, a hardship like you've never had before. And he's walking around and people are screaming and yelling, woo, yeah, yeah, this auditorium is packed full. And he says, but you're gonna come out of it and you're gonna have renewed faith in God And you're going to experience a new vision of God. And it's going to spread. It's going to spread like a fire. A fire of revival. And and people are getting more and more excited. And everybody's running around. And he's a new prophet Yep. It's that new people just gravitate towards it. Listen, anybody says they have new revelation from God, run. Run. Because we have Paul said, I declare unto thee the whole council of God. We have the whole counsel of God. The apostasy that was once delivered to the saints. Good read one time for all time. Once delivered unto the saints is is okay, here's the word of God. This is once delivered. It's for all time. This is what everybody has for all time. This is the word of God for all mankind. We know that there's many things under attack today. I contemplated giving you Illustrations and we may get into that another week just trying to warn you and and to mark those that are causing problems in in Christendom today, but I'm going to try and stay away from that tonight. But the deity of Christ The Trinity, the purity of doctrine that we have salvation through grace Your faith in Christ and Him alone, salvation without works, the depravity of man, the sinfulness of man, the Virgin birth, the resurrection of Christ, the eternal security of the believer, the second coming, truth concerning heaven and hell. It's amazing how many people believe in heaven that say there is no hell. They're both in this book This is where we're here about both of them. The inerrancy of Scripture. It's amazing how many people want to take and pick the scriptures that they like and say this is scripture from God. But oh no, that's not. Why? Because you said so? The ordinances, as they're to be administered and given as they were given to the church? Purity with which we're to live, the holy life that we're to live as Christians, so much is under attack. But the current apostasy that's in the world today is the same as it's ever been. There's new faces, new names, but the same apostasy. H. A. Ironside said this. He said, It shall be cause for thankfulness that so far as error or heterodoxy is concerned That's heresy, as far as heresy is concerned. There is nothing new under the sun Every form of evil teaching now current was exposed by the inspired writers in apostolic days. Therefore, the need to contend earnestly for the faith, once delivered Refuse, you need to refuse all innovation as innovation of man or Satan himself. He's saying it's all here in the book. It was delivered to the saints and given to us, given to the apostles. There's no new nothing new under the sun. All the heresy has a new name, a new face. But it's the same apostasy that's always been there. And we are to contend. How are we to contend? He says earnestly. Earnestly contend. Zealous eagerly. That word earnestly Appears in the passage in Luke chapter 22 and verse number 44 when he says, Christ being in agony prayed more earnestly. Christ there, having been tempted, having standing against Satan Rebuke Satan, then praying in the garden, praying, Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. Under all of this stress and pressure, he began, the Bible says he began to pray more earnestly. And then it says he prayed, sweats, droplets of blood. That's earnest praying, friend. That's earnest praying. And that's the kind of earnestly Jude tells us where to contend for the face, for the faith, with that kind of eager desire. with zeal, with vigorous determination. Beloved, when the very foundations of our faith are under attack, We're not to just drift downstream with the current, but to fight against the current of modern society. When this world would would want to say it's it's okay. For a man and man to get married. And it becomes so prevalent in society that it's really accepted. The Bible still says it's an abomination. It's still wrong. And what's mind-boggling is that churches Not just fringe cults, churches that once stood on the Word of God have drifted with society because they stopped contending for the faith. And you'll find more and more churches that not only hang colored flags out in front of their building to let everybody know that we love everybody. This church loves everybody. We don't embrace the sin. You gotta contend against the sin. Stand for the faith. Not only do they hang Colored flag out front, but they put the homosexual in the pulpit to preach the word of God. And the pews are full of people claiming to be Christians, claiming to love God And listening to somebody who, by God's very definition, is an abomination. Their act is an abomination. But see, we stopped contending for the faith a long time ago for it to get to get to this place. We started ex accepting worldly lifestyles. We started allowing things that the Word of God is very clearly teaches against, saying it's okay for it to get to the place where a church would even need To stand for that. It's mind-boggling that that's even a question. Like that's even anything we need to discuss or vote on. The Bible is pretty clear about the fact that a pastor has to be the husband of one wife. That means you can't be divorced. There's some very well-known, nationally recognized preachers That people in this church have talked to me about their messages, and these guys have some very good messages. And I just I told him, I said, Yeah, he's got a good message. I just wish he wasn't still a pastor. Because technically he's disqualified to hold that position. But you see, the church disregarded the Word of God. They said, Oh, it's okay, we love you. We want you to continue to be our pastor. And so he said, okay. Last name Stanley. Nice guy. Probably as far as skills with the Word of God, surpasses me by leaps and bounds. But he allowed himself to get into a place in his life where he's no longer qualified to be a pastor. He can still teach the Word of God, he can still preach You can't hold that position. But see, the church said, no, we're not going to contend for that. We're not going to stand for where the Bible stands. We could go down the line. There's so many things today that the church is just letting through the doors. They're not contending for the faith. It doesn't line up with Scriptures. 2 Corinthians 10, verses 3-6, the Bible says, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringeth into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. And verse number six says, and having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience. When your obedience is fulfilled. Are you ready to stand against disobedience? Those that would not follow God? That would not want to obey what God says. That's what he, the admonition that he gives us here is contend for the faith. We see in verse number four the affliction. He says, For there are certain men crept in unawares who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. You see, there's an infiltration of a perversion of the faith. It's slowly infiltrated the church This is the cause for the subject change of his writing. The motivation. Maybe he heard about something that happened there at the truce Church of Jerusalem or or or something was brought to his attention and he said, listen, there there's There's apostasy creeping in, and we've got to stand against it. It's something that's destructive, it's destroying, and it's got into the church. And beloved, if heresy crept in amongst the church in the day when Christ was there, and if heresy crept in in the days of Paul and Peter. If heresy was present when Jude was talking about this, then how much more do you think heresy is present today In the church. Apostasy of falling away from the truth of the doctrines, the faith that was handed to us It's been modified and adapted and changed and adjusted to what we believe and what we think and what is culturally relevant. But the truth of the word of God has not changed. We must struggle against this creeping error. It starts small, little things here or there. Church must stand against it. But you know, usually when you stand against Sin, it offends people. People get offended, and then they don't come, and then they're not putting money in the plate. And then well we can't have that, so let's just stop preaching against this. Just change. We won't change the Word of God. We're just not going to preach the whole counsel of God. There's things that we believe and know to be true, but we're just going to leave them off. Listen, I'm I'm the pastor and I'm standing in front of you and I'm telling you that that is a pressure on the man of God. Because people don't like truth. Such a struggle to balance preaching of the truth and preaching it in love, but giving the truth of the Word of God. Letting God take care of it. That's the job the pastor is supposed to be doing. The Bible says here that certain men had crept in. These are men that were certain men. It wasn't everybody. It wasn't necessarily these men themselves, but oftentimes these men are blinded. They're blinded to what they're even doing. It's Satan who's using them. Because it has been the do the goal and the job of Satan since the beginning of time to corrupt the church So he'll send in something, someone. This person I I don't know if they I mean they would have to be pretty malevolent to in their mind be plotting against the church. I don't know if they even realize in their mind what they're doing. I think they're just doing it and they're being used by Satan to do it That's what the ordinances are given to the church for, to help keep the church pure, to help fight against that. That's why baptism is so important. Why we don't just take everybody into the church from outside without them having been baptized in a church of like faith and practice, because that is a testament. to you personally are letting go of whatever it is you held on to, whatever belief you had regarding salvation or Jesus Christ before, and whatever doctrine you were, you're saying, listen, I'm in agreement and I believe in what the Bible teaches Concerning the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And I I'm raised to walk in newness of life. I'm going to practice and believe these truths. Baptism helps keep the church pure. It says there the certain men crept in unawares. I think that that's possibly even they're not aware of what they're doing. Certainly the church, if the church is not vigilant, they won't be aware of what they're doing. I could give you illustrations of even in our church. Since I've been leading, where things have happened, where people have come, been here for a little while. And uh start talking about or spreading or d or or dealing with something that doesn't line up with the Word of God, and that starts that those conversations start spreading. Sometimes people come to me and say, hey Did you know this person believes this or that they were talking to a group bunch of us at a table and saying this and I have a meeting with them and say, hey, do you know what the Bible says concerning that? But we've got to be vigilant. We've got to be careful. The Bible tells us to mark such men, to warn the church about them. I know in our day of toleration it's less and less acceptable to point that out, but it is what God's Word says to do. God condemns it whenever and wherever and whoever is practicing sin. God condemns it. These are, you'll see, ilreverent men. He says they're ungodly men It's amazing. Ungodly men. They're in the church, but they're ungodly. They've lost all respect for God and who God is. They've come to the place that they live inside of the cross, but have stopped bowing to it. You see, they they they come into church and they sit and they listen to the message and they sing the songs and they know how to carry their Bible. But they've stopped following God and are just living for themselves. That's how God describes them here as ungodly men That is, men without reverence or fear for God. That's what ungodly is. Men without reverence or without fear of God. They're living that way, but he says they've crept into the church. That means he says they're among you, they're in the church. Men who don't fear God, men who have no regard or respect for God, but are living ungodly and wicked lives. He says, man, they're right there. He says, these men have no problem turning the grace of God into lasciviousness. Licidiousness, this, is unrestrained lust. Every sinful pleasure and purpose in this life is now freely indulged in. That's the church today. Every sinful pleasure. You know There's there's more of them out there than this, but I don't know how many of you know who Carl Lintz is. Carl Lynch is the pastor of the Hillsong New York, not anymore, because he is been uh I don't know if he's officially been arrested, but he's been charged with sexual misconduct and abuse and other things. But Carl Lint is Justin Bieber's pastor. Okay. He baptized Justin Beaver. And uh but there's pictures all over the internet of this pastor and Justin Bieber who apparently got saved and baptized in bars doing shots together. Getting drunk. They got they got arrested for drunk driving together And yet the next week he was still in the pulpit of one of the largest churches in this country preaching And oh, that's okay. You know why it's okay? Because the people in the congregation want to live that way. That's why it's okay if their pastor lives that way, because then they don't have to feel bad about what they're doing. But we can all act spiritual. We can all come in and say we're gonna we're gonna have a rock concert and call it praise and worship. It's what is acceptable in the church today. They've taken the grace of God and turned it into ligciviousness. Is there not a more clear description than that? The biblical standard of holiness is forgotten, and every type of sin is justified under grace. So Titus 2, 11 and 12 gives us a different standard. He says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness. And worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. That's the way a pastor is supposed to live. That's the way a pastor is to encourage and admonish the church to live. To live soberly, godly, and righteously in this wicked world. We're not to conform to the world, we're to contend against it. And yet in churches everywhere, conformity to the world is promoted. Men who claim to know God but do not submit to Him. They don't submit to Him They're in the church, and yet God says they're ungodly. They love the ways of the world, the fashions of the world, the pleasures of the world. They try and conform themselves to it. I'm sure many of you have seen the Instagram post about Pastor and his and his sneakers. Some of these young guys probably have. There's a guy that started posting Instagram photos of pastors around the country and the sneakers that they're wearing for church. Because There are sneakers that pastors are wearing that are as much as $5,000 a pair that these pastors are wearing. Of course they're preaching in jeans. You know the new fad is high waters? Not only are we wearing slim jeans, but the new fad now is high waters. So they wear slim pants that are way too short. And you know why they do that? Because they want to show off their five thousand dollar sneakers. They want everybody to sneak to see 'em. You got pastors that are in on every new fad. But that's not what the church is supposed to be. Can I read 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 14 through 18? The Bible says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness, and what concord hath Christ with Belial? And what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, and God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and will be their God, and they shall be my people Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty Living worldly and living holy do not coexist. Light does not have fellowship with darkness And there's been way too much adoption in the church with the wickedness of this world, with the music, with the dress standards. Worldly talk and conversations. It's been too it's it's commonplace and it's comfortable and and oh we all like it. I'm saying the church at large in society today. How is it that they can have a church with 10,000 members? They're appreciated. We're not called to conform, but we're called to contend. If you aren't careful These things will creep into the church and there will be an influence there that will cause the church to drift from the faith that was delivered to the saints. The Apostle Paul says you've got to contend for that. It's worth standing up for I know sometimes people get upset. It's not about making somebody mad, and we certainly don't want somebody to get upset or be offended. But the truth sometimes offends. And we cannot let go a truth just so we don't offend anybody. If you do that, you have nothing. You say, oh well, we're just not going to preach on this because it's offensive. Well, let's just run down the list then. Let's just throw it all out. If we can't if we can't preach the whole council of God, let's just close let's just close up shop. Because there's a whole lot of places you can go and have a religious experience. There's plenty of those out there. I don't think that's a church that pleases God. We're to contend not for the sake of contention. There's some people that are just contentious. It's not. We're not supposed to just be contentious. He said there back there, he said, listen, I pray that love and peace And grace would be multiplied unto you. We are to have peace. We are to have love. These things are to be multiplied. But in the midst of that, we are still supposed to stand for truth and righteousness. We're supposed to stand for what is right. We contend for the sake of the purity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Only those who stand against darkness can remain a light. You can't be a light. And not dispel darkness. So if we're adopting or taking in darkness, our light's going to be gone. We contend, we contend vigorously with all the weapons that are available to us. We of course have our sword and shield. Put on the armor of God and stand in the power of His might with the Holy Spirit. And we do so with Christ-like qualities. Not just to be contentious, not just to try and drive a wedge between people or create a problem or just to be just to be a jerk. You can stand and have a good spirit. And do so. You can preach the truth and preach it in love, but we need to stand We're to continue steadfastly in Apostles' Doctrine. Could I ask you tonight, are you doing that? Are you continuing steadfastly in Apostles' Doctrine? The invitation tonight is, have you completely submitted to the rule of God in your life? He says there's people that are that are in church that are ungodly, that is, that they have lost their reverence for God. Do you still have a reverence and a fear of God? Have you submitted to His rule in your life? Are you continuing steadfastly in the doctrines of faith that you've been given? And are you contending for the faith against The ungodliness that this world would bring into the church