Stain on the history of Israel, that cycle of apostasy that is prevalent in the book of Judges, where you see that happening over and over again. In the midst of all that, there is hope At the same time, during this book, this era of judges, where you look at it and say, man, everybody's doing what's right in their own eyes. Everybody's just wicked and doing wrong, you have this picture of Ruth, this story of Ruth, somebody that hasn't bowed the knee. At a time when God's people were leaving their God And going to idols, you have the story of Ruth who left her idols and went to God. And it's just that picture and just a reminder to us that no matter how bad things get, there's always a remnant. There's always some that haven't bowed the knee. There's always some that still believe that God is the creator of the universe and He did send His Son to die and that the Bible is the Word of God. Amen? There are still people that believe that. And sometimes we feel like, man, the world is so bad. And we're going to talk about that a little bit in this morning's service, hopefully not to discourage you too much. But uh we're going to talk about that as we get into the signs of the times this morning. And uh I'll tell you what, sometimes you think, man, things are such a mess. I don't know if there's anybody that believes that God is God anymore, but there is, amen. There is. There's still uh seven thousand that haven't bowed the knee. There's still so many good, God-fearing, God uh believing, uh Christians that are around the world that are putting their hope and trust in God. And that's what we have here with this story of Ruth, hope out of darkness. So let's get right into it this morning. Well, why don't we start with a word of prayer? We're going to uh get in. You should be on page 73 in your notes. And uh we're going to start and walk through this this morning. But let me open with a word of prayer. Lord, we love you. We're thankful for your goodness to us. We thank you for the opportunity to be in your house today. Lord, thank you for this book, the book of Ruth, uh just a short window into this time period where we see that Lord you were still working, that people were still following you and doing what's right, even in the midst of a dark, dark day. And I pray God that we would be that picture of hope, that light that shines in darkness, even in this dark day, Lord, that we could be that testament of your saving grace and work in our lives. And we'll praise you for it. Bless this time together in Jesus' name. Amen. So we want to see first of all that Ruth makes a wise decision in chapter number one. So we we we've got basically four points here with these four chapters divided up I couldn't sleep last night. I went to bed at about 1230 and at 1. 30 I was still awake, my mind just running, and I'm like, okay, so I got up and I went for a walk and Did a little bit of praying. Then I came back and tried to go to sleep. I couldn't go to sleep. So I read through the book of Ruth. I figured that'll put me to sleep, and that didn't put me to sleep. So I read the first chapter of a book uh at the Breed and Breeding Put I read the first chapter of a book that I just got by Robert and Murray McShea. Uh and sometime after two o'clock I finally said, Okay, uh Lord, you gotta I g I gotta get up in the morning, we've got church, I need to go to sleep But I enjoyed last night just reading through Ruth again and and you know just getting this story in my mind. And so these four chapters are such powerful pictures of what God is doing in the life of somebody. But we see here in chapter 1, Ruth makes a wise decision. Beginning Ruth's destiny is changed. In verses 1 through 5, we see her destiny is changed So Elimelech, his frustration during this time in the book of Judges. So we kind of move very quickly here, but we see in Ruth chapter number one, verse number one, now it came to pass in those days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. So they went down there, and if you look at verse number two, the very last phrase, you'll see they continued there. They continued there. They went down to Moab to get away from this famine. It was a time of famine in the land. There was a hardship. There was uh a struggle in the land. Now Bethlehem, Judah means the house of bread. Bethlehem is the house of bled bread. And uh Elimelech left the house of bread and went to the world To try and find some bread. Went down instead of trusting God and dwelling in the house of bread, in the place where God could and would provide for them, God didn't desert the rest of the people that were there in Bethlehem, Judah All the rest of them people didn't perish, as we will see when we get to later in the chapter, and we find Boaz, who didn't go anywhere, but Boaz was being blessed And he lived through the famine. But Elimelech says, you know what, there's a famine. I'm not sure I have faith to stay here. I'm going to go over here to the world and uh try and meet the needs of my family. Because of his frustration, he made a very poor decision. He left the house of bread to flee to the pagan land of Moab. Listen, I want to remind you this morning that God takes care of his own. Psalms 37, 25 says, I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. God takes care of his own. And uh as the world waxes worse and worse and things get bad or we get to a place where we might end up in a in a real financial hardship in this country, uh a depression like we haven't seen since the 30s. Who knows what's coming down the road, but I want you to know that we need to continue to trust God. Even in darkness, we don't need to turn to the world to try and find a solution to get through. We need to trust God. God has us in the place of provision. So Elimlech and his family, uhlimlech means my God is king, although he wasn't living that way. He wasn't living like God was his king. He was deciding to go down to a pagan land. So Naomi means pleasant one. And we'll see later in the chapter here where she changes her name because of hardship that came into her life. Melon means sick, sickly, uh, and chilion or killion uh means pining. So these both of these young men were believed to be a little bit uh feeble, um maybe not really strong uh strapping young men, but something maybe had some type of physical ailments or limitations on them physically, which is why their names uh would reflect that. But we see here as they went down to this land, Elimnek's sons have a failure. So they married Moabite women. You know, it's pretty much goes without saying. That you're probably going to find a wife or a husband where you is. You know where you're at. I mean, more than likely where you're at is where you're going to find your mate. That's why it is so important that you are following the will of God in your life, that you are at the place that God wants you, that you're at the job that God wants you at, that you're at the church that God wants you at, that you're at the school or the college that God Once you at Because that's where you're going to end up, very likely where you're going to end up finding your life's mate. Well, they went down to a pagan land. And they continued there long enough that these boys found some Moabite women, became attracted to them, built a relationship, and ultimately got married, which they were very clearly told not to do. We've looked at that. You know, many times as we've gone through the books up to this point. So there should be no question in your mind that God's people knew that they were not to intermarry. Amen? That's what we know the Bible told them not to do that. Well, they went to a pagan land, and then in that pagan land, these boys end up marrying some Moabite women. So look down at verse number four. And they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other was Ruth, and they dwelled there about ten years. So they went there and continued, got married, and lived there for about ten years. It was a a failure that shouldn't have happened, but it did. Now, in the midst of this failure, God uh does some miraculous things. And sometimes people like to say, oh look, it was God's will. Because if they hadn't gone down here Then Ruth wouldn't have been saved, Ruth wouldn't have come, and ultimately Ruth is in the light of Christ, and I mean that wouldn't have happened. So it must have been God's will that they went into the world and messed up. No God can take things and turn them around. When Jonah ran from God, the mariners got saved. They all turned to God. That was a great result from his wickedness, but it was not what God wanted. He shouldn't have been in that boat. And these boys shouldn't have been down there, but in the midst of that, God still performs a miracle. And uh these Moabite women hear about the one true God and they turn from their idols So ultimately we'll see that she is brought into the line of Christ. Ruth is the great-great-grandmother of Jesus. So Elimelech and his sons, we see their funeral in verses 3 and verse number 5. So we see in verse 3, Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died. And she was left and her two sons. And then in verse number five, now the boys die. And Mulon and Kilion died also, both of them, and the women were left, of her two sons and her husband. So Now these three ladies are left all alone in a foreign land, in a foreign country. And Naomi hears or decides, you know what? Here I am in this foreign land. I've got nobody. There's no cause or reason for me to stay here. I'm gonna go home. I'm going back to where I grew up. I'm going back to my family. So we see uh Naomi becomes bitter at God for her suffering We see in verse number thirteen, uh, where she endures some suffering, she says, she says to Ruth and Orper, she says, would you tarry for them till they were grown? She says, She's saying, I don't have any more boys. Why don't you go home? Are you gonna just stay here till if I have a child and then you're gonna stay until they're grown? Would you stay for them from having husbands? Nay, my daughters For it grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Now had the hand of God gone against her? No, she was in a place where she shouldn't have been. In some results, she may have ended up reaping some of that, but God's hand was not out against her. And because of this, we see in verse number 20 that she becomes bitter. She says, and she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, which we said means pleasant, call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. And Mara means bitter. She becomes bitter at God. She becomes angry and upset because of the hardship that she has endured. So we see Ruth's Ruth's decision. Verses 6 through 15, because of this hardship, because of this struggle, she decides, you know what? I'm going to go home. Having lost it all, Naomi decides to go home. Verse number six. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the Lord had visited his people and were giving them bread. So she heard, back home, the famine's over. I can go home. Now, it's very likely that this story takes place shortly after the time of Gideon. Don't know exactly, but we do know it has to be at a time when Israel is at peace with the Moabites. Otherwise they couldn't have gone down there and dwelt with her. You know, so there has to be at a time when there wasn't conflict between Israel and the Moabites And so it's believed that possibly right after the time of Gideon is when this took place. But somet happened there where God raised up a judge. Again, it's during the cycle of apostasy. The people went into uh went into sin and God judged his people. They were put into bondage or famine was sent To judge his people, and they repented, returned to him, and God started blessing them again. So the famine's over. So she said, Oh, the famine's over. There's bread in Israel. I can go home now. And so she makes that decision to return home. Then we see the commitment uh that these Well, Orfa and ultimately Ruth uh decide to go back with her. We're not going to read all of those verses. Excuse me. But uh Three times she tells them to go back. Three times she says, hey, don't go with me. Stay here. I mean, obviously, I don't have any more boys for you. Why would you go with me? I've got nothing to give you. Why would you go with me? And this shows how backslidden Naomi is. Here these two have left their idols and are following God, and she's saying, hey. I don't have any voice for you, so why don't you quit following God and go back to your idols? That that doesn't sound like somebody in a right headspace. She should have been saying, no, no, don't go back to your idols. You come with me. We're going to go to the land of Israel. You're going to see God's blessing firsthand. You're going to see how God Blesses his people. But she was so backslidden that's not what she was worried about. And she tries three times to send them back. However, Ruth, whom this story is about, says, no, not happening I'm going with you. Orpus says, hey, sounds good to me. You're right. And that's what I'm interested in, so I'm going back. So she decides to go back to her home. But Ruth says, nope, I'm with you. And notice the commitment that she has in verse 16 and 17. And Rue said, entreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee Do we see the commitments that she has? She has no concern for her country. She says, whither thou goest, I will go. No concern for her country. She says, I'm going to go with you wherever you go. Wherever your land is, that's the land I'm going to be. She has no concern for her home. What is going to be her home? She says I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge. If we're sleeping on the ground, I'm with you. If we're sleeping in a hut, I'm with you. If we're sleeping in a tent, whatever it is, wherever you lodge. I have no concern for her home. She says, hey, I'm going to go with you. I will lodge with thee. There's no concern for her own family. She says, Hey, thy people shall be my people And there's no concern for her religion. She says, and thy God shall be my God. No concern for the faith that she had. She left that behind. Listen, when you come to Christ, we're to leave what we had before behind. Amen? We're to let that go. We're to leave that behind and move forward for God. No concern for her faith. She says, thy God will be my God. And no concern ultimately for her death even. She says, where thou diest, will I die. So Noemi and Re and Ruth return to Bethlehem in verses 19 through 22. This is a hundred-mile journey. 100 miles doesn't seem like much today in our cars where we drive 60, 70, or faster. Uh we you know 100 miles is not that far. Uh but on foot Uh maybe with a pack mule or something, hauling some of your possessions with you or something. I mean, a hundred miles can be a pretty good trip. She's got to go this this hundred mile journey back over a mountain. There's significant uh altitude change in this region where she's at and where she's traveling. So we get into chapter number two and we see that Ruth shows a willing dedication. So just as she committed, it wasn't all talk. You know, talk's cheap, amen. It was a commitment that was evidenced, and we see that in chapter two, where she has a willing dedication to submit to the sovereignty of God. In verses 1 through 3, we see the sovereignty of God. Naomi had a kinsman of her husband, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimlech, and his name was Boaz. And Ruth, the Moabites, said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the field and glean ears of corn after him, in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. And she went, and she came and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging to Boaz. Now that hap there, Is happenstance. Her happenstance. That could almost be in quotes. That could be almost facetiously saying, and she just happened to end up In the field of Boaz, her kinsmen. In all of the fields and all of the Israel and all of the land where she could have ended up. She just happened to end up in the field of somebody that could be her kinsman redeemer. Obviously it's not happenstance. It's God's direction. It is the sovereignty of God that we see him leading in the affairs of men, and we see that in Ruth's life, and I want you to know sometimes you won't know it until you get to glory, but there are times that God gives you a picture even this side of heaven where you see his direct hand leading you in your life. And what a joy it is to know that God has directed your steps, that God has led you, and He has put your path in a particular place for a particular time, for a particular reason. And that is what happened here. The sovereignty of God is exercised. And we see the supply of the gleaner. We see she went to this field. And she just happened, right? She just happened to end up in this field. God provides through family. Verse number one, we read that already, that she happens into this field of Boaz, which is a relative of her husband. Boaz was the son of Rahab. You can read Matthew chapter 1, verse number 5, and see that, which is where we start seeing the tie-in with the line of Christ. Boaz meets uh Boaz means, sorry, in him is strength. In him is strength. And Boaz must have had some strength to continue in the land of famine. You see, he lived through What Elimelech said, hey, things are too hard. I'm out of here. But he stayed and he watched God bless him and prosper him and live through the time of famine, and God took care of him, God supplied for him. Boaz sees Ruth. She's very fair to look upon, she's very attractive, obviously. He's interested in verse number five. He says, Then said Boaz unto his servants. that was set over the reapers. Whose damsel is this? He says, who's that girl? Obviously interested, the uh reefers in the field, the workers there, uh begin to get the information and bring it back to him. And he gives her protection in verse number nine. He gives her provision We see that he begins to look out for her. He says, Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou after them. Have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee? And when thou uh art athirst, go unto the vessels and drink. of that which the young men have drawn. So he says, hey yeah, go into my fields, get whatever you want. I've told the men to leave you alone. To guard and protect you, you're going to be okay. You can get whatever you want. Now I want you to know that this was God's plan for the provision of the poor. This shows the faith of Boaz. That you would think coming out of a time of famine. That they would be harvesting and grabbing every single piece of grain from the field and making sure they had enough But you see, God's plan, they were supposed to not harvest the corner of the fields where the tractors might turn or where the mules might turn and it was hard to grab that corner. They were told to leave that. Anything that they might have missed, you know, you running down a row and you happen to miss a a row, he's saying, Don't go back and harvest that, leave that row for others to come, so that the poor could come into the field. after the reapers had gotten what they needed and they would have something there for them. God's way of taking care of the poor is not through the government. It's through God's people being generous and kind and caring for their neighbor, and that's how God had set it up. And Boaz functioning inside of his faith and doing what God had instructed. His field was left with things for people to reap. And I imagine she was not the only one out there. There was probably others coming out of a time of famine. Many people probably were in a situation where they were in need, but she was there among them humbly. Going and serving Ruth to get what what Ruth going and serving Naomi to get what she could. So we see that he gives provision in 9 through 14, he gives water to drink, food to eat, and he gives grain on purpose in verse number 16. I know this is a familiar verse to you guys, but he says, and let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her. So he tells the gleaners, he says, when you're gathering everything together, say, oops, Oh, sorry, uh he's saying drop some on purpose. Leave some good size piles there for Ruth to be able to pick up. Can I tell you that God has some handfuls of purpose for you? God has some things in your hour of need where He's going to come and give and provide for you what you need. Handfuls of purpose that are left for you by God's design, by somebody he puts in your path, and he leaves handfuls of purpose for her. There is surplus of grain that's there, and she gleans in the field. In verse number 17, there's a word that I want to define for you, and you might want to write in the margin of your Bible here. So she gleaned in the field until Eve and beat out that she had gleaned, and it was about Ephah or of barley. Not how you pronounce that, but I do I did look it up. It equals about 30 pounds. So it's about 30 pounds of barley that she was able to glean. If you're interested, you can mark that in the margin of your Bible there so you'll have it for later reference In verse number 19, there's so many truths in this scripture where it's just so powerful good stuff that we could glean from. In verse number 19, notice he says, and her mother-in-law said unto her Where hast thou gleaned today? And where wrottest thou? Blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee. She said, She came back with thirty pounds of grain And she said, you didn't just happen on some strange field. Where were you reaping? Where did you end up that you got thirty pound I mean your kids come home with a bunch of stuff and you're like, okay, where'd that come from? Uh yeah. Uh you gotta be careful about that with kids. Like, okay, w where and then they might say, Oh, my friend gave it to me or Uh, you know, Brother Bob gave it to me or whatever. Uh you know, Miss Nelma, she's the one giving out candy, right? Uh you g you know, so it's these kids get candy. So, you know, where where did you glean that? Let me just point out, you've got to be careful where you're gleaning. You see, if we go back in the story, we see Naomi. She went out full to Moab, a pagan land, and she came back in empty She went to the wrong place to glean. She went down to this land full and she was pleasant and she was happy and she was fulfilled. She went down, of course Elimelech was the problem, she was following her husband, but they went down to that Pagan land. They went to glean in the place where they shouldn't have been, and she came back empty. But Ruth went out empty and she came back full. And the question was asked, where gleanest thou? That'll preach. Where gleanest thou? Where are you gleaning? Where are you going to get what you're coming back with on a day-to-day basis? We've got to be careful where we glean. By the way, even spiritual truth today You've got to be careful where you're gleaning. There's a lot of foolishness out there. You've got to be careful what it is that you're listening to and who is teaching you the Word of God. We see that she asked that question, and it's evident that God's blessing and God's provision was there. And she learns who Boaz is in verse number 20. She learns about Boaz, God's providential leading, bringing them to a place, somebody that could be their kinsman, Redeemer. She stays in that place of blessing. Verse number 23, we see her staying there. So she kept fast. By the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of the barley harvest and of the wheat harvest, and dwelt with her mother-in-law. She stayed there. So we're talking about a period of time through two harvests. of these fields. She says, hey, I'm gonna go. I'm gonna stay here. God's provided. God's met my need. There's no reason for me to go anywhere else. She stays there. And I imagine during all this time on occasion Boaz finds cause to be down in the field and say hello, say good morning, say how's the gleaning going. Are these guys leaving enough for you? Other people in the field are probably getting a little jealous. Like, why are they dropping all this stuff for Ruth, you know? But he's taking care of her. So we see in verse number three that Ruth is granted a worthy desire. Ruth is granted a worthy desire. See, Naomi sets out a plan for her. She stayed here in these fields and they start noticing the interest that Boaz has. So in chapter 3 she says, Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said unto her, My daughter. Shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee? Now, this rest is not just sleep. The idea of that word rest right there is a calmness, it is a peace, it is a removal of stress. What she's saying is, I'm I'm trying to find stability for you. We can't continue to live, you know, from paycheck to paycheck. We can't continue to live gleaning in fields like this. I seek rest for you. I seek for a time when you don't have to worry about every single day what you're going to eat or not. What she's saying is, I seek a husband for you. That stability that would come, the family, a home, and I I don't think this is best for you to live just serving me She says, boy, I seek rest for you. Verse number two, and now is not Boaz our kindred, with whose maiden thou wast? Behold. He uh wanna read barley tonight in the threshing floor. Wash thyself, therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor But make not thyself known unto the man until he shall have done eating and drinking. There's some I that don't have time to chase that rabbit, but uh you know uh something about dealing with men there Let them get something in their stomach and they're much more pleasant. So she's saying, wait, don't bother her. Don't say anything to Boaz until he's done eating. Let them eat. Let them get comfortable. You know, let's be systematic about this approach here, uh, Ruth. We we we want you to have a chance. And so get down to the threshing floor, wait till they finish the overseen of all the bringing in of the harvest and everything's put away and they're having a celebration. They're there on the fleshing floor with all of his workers. Everybody's there having a good time. They're celebrating the harvest. Wait till all that's done and then make yourself known. She has this desire. Naomi sets this plan. She seeks rest for Ruth. That is security that she should know. She knows that This is found, that rest is found in a kinsman-redeemer. Now, the law of a kinsman-redeemer is found in Leviticus chapter 25, verses 25 and 26. There's three key words there. One, it has to be somebody that's kin. A kinsman redeemer has to be somebody that's akin. Two, it has to be somebody that's able. to redeem. Somebody that has the ability to redeem, somebody that has the capacity to redeem. And uh there's lessons there because the inheritance of a family was very, very important by God's plan and God's design. When poverty made the selling of land necessary, the closest relative who was able and willing Had to had the privilege of buying the land. God wanted to protect the inheritance. There's a very big thing, and we see that thus far even in the Old Testament, how God had given them this inheritance. and they were not supposed to sell it. They weren't supposed to transfer it. It was supposed to remain in their family. And if for some reason, because of poverty, they had to sell their land to pay some debt Then the nearest relative had the option to buy that land back, provided they were able and they were willing. They could redeem that, they could buy that land back. to keep it in the family. That was God's plan. God had instructed them to do so. So Secondly, a childless widow was to be married and given children, so the family name would continue So part of that redeeming process was if there was a childless widow there, she was to be married, taken in marriage, given children, so that the family line could continue. So Ruth gives some instructions. I'm sorry, Ruth uh Naomi gives Ruth some instructions. Boaz is going to be celebrating there at the gathering of the harvest. Ruth was to prepare herself and go lie at his feet. This is a picture. Lying at his feet is a picture of us coming to the feet of Jesus. our kinsman redeemer, us coming humbly to the feet of Jesus. This picture is present there. Ruth, uh We see the steps that she does to propose here in verses 6 through 9. It is explained. For the sake of time here, we're we're run out of time. We're gonna not read all of that, but she exhibits her resolve in six and seven. She exhibits her resolve. We are In chapter 3 here, let's just look at that. 6 and 7. She says, And she went down into the floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law bade her. And when Boaz had eaten and drunken, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn, and she came softly and uncovered his feet. and laid herself down. She laid down at his feet. And it came to pass, at midnight, the man was afraid, and he turned himself, and beheld a woman laying at his feet, and said, Who art thou? And she said, I am Ruth. Thy handmaid, spread therefore thy skirt over thy handmaid, for thou art a near kinsman redeemer. So we see She expresses here her reason for being there in verse number nine. She expresses her reading and she spreads, she asks for their skirt to be spread over her This was a picture of him taking responsibility for her, saying, spread your cloak over me, saying, you're going to assume or take responsibility for me. She is essentially saying, Will you marry me? Will you fulfill the role of a kinsman redeemer? I am your kinsman. Will you fulfill that role? Will you do so? And picture it by the spreading of your cloak over me. Well, Boaz is stirred to make a promise. In verses 10 through 12, he determines that he will do so. He says, and he said, Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daughter, for thou hast shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as thou uh followest not young men Whether poor or rich, and now my daughter, fear not, I will do to thee all that thou requires, for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman Okay, so several things are notable here. One is she is a virtuous woman. There is nothing immoral or improper in what she's done here. She's gathered here in some manner of customs that maybe we're less familiar with, but she was not being immoral in any way. She was presenting herself or asking for marriage. And he says, listen, I know it. Everybody else knows it. You are a virtuous woman, and he's concerned about her reputation. He says, I will do everything that you ask. And he says, you know what? You're young. You're beautiful. You could have gone and had any young man you wanted. You could have gone and got a young guy, whether he was rich or poor, you could have had your pick, but you didn't And you're showing kindness to me by coming to me and allowing me this privilege to be your kinsman redeemer So he is stirred to make a promise to her and says, I will do everything that thou asked. Now he is honorable. He is honorable, stating the fact that there is one kinsman closer than he. Now he is desiring to be married to her. He he he has been, to put it in modern vernacular, I mean he has been checking her out and courting her and talking to her in the field every day for an entire season. He's pretty much got his heart set on her. Then she comes and says, Hey, will you marry me? And he says, Boy, I sure would like to. Yeah, that's definitely in my heart. I'm all about that. But he's honorable and he says, wait a minute, there is a kinsman that is closer than me. There's one relative that has first dibs. You know, the problem with us today, a lot of people today, is we would we would want to explain away something we're doing that is not right We would want to say, oh, but she asked me. I mean, she came here to me. I mean, after all, look at the providence of God. God brought her to my field. We've been building a relationship. I love her and she loves me. But none of that matters. Because what's right is right, and what is wrong is wrong. And he said there is a closer king's kinsman, and he has the right to redeem you if in fact he wants to. And so you can read the story there, but he he goes, uh he's hopeful. In verse number 13, he's hopeful he would like to uh marry her, but there is a nearer kinsman, and if that nearer kinsman is willing. Then he must allow him to. He wants to protect her reputation, knowing that she's a virtuous woman. We mentioned that already. And she is sent home with a promise uh of provision in verses 15 through 18. Now we are at 1012 and uh Can we do this in three minutes? Let's try. So Ruth gets a watchful deliverance. I'm not going to be able to nail anything in here or chase any rabbits, but a preferred request. We see a preferred request, verses one through four. See, Boaz initiates the process just like what Christ did for you and me. See, there's so many things here that we could talk about. Boaz goes and initiates the process of redeeming her. He does what's necessary. Christ came to you and I uh in the presence of others uh he presents the possibility. So he goes to that nearer kinsman in a public place and he says, hey, you are the nearest kinsman. You have the privilege and the right, should you want to, and you're able. Here is some land that belongs to the Limelech. Would you like to buy that land? And he says, boy, yeah, I would really like to get that land. That would be awesome. He says, by the way, if you redeem the land, Ruth comes with it, and you've got to marry Ruth. And this nearer kinsman says, wait a minute. Yeah, I'm a little less interested in the land now. I wasn't ready to take on Something like that. I'm not ready to take on Ruth. And so Boaz says, well, I am. And so this nearer kinsman releases his right and says, okay. I'm passing the right to you as the next nearest kinsman. Again, it has to be somebody able and somebody willing. And this nearer kinsman was not willing. I'm glad that God's willing to redeem us. Amen? So we see the prospect is refused in verses 5 and 6 when he uh hears that with the land comes the responsibility of marrying Ruth. He says, no, thank you. And he gives permission to Boaz. And you have a powerful redemption given there in verses 7 through 12. Per the normal custom, Boaz presents his shoe, Boaz uh pays the price. He says there, I have bought all. That was a limelex. Bought means to pay the price. And I just remind you that we've been bought with a price. That Jesus Christ paid the price for us. He is our kinsman redeemer. He was able, he was willing to redeem us, and he paid the price to redeem us. So we have here in the book of Ruth that picture of Jesus Christ. who paid for us. There's a lot of other great powerful truths we could talk about, but that is the story of Ruth in a nutshell, a picture of hope. In the midst of a very dark time and uh seeing what God is doing even in the life of one person, but a time when people were Leaving God and turning to idols, she was leaving her idols and turning to God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you for this Sunday school hour. Lord, this quick picture, quick dive into the book of Ruth. Lord, we thank you for the miracle that is present here, the picture of the kinsman redeemer, and for you being willing to redeem us and the price that was paid for us. Lord, I pray you'd bless this morning's service and me to speak to our hearts in Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you, you're dismissed.