Bringing us up to this place 'cause we kinda we we get to hear and we get to the monarchy begins. This is getting into the kingdoms, the United Kingdom and the Divided Kingdom and a lot of stuff happens through that era. Uh so if we go back to the very beginning in the general history that we covered here, does anybody remember Uh how many years uh are represented in the general history that we covered Let me back up. Let me say how many books or how many chapters of the book of Genesis are represented in the general history, that first era It all happens in the first eleven chapters of the Word of God. So there's 11 chapters that take place here in this general history right here. Now, in that 11 chapters, one of the reasons it took us so long to cover that is there is 2,000 years. Now you'll note that from chapter number 11 of Genesis All the way to the conclusion of today's lesson, where the Israel monarchy begins, we've only had another thousand years. In history. So we had 2,000 years take place here in this. Now there were four major events that took place during this general history, and we talked about those. Remember what those four major events were Creation. My notes I called it the foundation uh or the formation, sorry, the formation of the earth. But creation, uh, it was just so I could alliterate it, but uh the formation of the earth and then If you stay with the F's, what would happen next? The fall. And because of the fall, God sent a flood and then they came out of the flood and God said, Okay, I'm gonna raise up a nation So you have the formation of the nations, that God uh the just the nations that develop throughout the earth. So those four major events happen here. Then we enter the time of the patriarchs. Now during the patriarchs, we were getting through the rest of the book of Genesis, and during that time period we had four major patriarchs we looked at, began with Abraham, right, and then Isaac and Jacob and finally Joseph. Very good. Joseph. So now Joseph doesn't seem like a very major patriarch, but the reason you you look at Joseph is when you understand the overall plan here of what God was doing that during this time period God was establishing his nation through Abraham. He was developing a nation. And you get to a point here where you've got a very small group of people. that could very easily be swallowed up by somebody else. They could very easily be overrun. And God says, well, I'm going to protect and provide for my people. And he did that by sending them somewhere. Do you remember where he sent them? I heard few of you say it, say it loud enough so everybody can hear. Egypt. He got sent to Egypt and and down in Egypt. You remember the family was there and God used Joseph to go down and be able to interpret Pharaoh's dream and and he interpreted the dream and he said, Oh wow, uh why don't you go ahead and bring your family down here, Joseph? And so God moved his people there and they were given favor with Pharaoh. and were given good land that they could develop and that they could uh grow on. And then during this time period a group uh uh well the children of Israel began to grow. They grew from a few families Around seventy people to over two million. And the Egyptians were a little bit concerned, right? They're like, oh my goodness, there's two million of these guys running around. And if we aren't careful, they're gonna overrun us. And and you know what? We're not real happy about that. And the Bible describes a time that a Pharaoh knew not uh Joseph or what Joseph's contributions were, and so they began to oppress the children of Israel. They began to put them into bondage and servitude That would that would stir the hearts of the children of Israel to cry out to God and say, We need to be we need to get out of here. We need to be freed from this And this is part of God's plan and God's design. So God raises up a man and uh brings him there to Pharaoh. He says, Hey, let my people go. Who was that? Moses was raised up, called God there in the wilderness to become. That brings us to the Exodus era. During this Exodus era, they're leaving their the Egypt and they're heading to ultimately God has raised up a nation. There's two million people. This is God's plan. They're heading to the promised land. They're on their way. But on the way, there's two things that they need. There's a people. There's a nation, but they need land and they need law. And so on the way, God delivers to them the law through Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. And that journey to the Promised Land, the Exodus era, is where they're on their way to the land that God has for them, and God provides the law that He wants them to live by. They reached the Canaan land, and then we looked at Joshua. That is the uh time of moving into the land of Canaan and possessing the land that God wants them to be in. They possess the land. They're getting kind of comfortable. They're living in the land. Can you give me that picture of the time of the judges, Pastor Gus? So uh yeah, not that one. There you go. Um now I know this is hard to see, but do you see these little uh soldiers? These little guys with bow and arrows here. So this is the time of the judges. This is just right out of Wilmington's Guide to the Bible. Um but you have you know Manassas here on both sides of the Jordan River there you got Gad and Reuben the Gad, Reuben and the half tribe of Manassas on this side of Jordan, you got Benjamin and Judah and Simeon. The children of Israel divided up here, Zebulun and Asher and Naphtali. You got them divided up here, but mixed in there, you'll see you have the Amalekites. And the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Philistines and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites and Ammonites. I can't even read that top one up there. But these are are showing uh how all around them there were enemies, people that would come in. And you remember during the time of the judges, when the people weren't living right or doing right, God used one of those nations that were close by and went in and captured or put a group of the children of Israel into bondage, into servitude, until they cried out to him. And when they cried or repented, then God came and delivered them. That is the process that takes through the book of Judges. One of the reasons why, which we're going to get to at the conclusion of the lesson today or next week, uh as we get to the end of 1 Samuel chapter one chapter 1 through 7, get to chapter 7, the people of Israel cry out for a king. Okay, one of the motivations may very well have been you'll see all those other people around all around them and those nations they wanted to be like those other nations. Also, obviously, all the way through the book of Judges, they had continually been put into bondage or servitude to these other nations. And maybe they felt like, well, if we had a king who was ruling over us, we would no longer be going into servitude not acknowledging or realizing the reason they were in servitude was because they were not following the King of Kings, the Lord, God, who was ruling over them. And that's what God allowed them to go into servitude, but they thought, boy, if we had our own king, uh we would not have to. And so they move that direction. And we see that happen through the beginning of this uh book of Samuel here. That gets us to our where we are today, picking up with the book of 1 Samuel Uh we're brought here in the book of Samuel to the uh against the backdrop of Israel who has been in their what has been called their dark ages, this cycle of apostasy and uh the days when man did that which was right in his own own eyes. Our minds tend to look at things and think about things chronologically to put things in a particular order. But Samuel, remember, he was a judge, he was a prophet, and he stands at a pivotal point in Israel's history. When these people were spiritually bankrupt, therefore they were politically weak. They were in bondage both physically and spiritually. And so out of that, God calls this young man named Samuel to deliver his people. He is able to deliver them both from bondage physically and bondage spiritually, as we'll see as we go through the lesson today. This book is a book of transition, but it's also a book of contrast, as we'll see the faithfulness of Hannah and the failure of Eli, and there are other contrasts that are seen through this book. Something I was gonna say here looking at this I don't remember what it was uh with uh as we were getting into this, I don't know Seemed like it was pertinent, but oh well. Alright, you should be today we're picking up, you should have your lessons from under the mirror out there, and we're picking up on page number 77. with our notes for today. And we see first of all Hannah's Prayer. Hannah's Prayer, chapter number one. Basically we are introduced to Hannah and see who she is in this chapter number one. First of all, her distress in verses one through ten. She was distressed. Why was she distressed? Well, first of all, she was in a bad marriage. She was in a bad marriage. Let me get to chapter number one here in my Bible Now there was a certain man of Ramathema Ziphatham of the Mount of Ephraim, and his name was El Cana. So we're introduced to El Cana. The son of Jehoram, the son of Ithiah, the son of Tua, the son of Ziph the Ephrodite, and he had two wives Now that's not a good situation. Anytime there's two wives, there's going to be a problem. We see that all through the Bible. over and over and over again when there's multiple when men are given to multiple marriages there are multiple problems and we see that again here with Hannah. She was in a bad marriage. Elkanah had two wives. Hannah and Paninna. They both uh loved him, they both wanted to be with him, and they both had a mother's heart. The problem was is God had blessed Paninnah with children. We see that in verse number four. And when the time was that Elkanah offered his uh grave to Paninnah, his wife, and to all her sons And her daughters' portions. So he had offered a portion of land. He says, Hey, I want to give this to you and to all of your sons and all of your daughters. However Hannah was barren, we see in verse number five. But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion. He's saying, Hey, I love you, I'm going to give you a good portion. For he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her womb, so she had not been given any children. That was bad enough that she was in this bad marriage and she was living barren, even though she had a mother's heart and she desired to have children, uh for some reason God had not allowed that to happen. So she was living barren, but she was berated By her husband's other mate. She was continually mocked and made fun of. We see that in verse number six. The Bible literally calls her her adversary. And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her fret, because the Lord had shut up her womb. So you can see the the continual smirks and the comments that happened between these two ladies, the the ongoing I mean if it wasn't enough that Hannah was burdened and and heartbroken because she couldn't bear children, but continually she was mocked and made fun of by her husband's other mate. She was certainly in great distress. Can I tell you that hardship and heartache is going to do one of two things. It's either going to drive you towards God or it's going to drive you away from God. That's what you'll see throughout the scriptures, and that's what you'll see in life, that people many times when we meet opposition Opposition can be opportunity when it's met with faith, as we'll see here with Hannah when she came to God in faith, what God did for her. But those that allow opposition to stop them or allow it to push them away from God, it becomes a great problem for them. You have to determine in your heart that when struggle comes, that God's not the one that's against you, that he's for you, and you turn to God, not away from him. So we see her distress here. Secondly, we see her deliverance in verse number 8 through 18. Her deliverance She goes to God and begs God. Can I tell you there's a great example here of prevailing prayer? If you want to prevail in prayer, uh looking and studying this prayer that Hannah prayed. There's several notable things. This is not in your notes. You might want to mark it in the margin of your notes or something, but some things about this prayer that Hannah prays, first of all, it was serious She was serious. It was not flippant. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. It has to be some seriousness. She says there in verse number 11, and she vowed a vow. So it was serious. Secondly, it was submissive. Note what she says there in verse number 11. She vowed a vow and she said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed God, if you'll do this, God, if you would have this, I'm coming to you In fervency. I'm coming to you and asking of you, but I am submitted to your will, but I'm seeking God for you to do this for me. She was submissive. Note also that it was specific She says, if thou wilt look on the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me and not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto thine handmaid, what's the request there? A man-child. It was specific. She just didn't see she didn't say, oh, Lord, just give me any anything. I'll be happy. Lord, give me a child, just any child. And she probably would have been happy with a child, but she said, look, you understand there was great importance in this time period on having a man child. Because it carried on the name of the family, because it uh was somebody that could receive inheritance. The ladies did not receive inheritance It was that was passed down through the men. A man child was very, very important. So it was specific. Coming to God with your requests and being specific about what you desire. Great example of prayer. Not only that, it was steadfast. Look at verse number 12. And it came to pass, and she continued Praying before the Lord. God wants you to continue in prayer. Not just casually You know, one one prayer here, one prayer there, but a continuing in prayer, a a continual pursuit of him, coming and asking and asking and asking and asking It was continual. It was steadfast. This is an example of prevailing prayer. If you want to have prevailing prayer, but we see here that she begged God for his help. She commits her son to God in verse number 11 there. We see in verse number fourteen that she is confronted by Eli. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. Eli comes and says, Man, you must be drunk. She was fervently praying and seeking God that that he must have said you know down south they do things differently. Uh that church I went to in in Georgia, I was there uh for their Wednesday night service And uh we uh uh they they asked me to preach and I preached and was glad to do it. Uh but afterwards they had prayer time like like we do, they have prayer time. Uh but they divided up, all the ladies stayed in the auditorium, the men went down the down the hallway and we went into another room and he says, okay, we're gonna bow around the room here and we're gonna pray. And we all got down on our knees. And every one of those guys started praying. Lord God, I pray that you would get a hold of us. Would you bring revival to our charge? Lord, I pray. I mean every everybody in the room It was I mean it was loud. I mean it's like everybody was trying to pray louder than the guy next to them. And uh that's how they do it in the South. And I'm I mean hey uh they're having a good time and talking to Jesus Amen. But it was very distracting for me. It was hard for me to focus. I'm like, what Amen, Lord bless them. You you just be with me. We see that Eli, if he would have been there, he'd be like, man, every one of you guys are drunk. What's going on here? Uh she was praying fervently and and Eli says, Man And she of course says, No, no, I'm not. We see in verse number fifteen she was cleared of that accusation, and Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord. I am a woman of sorrow of spirit. I have drunken neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. We again see that fervency of prayer and spirit that she has. She's cleared of her drunkenness, but then we see that she believed God for the answer. Verse number 18. And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad. You see Eli there in verse number 17, and Eli says, God heard your prayer and he answered it. And she stood up And she walked out, and her countenance was no more sad. She had belief in her heart. She knew that God was going to do this. She didn't have any sign. She didn't have anything yet. She wasn't showing. She didn't have any reason to know that she was going to have a child other than she had the promise of God on it. And she believed God. She had faith, and it changed her actions. She believed God for the answer. And we see that her delight is given When she's blessed with the sun, verses 19 through 20, God answers her prayer. God blesses her with the Son. She bestows upon him a fitting name. The name is Samuel. And Samuel means requested of God. We see that in verse number 20. She says here. Wherefore it came to pass when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. Means requested of God. And so we see her delight. But not only was she delighted, but we see her dedication. Her dedication, her follow-through She does what she said she was gonna do. And ladies, this is a pretty hard thing. We see In verse number twenty five, look down there says um chapter one I think I've let's just start here in twenty-one and see where we go. And the and the man, Al Cana and all his sons went up to offer the Lord yearly to sacrifice. and his vow but Hannah went not up, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before the Lord, and there abide for ever. And Alcana and her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth good Tarry until thou hast weaned him, only the Lord establish his word. So the woman abode and gave her son suck until she was weaned of him. And when she was weaned of him, she took him up with her with three bullocks and one ephod and flour and a bottle of wine and brought them unto the house of the Lord at Shiloh. And the child was young. Here she does what she said she was going to do. She brings this child. Now, it's when the child was weaned. Some believe as early as two years old. She brings the child and leaves him with Eli. Maybe three years old. Certainly not older than four, but probably somewhere around two or three. She does what she promised to do. You know, beloved, it's pretty easy to give God something you don't have. God, if you give me a son, I'll give him back to you. But then when God delivers, are you going to deliver? You know, I've had a lot of people tell me, Pastor, if I win the lottery, I'll buy the church They're joking, they don't play the lottery. But you know the idea of man if I had two million dollars I'd give the church a million bucks. It's easy to give something you don't have. Well you got two hundred bucks, you're gonna give a hundred? Oh, come on now, preacher. I need that. You see, it's easy to talk about what we would do for God when we don't have it, when it's not out of ours to give and Man, if I if I if I had this boy, yeah, I would do that gladly. Oh really? What are you doing with what you do have? How faithful are you with what you do have? She followed through. Her dedication was evident in the delivery of what she promised and said that she would do. We see in chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, that she offers a prayer of praise and prophecy. She talks about what God is going to do, and she praises God for delivering her son. And We see uh secondly here in chapter number two, this the second half of chapter number two, uh introduce you to a new word here. Eli's Pekansi. Now, this word literally means the state of being sinful. The state of being sinful. And I didn't make I made Eli the blank so you wouldn't have to try and figure out how to spell uh pac and see. But uh the state of being sinful. Eli was a sinful Priest. And what he did, the things that he did, very, very ungodly, uh, especially with regarding his his two sons. So we see first here his son's disobedience. In chapter 2, verses 12 through 22. There's several things noted about his sons. First of all, they were sons of Belial, the Bible says here, in verse number 12. He says, and now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial. They knew not the Lord. So right off the bat here, we see that these sons of the priest, the spiritual leader of the children of Israel, his own sons, had broken the first two commandments. They didn't know God, and they are worshiping other gods. They're not to have any other gods before me, they're not to bow unto any graven image, yet these two boys were doing that. They stole from the Lord's offering. You can read verses 14 and 15 there. God had designed a means or a way in which the priests were to be fed, that their needs were to be met. And uh the people were to bring their sacrifice and they were to put it in the pot as an offering unto the Lord, and then they had a hook and they were to reach down into that pot and pull out. their portion, what God wanted them to have. Just reach in and hook, and whatever you get, that's what God was giving you. But they didn't want to have that. They actually said there in verse number 15, I think it is, they say, uh, we're not going to eat soggy meat We're not going to eat that. No, no. You're going to give us the flesh before it goes in the pot. But that's not what God had designed or planned for them to do. But they said, hey, you give it to us first. Why should we eat that soggy meat? That was God's plan. It's what they were supposed to do, but they didn't like God's plan. They wanted to do it their way. They abused their position. for personal gain, verse number sixteen. And if he may and if any man said unto him, let them not fail to burn the fat presently. and then take as much as thy soul desireth, then he would answer him, Nay, but thou shalt give it me now, and if not, I will take it by force. They said, hey, you give it to me before you go in. And if you if you've a mind not to, then I'm just going to take it by force. I'm going to do what I want to do. And so these sons of Eli who were given to sinful ways, we say that they comm we see also they committed fornication before the tabernacle in verse number 22. The Bible says that they made themselves fat off the offerings of God's people in verse number 29. He says here, Wherefore, kick ye at my sacrifice and at my offering which I have commanded in my habitation. Honors thy sons above me to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel, my people Just, hey, you're taking this and you're just making yourselves fat. You're just in it for personal gain. You know, there's a a lot of charlatans in pulpits all over the world that are doing a very similar thing. Their their goal uh is the business of the church, not building people. not reaching people. Their goal is to try and uh bring in what they can so that they can buy another jet. So that they can drive a Rolls-Royce. And they talk about that being the blessings of God when what it is is their taking of God's people. This is God obviously frowns on that. God is not for that. And we see this state of being sinful of Eli here, and that ultimately gives us his family's destiny. What God is going to do regarding him. His destiny was changed. God had planned to bless him. God had planned to use him for many generations. His family was going to be blessed. But God said, due to this wicked way, we're not going to do that anymore. God describes his destiny. He says several things are going to happen. First of all, they would be removed from ver from service. In chapter two and verse number thirty, he says they're going to be removed from service. My plan was to do this, but now we've changed that. So look at chapter 2 and verse number 30. He says, Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith, I said indeed That thy house and the house of thy fathers should walk before me forever. But now The Lord saith, Be it far from me, for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed. He says, Hey, my plan was to honor your family forever. But because of your wicked ways, you despise me, you're going to be lightly esteemed. He's saying, your recognition, your importance, your role in this plan that I have is going to be removed. It literally says in verse number 31 that the life of his house will be shortened. He says, Behold, the days come that I will cut off thine arm. And the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house. You say, listen, your family's not going to know old age. None of them. Ultimately, the arm of your family, your leg, your extension, the part of your family tree, yeah, that's done. It's being cut off. God describes a great punishment against him, his destiny here, because they walked in sin. Both his wicked boys would die on the same day in verse number 34. God says, your two boys are going to die at the same time. His family would be replaced by a faithful priest in verse number 35. And I will raise me up a faithful priest that shall do according to that which is mine. You know what's amazing? Is that priest was already in Eli's house. Many times you do not know that the plan of God to meet the need is already in works. That the things are already in play, that the steps that need to be taken have already happened, but in your mind that the tragedy is right here, the heartache's right here, the problem's right here, and you you're like, okay, Lord, what am I going to do? And little did you know that God had already begun preparing the way to solve that Eli is going to be cut off, and God says, I'm going to raise up somebody. But that somebody was already there in the house, had been dropped off by his mom. He was going to be replaced. You know, it's possible that Eli just got comfortable in his position and he stopped praising and praising God. Stop praying to him. He no longer was serving God, but he felt that God was serving him. And that allowed this change in his spirit and ultimately determined his destiny. So we see in chapter number three, Samuel's purpose. Samuel's purpose. We begin with his development First of all, he was given by his mom to be a Nazirite. A Nazarite. Now there are only three men in the Word of God that I can think of that are specifically described or said to be Nazirite. Uh you remember Nazarite was somebody committed wholly to the Lord. They were going to follow some particular uh levels of commitment to follow God and be what God wanted them to be. Uh do you recall the other men that were said to be Nazarites in the Word of God? So you got Samuel and Samson. And you said it. Huh? Behold the Lamb of God It taketh away the sin of the world. John the Baptist. Those are the three that I can think of, and I might be wrong. There might be another one. You can correct me if I'm wrong. But I think those three. But you know what's amazing is Samson was called of God. and put into the Nazarite vow and was given an external or physical strength. That was by God's plan. He was a judge in Israel. We looked at him briefly, but he was given external strength. Samuel was a willing heart. Given to God, and he was given internal strength. He too is a judge functions in a transitional period here. But what's amazing is there there's a there's a lesson here on it's far more important on what happens inside than what happens outside. All that Samson did as a Nazarite and being empowered of God physically to deliver his people, he did many things, but he never did deliver them. The people were never free from the bondage because Samson was too busy playing his own games and doing his own thing But you take this young boy, Samuel, who also was a Nazarite, but came with a willing heart and was given internal strength, did not have physical strength, but had internal spiritual fortitude. And ultimately, he is used of God to deliver his people both from physical bondage and spiritual bondage. We see both come to pass. Because of that. Internal fortitude, spiritualness in the heart is far more important than physical strength. Amen? Amen. It's a lesson that we can learn. Let's see here that uh he was given to be a Nazarite. Um it had to be difficult growing up in Eli's house. On one hand He had the opportunity to serve God in a very direct manner, very ongoing, continually. uh being learning learning about the service of God and that's one of the joys and privileges of growing up in a pastor's home. Amen, kids? Uh that's one of the uh that you get to serve God uh whether you want to or not. Amen. You you get to serve him all the time. Uh doing things for the Lord and at the at the church house and he was down there serving And learning a lot. That's the blessing. But on the other side, he continually saw the wickedness of these two boys, Hapni and Phineas, the two wicked sons of Eli. Just look at chapter 3 and verse number 13. He says, For I have told him that I will judge his house forever. For the iniquity which he knoweth, because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not He restrained them not. You know, there's a rabbit chair we could trace for a while. Parents, you have to restrain your children. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. A child that is allowed to just do whatever they want to do. You need to restrain them. One of Eli's biggest sins against his boys was that he did not restrain them. You say, he's he's very hard to restrain. She's very hard to restrain. Yeah. That's because they've been allowed to do whatever they want to do. They're not so hard to restrain if they are restrained consistently then they function inside the boundaries that they've been given. You, as a parent, need to restrain them. One of Eli's biggest sins is that they restrain them not. Many parents allow their children to do whatever they want until it's inconvenient for mom or dad. Instead of training on purpose, Instead of saying, okay, this is what we're going to do because this is what we're teaching our child, it's they get to do whatever they want until mom or dad needs something, or until mom and dad are frustrated with the noise. You know, it's okay to throw things as long as you're not throwing them at me. You know, or or whatever. I mean it it it ultimately begin gets to the point where, oh, they can just do whatever they want to do until it inconveniences mom or dad, then we're going to change this And that's not good parenting. Good parenting, the Bible says train up a child. That means training. That means instructing. That means showing. That means teaching on purpose. Okay? We're going to move on. So we see here that uh he didn't restrain his children and that caused them to live in sin and Samuel lived around that. It's very likely, uh, especially in today's world, you know, you think about the idea of being influenced by those that you're around and how much of an impact that has on us. And This teaches personal responsibility. Okay? You cannot blame it on your brother or sister You can't blame it on the neighborhood that you grew up in. Man, I just grew up in a bad neighborhood, and that's why I am the way I am. No, you are the way you are because you're a sinner and you never learn to tell yourself no. You are the way you are because you made the choices that you made. You cannot, you're not going to stand before God one day and say, but my mom and dad Your mom and dad might not have been very good parents. I don't know. But you're going to stand before God yourself, personally. And answer to God for the decisions that you made. And what I'm saying is Samuel, growing up in a home like that, had both maybe some spiritual influence, but he also lived around a lot of sin, a lot of wickedness, people that were looking good, but living in the world, living in the flesh. And he could have chosen to go the way of Hophi and Phineas very easily. And and been in it for the profit, right? For personal gain, like those guys were. But Samuel said, no, I'm going to maintain a right relationship with God. And don't you know Hockey and Phineas when they were growing up they were talking about, oh you Mitter Mr. Goody Two Shoes. Look at you all spiritual acting like you know God better than us. We've been here longer than you. We know how to do this. I mean you know those conversations happened. And and Hofni and Phineas shunned and left left Samuel alone because he wanted to walk with God and do what was right and it made them feel guilty. And so they lashed out against him. I mean, you see it in homes today, but Samuel still determined in his heart he was going to do what's right. What I'm saying is you personally have to decide you're going to do what's right. Regardless of the environment that you're in. And we see ultimately what God does with this man because he determined to do what's right. And God will use you in great and mighty ways as well. We've got to close it down for today and we'll pick up right here next week as we get into his call that he's called of God to make a difference. Grab your Bibles, turn to the book of First Samuel. We're in First Samuel And uh we last week we began this look at uh Samuel, who was a judge, a prophet, uh, and uh filled the office of a priest for a while, obviously in Eli's home. And growing up there, um, God called him to be a prophet. He functioned in the role of a judge, uh, and it was a transitional uh individual because the people ask for a king. And uh last week, I mean, we had a great time together in Sunday school as we kind of we we got to see uh Hannah, Hannah's prayer in chapter one. We talked through that. And then Eli's uh Pecancy. Um if you want to know how to pronounce that, I I I pronounce things uh not phonetically but by how they look how they see but it's pack and see is how that word is pronounced. Uh I had to write it like I would say it uh from the uh when I looked it up online, but Pacinsee is how that's uh Elix Packinsee, which is the state of being sinful. We looked at that last week. And we got to Samuel's purpose last week and I believe we started talking about his development that he was uh given by his mom to be a Nazarite. We discussed the difference. uh the Nazareth that were in the Bible and the role that they played. We discussed, I think, that it was hard to grow up in Eli's house. On one hand, you got the privilege of serving God directly. Uh on the other hand, he got to see the wickedness of his you know would-be adopted brothers, I guess, uh essentially, Hophni and Phineas, uh the sin that they were involved in. And then we're going to pick up this morning here in his call. He's called of God to make a difference in chapter 3 and verse number 1. And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. There's a couple of statements in that verse number one that are very important because we need to understand that this was a time there was no open vision. What he's talking about, this was not a this was a time when God was not communicating with his people in the way maybe they had become become accustomed to. There was no pillar of fire leading the people. There was no uh cloud by day leading the people. There was no big open vision where the people saw the hand of God in that kind of big open way. And that's what he's saying. This this time period we're describing here is there was no open vision. In fact, it goes beyond that, and he says there, the word of the Lord was precious. Precious. That word literally means rare. Uh it's rare. Things that are precious are are precious because they're rare. And what he's describing here is a time where God speaking or communicating with his people, uh, directly or indirectly, was rare. And to hear the voice of God was a very precious thing. Samuel was privileged with being able to hear the voice of God. As a matter of fact, there hadn't been a actual prophet called of God prophets who God used and communicated in in this level and told him what he was going to do with the people uh probably since Moses. It had been quite some time since there had been somebody functioning in that role as a prophet where they uh were talked to directly by God like this. It was certainly very precious. And we see that this call of Samuel. I don't think we're gonna read it all. You guys remember the story that Samuel calls and it came to pass at the time when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim that he could not see. And ere the Lamb of God went out, And the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep. So Samuel went to bed, and the Lord called Samuel, and he answered, Am I? Here am I? And he ran unto Eli and he said, Here am I and he thought it was Eli. And this happens a couple of times. He thought Eli was calling him. And then ultimately Eli realizes, hey, uh I didn't call you. Uh i i it is I would say as backslidden as Eli was, it's amazing that he had the spiritual insight to realize that it was God that was calling Samuel. Uh and uh it's probably was very disappointing to Eli thinking here I am functioning in the role of the priest and I'm the one supposed to be hearing from God. Haven't heard from God in a long, long time, and now God's talking to this kid. that I have in my house and and he says, hey, uh it's been a lot of years since I heard the call of God, but I remember, and you're you're hearing God, God is calling you. We see in verse number 10 that uh He responds with a servant's heart. And the Lord came and stood and called at another other time Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth That term servant there just describes his heart completely. Just the idea of, you know, here am I, send me. Here am I, do what you want with me. I am your servant. Whatever you say, Lord, is what I want to do. He didn't uh speak disrespectfully. He didn't say, what do you need? Let me think about it. Tell me what it is you're trying to do. No, he said, here I am, I'm your servant. And we he was called to make a difference. The difference that he made is seen in verses 19 through 21 and really the rest of the chapter. But we see his call here that God gave him to do. He was called to make a difference. But it started, the difference he made started with the presence of the Lord. Look at verse number 19. And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him. The Lord was with him And uh Samuel held the words of God to be very, very precious. He said he did not let any of his words fall to the ground The Lord's words were precious to him. The Lord's presence was precious to him. And God with him. Here's what I'm saying. If we're going to make a difference in this world, we need God with us. That's what's going to make a difference. Uh there's people all the time you'll hear them talk about the impact that they want to leave, the legacy that they want to pass on or whatever that might be. I mean I I you guys know I love to cook and uh I'm watching chefs all the time and seeing their how they make different things and learning from them and And uh this barbecue chef I was watching this last week, he was talking about the amazing thing is he's like like barbecue is such a unique thing for every individual. And you can kind of do what you want to do and you set your your taste profile and he said the thing is as long after I'm gone people will recognize the taste profile that I developed. That's going to be my legacy. I I passed on a legacy of barbecue. And uh I mean hey that's great. But if we're going to make a real difference in this world, difference in people's lives I mean he said barbecue will change your life, amen. But talking about a real difference in people's lives, we need God. We need God's presence. And we see the difference that Samuel made was because he had God's presence. We see several things that happened. Civil leadership has changed during his time being used of God from a judge to a king. Spiritual leadership is changed from a priest to a prophet, and Israel's direction is changed from a diet downward cycle of apostasy. So God used Samuel in a great way to bring about change, not just for him or his family, but for the nation. And beloved, God can use any one of us to do great things way beyond even our wildest dreams if we would just yield to him and let him do it. I think it was D. L. Moody who said, the world has yet to see what God will do with a man who's 100% committed to him. And that's because every one of us have some measure of ourselves we hold back. In all of history, D al Moody said in all of history, you we have yet to see what God would do with somebody who was 100% yielded to him. I mean you think about the impact that that uh Paul made on the world And uh these other men that God used in great and mighty ways, and then you think, Hey, well that was them, but God can use any one of us If we're willing and ready to let God use us and just be yielded to Him, submitted to Him, as Samuel was, thy servant heareth. Amen? Then we see in verse chapters four through six, we see Israel's problem. Israel's problem. They on occasion had some problems. So we see first of all in chapter four beginning here a disaster. in battle, a disaster in battle. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle. and pitched beside Ebenezer and the Philistines pitched in Aphgah. Well, this They they saw the battle, they decided to go to battle. They said, oh man, Philistines here. Um we we've got something we've got to do. We're gonna go out, we're gonna fight them, we're gonna they just decided to go do it And they went out to do it, and we see that the Philistines slew 4,000 men In verse number two. And the Philistines put themselves to array against Israel, and when they joined in battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines, and they slew the army and in the field about four thousand men. Man, what a disaster they had. What they they thought, boy, we're gonna go out and face these men and we're gonna have battle and w we're gonna be victorious, but they went out to battle without God. They didn't have Samuel had God's presence. Here, the children of Israel were going to fight this enemy and didn't have God. They wondered about their failure. You see, they went out self-confident and were defeated They kind of felt like they needed something. They said, man, something's missing. But the fact of the matter is they didn't go to God. They didn't go to God's man and seek wisdom and say, Hey Samuel, what what would God have us do here in going into this battle? So they saw that something was missing, obviously they they lost four thousand and they said, Man, you know what? We need the ark. We need the ark of the covenant with us. If we're going to go into battle, I mean remember that when the ark went across the Jordan River and the river parted? Boy, we need the ark. Ah, of the covenant. Let's let's go get the ark of the covenant. And so they went to get the ark in verse number three. And when the people were coming to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the Lord smitten us Today before the Philistines, let us fetch the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord out of Shiloh unto us That when it cometh among us, it may save us. You see that? It may save us out of the hand of our enemies. They said, boy, let's go get the ark because it will save us. There is their problem. They moved the ark from a place of safety. to a place uh of utter utter danger. Uh and they did so. Uh I mean you remember the Ark of the Covenant has uh above it the Shekinah glory of God was resting above the Ark of the Covenant. And God, if you remember back earlier in our lessons when we were talking about these things through Leviticus and Deuteronomy there, that when God wanted the ark moved. The Shekinah glory of God would move and the people knew, okay, it's time to move. You remember that when God was moving his people through the wilderness? that that w they knew it was time to move when the Shekinah glory moved over off of the ark and they said, Oh, time to move the ark. Well, to go get the ark and just move it of them of themselves and on their own without the Shekinah Glory moving, what they did is they took the ark And they removed it from God. They took this thing and they just took it and and took it with them and just thought, oh, this is gonna save us. Now, can you show us the map of the capture of the uh ark there? Um The the color, the color one. Yeah, that one there. So you see on the right hand side of that map, the uh um here in Shiloh is where it was. Okay, it was way over here And they said, boy, here's uh effect they they pitched themselves together. They said, let's go get the ark. They went over here and got the ark. They said, We're gonna go into battle and and boy the ark is gonna save us. Now One terrible sign that this was not a good thing is the ark was brought by Eli's wicked sons, Hopni and Phineas. These two sons that were known for their debauchery. They were known for their uh wickedness, and they they they said, Oh, they'll they'll bring the ark to us in verse number four there. And then we see in verse number five, everyone was so excited to have the ark there. Verse five it says, And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord came unto the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again Now that rang again is talking about an echo. The people screamed and said, yay! And then uh The echo came back. I remember years and years ago, uh I mean when I was a little kid, I heard a preacher preaching and he says one time he was at the Grand Canyon and uh he was standing on the edge of the Grand Canyon, he heard about an echo, and uh And he he says, boy, I want to hear an echo. And so he yelled out, Baloney! And nothing came back. And his wife said, well, why don't you try it again? He goes, I'm the greatest preacher in the world. And then the first echo came back, baloney, baloney, baloney. They they heard an echo. They cried so loud they heard an echo. It rang back at them. And they were all excited about it. They thought, hey, now that the art's here, boy, we're gonna win And so they went into battle again. Look at verse number 10 if you have your Bible there. They went into battle again. They were going to go, and verse number 10 is, and the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten. And they fled, every man into his tent, and there was a very great slaughter, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen. 30,000 men died because they thought, boy, we've got this ark with us here. We're gonna be okay. But not only did they lose the battle, we see in verse number 11 that they lost the ark. And the ark, verse number 11, and the ark of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hophnai and Phineas, were slain. So this they they lost 30,000 men, they lost the ark. And we see that with that step there is a departing of the glory of God. There's a departing of the glory of God. We, of course, know that Eli learns about his son's death. And the loss of the ark, and he's overcome with grief. The Bible says there that he fell and died. In verse number 17, he says, And the messenger answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath also been a great slaughter among the people. And thy two sons, Hopni and Phineas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken. I mean, what else could be bad for I mean that that's a whole list for him. The ark's gone. His two sons are dead. Israel was just defeated in battle. And he is so distressed and broken over this. And verse number 18. And it came to pass when he had when he made mention of the ark of God that he fell from off his seat backward by the side of the gate and his neck broke, and he died. So on the same day He and his two sons died there in fulfillment of, if you remember earlier lesson we talked about that God had said that his two sons would pass away on the same day as part of God's judgment for the sin and the wickedness that they had done. So Eli, uh overcome with grief, falls and uh is killed. Then uh Phineas, uh wife who has a child, she's she's actually carrying a child, she goes into labor when she hears this news that her husband passed away. She hears the news and and the the stress of it all, the burden of it causes her to go right into labor And she delivers this child, and she names the child Ichabad, which in verse number 22, and Ichabod means the glory. is departed. Verse 22 says, and she said, the glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken. So she named in verse number 21, she names her child Ichabod. And the glory of the Lord has departed. So we see moving on to chapter number five, we see the defeat of Dagon, the the uh Philistines, they take the ark and they think, ha, finally we have the ark. We are victorious over our enemy. Our God is greater than their God. You need to understand that during this time battles and such were thought to be fought in in care of or for one another's gods. It was it was very much our God against your God. And so they thought, boy, our God, you know, is greater than their God, and we're going to take the ark And we're going to put it in our temple with our God Dagon. And so they do that and they think, boy, we're we're we're good. Uh can you give me the map now of the movement of the ark? So you right up here is where they captured it. Um and they move the ark down here to Ashdod to put it in the temple and and they move it several times as we'll see here. in these in these verses as they're moving because they're like, hey, let's get this thing out of here. Let's give it to somebody else. Uh so we see, first of all, that Dagon is defeated. Chapter five And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to Ebenezer unto Ashdod. When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. And when the when they of Ashdod rose early in the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord. And they took Dagon and set him in his place again. And when they arose early on the morrow morning, behold Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark So their false God, which was inanimate, unable to move, uh a piece of wood, God said this god this false god that you guys are worshiping is going to bow down, is going to fall before the Ark of God. And they thought, oh man, we must have had an earthquake last night. And they set him back up and and they were very, you know, get him real stable and they all went to bed in the morning. He was back down on the ground, showing them that God was in control. Everyone in that region was afflicted with Imrods. Verse number six. But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them of Ashrod, and he destroyed them and smote them with Imrods. even Ashdod and the coast thereof. Everyone in that region, everyone around there was smoothen with Imrods. Now, that quite literally is hemroids. That's what it is. And so basically who said God didn't have a sense of humor? God gave them all hemorrhoids. They all had hemorrhoids. Everybody in that region, anybody around there, and they thought, man It must be this ark. Everything's been happening since the ark came. Let's get rid of the ark. And so they decide to move the ark from there down over to Gath. In verse number 7. And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of God of Israel shall not abide with us. For his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our God, they sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and they said, What shall we do with the ark? And they answered, Let the ark of God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they moved it down to Gath. And so they said, Hey, well, let's move it out of here. Let's move it to Gath. Well, the same thing happens in Gath, and we could read those verses, but in Gath the men of the city were smote by God, the men of the city were given Imrods. The exact same thing happened. And so the people there said, Oh, um You know what, we need to move this thing. This is not good for us. They want to get rid of it. And so the Philistines moved the ark of God again to Ekron. They move in verse number 10, they move it to Ekron. Now the Ekronites They they said, hey, we've seen the problems that have happened. And uh, you know, fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. They they said we we we realize what's going on here. Uh The Ark of the Covenant is God is judging us because we have the Ark of the Covenant and we're not supposed to. Well, well they had it, they too were smote. They too were uh afflicted with Imrods. And so the Phil the Philistines decide to move the ark to Beth Shemesh in verse number nine, chapter six and verse number nine. So we just covered a bunch there, but in chapter six, verse nine, the the the uh Philistines are moving the ark around, trying to figure out what to do. And And see if it goeth up to the way of the coast of Beth Shemesh. So what they decided to do, for the sake of time, we're not going to read it all, but what they decided to do is they said, you know what, we're going to take two cows that have calves. And we're gonna put put them to a cart, and we're gonna take the calves and put the calves in another field And then we're going to put the Ark of the Covenant on a cart, and we're going to send them, send the cows, we're going to point them towards Beth Shemish. And uh if those two cows actually go to Beth Shemish, Then uh it's of God. This whole thing is of God. And if those two cows turn and go to the field where their young ones are, then we know this was all just by chance. I mean you can read the story. It's funny. They're like after three times of this happening over and over again, they're like, maybe it's just chance. Maybe maybe this just happened. And uh then they do this and those two cows don't go to their young uns. The cows carry this. And Veshimus was a uh a uh bordering city. Uh this was actually controlled, this area was controlled by the Israelites And it was, you know, here all of a sudden these two cows come into town carrying the ark, okay? And so everybody is really excited. We see the delight. of the children of Israel as the ark is returned unto them. In verse number thirteen of chapter six there. We see and they of uh Beshmesh were uh reaping their wheat at harvest in the valley, and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and rejoiced to see it. They said, Ho, look at this! And the cart came unto the field of Joshua the Bethramite, and stood there where there was a great stone. And so the Ark of the Covenant shows up. They were all delighted. They said, Man, this is awesome. And there was nobody there that had the authority. You understand that the the Levites were supposed to be in control of the ark. The Levites were the ones that were in charge of moving it. The Levites were the ones that were in charge of overseeing it And these men here in this city thought, man, here's our chance. When are we going to be able to be this close to the ark again? I mean, we we are not even allowed to get this close to the Ark. I've kind of been wondering what's inside this thing. Some other guys are like, yeah, I've been wondering too. Understand, this represents the glory of God. And these men decide, well, we're going to look in the ark. So in their disobedience, God judges them, and 50,000 men are slain They lament the loss uh of these fifty thousand men and uh um not to uh be uh Carnal, but to show you that a lot of times the world takes things that are biblical and you know dramatize them or make them and uh I'm pretty sure that uh Indiana Jones and his big movie Raiders of the Lost Ark. Uh in that they find the Ark and they open it and there's this great scene where where lots and lots of people die. Now those of you that uh are you know, worldly like me and you've seen it, um, you know, you re you remember uh that that scene. But see that what what they're describing in that movie is what happened right here. These men said, man, we're going to open the ark. We're just going to see what's inside there. And 50,000 men died because they they uh dared to tread on ground that they should not, though the very Shekinah glory of God. And ultimately they realized their sin, they lamented their loss, and they sent the ark from there to Kirchath Jerem In chapter 7 and verse number 1. So the the ark goes to there, Kurdath Jerem, and it remains there until David takes the ark and uh puts it in to Jerusalem uh in the temple. So it's there for the balance of this time until you know you y You transition to Saul and then David, and then David builds the temple and he brings it there into Jerusalem. Okay, so we see in chapter number seven, Samuel's preaching. He deliverance is sought in chapter 7 and verse number 1 and 2, and the men of Kajath Jerem came and fetched up the ark of the Lord and brought it to the house of Benadab. in the hill and they sanctified Eliezer, his son, to keep the ark of the Lord. So Eliezer uh is sanctified. He is a Levite. He is uh given the position of a priest. He's been given charge of the ark, he's supposed to keep it. And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Cajath Uram that the time was long, for it was twenty years. and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. So we see here that although the Philistines, uh although God had delivered Israel from the Philistines and had brought them out of maybe physical bondage, They remained in spiritual bondage for another twenty years. Even though they had the ark back, they still were worshiping false gods. They still were worshiping uh Balaam and Ashrod for another twenty years. The problem was, beloved, is they longed for the symbol of God instead of the substance of God. They longed, you understand, they were looking for the ark of God instead of the God of the ark. You see, beloved, it was not the ark that fed them in the wilderness. It was not the ark that took them across the Jordan River. It was not the ark that gave them victory at Jericho. It was the God of the Ark. And they were treating the ark just like the Philistines treated their God as a talisman. And a lot of Christians today will treat the house of God or cheat or treat a cross. Even though they call themselves Christians, they're taking symbols of Christianity and elevating them to a position that belongs to God. And we're not supposed to do that. The cross shouldn't be more valuable to you than Christ. Christ is the one who died on the cross. The house of God, although it is important and it's precious, and we're thankful for the sanctuary where we gather and God speaks to our heart. We need to have it in its proper perspective and understand that just because we come into this room doesn't make you righteous. This is not what gives you a relationship with God. A relationship with God comes because you're spending time with him. Not because you spent some time in a building. It's knowing God and having that relationship with Him, having the right spirit about it. We've got to stop treating God like a good luck charm that we pull out when we need Him. We see that Finding nothing to help them, they reached the place where they lamented. Lamented means to cry aloud. It means to cry out, to seek for help. Beloved, there was no revival in the land, there was no change. until they were fed up with where they were at. There was no change until they knew that they had to have something different, and they lamented, they cried out, they said, Help us, Lord. And we are not going to see revival. We're not going to see any change until we get fed up with where we're at. Until we get fed up with the status quo. Until we say, until we cry out and say, Lord, I need your help. So we see in verses three through six that there was a decon decam decontamination. Sorry, my Mine does that sometimes. So a decontamination that they had to clean some things up. They had to put away the other gods, Astroth and Baal, and they had to stop worshiping them They had to decide to follow God and God only, we see in chapter 7 and verse number 5. He says And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizphah, and I will pray for you unto the Lord. And they gathered to Mizphah And they drew water and poured it out before the Lord and uh fasted on that day and said there, We have sinned against the Lord, and Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah. They said, Boy We're going to come clean. We're going to acknowledge our sin. We're done worshiping these false gods and spending our time. They confess their sin. They uh put away their wickedness Uh then I want you to see in verse number seven they're they're coming, they're calling on God, right? What happens in verse number seven? And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together in Mizfah That the Lord of the Philistines went up against Israel, and when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. Here's what I want you to see right here in this, and we're just about to wrap up. But They decided to follow God, and what happens as soon as they the very next verse, they were going to get clean. They said, We're done worshiping false idols. We're going to get clean. We're confessing our sin. The very next verse, the Philistines come. Opposition comes. Do you understand that Satan is going to oppose your step in the right direction? As soon as you determine to cry out to God for revival and to say, I'm done going after these false gods, I'm done worshiping this, I'm done living for self, and I'm going to start living for the Savior, as soon as you do that, there's going to be opposition. Because Satan is your enemy, and he knows when you're taking a step in the right direction, that he wants to do all he can. So we learn this this way back here in Samuel the example for us that when we take steps in the right direction, opposition from the enemy is going to come. But Victory is given by God. Verses 10 through 13. We see God gives them victory. They get victory from God directly, and ultimately we see in chapter 7, verses 15. All the way through chapter 8 and verse number 9, we're technically just going through chapter number 7, but this this cry for a king comes. There's a demand for a king. The children of Israel raise up and they say, Boy, we want a king. Let's see what he says here in verse number fifteen. He says, and Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life, and he went up from year to year. We're talking about this circuit writing preacher where he where he traveled and he preached. uh and what he did there. And it came to pass when Samuel was old, verse verse number one of chapter eight, that he made his sons judge over Israel. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second was Abiah, and they were judges in Beersheba, and his sons walked not in his ways, and turned aside after Lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment. Then all of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel and Remah and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us. like all the nations. So they desired to be like the nations that were around them. And quite possibly there's several motivations here. We see first of all that is that Samuel's sons were not fit to be leaders. They understood that. They saw that Samuel's sons were not doing what Samuel did. They weren't walking after God. They weren't hearing from God. They were perverting judgments and taking bribes, and they were walking in like Hophni and Phineas. And that's a sad commentary. Parents, we need to be taking the job and the responsibility of raising our kids and the nurture and admonition of God very seriously. It takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of prayer. It needs to be something we're investing our time and energy in. But we see the sins sons weren't fit. They also had the examples around them. Sometimes when we see things in the world, we think, boy, that works for the world. We need to try it. We don't need to be adopting the world's methods. And we're going to get into that more as we talk next week, maybe. But they saw that and said, boy, we're continually being challenged by these kings from these countries around us, from these Philistine nations. Let's get a king, and maybe our king will keep us from being taken into bondage. Let's get a king and be like by these other people. They cry out for a king. It's not what God wants, but God ends up giving them what they ask for. I want you to understand, beloved, that the children of Israel were going to get what they want, but they're going to lose what they had. And that is a direct relationship with God, that direct uh theocracy that they were ruling under. Now God did not give up control of his people. I want you to understand that. He didn't say, okay, now you got a king, you're on your own. Now the king was standing in his stead here on earth, and God was going to communicate or or direct or lead the king And then the king was going to lead the people. Um and we see that in the life of Saul and the life of David, and as we get into the uh divided kingdom. Uh we'll we'll see that more with kings that yield to God and kings that don't. They're supposed to be following God, just like the pastor uh you know leads the church, but it's not it's not his church. It's the Lord's church. You're God's people. And my job is to lead, guide, and lead and feed the flock and protect the flock. But you're God's people. And I'm supposed to be giving you direction from the Lord, not what I want to do, not my own opinion or my own goals or aspirations. supposed to be following God because it's God's church and our our desire is to walk in line with Him as much as we can. And that's how the king is supposed to be functioning. Uh and we'll see some kings do and some kings don't. Um but we see as a nation that they're going to move into a time where God allows them to have a human ruler to lead the nation under him his control. And that concludes this introduction to the book of Samuel and Samuel as an individual that functions in that transitional role. We see here he's old and he's passing off the scene. and they cry out for a king and that gets us into our uh next era there where the monarchy begins which is what we're going to start with next week. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you for today and uh the time in Sunday school. We pray that uh your word and as we learn these and see these lessons afresh and anew that they would guide our lives, Lord, that we would learn from them, not just hear about them, not just study them for head knowledge, but I pray they would impact our lives and make a change in our behavior. And Lord Lord, we'll thank you for it. Bless this morning service, Lord. May you be honored and glorified in Jesus' name. Amen