In your I'm trying to look here to confirm. Uh is that right? Nope. Is it number three? Yes, page number three in your in your notes if you need them to look at. But we want to review the books of the Bible. Let's add the books of poetry now. We're getting in halfway through the year here And uh we've been saying and repeating these the uh of course the Pentateuch and then the uh books of history, but uh let's add the five books of poetry or wisdom. They start with Job, is Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes So let's say those together. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. Let's do that one more time. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. Now we're going to go all the way back to the beginning, starting at Genesis. We're going to say the five books of the Pentateuch and then the 12 books of history. And then we're going to add, we haven't done that yet, we're going to add on the books of poetry or wisdom there, okay? Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2nd Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. Alright, so as we're saying those, uh hopefully in your mind it's starting to connect and you can start putting the pieces together and uh be able to remember those. That's what we want to do. We are currently have just finished up the uh conquest era here, the book of Joshua. We've just finished that. They've gone into the Promised Land. however poorly they actually occupied the land, how they didn't quite do what God wanted them to do, but they have been given their inheritance. That's what brings us to the conclusion of the conquest. Their actual main campaigns, the main job of taking this land has been accomplished. God has granted them or given them their inheritance. They've uh accepted that. They've gone to occupy their area of land, and God has instructed them individually to continue to clear out. those that occupy that land, and they are supposed to do that and take possession of it wholly and completely, but the main conquest is done And then we enter this era, the era of the judges, and it begins with the book of the same name, the book of judges, which we're described, we're going to look at today. Then we have the book of Ruth, and it goes all the way to 1 Samuel verse Chapters one through seven, uh, because you get to Samuel and Samuel's kind of a transition where he functions maybe both as a judge and a leader or prophet for the people. And uh so that's it's Depends on some people put them in with the judges, some don't. But that's what takes place here in this the book of Judges, and that brings us up to the monarchies or to uh the kingdoms So we're going to the next couple of weeks be here in the book of Judges, Ruth and 1 Samuel, looking at what the Lord has for us here. This era is an era that covers about 340 years or so roughly, is comprised of compromise and correction. uh a time frame of just continual compromise and God correcting his people and them coming back to him and then them compromising again and this was driven by man's desire to do only that which was right in his own eyes, which is a key verse for the book of Judges. stated a couple times in the book of Judges that man did that which was right in his own eyes. Beloved, as much as Joshua was a picture of victory, a picture of conquering and overcoming for God. The book of Judges stands as a uh a black mark on the history of God's people. The book of Judges has been described as literally uh a um The dark ages of Israel's history, the time period where they people were away from God. As Joshua was a picture of freedom, Judges is a picture of servitude. Joshua, a picture of of an exercise of faith. was unbelief, continually unbelief. In Joshua sin was uh judged and put away. It was dealt with. But in Judges, sin was God had to end up judging them uh Strongly in order for them to come back to him. Joshua was a picture of obedience. Judges is a picture of apostasy. Joshua, a picture of joy. Judges, a picture of sorrow. Just over and over again we see that take place. And so we're going to walk down through this book, a very sad book, uh in the history of Israel and learn what took place here. But God gives it for our learning, and so we want to glean from it what we can. Now we begin here uh with point rumble number one is apathy is revealed. Apathy is revealed. And so you should be on page 67 in your notes. And uh Roman numeral number one there is apathy is revealed. Now I'm going to get to the book of Joshua myself or Judges here. And we're gonna look at some of these there's a lot here to pull out and see in the scripture. Uh so We see right away that there was a failure to follow God's plan. Beloved Israel failed to drive out all the Itites from the land. Okay, the Itites, uh we should have it there for you, but the uh the I T E S, the Itites, the Hittites The Hevites, the Jebusites, uh, you know, there there's all of the Ites that are all over um the uh nation of Canaan there, the Canaan land, and they failed to drive them out. We see that in chapter one in verse number 21. He says, and the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem And in verse number 27, we see, neither did Manassas drive out the inhabitants of Vesheen and her towns. And then in verse number 36. He says the coast of the Amorites was from was from the going up of aircraft. I wrote down this is Oh 27 through 36 over and over again here in verse number 27, then you go uh in verse number, let's see, 29. Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites in verse number thirty, neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron in verse number thirty-one, neither did Asher. Drive out the inhabitants. And in verse number thirty-two, neither did the Asherites drive out the Canaanites. Neither thirty-three, neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Bethshema So over and over again, you see, they didn't drive out the Yittites. They didn't do what God told them to do. And can I tell you that by and large, the problem that the children of Israel faced for the next 400 years Was because they didn't do what God told them to do. You'll see the problems they have over and over and over again, and it's because they didn't do what God told them to do Even the city of Jerusalem, we know, was not conquered or free of Hittites until the time of David. 2 Samuel 5, verses 6 and 7 tells us how David cleared them out and took control of Jerusalem. So even the capital, even Jerusalem, that city that is recognized as the place that the children of Israel were to be. uh was occupied by these Hittites which God had told them to free the land of. You see, ja after Joshua, God's plan was for the people to live under a theocracy. a theocracy. Now a theocracy is rule by God. God's plan, he established his nation. He had provided them land. to live in. He had provided them law to govern them, the books of the law. He had provided them a large group of people. He had protected them and brought them to this place. And his plan was to rule over them himself. He was going to govern and lead the people. Uh that's what he wanted, was a theocracy. And that was God's plan. But the people did not do what God told them to do. Before Moses died, he instructed Israel to do three things. This is all the way back in Deuteronomy. Uh chapter number seven. Let me turn back there and let's see. He instructed them to do three things. He says, Hey, you're going to go into this land, and I want you to do three things with it. We see in Deuteronomy chapter seven and verse number two He says, And when the Lord thy God shall deliver them before thee, thou shalt smite them and utterly destroy them. Thou shalt not make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them. So beloved, they were to destroy all the inhabitants of the land. Secondly, they were to disregard their women. In verse number 3 or 4, he says, Neither shalt thou make marriages with them. Their daughters thou shalt not give unto his sons, nor his daughters shalt thou take unto thy sons. He says, hey There's not to be anti-intermarrying here. You're not supposed to marry them. You're supposed to utterly destroy them. If they would have done the first thing, there would have been no chance of the second thing taking place, right But he says, hey, listen, don't do this. Don't show them mercy and don't intermarry with them. And then he says they are to despise their gods in verse number five and six. He says, but this shall ye deal with them. Ye shall destroy their altars and break down their images and cut down their groves. and burn their graven images with fire. He said, Listen, you're going to go into this land, and although you as a people are monotheistic, and that is what we are, we believe in one God God, Jehovah, uh the God of heaven and earth, the creator of the universe. We believe there's one God and only one. And uh so we're monotheistic. That's what they were to be, but you know that the the Ites all around the land of Canaan were were polytheistic. They believed in many gods and they worshipped lots of different gods. And as they came into this land, God knew that there would be some appeal in the flesh of men to uh partake of or to figure out or learn about these other gods. And he says, listen, don't do it. You need to cut down their groves, the their their places of worship that David established. You need to burn their altars. You need to utterly destroy that. Don't have anything to do with it. They knew that this was God's plan. And can I tell you, this is still God's plan for the purity of his people. God's people, the Bible says, come out from among them and be ye separate. God's plan is for God's people to be separate, to be wholly given unto Him. You're not to be unequally yoked, the Scripture says in 2 Corinthians. Uh Christian, you have young lady, Christian, young man, you got no business dating somebody at work that you met that doesn't know the Lord from a hole in the wall. That's not who God has for you. Do you believe that God has somebody for you? I hope you do. I hope you know that He has a plan for your life. And so it's not God's plan for you to go out and find a child of the devil And and marry them. You're talking about bringing up problems that that listen, those of you that are married, marriage is hard enough when you're all going the same direction. Amen. Marriage is hard enough when you agree on about 90% of everything. It's that 10% that you gotta work through for the rest of your lives. And I'll tell you what, you are asking for trouble when you marry somebody that you disagree fundamentally on your belief about God. And and and that impacts everything. What are you going to do with your ch You're not taking my kids to Sunday school. What are you going to do about that? You're not taking my kids to church. You know, I mean you're talking about a huge problem, and God has given us direction on that, uh, but young Christians today think they know better And they're gonna do their oh, I'm gonna win him to Jesus after we get married. No, you're not. Even if you win him to Jesus, he's got a whole lot of stuff that's gotta change. And that stuff should take place before you ever even consider dating them. It should not be an option. Oh, but he's so nice. Yeah, you're looking at the wrong things. You start with what God says. And we go from there. God's plan is for us to be separate. Listen, you ought not to be joined together with in even in business with people that are of the world or lost. Don't be unequally yoked, the scripture says. Come out from among them and be separate. God's plan is for his people to be holy and committed unto him We see that they had a failure to follow God's plan, and then they had a failure to follow God's person God tells us to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Amen. With all thy might. You want to love him and him alone. And if you love God first And love your neighbors yourself, the entirety of the law is summed up in those two things. But listen, God should come first. Thou shalt have no Other gods before me. God had given them the law, they knew and understood this, and they were supposed to pursue him and him only But they didn't do that, and that's what caused this problem over and over again. They were confronted with their sin in chapter two, verses one through seven And an angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to Bakim and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt And I have brought you into the land which I swear unto your fathers, and I said, I will never break my covenant with you, and ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land Ye shall throw down their altars, but ye have not obeyed my voice. Why have ye done this Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out before you, but they shall be as thorns in your sides. Because they didn't do what God said. God wasn't going to do it. God wasn't going to just make it happen. They were going to exist as thorns in their sides. Their gods shall be a snare unto you. So their gods are going to be a snare. These false gods became a snare unto the children of Israel. Some of the gods that they serve, the more well-known or recognized that you'll find throughout the book of Judges here, is Moloch. He was the god of the Phoenicians. Dagon. He was the god of the Philistines. Balaam or Baal. He was a very prevalent God of prosperity, a God of prosperity, and he is recognized. There's both the female and the male side of those that worshipped Baal and Balaam And uh this was very prevalent in the Canaan land and Astro, the female goddess of fertility And there were others, but these are the main they were they were polytheist theistic. They believed in many different gods, and these god these gods were going to be a snare unto God's people because they did not do what God told them to do. The people understood what they did in verse number 4, here in chapter number 2, says, And it came to pass when the angel of the Lord spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept The people wept. They understood what they had done, and this area they ended up calling Bakam, which means weepers Verse number five, and they called the name of that place Vakam and they sacrificed there unto the Lord And that that name there means, you might write it in the margin of your Bible or something, but weepers. They were driven to weep. They were sorrowful over their sin. And uh because they had done wrong. We see that there rose up a generation of people among them in verse number 10 that did not know the Lord. In chapter 2 and verse number 10, he says, and also All that generation were gathered unto their fathers, and there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which the Lord had done. So all these people that had come into the promised land that had seen God do all these miraculous things, we have a younger generation that's raising up and they don't know God. They don't know the miracles that God has done. They don't know that they're supposed to be wholly committed to Him. They're enticed by the prosperity of the area that they're in. They're drawn to the world and to these false gods. Listen, Hosea chapter 4 and verse number 6 says, My people are destroyed for a lack of knowledge. They're destroyed for a lack of knowledge. There's a generation of children that were raised up here in homes that knew God, fathers and mothers that had seen God do miraculous things God had even told them to set up m memorials that they could use as a reminder to be able to tell their children about what God did. And yet there's an entire generation grew up in that in those homes and they didn't know God. That is a sad thing for those parents that an entire generation of young people grew up and didn't know God. It's not the kids' fault. It's the parents' fault. They didn't teach them as God had instructed them to do so. They're destroyed for a lack of knowledge. Beloved, how important is Sunday school? How important is Sunday school for a church and for parents and You ought to be seizing the opportunity if you're a parent to allow your kids to be here for Sunday school and for somebody to be taking the Word of God and and teaching them about the miraculous things that God has done and showing them the stories of of of of Jesus and telling them about the miracles that God had performed. introducing them week after week after week to the truths of the Word of God. How important is discipleship? That we're taking time to teach each other the truths of the Word of God and learning about this God that we serve. Beloved, we've got to be teaching the next generation. They are challenged in chapter 2, verses 16 through 23, they are challenged to follow God and to follow Him only. You see, God saw the problems that were arising, and he understood that this was going to take place and he challenges them, says, hey, you need to follow God. It's in answer to the problems that were coming, God was going to raise up judges. Now Chapter 2 verses 17 through 23 are really a description of the book of Judges. If you wanted a synopsis, If you wanted some cliff notes of the book of Judges, it would be these verses right here. This chapter 2, verses 16, 17 through 23. He says And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they went ahooring after other gods. And bowed themselves unto them, they turned quickly out of the way, which their fathers walked in, obeying the commandments of the Lord, but they did not so. And when the Lord raised them up judges, then the Lord was with the judge and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days, their judges, for it repented the Lord because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them. And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned and corrupted themselves more than their fathers in following other gods to serve them and to bow down unto them They ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel. And he said, Because this And he goes on, you see, there's a this is a synopsis of the book of Judges. He said the people were stiff-necked and rebellious, and God judged them. But they cried out and asked for repentance. They repented and God set raised up a judge and said, Okay, I'll be with this judge. I'm going to empower him to deliver you. You're going to be delivered. And then the people uh went back to doing their own thing as soon as the judgment was gone. And so we see this cycle of apostasy. The apostasy repeated, chapters 13 through 16. Apostasy is repeated over and over and over again. Seven times they go through this cycle of apostasy. And the cycle of apostasy is apostasy is this. Apostasy, let me, I was talking to somebody this week and I was using that word and they said, what is that? And so just for anybody that doesn't know, in here, apostasy is a departure from held beliefs. It is a complete and utter departure. You stand here and you say, okay, I believe that Jesus is the Son of God. I believe that God is the creator of the universe. I have I I've taught this, I've said it And then all of a sudden uh you guys hear me over here saying, Oh, I don't believe in the virgin birth. I don't I don't believe in in Jesus uh was ge was God's son, I mean he was a good man, he was a prophet, that's apostasy. If you you've stood here and said, this is what I believe, and then you've turned from that, you've completely left your beliefs That is what apostasy is. And so we see that these people continually leaving what they've been taught. So we we see the cycle of apostasy is this rebellion. That is the children turn away from Jehovah and serve other gods. They they apostasize, they go away from what they believe, their rebellion, then retribution. God sends other nations to oppress and punish them. God sends other nations to oppress and punish them. Let me just check this because we're doing a lot of writing. Does everybody have notes? Everybody have anybody need the notes? Alright, make sure you have because I don't want you trying to fill all this in without I mean you're just filling the blanks is enough. Um so we see this retribution God sends other nations to oppress and punish them, repentance. When retribution fulfilled its work, Israel cries out for deliverance. They repent and they say, oh God, we're sorry, we should have never done this. And restoration. God restores them. So God raises up a judge to deliver Israel out of their punishment, restores them, gives them a time of rest. where they can obey, follow, and worship God, and their time of rest varies based on the judge and what the people were doing, but they have a period where they follow the Lord and then they go back into rebellion. This is a cycle of apostate that repeats itself several times. So we see here the judges, the twelve judges that are given to us in the book of Judges here. That's provided we don't make Abimelech a judge. Some people would make Abimelech a judge. He did rule for three years. Um I didn't put him in my list and if you don't include Samuel because he's not here he's gonna be in first Samuel. So we have twelve in our list and that's the twelve we're gonna look at. Now we think of judges as one that pronounced judgment We think of a judge as one that rules or administers punishment. I mean that's in our mind we think of a judge that way, and you think, okay, God raised up a judge to judge Israel Okay, but that's not what happened in the book of Judges. You understand that God punished the people. He sent in a nation to come in and punish them for their sin. And then when the people repented, he raised up a judge, which is Bible, what he called them, a judge to deliver his people from the oppressors. So that's what the judge fulfilled, the role that the judge fulfilled here, he was used of God to deliver his people from the oppressors. had had God had brought and punished the people because of their sin, he they cried out in repentance and he said, Okay, I'm gonna raise up this man. We're gonna empower him to deliver you from your oppressors And so that's the role that the judge uh fulfilled here. Most of them were military leaders, but before they were military leaders, they were men of faith. There is a number of these judges that are also in the hall of faith, in Hebrews chapter 11, the hall of faith, because these men were men of faith first, and then God used them to deliver the children of Israel from their oppressors. So, excuse me. We've been uh moving quick. Now some just some thoughts here. Make sure you understand the judge uh what his role was. And that some of these judges were contemporaries. That is, you know, you said, well, there's seven cycles of apostrophe and now there's twelve judges. That's because some of them were contemporaries. Things were happening at the same time in opposite parts of the country. Um Pastor Gus, you have that map that I sent you uh that shows the different judges. And uh so I don't know how well you can see this on there, but the the judges are listed here. Um This is jihad and Deborah see this was here and uh Jarr and Tole Samson down here. So these were the other thing to understand is a lot of times when we read the book of Judges and it talks about the children of Israel, in our heart and mind we think that his entire nation is being judged, that all the tribes are are under this judgment. But it was not that way. These were local matters. that God was dealing with, that he sent in somebody to judge them, and this is where they were. So they were regional. This was taking place right here, or this was taking place right here. with this tribe or sometimes this judge was dealing with something up here at the same time this judge was dealing with something down here. And so there were some contemporaries there, uh, and some very short lived or fulfilling a job for a short time, some for longer time. And these were local matters, not necessarily national matters. Now and maybe you're not like me, but in my mind I o I hear the in the children of Israel and I think of all twelve tribes, I think of the entire region, all of it is being judged. All of them are in captivity under the Philistines. But if you really study the history, you'll find out that it was just the northern region that was under the captivity. Or it was just the southern region or just Manasseh, the tribe, or whatever. So it just so you understand that these were local matters that were being dealt with, not necessarily national matters. Okay? Now we're going to see these judges. So the first one here, we're going to try and go through these quickly. Uhnel chapter 3 verses 5 through 11 means lion of God. This is Caleb's younger brother brother. Does your notes, let me see here, what page are you on? Okay, yeah, this is uh this is from my study notes before I got things finalized. Can you scratch out nephew f from the tribe it is from the tribe of Judah but or nephew. I I put that down in my notes like is this I couldn't remember if it was his younger brother or his nephew and I put that down kind of in a question in my mind to study and then I s I looked it up and Forgot to take that out of my notes. So it's not his nephew, it's his younger brother, okay? Um so just scratch that out of your notes there. We'll try and correct it before we Print any more of these. But it is his younger brother. And he is of the tribe of Judah. So the rebellion, there's going to be a cycle here with all of these judges. We're going to hopefully be able to go through them quickly and you'll have them for your notes here. They intermarried with Baal worshippers In uh verse number six, and there was retribution, that is God judged them for their sin, in verse number eight Um I mean you can see these things very clearly how how God did this. Um Verse number six, and they took of their daughters to be their wives and gave their daughters to their sons and served their gods. I mean that's a pretty direct Disobedience of exactly what God said not to do, right? And you see that over and over again. They did that. And so verse number seven, and the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and forgot the Lord their God, and served Balaam. and the groves. Verse number eight, therefore the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Shearanatha, the king of Mesopotamia Um so the king of Mesopotamia came in and God used this foreign uh you know entity to come in and judge his people. You know, sometimes uh this just a little bit of teaching here but sometimes uh America feels like it's supposed to be the police of the w of the world, you know, supposed to solve the world's problems and go everywhere in the world and do all of these things for other The problem with that is we do not know what God is doing. Sometimes God will send a nation into captivity They are being judged for something they had done for their rejection of him. We don't know what uh God allowed. The powers that be are ordained of God. Do we think that's only in America? Is it only here that God sets up kings and takes down? No, it's everywhere. God is in control of the affairs of men. And God controls and he says, hey, listen, this people over here have denied and rejected me and they've gone into sin and they what they're doing is uh I I cannot abide this anymore, and he'll send in somebody to oppress them. To try and get them to turn back to him. We don't know what what God is doing sometimes, and we've got to be careful about trying to uh Even the score everywhere in the world and fix the problems because sometimes God is working and we we're we're not aware of that. So God sends in this foreign king, his retribution for them. They served him for eight years For eight years they were in bondage. They were under his captivity and control. They repented in verse number nine, the beginning there We're not going to be able to read all of these, but and when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer. There at the beginning of verse number nine. And then they have restoration. So God raised up you know Athnel to deliver his people. Athnel was a controlled man. He was controlled by God. He was capable, and we see that he was very courageous. in uh chapter one verses twelve through thirteen because uh Caleb had said, hey, if anybody will go up and conquer this land, you know, I will I will bless them, I'll give them this and this and and Othnell says, I'll do it. And he went on and conquered that. You can read that on your own on your own time. Um I want you to understand that beloved, uh I'm just gonna move on. Uh he was he was a common man, he was a consecrated man They had rest after he had won the victory. God used him to bring his people to freedom. They had rest for 40 years, found in chapter 3, verse number 11. Then Ehad is raised up. He was a Benjamite who assassinated the king of Moab and brought deliverance. So King Egon was a very large man. I know it's not PC to say he was fat, but he he was fat. And God raised up Behead, this Bijamite, to bring deliverance Uh Ehod had an 18-inch dagger. And verse number 22 talks about this. He had this 18-inch dagger, and he got into the tent with the king. And was talking to the king and he says, Boy, I I got something, a message from God. And I I need to I need this is just for his ear only, and the king d dismisses everybody and everybody leaves. And so he's standing there with them and and he The king says, Come and give me the message from God. He has an eighteen inch dagger and he stabs the king with the dagger. The entire dagger and the handle disappears inside the guy and it won't come out. The whole thing's gone. And he leaves it there and he leaves. He walks out of the tent and uh they come in and find out he has a stomachache. Something's wrong with the king Uh yeah, he was a big guy and uh but God uses him to deliver them. Uh so uh their rebellion is in verse number twelve, the retribution in verse number fourteen. He sent E uh the king Eglon there, uh of Moab to oppress them. They served him for eighteen years. For eighteen years. And then the people repented, they were restored, and they had rest for eighty years. They had rest for eighty years. After eighty years they began to go into rebellion again. This is the pattern that you see through this. You have the judge that God raised up here, Shamgar, in 331. Now he was a contemporary judge. He was a uh some would call him a minor judge. Uh he did not have any military campaigns, but a very short one victory. Um and so we don't know much about them. There's sometimes just these minor judges, sometimes there's just one verse about them. Or two verses, and that's it. That's all we know about him. Just two verses. Um So we see here this contemporary judge, we know that he fought the Philistines. southwest of Israel, and in this one battle he killed six hundred of them with an ox goad. Now an ox goad is a uh long, sharp instrument used to you know, prod and poke the the auction. Usually the opposite side would have a spade or a shovel on it that they could use as an implement uh to work while they're out there in the field. So they would have a a sharp point on one side and a spade or some type of a shovel on the other side. It could be relatively long. And with this ox goat he killed six hundred uh of the Philistines. Now we hear about this man, this humble man. who becomes heroic. He's humble. He was a caretaker of the sheep. He was he he was he had an ox for a weapon he had an oxcode. He was out working in the fields. He was just a humble man. He wasn't a great military leader or anything like that. He was just somebody that had believed in God and God used greatly. Then we see Deborah and Barak, that God gives victory over the Canaanites And uses rain to help them do it. But uh Deborah and Baric, we see the rebellion, the retribution. Uh he sent uh uh Javan, a Canaanite, uh, with nine hundred chariots of iron. God sent them in. There's this Canaanite leader with 900 chariots of iron to suppress the children of Israel, and they served him for twenty years. Then we have the repentance and their restoration. God used a willing woman to do this work. Listen, there there are many things that that God can do and when men don't do what they're supposed to do is sad. Uh and I praise the Lord, I don't think it's a situation here, but sometimes you go to churches And you'll see that the entirety of the church is run and led by ladies. Because men won't take any leadership. Men won't step up and do what needs done. And so these ladies are doing it. Let me encourage you men to, I know it's easier sometimes to just let your wife do it, but you are supposed to be a leader, and that means you make the decisions. And that means little bitty simple things, like, I do not have time to chase these rabbits. Uh but this is important Okay, we you you go to a restaurant and you got your three little kids there and uh you're so used to your wife taking care of everything that you're like, oh, what do the kids want to eat? And she's making all the decisions all the time about everything that happens in the home. Well, she's the one in the home and she's the one with the kids Listen, we go to a restaurant, I order for the kids. Sometimes Mary would tell me the kids don't like that. I'd say, I don't care. That's what they're eating today. That's because that's what I chose for them to eat. And if they don't like it, they can go hungry. Now sometimes I will ask, hey hun, do the do the kids enjoy this? And she'll like, well, they would prefer this. And I would say, okay. And I would order that for them I was making the decision. I was leading. Sometimes your wife will ask you, hey, do you do you think Isaac can go over and spend the day with Sammy? Um I don't know what do you think? She is asking you to make a decision. She's saying, what what can he do? What should he do this? You are to be the leader. You need to decide. You need to take the leadership. You need to say, no, I don't think it's a good idea. Or yeah, that would be fine. He can do that. But you it it becomes the default mindset for a lot of men because the lady takes care of all the stuff in the home and she does it and she does it well and so we think, oh well we'll just let her do it, but that sets up a pattern in the home For eighteen years because the kids are there all the time for eighteen years dad is taking a back seat and mom's running everything. And and That's not the way God planned it. You're supposed to be a leader, and men are supposed to be leading. You ought to have men leading in church. But when men don't do it, I praise God for godly ladies that will step up And I praise the Lord, we've got godly ladies in our church here. And uh listen, ladies serve and work and do many, many things for God, and God will use them mightily. If they have willing hearts and we see that Debra with Deborah and her uh I I wrote down here that uh, you know uh Barak, he was a a weak warrior. Um so God uses a willing woman, but God uses a weak warrior, Barak. Uh he was weak because God called him to go do this, and Barak looks at this lady and says, Well, uh, if you'll go into battle with me, I'll go. That's what he said. And she's like, okay, I'll go, but I want you to understand that God is going to give the glory for this battle to a woman, not to you. And he said, okay. Now he went with her, and uh I'm glad he went, but he was not strong enough to take the leadership and do it. Uh and uh then God uses jail with a nail in 421 Jael uh sneaks into the tent of the enemy and takes a nail, and the Bible says uh that he takes this nail, or she takes a nail, and drives it through the temple of the king and actually sticks the king right to the ground. And uh God gives them the victory here with this. So Deborah and Baric uh in chapter number five, they sing a song of victory and of deliverance. And it is 1014 already. We're gonna have to cover the rest of this next man. I wanted to get through this so bad, but I we're we're done. We're out of time. I gotta c I gotta shut it down. I just I know I mentioned last week the idea that uh you know God will use anybody that's a willing vessel And uh to do what needs done. This time where God uh called upon a lady to fulfill the role of judge was because there was no men that are willing to do it. And uh it is not God's plan, it's not God's design. This was a time of apostasy. This was a time when people weren't doing what was right, they were doing what was right in their own eyes. And so there was only a lady willing, and you know the It is not God's plan that ladies should rule over uh men. Uh that's just the fact of the matter. And it's not that men are better, it's just that that's God's design. And uh I can tell you uh that Mary is much smarter than I am. There's no doubt or question about that. Mary's far more organized, has a much better memory than I do. Uh but it's by God's design that men are supposed to be leading. And it is a time of uh God talking about the children of Israel in the book of Isaiah, chapter 3, and verse number 12, he says, As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women will rule over them. This is a time of apostasy, a time of judgment, that God says, hey, it's a time of judgment when you're in a place where uh women be begin to be the rulers or are leading over over you. The reason I'm mentioning this is because today there is a very strong movement to try and get ladies in position of leadership and authority. That's not God's plan. Uh I have on occasion in in time times past I have voted for a woman to be a leader in you know Congress or uh uh you know a a the House representatives or even local uh places because there was no man that was stepping up to do the job. And so I have voted for Excuse me, a lady to do that, uh, but I just want you we we need to think biblically And uh there's a strong movement today, even in the church, where people are saying, well, what's wrong with ladies leading these things Listen, that's not God's plan. It's not God's design. And men need to step up and do the job that God gave them to do. And uh so It's it's just important. There's actually was just a vote literally within the last few months in the Southern Baptist Convention. Now we are not part of the Southern Baptist or the American Baptist or the G ARB Baptist or we are an independent Baptist, so we're not under any association or tied to any group. That's why we're independent, so that we can follow the Word of God and they don't dictate what we do. But the Southern Baptist Convention is a group of people that are all part of this one convention, and the convention sets the rules Well, they tried to establish a a vote, they had to put it to vote to put it into their constitution that they could not have women pastors Well that got voted down. That got voted down. So now the Southern Baptist Convention, i they they could not get it added to the Constitution that they can't have women pastors. So the next step is they will end up having women pastors and uh mark my words to follow that is going to be homosexual pastors. Uh and it it's just because when you start doing what's right in your own eyes instead of following the Bible, there is no end, there is no guardrail, there is no stop. It's basically we're just letting we're just gonna do what the majority thinks is a good idea. And you cannot run the Lord's church like that. You cannot live your life like that. We have to follow the Word of God and by God's plan and God's design. If you don't think that's going to happen, then just look at the Methodist Convention. And uh they're just a few years ahead of the Southern Baptist Convention, and uh that's one of the problems with a convention is because it begins to be the majority rules, and what does the Bible say about the broad road? about the wide road, the way the way that most people are going to want to go. It's going to end up, it's going to tend towards apostasy. And so Uh the Bible is very clear in First Timothy chapter two verse twelve, but I suffer not women to teach nor to usurp authority over the man. So it's not God, it's by God's plan. In the early church The examples that are given, there is no women deacons, there's no women running churches, there's no women pastoring churches, no women bishops. in the examples that we have in all of that and and the office of the pastor, the requirements that are given to us is that they must be the husband of one wife. You know, uh pretty clear that it has to be a husband of one wife. So these principles are biblical. And I just want you to know that that is where we stand as a church. And uh although God uses ladies in miraculous ways and they They fulfill the role that God has for them to fulfill, just like the guy is supposed to fulfill the role that he has for them to fulfill. It's not that one is better than the other, it's that each is doing what God has given them to do. Fulfilling the role given to us by God, and that is how it's supposed to function and work. So we get into Gideon. Uh we see in Gideon these we're talking about the seven cycles of apostasy that took place in the book of Judges. It was a repeat over and over again. Uh the God's people, they would have some time of rest, and then they would rebel, and then there would be retribution, then they would repent, and then they would be restored, and they would have rest and then they would rebel. And it's over and over again. So we see in chapter number six, uh verse number one, where the children of Israel decided to do what they want. In verse number one, it says, And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years. And the hand of the Midian prevailed against Israel, and they became of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them the dens Which were in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds. So they rebelled. And we see in verses two through five the retribution that God sends in the Midianites, verse number three. And so it was when Israel had sown that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites and the children of the east, even they came up against them And they encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth till thou come to Gaza and left no substance for Israel, neither sheep nor oxen nor asses. So they had di These Midianites came in, destroyed the crops, they destroyed the progress that they were making, and they began to uh put them into servitude. And then the people repented in verse number 6 and 7 that things got bad, they said, in Israel, verse number 6, and Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried unto the Lord. And it came to pass when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord because of the Midianites that the Lord sent a prophet. I'm glad that the Lord is there. Anytime we're willing and ready to come back to him, when we're ready to meet him on his terms We can come back anytime we want. God is there and He's ready. As soon as they cried out, God is not a vindictive uh well You haven't suffered enough. I'm going to try and just get you, you know. As soon as they turn back to him, he says, okay. And he raises up a prophet to deliver them. So uh we know the story of of Gideon, but God calls Gideon here in verses twelve through sixteen, Gideon who does not feel that he's capable or able to do much, but uh He he is called of God. In verse number twelve he says, And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon said, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all the miracles which our fathers have told us of, saying, Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us. And they have a conversation where God calls him and he he you you know the story where he kind of he questions or he doubts and he thinks, oh, I'm not sure that this is really what God wants me to do. And so Gideon confirms the call through the laying out of a fleece. I want to talk about that idea of laying out a fleece. I want you to know this is the only place in the Word of God that we see this practiced. Now, just because something is in the Word of God does not mean that it should be something that we do. Now, if it's something, if it's there and it's just one time and it's what we're supposed to be doing. That's fine. One time's enough. God doesn't have to say it five times for us to get it. One time if the Lord says this is what you need to be doing, one time's enough. But you have to take the whole of the Bible into consideration. And I want you to know that God has told us that we are to walk by what? Faith. We're to walk by faith. What Gideon is asking here with this laying out of the fleece is to walk by sight. He wants to see that God is who he's talking to. He says, Lord, you know, if it be you, uh I'm going to lay out this fleece and I want the ground to be wet all around it, and I want the fleece to be dry And God did that for him, and that wasn't sufficient. So he says the next day, okay, I want the the gr the ground to be dry and the fleece to be wet. And here's the thing, is signs, God does not lead by signs Signs can Satan can use signs. He can introduce those. That's how Satan leads people. And sometimes they can be very subjective. You'll you you think, well, okay, if the Lord wants me to do something, then uh make there be a guy standing on the next corner that I pull up to. You know, and and so y you know, you random there's uh all kinds of crazy things that people will say for a sign that they want God to say, okay, this is how I know this is God's will, because there was a sign that that you know, but God does not lead by signs. We are to walk by faith. And uh so although this is here, it just because it's in the Bible doesn't mean we should do it. I mean Uh all through the Old Testament, we've talked about it before, many of them had multiple wives. Uh Solomon had 900. Uh that doesn't mean we should all have 900 wives. Okay, so just because something's in the Bible doesn't mean we do it. We need to look at the Bible as a whole and see, okay, what is the Bible teaching us? And uh the idea is that God can lead us, that God does call us. He was sitting and talking to the Lord. Very clear conversation there. Verse number fifteen. And he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewithal shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor. in Manasseth, and I am the least of my father's house. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. Now he had just been talking with them. Bob and I are over here having a conversation. He can't see me. But we're talking. We're having a conversation. We're talking about uh you know something really spiritual like Mustangs or cars or something, and we're we're having a conversation about that. And then and then Would it make sense for him to after a couple minutes say, hey Pastor Caleb, if if you're really talking to me right now, uh slap me, just so I know you're there. You know? No, it wouldn't make we're he he's he's having a conversation with God and he says, Okay God, uh just to make sure, why don't you show me a sign and let me see? But I want you to know that that is not God's plan. So I'm I'm just cautioning you about signs. And and here's the thing. One guy I read about this put it this way. There is a big difference between tempting God for a sign of his power and trusting God for a sign of his plan. So here's the thing, is we need to be a heart of submission where you're saying, God, I want to know for sure I'm willing and ready to do what you want me to do. I want to know for sure that this is your will. Will you help me to have that confidence in my heart that I'm taking the right step and asking God to give you a an assurance in your heart? However he sees fit. Be careful about drawing lines in the sand and saying, okay, uh if I walk in the auditorium and Pastor Caleb's standing in the center, then it's God's will. You know, I mean You you you you can't do that. You say, Lord, I need assurance and God will give you assurance, but you're saying, Lord, I'm ready to do your will. I want to do your will, I just need some assurance, some confidence that I'm stepping out in faith and doing what you want Asking him for that, opposed to asking for a sign uh to tempt God, as it were, okay So just something to think consider about. Then Gideon conquers the enemy in chapter number seven. Uh you guys have read the story there. Gideon goes in miraculously, conquers the enemy with just three hundred men after God sends all the rest of them home. Uh and then sadly towards the end of Gideon's life in chapter number eight, Gideon compromises uh his stand and uh begins to do what he wants to do. He has many wives and concubines. He ends up with seventy sons, one of which is Abimelech. Now I should have put the forty years of rest here before this stuff about Abimelech because they have forty years of rest that God gives them in chapter 8 and verse number 20. 28, he tells them there. He said, This was uh Midian subdued before the children of Israel. so that they lifted up their heads no more, and the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon. Now Didian Gideon comes to the end of his days, and he ends up having a bunch of wives and a bunch of children, seventy of his sons, one of which is Abimelech. Now Abimelech takes the throne that Gideon rejected. The people came to him and said, Hey Gideon, you've been a great leader. We want you to lead us. And Gideon says, Nope, I did what God wanted me to do. I'm done. And and he says, no. But Abimelech said, boy, well, uh, I'll I'll take that position. And and he steps up and he says, wouldn't you rather me ruling over you? And you can read the story, but Abimelech decides that he's going to take the lead, and ultimately to make sure he has no contenders for the throne, he kills 69 of his siblings. All except one. You can read the story there. He goes in and kills all. He goes to his father's house, the Bible says, and kills all of his siblings save one. And uh he takes the throne and and ends up leading the children of Israel for just three years. So some people have Abimelech as one of the because he did serve in a place a position of leadership, some of them have him as one of the judges Uh but I did not put him there as one of the judges here because he was just three years and what he did and and the wickedness in which he lived. So I did not put him as one of the judges. But if you read some of the other people might It might be in there. He might be listed because he did rule or lead for a little while. So I'm just letting you know that. So then we have a couple of uh minor judges, uh Tola in chapter 10, verses 1 and 2, and you'll see Verses three and four and five. So it I mean two verses is all we have of Tola and what he is supposed to, you know, judging. It just tells us he was there, he judged, he ruled for twenty-three years And then Jar, verses 3 through 5, again, a contemporary or minor judge that served for 22 years. And you remember these are local things that are happening in set regions. So they could be taking place down here and this is taking place up here and and they're they're not for the entire nation. They're they're individual scrimmages or individual deliverances which God gives And when you read the text, you can pick that out because it'll say things like they they uh were on the west side of Jordan, they passed even unto the east or whatever, where it describes where this was taking place specifically. Then we get to Jephthah in chapter 10 in verse number 6. Jephthah, we see the rebellion begins there in verse number 6. Again, the children of Israel turning away from God. He says And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and Sir Balaam and Ashtroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab. and the gods of the children of Amnon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook the Lord and served not him. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel And he sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the children of Amnon. So they they decided to go After other gods again, after forty years of of rest from Gideon, they got distracted, they got disgruntled, whatever it was, they they went after these other gods and said, Let's go this way. And God said, Wait a minute, and he had to send them into judgment again. He had to send retribution. So he sent the Philistines, the Philistines and the children of Amnon, and they ended up serving them for eighteen years For 18 years they were under judgment, and for 18 years they put up with it. It took 18 years for them to turn back to God. How long does it take for us to turn back to God? God sends some punishment in our life, God sends some circumstances. There's times that sometimes other people can see it very plainly, and the person going through it doesn't notice it. I've had people come to me and say to me, God is judging my family. I mean it's evident, it's plain, it's you You you can see it as clear as day. But those that are in the middle of it don't even realize it. They they they're they're not acknowledging, they're not ready to turn back to him and God is trying to get their attention, God is trying to say, Hey, wake up, you're going the wrong direction. But other people looking and saying, man, can't you see the hand of God? You did this, and it went and this happened, you did this, and this happened, you did this, and this happened, and and God saying, Wake up. You're going the wrong way and and they they're not doing it. Eighteen years they were in judgment. I wonder how long do we have to uh kick a brince against the pricks as it were uh and fight God instead of just respond and come back to him. Because the moment we do, we can be restored. We see the restoration in uh chapter 11. God raises up Jephthah. In chapter 11, verses 1 through 3, we see some very interesting things because Jephthah was the son of a harlot. We see Jeptah, the Gilead, the Gileadite, was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot. And Gilead begat Jephthah, and Gilead's wife bare him sons, and his wife's sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house, for thou art the son of a strange woman. So they said, Hey, uh you you you don't belong here. You've been brought forth uh by an improper relationship and they kicked him out. But here's uh a lesson for you uh that uh God is not as much concerned about your past as he is about your present and future. But we say the church here is God is not as concerned with where you are as he is with where you're going. And uh your past might have a lot of things in it that people would look at and say, Boy, this is bad, or that's not pleasant, or oh man, you can't you can't really do anything good. But God used Jephthah to deliver his people, even when the people said you're worthless. But he was a mighty man of valor. So we see his character there. And the people come to him and the people say, hey, uh, we have a problem. And uh it's funny because he Got in the flesh a little bit. Um but we see in verses four through eleven his his call. Uh he says, And it came to pass in the process of time that the children of Amnon made war against Israel. And it was so that when the children of Amnon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jebha out of the land of Tob. And they said unto Jephthah, Come and be our captain, that we might fight with the children of Ammon. And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me and expel me out of my father's house? And why are you come unto me now that ye are in distress? I think that's how I would have been. I don't know that that's the right way to be, but it would have been like uh oh wait, d are didn't you guys say I was worthless, that I uh I couldn't do nothing, now you're coming? But he was a mighty man of valor and people knew that. It was it was It was recognized in his character that he was a strong man and that he was going that he would be used of God to deliver them, to lead them, and God did uh raise him up. And so he goes in to fight this battle, but we see in verses 29 to 31 his covenant, his foolish covenant that he made And those of you that are familiar with the story, you remember what happens here. But look down in chapter 11, verse number 29. He says, Then the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and he passed over Mizphah and of Gilead. And from Mizpah and Gilead he passed over to the children of Amnon. And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord. And he said, If thou shalt without fail, deliver the children of Ammon unto my hands. He says, okay, God, if you will give me victory I'm going into battle. If you'll give me victory, then look what he says there, verse number 31, then it shall be that whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the children of Amnon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering So Jephthah says, Hey, God, if you will give me victory, whatever, you know, I don't w I don't know what was in his mind. Maybe they had a dog and he thought, boy Fir first thing that comes out of the door every time I come home is my dog. And and you know what? If the dog comes out, I'll sacrifice him to the Lord. We're gonna give the dog to Jesus if he'll if he'll i if God will give me victory. I mean he's going to battle and man he needs victory and he he knows he can't do it himself and he says, Lord, just I'll I'll do this for you. Whatever comes out the door, Lord, I'm gonna give it to you And uh that was a foolish vow. We need to be very careful what vows that we make, and uh because we do need to keep our vows. But he makes his vow and God does give him the victory. So we see his conquest in verses 32 to 33 there. But his crisis, look in verse number 34. In verse number 34, and Jephthah came to Mizphah unto his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet with him. with trembles and with dances, and she was his only child. Beside her he had none, neither son nor daughter. His only daughter, his daughter, came out to meet him She heard dads coming up the trail. Maybe they heard the ruckus of the commotion and she ran out of the house and then all of a sudden there the the vow that he had made strucks strikes his heart and He realizes what he has done and he's broken about this. In verse number thirty-six, the I mean he let's read verse number thirty-five, and it came to pass when he saw her that he rent his clothes. And he said, Alas, my daughter. It's amazing he blames her for it. He says, Thou hast brought me very low. Thou art one of them that troubleth me. For I have opened my mouth unto the Lord and I cannot go back. He says, Why did you come out of the house You shouldn't have done this. You've created this problem. Now I have to sacrifice you. I told God I was going to do it. And you came out of the house and now I have to do it. And he felt really bad about it, but he made a foolish vow. But then we see her cooperation. It's amazing in verse number 36, there. And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth. He said, she said, okay. Whatever God told you, whatever you said you were going to do, whatever you promised, we need to do that. We need to keep the vow. So they end up having rest just for six years this time. And then we have several contemporary judges that are are raised up, minor judges. Isman is raised up in chapter 12 verses 8 through 10, and then Elon is raised up in 12, 11 through 12, and then Abdon 12, 13 through 15. And then we get to another major judge that has uh you know a lot more about him, of course, one that we're very familiar with, Samson. And that is chapters thirteen through sixteen, Samson. In Samson we see both the worst of men and the best of men. We see the the the the potential That's there when a man is yielded to God, and we see also the problems that come when men live according to their own desires. So Samson was to be a Nazarite. Chapter 13 tells us that we see the rebellion beginning, chapter 13, verse number 1, and the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. So very clearly there's rebellion. The retribution comes. They're sent into the hand of the Philistines. For forty years they're in servitude. The children of Israel they repent and Samson is raised up. Samson as a Nazarite uh is supposed to uh refrain or keep from partaking of any wine. He's not supposed to cut his hair, and he's not supposed to defile himself by touching the carcass or the body of a dead uh being animal or person, not supposed to touch a dead body. These are commitments that he made as as a Nazarite, and God empowers him. Samson is raised up. He displays great spiritual strength while also showing great spiritual strength uh great physical strength, sorry, well showing great spiritual stupidity. Um he was spiritually dumb, even though he was very physically strong. And uh that's very biblical principle. A lot of times people that are uh have great physical stamina or great physical strength or or let's say great uh ability here in this world A lot of times they're lot less likely to rely on God because they can handle it themselves, because they can do it themselves. They don't need God. where those uh the apostle Paul said, uh my strength is made perfect in hi my his strength is made perfect in my weakness And being familiar with God's strength only comes when we're familiar with our weakness. And so Samson, relying on his own strength, did not want to rely on God very much. He was given the supernatural strength by God to deliver his people as part of his Nazarite vow, teaching us that listen God can give you the victory. God can give you the power to overcome and do what you need to do. But uh Samson wants to live his own life and do his own thing. So he goes down to Timnath. And we don't have time to read all these passages of scripture, but he goes down the Timnath. I want you to know that uh the path away from God is always a downward path. Uh the same is is true about uh the Bible is very clear about Jonah uh when he ran from God, you know, uh it says he went down to Tarshus. And then it says in the scriptures that he went down into the ship, and then he went down into the belly of a whale. The path away from God is always a downward path. And uh it is going to take you to destruction. He was disobedient to his parents, he dishonored his Nazarite vow He was deceived by Delilah, one of the most amazing stories of complete and utter foolishness, as you read it and you hear how Delilah just kept asking him, why are you so strong? And he kept s saying different little things and and and getting closer and closer to the actual truth and ultimately uh I mean how could he be so foolish to think that she would not do what she did? Uh I don't y y y you look at it, but you know what? Sin blinds. And uh that's the the the fact is it blinds and and He just felt like he was beyond any any judgment and he could do whatever he wanted. And also God allowed it to happen where he lost his strength. So he is destroyed. Ultimately in his death, he's used of God to deliver the people in a final act of victory that God gives him in the conclusion of his life there. And they have rest for 20 years. Then we get to the concluding verses, chapters of Judges. That is that concludes the cycle of apostasy and the judges that are raised up. But chapters 17 through 21. uh deals with a great time of anarchy, a time when people are just doing what they want, the corruption is is rampant through the country. Uh we see beginning here some corruption in a home. And we looked at this last Sunday, uh Sunday morning during the Sunday morning service here. Uh but Micah uh in chapter 17, Micah there sets up idols in his home and remember this we talked about it. He's He made a priest and uh made a son a priest, which he wasn't supposed to do, and then he recruited a priest to come and serve in his home. And and uh they said, oh look, now the Lord's gonna be good to me because uh I have a priest here. And all of it is against God's plan and what God wants, but he's uh so thrilled that he has this all set up. And uh so we see this corruption in the home. This shows how far the corruption has gone when this Levite, which was not supposed to be doing this, agreed to do it, agreed to worship God in uh in in these false idols and this shrine that was set up. And then we see the corruption in the tribes in verse number 18. A group from uh Dan, the tribe of Dan, traveled uh to they were out trying to find some more land. And you can read these verses and encourage you to read through Judges. They're the the Danites they were going to find some land and they're gonna go and they they're looking we need some more space and so they're looking and on their way They come by Micah's house and they they see this Levite and they see uh the what he has set up there and they think, Man, this is good. Let's inquire as to the Lord's will uh about our victory or what we should be doing. Listen, you can't uh that would be like me going to a uh uh uh one of these poem readers and saying, Hey, can you tell me what God's will is? for my life. That's not where you find God's will. You don't find God's will by going to a palm reader or by looking at the stars or whatever. No, you find God's will in God's word And the Holy Spirit guides you into all truth. And so they they said, Oh, let's do this. They thought, boy, this is really good. They decide, uh, you know what Um they talk to the Levite and they say, Hey, would you like to be a priest for one guy in his house, or would you like to be a priest for all of us? And he says, Well The more the merrier. Yeah, I'll be a priest for you guys. There's a whole lot more of you and the pays better, so uh I'm gonna go with you. So he decides to go with them And they said, Well, since you're coming with us, we're going to go ahead and take all of Micah's uh shrines too. And they just take all of Micah's shrines. They take his whole setup, everything he had there. You can read the passage and And uh see that that happens uh in verse verse chapter eighteen there. They stole Micah's shrine and uh his Levite on their way through. And the Levites uh The Levite was very glad to go and to do it. And then in verses 19 through 21, we see a story of crime and punishment of the children of Gibeah. Um what happens here. So there is a another Levite and he has a concubine in chapter 19 In chapter 19, she plays the whore. She goes out into her father's house and she lives unfaithful to her mate and uh The children of Gibeah, these wicked men, they come in, they abuse this concubine, they uh physically abuse her. And uh ultimately she loses her life. Uh the abuse she she goes back home and she doesn't requ recover, she actually ends up dying, and uh this Levite is very distraught over what has taken place. And he thinks, man, this is so bad. So he takes her and he cuts her up into twelve pieces. And he sends her In parcels or packages or via carrier or whatever, uh he sends pieces of her to all of the twelve tribes. This is in a means of trying to get them to wake up. Uh realize how wicked this is. Look at what has happened. You can't believe how vile and wicked our society has become that uh men of a city could come and take somebody and do this and and without retribution and nobody said anything. And so they gather together the the um And they say, well, we're gonna go punish them. So the people all get together in chapter number 20, and it ends up civil war begins happening. Because the people gather together, they go sit down, they listen, they say, okay, what happened? They asked the Levite. The Levi says, here's what happened. These men came. They took her, they abused her, they let her go, she died. This is what they did. Very clear descriptions for them. And then they say, okay. They go to Benjamin and they say, hey, Turn over the guilty party, the tribe of Benjamin. You guys have these people, these guys that did this, turn them over. The tribe of Benjamin say no we're not turning them over. What? Why why wouldn't you turn these guys over? They need to be judged for what they did. They need to be punished for what they did. And they said, no, we're not turning them over. And so ultimately civil war ensues And the nations come down on the tribe of Benjamin in great force, and uh they actually kill 25,000 of their men of war. 25,000 of them are killed. They leave only 600 men alive of the Benjaminites. So of the entire tribe of Benjamin, there's only 600 men left alive. Talk about a rough time. These people felt very bad about what they did. They said, man, we we went a little far. I'm sure they tried to explain it, justify it, but twenty-five thousand people died, there's only six hundred. The tribe of Benjamin's probably going to pass off the scene. Tribe of Benjamin's probably gonna longer exist. What are we going to do? And they say, well what we need to do is we need to try and find them some wives. So they again foolishly the things that they do, they go, they say, well Um twelve thousand men went and smote Jabesh Gilead. They went to Jabesh Gilead And they took four hundred women from them and brought them to the tribe of Benjamin and said, Here you go. Craziness. It's a time, a time of anarchy, a time of apostasy, a time when men were not doing what God Judges 2125 is a descriptive verse of the entire time period. It says, And in those days there was no king in Israel. Every man did that which is right in his own eyes. People just doing what they want to do. And beloved, when you remove the law of God, men live how they want to. And who's to say what you think is right or what you think is right or what they think is right. Everybody just doing what they want to do. Everybody has their own level of of what they think is acceptable. Where the world is today, you go back just 30, 40 years and people would say, no, that's never gonna be No, that's not gonna happen. Uh but when people get to just do what they want to do, you remove the rule of God. And uh that's what was happening in this time frame when men were just living and doing that which is right in their own eyes. And we've got to be very cautious as Christians too that we are not living that way. That we are submitted to God, to living and doing what God wants us to do Not to our own way or what we think is right or what we feel is acceptable, but literally submitting to God and letting God lead and direct our lives.