People went into the promised land, they crossed the river, they were to conquer o over the rebels, and then they were to claim the reward that that God had given them. And uh Joshua completed and fulfilled his God-given call on his life and did that. And shortly after Joshua passes off the scene, the conclusion of his life takes place. We get into the book of Judges, and that is the Judges Era, the era of the Judges, and what takes place with God's people during that time frame. And understanding that and uh hoping to give kind of a picture, an overview of this era as we walk through this this evening this uh conclusion of Joshua. He was told uh it by well Joshua and Moses were given the command as they go into the promised land, they're they're they're gonna cross the river, they're to conquer all of the rebels. This is what they were supposed to do. But when Joshua completed his task, you remember he c he conquered thirty-one kings, and He was to help oversee the uh displacement of the main leaders, the kings, the the main powerhouses. They were to do that together as a group. But then the individual tribes were given pieces of land, and the individual tribes were to go into their area, and they were to there in their area Conquer the Canaanites that were there, the Jebusites, the Hevites, I mean each of the groups of people that they would come in contact with, each tribe was supposed to conquer those. Joshua chapter 13, verse number one says, There was much land yet to possess. So when they went into this land of Canaan, even though they had conquered the main kings, There was still much land yet to possess. There was still much to accomplish, and they needed to get victory, complete victory over the enemy. Now we know from the story in hindsight, you know, 2020 vision, uh you're looking back, we know from the story that they didn't conquer this land like they were supposed to. that they lived with these enemy peoples and that caused them trouble after trouble after trouble all the way through the book of Judges. Now if you have your There's two th two things. Well, this we gave you tonight, this chronological uh order of Israel's judges. Uh that's available on the Welcome Center. We'll be looking at that, referencing that just a little bit. But I wanted to just show you in the chronological relationships of the books that you have in your notes. This is just the layout of all the different books. And we illustrated and showed how in Exodus, Leviticus was a support book, and how in Numbers, Deuteronomy was a support book. Not continuing the history, but giving you a little more information. Well, in the book of Judges or the era of the Judges, a support book is the book of Ruth. And You go into the error of the judges, era of the judges, goes into uh 1 Samuel just a few chapters, because our first judge, our last judge, is is Samuel. So it goes into the beginning book there of Samuel just a little bit, this era that we're looking at tonight of the judges Now God's plan, when Joshua passed off the scene, what God wanted to do was he wanted to bring his people back to a place of theocracy. Which is God rule. Now God raised up a man, Moses, to to set his people free and bring them back. And they weren't in the promised land yet. They hadn't been given their their land. So God raised up Joshua and had him lead the people in this campaign to get back into the promised land. But it was God's design and God's plan to have a theocracy. He had given them their land, he had given them their law, and he was going to lead them. And he wanted to have a direct relationship with them. He wanted to be their king, their leader, their overseer. And they would follow God's law directly and be accountable to him, and then do that in and through the tribe of Levi. But the people kept straying. The people kept getting away from God, and God wanted to lead directly, but they kept getting distracted and pulled away, and so God would have to raise up a judge. to to to free them or he would raise up somebody to put them into bondage first and then he would raise up a judge to free them. And you went through these cycles in the book of judges, in this era of judges And then ultimately we get into the next era there of the kings, and you see that the people cried out for a king. But we'll get there uh here in a week or two, but the the tonight we'll give you a little bit of background here on the this era of the judges. The error of the judges covers About 450 years. Look in your Bibles at the book of Acts, if you would. Acts. This is a New Testament commentary on this time period. And in in the book of Acts, it uh chapter number thirteen, Acts chapter thirteen, verse number nineteen And verse number 20, Acts chapter 13, verse number 19, and verse number 20, says, and when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, He divided their land unto them by lots. So that's the era that we just completed, right? The era of the conquest. When they got into the land and they divided the area up by lot. Each person got a lot. And uh they used lots to determine who was supposed to get what. So each one got their land in verse number 20. And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of 450 years until Samuel the prophet. Samuel is key, a key judge, in that he was both the last judge and a prophet. We'll talk a little bit about that in the future. uh a little bit further in tonight, but the idea here is uh that this time period uh tells us very clearly is about four hundred and fifty years. In the in the history, we're looking at Old Testament history. We're trying to kind of see God's hand through the Old Testament. So this era of the Old Testament judges. The Judge's era, which covers the book of Judges, the Book of Ruth, and the first part of Samuel, is about 450 years, according to the book of Acts there. Now there are people that would say it covers different era, different time frames and things. I just can't argue with what it very clearly says in the scriptures that that time of judges was four hundred and fifty years uh from then until Samuel, which was the last judge. So that's that's what we've got. Now the problem in the era of the judges was rebellion. You see, before Moses died, before he passed off the scene, he told them in Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 1 through 5, he said, there's three things that you need to do When you go into this promised land, there's three things you need to do. He says you need to destroy all the inhabitants of Canaan. So that was their command. Destroy all the inhabitants of Canaan. The second thing they were told to do was not to intermarry. Now if they would destroy them, then that was certainly wouldn't be intermarrying with them, but they were not to intermarry. They weren't supposed to uh you know be unequally yoked up with them. They weren't to intermarry. And they were not to worship the Canaanite the Canaanite gods. They weren't supposed to do that. Those are the three commands that they were given when they were going into this king and land. Here's what you're supposed to do. Now we know that God's people failed to follow through with these guidelines. And this descends them into a time of spiritual and moral dark morph moral darkness. Turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter 106. In the book of Psalms, Chapter 106, here we have a uh commentary from the psalmist on this time period. In Psalms 106, look down to verse number 34. This gives you a very clear description of what this time period was like. In verse number 34, he says, they did not destroy the nations. concerning whom the Lord commanded them. So what did we just say their job, what they had been told by Moses, was to destroy the nations, right? So he said, they did not destroy the nation concerning whom the Lord had commanded them. Verse number 35, but were mingled among the heathen and learned their works And they served their idols, which were a snare unto them. Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils. And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan in the land of was polluted with blood. Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went in abhorring with their own inventions. Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, insomuch that he abore his own inheritance. And he gave them unto the hand of the heathen, and they that hated them ruled over them. So you see here that the time of the judge is the cycle. These people were sinning. They did exactly what God told them not to do. God was frustrated and put up with them, and he says, okay, and he turned them over to the heathen. And he says, okay, you guys are going to go into the hands of those that hate you. And God let them turn over into the hand of the heathen. Verse number 42. Their enemies also oppress them. And they were brought into subjection under their hand. Many times did he deliver them, but they provoked him with their counsel and with their brought low for their iniquity Nevertheless, he regarded their affliction, and when he heard their cry, he remembered for them his covenant and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. He continually saved them. This is the cycle of apostasy that takes place in the book of Judges. There are seven cycles of apostasy that take place in the book of Judges, and each cycle has seven elements or six elements in it So the seven cycles and each each cycle has six elements in it. Let me give you those six elements. It starts out where anybody, uh Christian, saved, born-again, Bible-believing, surrendered to God, starts out and we say, Lord, I want to serve you. I want to do what you want me to do. Lord, I realize your rich blessing upon my life. And I'm so thankful, Lord. So I want to serve you. And this is where God's people were when they first went into the Promised Land. They were there and they wanted to serve God and do what God wanted. So Israel was serving God. But they didn't do what God said and get rid of the Eden. They didn't could utterly destroy the Canaanites, and so they intermarried with them. They began to worship their idols. They began to sacrifice their own kids. to these false idols. The psalmist says there that the the land was polluted with their blood. That's how far down they went. And you know anybody is is within reach of the worst of sin if we don't do something to guard ourselves or shield ourselves from it And these people were in this heathen land and they're mingling with these heathen folks that were sacrificing their children uh to uh Astroth and and Baal and they wanted to say, hey, uh, we want to be blessed like those people, or we want to have what those people have. And and they began to do that. And so they sinned. So they began first, they were serving, doing what God wanted them to do. But they got distracted, they got pulled away, they got enticed by their own lust or by those that they were around, and they sinned. So Indra Israel sins. And they wouldn't repent or turn back. So God enslaves them. God raises up a oppressor. Some nation, some group of people in a region. Now this is typically uh a particular region of the area. This is not all of the judges Sometimes some of the judges were contemporaries, like they were judging at the same time in different locations of Israel Um it wasn't like uh later where you see Saul, he's the king of Israel, he's the king of all of Israel. But these judges were not like a judge of all of Israel. They were raised up specifically to free God's people from let's like say the Moabites. Well the Moabites were just oppressing from over here. They didn't really affect people over there. And so each each Judge was kind of localized, dealing with localized problems. And so these uh people would come in and enslave God's people. He raised them up In order to do that, basically to discipline them through what would be military oppression. This oppression would come, and what do you think happens? God's people realized where they messed up. That's what the chastening hand of God is for. So we would realize where we messed up. It's not because God hates us. It's not because God wants to just stomp us down. It's because God loves us and wants us to turn back to Him. And he brings a chastening hand in. And God's people would be under oppression and they would say, oh, God, we've messed up. So they would begin to seek. They begin to seek God and say, Lord, we messed up. Would you forgive us? We're so sorry. And so God would Send a deliverer. God would raise up a judge. And I've given you a list of the judges that God raised up. He would secure a judge to come on the scene. and deliver them. The first judge here, uh hit the hell. He he was Caleb's nephew. Like Caleb and Joshua, Caleb. Or his younger brother. They're not positive about that. But Because of the fact that it was so closely related to Caleb and Joshua, it's very clear that the people didn't wait too long to go into their first state of apostasy. Because of the relationship there, that they would come, they would be serving, they would fall into sin. They would be enslaved as a measure of punishment. They'd begin to seek God. God would secure a judge. And then the judge, through God's power, Would deliver them and they would be saved. They would once again be freed and be under God's control, and they would be following God and saying, okay, God, what do you want us to do? And as you see here on your list of the chronological order of the judges, the first one, freed from uh Mesopotamianites, uh it took eight years to go through that, but once they were freed, they were freed for forty years They were for forty years back under the direction of God, doing what God wanted them to do, but then they got uh distracted again and wanted to go their own way again, and they ended up being taken into captivity by the Moabites. For 18 years they were under oppression by the Moabites. But once God raised up Ehad Ehad came and he killed the king of the Moabites. He uh assassinated him. And that destroyed the grip that they had on them. And then they had 80 years there. Eighty years of victory that God gave, where they were following and doing God's will again. What we need to understand about this time is several things. First of all, that after Joshua, God's plan for his people was to live under a theocracy. But they didn't want to they didn't want to abide there. So God used judges to deliver them. Secondly, as I already stated More than one judge rules at a time. Sometimes they overlap. Sometimes they're there are contemporaries. Sometimes one would be on one side of the Jordan River and the other on the other side of the Jordan River. But they would both be fulfilling a plan or something that God wanted during that time. Um and each judge would serve and help in localized areas, uh like Gideon. Gideon, uh he lived in Galilee. And he defeated the Midianites in the Valley of Jezreel. That was kind of a localized problem. It wasn't the entire nation. This was in the Valley of Jezreel, dealing just with the Midianites And Samson, Samson was in the southern part of Israel and defeated the Philistines. Again, a localized problem. So these this era is encompassing or it deals with three books of the Bible. Now I gave you those three books of the Bible. The first is Judges, the second is what? Ruth, that's the support book, and then the first part of First Samuel's actually the first seven chapters of Samuel. 1 Samuel are uh is what these uh look at. So we saw the background here, I'm gonna give you now just a little bit about the the Bible passages. that deal with these the judges. So first of all, the book of judges. Judges, does anybody know who the author of the book of judges is? All right. Some of your study bibles probably have a uh recommendation. It's it's actually very largely debated. But uh it's believed to be Samuel. Samuel was the author. Um We might not know 100% until we get to heaven. And that's okay, because we know ultimately God wrote it. And it's for us. And we can trust it. So who God had uh pinned the actual pages is not as important as believing and knowing that you have the Word of God But uh there's some reasons why they believe it's Samuel, uh that point to the fact that it was Samuel. Uh several times in the book of Judges it talks about, it uses the phrase that there was no king in Israel. referencing a time when there was no king in Israel. Talking about that time, you see during the judges, there was no king in Israel Well everybody knew that. But what it is is the author was writing during a time when there was a king in Israel, and he is saying This was a time when there was no king in Israel. And he's teaching that from the standpoint of you remember back during the judges when there was no king in Israel. And so Samuel being the last of the judges would have been present for this time, but then also would have been there during the first king, which they believe this was written during the kingship of Saul, and uh during that time when Saul was king. Looking back at that time when there was no king in Israel. An outline for the book of Judges would go like this. First of all, the first two chapters is apathy found. The first two chapters in the book of Judges, you see the people uh basically surrendering to apathy. They're in the promised land and they're supposed to be conquering. They're supposed to be fighting, they're supposed to be winning some victories, they're supposed to be taking their lands that they got it given them. But you know, it's like after you enjoy a really good meal, you're sitting there, you just don't feel like going back to work, do you? It's just, man. Oh, I just feel like relaxing the rest of the day. And that's the thing is God had got them into the into the promised land and God had won them a bunch of victories and they had worked so hard to get so far and Finally they were given their land and they got to go back to their parcel of land and take a deep breath for a second. And then do we gotta wake up tomorrow and deal with those guys? Oh, let's wait a few days. I know we gotta deal with them, but let's just wait a little while. Apathy kind of sets in, they get a little comfortable and they don't actually address the problems that are there. They don't take on the the task that God had given them to clear out the Canaanites right away. And then The problem is that apostasy begins to repeat itself. So chapters 3 through 16. Chapters 3 through 16 is the uh apostasy that just cycles through. I gave you that six steps of apostasy. They just went through that over and over and over again. And then the last few chapters, chapters 17 through 21, is a list of what I'm going to call anarchy is displayed. The last few chapters deals with a lot of the different sins that you find during the era of the judges. The last few chapters of the book of Judges are not necessarily in chronological order. They're not necessarily things that took place after all of the apostasy that we've heard about, and now we're going to deal with these. No, this is kind of like an appendix. It's here's some of the problems that took place during this part. And it's just a list of the issues and the problems that were seen during the judge's era. And it's not conclusive. The list is not, you know, a list of everything that they possibly did, nor is it necessarily a list of the worst things. It's just a list of the types of sins and problems that they saw. There was some political apostasy that you saw. There were some some moral apostasy where the moral fabric of uh the nature of man was being torn down and then there was also uh you know in the homes and the families and things and so that kind of a description Those last few chapters of the book deal with a description of what is taking place during this the judges' era. Now some key elements of the book of Judges. A key word is defeat. That's terrible. Christians shouldn't have a word Defeat shouldn't be in our category, right? It's like my dad always preached growing up. I mean, quit is not tear it out of your book tear it out of your book. I mean your your dictionary shouldn't have the word quit in it. You're not a quitter. We just don't quit. We don't give up. We keep going. Well, Christians shouldn't leave defeated lives. But here's a key thing for the book of Judges, where these Christians, God's people, were living continually defeated, defeated. Defeated, defeated, and that's not what we as Christians want. We want to live victorious. Some key verses is chapter two, verse eleven through nineteen. If you would turn with me there, chapter two, verse eleven through nineteen of the book of Judges. Excuse me. Here is a firsthand look and a description of this cycle of apostasy. It takes place right here in these few verses, verses 11 through 19. of chapter number two. It gives us a a just a very direct view into the cycle that continually repeated itself. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam. They weren't supposed to do that, were they? And they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them. And they bowed themselves unto them and provoked the Lord to anger. And they forsook the Lord and served Baal and Ashraf. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about them. so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies. So you see, God turned them over to the enemies. It was by God's hand. You know, God's hand can be against you just like it can be for you. You know, we talked about the prayer of Jabez and praying that thy hand might be with me, that we want God's hand of blessing and amazing things that come with the hand of God. But do you know as Christians when we turn ourselves away from God and we don't yield to God, that not that not just God's hand of blessing is there, but now we can have God's hand of judgment. And that's what God's people here were seeing, God's hand of judgment when they were turned over to their enemies. 15. He says, Whithersoever they went out of the hand of the Lord was against them for evil. as the Lord had said, and as the Lord had sworn unto them, and they were greatly distressed. Nevertheless, the Lord raised up judges. which delivered them out of the hand of those that spoiled them, and yet they would not hearken unto their judges But they went ahooring after other gods and bowed themselves unto them, and they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying the commands of the Lord, but they did not so. And when the Lord raised them up judges, then the Lord was with the judge and delivered them out of the hands of their enemies all the days of the judge. For it repented the Lord because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them. They continued this cycle. It's a very notable, it's amazing that with each of these judges, God would raise up the judge, and as he said there, that he would deliver God's people, and as long as that judge was alive, The people maintained uh their relationship with him. And God's hand was with them and God blessed them. And after the passing or the death of that judge, people would start to go and sway against God again. So these are the key verses there. Judges chapter 2, 11 through 19 gives you a very succinct picture of what takes place over and over again in the book of Judges. Then we have a list of the judges here. The list of the judges that I gave you and kind of some time frames and how long. Some of the judges obviously we don't know much about. There's very little known. Um might know maybe a little bit about their location or uh where they were serving, um, but as as is noted on that information sheet that I gave you that we don't know how long they served or what happened before or after or who they who they were fighting against. We just know that God raised them up and they served as a judge. And uh God used them. But it's notable that of these judges, it's amazing that five of them are listed in the hall of faith. And of all the people in the Bible that God could have put into the hall of faith for the different various things that they did. Five of these judges are listed in the Hall of Faith. It's an amazing testament to what God did with these vessels that were willing to be used of Him. A couple of the notable notable judges there obviously is Gideon, Samson, Deborah, and Samuel. uh the notable ones in in the list there uh for what they accomplished, who they were, and uh what what God used them to do. Then the second book that we look at that has to do with this time period here is the book of Ruth. Now again, it's a complimentary book to the book of Judges and Samuel, Athens concurrently at the same time. It's amazing the picture that you see in the book of Ruth, though. Because as much as you see the idea of defeat in the book of Judges, in the book of Ruth, you see victory. You see in defeat in judges and failure and continual uh falling. And in the book of Ruth, you see faithfulness. And it's amazing that you can get the picture of the idea that God knows that even in a time when it looks like everybody is going by the wayside. When everybody is falling down, when everybody has given up, and so many people are not sticking by the stuff, that God knows there's some people there that are still doing right. And God points out that while people in Israel were doing this, and while they were falling and doing this, there was some who believed right. There were some who stood right. There were some who did right. And you could be that one, that too, that lady, that man, the one that God knows is continuing to be faithful, even when many others are falling by the wayside. The authorship is believed as well to be Samuel. Samuel is believed to be the author of this book. And uh written a little bit later, uh, possibly while David is serving as king This amazing hope that God gives us by seeing this. And there's a lot of things in this book that we could take time to look at. Um but uh it's key word a key word for this book is a kingsman redeemer. Your kin's a king kingsman redeemer. Uh the idea I don't have time to teach on tonight to to lay the groundwork. Um but that uh is the position that Boaz became for Ruth. She redeemed him, close to him, paid for, and brought her back. And Jesus Christ is our kingsman Redeemer. A key chapter for this book is chapter number four because it gives us the line of David, which ultimately becomes the line of Christ. Um let me give you a outline for the book. Basic, just a basic idea. First of all, you see Ruth's decision in chapter number one, she had a decision. She could decide to do right or she could decide to go home. She could decide to stay with her uh mother in law, Naomi. You know it's amazing when you look at that time. I mean they shouldn't have been there They weren't even supposed to be married to those boys, but they were, and they believed. So they believed God, and Ruth made a decision that she was going to follow Naomi So we see her decision. In chapter number two, we see her dedication. She says, you turn back. She said, no, I'm not going to turn back. You turn back. No, I'm not going to turn back. She is going to be faithful. She's going to be dedicated to Naomi. Then we see her description of Boaz in chapter number 3, where she talks about Boaz and what he is and a faithful man, a godly man that God is going to use. And then we see Ruth's deliverance by Boaz in chapter number four. And Then the last the last book that uh is part of this judge's era is the book of Samuel. And that's just the first seven chapters covers it concludes this era, the four hundred and fifty years of history. We went through four hundred and fifty years of history tonight. Very quick, I know. But it's notable that Samuel was both a judge and a prophet. He was the last of the judges that God raised up. And he was the first prophet since Moses. There hadn't been a prophet in Israel since Moses. And now God raised him up and kind of a transition time here. Between being the judges and when the people call out for a king, and we'll talk about that a little bit as we get into uh next week's lesson. All right. Let me uh close us in prayer when we dismiss tonight. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to look at this. Your working in your people, the history of what you're doing, Lord, and how you've raised up a nation, how the nation at times went against you Went against your will, went against what you wanted. And uh, Lord, you continued to strive with them, to continue to provide ways of deliverance and chastisement. And what a picture it is of what you do in our lives. When we wander far from home, where we pray that as a people we would yield to you and follow you wholeheartedly, that we wouldn't need to be brought under oppression or the hand of God for for discipline. But we can experience a blessing for being obedient. Lord, we pray that you would go with us tonight, keep us safe until we come together again. We ask you, Lord, that you would Be with your people. Many uh Lord who are feeling sick and dealing with colds and different things, I pray God that you would uh lift them up physic physically and give them their strength back. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.