Turn your Bibles this evening to Job chapter twenty-nine. Job chapter twenty nine. Job starts out here in this book in uh chapter twenty-nine reminiscing He begins thinking about uh the blessings of God, about how good God had been to him. He ponders upon a time when, he says. When over and over again in the beginning verses of chapter number twenty-nine he says, when he remembered a time when God was on his side, a time when He was under the protection of God, a time when he was enjoying the blessings of God. Let me ask you tonight, do you remember a time like that? Do you remember a time where you as an individual were seeing the hand of God, where you were seeing God's blessing on your life, where you were seeing God do things in your family, where you were experiencing the goodness of God in your life? That's what Job was reminiscing about, and he was thinking about those things. And we're going to dig into this and to this chapter a little bit here, but I just want to say to you on the onset here, if you're a member of time like that and you're not there now, you can get back there. Because good God He has never left where he was. We leave him. We turn from him. We are prone to wander and we drift at times and we end up going our own way But if you get to the place where you begin to long for the time when God's hand was on your life, where you were experiencing his blessing, where you were seeing his leading in your daily life, listen, all it is is uh uh turn back to him. As soon as you turn to him, he's right there. Draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you, our father says. So just turn to him. We see here that Job is reminiscing about this time. If you'll notice the time ten times he uses this the statement when, beginning in Job chapter 29 and verse number one, he says, moreover, Job continued his parable and he said, Oh, that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me When his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness I mean he was remembering times of hardship or times of darkness in this life, times when things were bleak, and he thought, man, I got I had God's light to guide me. Even though it was dark, I could see because God was leading me He says there in verse number four, as I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle, that special relationship that joining that that that walking with him in verse number five when the Almighty was yet with me When my children were about me, remembering the children that were with him and how God had blessed him and he had his family present. Verse number six, he says, When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil. He's talking about his the the wealth and abundance there. He's talking about, I mean he had so much he could soak his feet in butter You know, I mean some of you ladies might use some of that I don't know what kind of rubs and uh uh avocado, you know Uh what do they call it? Face gels, what do they put the face facials and stuff? You guys might have some of those things, I don't know, but uh man Job He he had butter. He did soak his feet in butter. Uh he talks about the uh the uh idea of uh just oil, rivers of oil. Oil was a sign of wealth, uh of uh you know that olive oil having that uh and Being able to enjoy that. He just says, Man, I remember when God's hand of blessing was on me in such a rich and powerful way. In verse number seven, he says, Win. I went out to the gate through the city. When I prepared my seat in the streets, the young men saw me and hid themselves, and the aged arose and stood up. He's talking about respect and admiration of those around him, and now he's mocked and made fun of by his friends. The prince refrained talking and laid their hand on their mouth. I mean the princes would would pause and Wait to hear what Job had to say. The nobles held their peace, the uh their tongue claved to the roof of their mouth. When the ear heard me, then it was Then he blessed me and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me. He he goes through and describes when The title of tonight's message is that Job didn't just remember when, but he remembered why. He remembered why. And sometimes you might remember a time when God's hand was on you. You might remember a time when God's blessing was in your life, a time when you were enjoying those things and you just felt like, man, God is so real and God is so powerful. But you do you remember why God was like that during those days? Do you remember why God's hand was on you so much? Do you remember Why he was blessing you so richly? Well Job remembers, we see in verse number 12 a definitive word, a defining word as he says, because Because, so he's saying why. He says, I remember when, when, when, when, when. And then he says, but I remember why. God's hand was on me like this because, first of all, we see he provided for others. In verse number 12, there he says, Because I delivered the poor. that cried and the fatherless of him that had none to help him. Because he provided for others You see, Job was not just enjoying the blessings of God and getting all he can and canning all he could get and just soaking up God's goodness. He allowed himself to be a funnel Not a basket. I mean he he he let what God brought into his life richly blessed those around him. He he continually ministered to other people. and met the needs of the poor and the needy that were around him. He sought to help all he could. He stopped to help all he could. And God blessed him for it. He did what he could. I'm thankful, beloved, that we have a church full of people that have this service mentality. There is no question that the family of God here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is a family, and that this family strives to help one another. I'm hearing over and over again all the time about somebody who had a need over here and this member of the family went over to meet that need and this this member of the family had this need and somebody from over here went over to try and meet that need. And you you hear over and over again about things uh small things with with vehicle trouble or or a problem in the house and something needs fixed on the home or or can you help me cut down or move a tree or can you help me clean up well I just had a tree fall in my yard with this windstorm and some people going over to help clean up a tree and and just over and over again You know, more than once over the years, uh Hunt Valley Baptist Church has gathered together for one of the family of God, and they have helped to be able be able to pay a person's mortgage in the family of God when they were at a point where they were going to lose their house. And God's people came together and they said, well, we're going to try and meet that need, and they were able to give substantially to help More than one family keep from losing their home. What a privilege it is to be a part of a family of God like that that help that provides for one another. Job said this is one of the reasons that God blessed him so because he had that kind of a spirit More than once in our church and those that have been with us for a number of years, you know, you know, the times that this has happened, but there's been people that hadn't had a vehicle need. Their their car was broken down or they didn't have a car at all and and they needed a vehicle and people in the church got together and just said, Hey, let's help them. Let's help them by finding the right vehicle. Let's help them by paying for a portion of it or paying for all of it. And let's just give them a vehicle. Boy, they need a vehicle. I'm I'm glad we have a family like that. I'm glad God's people at Hunt Valley Baptist Church looked and strived. So this certainly tonight, I guess, is more a commendation than than uh than a reprimand because in our church we've got people that constantly looking to serve and help. People just people in the church family come up to me and say, hey, if you know of anybody that that needs this, let me know. Or if there's somebody that has a need, let me know what it is 'cause I want to help. And sometimes I'm I'm just like, I I don't know. I I mean that's awesome. If something something comes up, I I will let you know. But people just with the heart to help, and Job tells us that this is one of the reasons that God blessed him so. I don't know why anybody would not want to be part of a family like that. A family like we have here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, where God's people look out for one another, love one another, and show that love. And more than just a pat on the back and good on you, but love that's shown in deed, not just in word. Being part of that family. Let me encourage you to be a part of the family I know I'm talking to the heart of the church tonight. This is something that ought to be said on Sunday morning, but you know there's a difference between just being present and being apart. There's a difference between dropping in once every couple months and being a part of the family. Being here and being a part where you're looking to meet the needs of others, where you're you're you're uh an active part of God's family here and serving God together and and as those opportunities arise for you to be a blessing to another And then the day comes, maybe, where you're in a position that you need somebody to help carry you through a time of hardship, and your family will be there for you. But it's different when it's somebody that just happens to drop in one every once in a while. That's not that's not somebody that's part of the family That's somebody that others you might look at as an acquaintance. You might look as a loose, you know, at the very best, a very loose friendship, but but not part of the family Can I tell you that our responsibility is first to the family? The Bible tells us that a man that careth not for his own is worse than an infidel. And although we should strive to help strangers, and and we do, but listen, if I had a hundred dollars And Jason needed $100. And somebody just walked up into the parking lot tonight and they said they needed $100. My first responsibility is going to be to Jason, because he's part of the family. He's here. He's part of the church. And my my first responsibility is going to be to strive to meet that need. Now if the family's needs are met and we're able and and there's a need that we come across out there, then yes, we can and we should. There's there's obviously benevolence is something that uh we should do. I mean the whole example of the Good Samaritan. Is meeting the need of somebody you don't know. So don't misconstrue my words tonight. I'm not saying we should not ever find that man on the side of the road and stop and help him. We look for those opportunities too. Just a couple weeks ago during the snowstorm. Uh I know somebody that stopped and helped a stranger on the side of the road. You know, that those those things we we can do those as well. But uh, you know, if Galina was on the side of the road. You shouldn't drive by Galena and help some stranger. You know, like, okay, good luck, Galena, see ya, and and you just go on down the road and then there's some stranger there and you stop and help them No, see our first responsibility, I just the reason I'm saying that I guess is I just want you to understand that inside of the church there's only so much capacity to help Now, on the way home from Westminster last night, I saw the Powerball was up to 285 million. So if one of you win it, then your capacity to help is going to be pretty good. We can we can get the new building built on the on the build on over at the new property, right? But outside of that, our capacity to help is limited. And so we need to um Not neglect the stranger. We know we're supposed to be careful that we are not entertaining angels unawares. Be conscious of that and be willing to meet the needs of strangers. We've had people walk up here into the church foyer and say, boy, I need I need fifty bucks, you know, one day somebody came in. I think John Norman, myself and Brad uh Maramba were standing in the foyer and I reached in my pocket, I said, Well I got a twenty dollar bill I think and John's like I got a twenty dollar bill and Brad's like I got a dollar. No I don't I he he had ten dollars or I think we gave him his fifty bucks And I said, you know, here you go and and the guy left and I turned to John and Brad and I said, You guys know we're never gonna see that again, right I mean that's not that's not coming back. The guy told us he was gonna just needed to get home and he was coming right back. We never saw him again But you know, you I I try and pray about it when somebody comes in and asks for help and ask Lord should I should I help this person? Should I do something for them? And uh I looked at it and said, Well, it's twenty bucks. God's been good to me. I'll be a blessing to him, you know. It's because we could there could be angels that you're entertaining unawares and you don't know. So we've got to help the stranger, but our first responsibility is the family. Amen. The Bible says in Galatians 6:10, as we therefore have opportunity, let's do good unto all men. But what does he say? What's the rest of that verse? Expecially, right? Especially unto them who are of the household of faith. So I think I'm sharing the Bible when I'm telling you that, that the responsibility is the family of God first. Job tried to help all those that he could. We see Job help those that cried. We see Job helped the fatherless. Job helped those who didn't have any hope. Job helped those who had no capacity to pay him back. To give him anything in return. Luke chapter 6, verses 31 and 34 says, And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also like to them likewise. I mean, just do unto others as you'd have them do unto you, right? Try and help them. Be help because you know the day may come when you're stuck on the side of the road. The day may come when all you need is somebody stop and give you a gallon of gas. Just a gallon of gas will get you home. Have you ever run out of gas? I I like pushing it to the limit, you know. It makes my wife nervous sometimes. You know when the gas gauys zero miles till empty And it said that for the last eighteen miles. You're like, okay, we're gonna find out how far we can go. Ms. Ms. Nelma's shaking her head. She's like, oh no. Not doing that. Uh so my CN and I used to have to figure it out that uh after it said zero, I could still make it to the church from Loganville, which is 32 miles. So but if if not, like if I had already tried once then I I knew I wasn't gonna make it back. So and you only learn that by running out, amen. But you need to do unto others, you'd have them do unto those. He says, for if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? For sinners also love those that love them And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? For sinners also do even the same And if ye lend to them whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye for sinners also lend to sinners to receive as much again? He's saying, you know, if you're only doing what you're doing because you're expecting something in return. I remember like it was yesterday, and I've told you guys this years ago, probably very few of you would remember this, but I was just joking. But one day I was working with another guy. We're we're doing some drywall or something some work at the church. We're working at the church. And we had we had stopped and uh we I had taken them to dinner and I bought lunch for whoever was serving. Now this was many years ago, it was not here, it was at Heritage and in uh Kansas. And we were back at the church and we were all working and and we're working and whatever. And I don't remember the conversation exactly. It was something like Well, if we keep going, we're gonna have to go get dinner. And and then he said something like, and then you can buy dinner as well. And then I commented back, then you'll owe me two meals. And we were just joking back and forth, but he turned to me and he says, I didn't ask you for that meal. He says, if you needed repaid for that, you shouldn't have bought it. And I was just, I mean I remember it like it was yesterday, but my comment was not right because he does not owe me for that meal. I did not buy him that meal expecting that he would return the favor, and that's the only reason I did it. I was just joking with him back and forth. But he put a put a thought in my mind that has remained with me all these years. It's probably been 15, 20 years now, that uh you need to be careful what you say. Because even in jest, truth is communicated. And what I was telling him is he owed me because I bought him something. And if we do it just because we expect something in return, God says, what thank have ye? That's not what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to provide for others, not expecting or looking for anything in return. Keeping that that right priority. So we see secondly that not only did he provide for others, but I want you to see that in verse 14 that he put on righteousness. He put on righteousness. He says in verse number 14, I put on righteousness and it clothed me. My judgment was as a robe in a diadem. Beloved, he chose to put on righteousness. He chose to do right, he chose to be holy because he knew that's what pleased God. God said it and he said, okay. God commanded it and he obeyed. What we're talking about is a time when Job recognized the hand of God and God's blessing on his life, and he looked back and he said, Boy, I remember when things were so good. And he says, but I remember why, and that's because I was in obedience to God. Do you remember the time? Were you in obedience to God? Are you in obedience to God now You say, boy, things aren't as sweet as they once were. Things aren't as as special as they once were. Boy, my devotion time in the morning is not as rich and full as it once was. Well, has there been something along the line that God said you should do this and you said no? You stopped yielding to him, you stopped submitting to him, and therefore you stopped experiencing that rich hand of blessing. You're like Adam and Eve who are hiding in the garden And God comes down to meet with you, and he says, Adam, Adam, where art thou? God is looking for that fellowship with you. God is looking for that great time of blessing and rejoicing with you. But you have chosen. To say no. You've chosen to not put on righteousness, you've chosen to do your own thing, and therefore, as the Bible says, your iniquities have separated you between you and your God. And therefore, you're not experiencing the rich blessings of God that you once were. The Bible says to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin. It is sin when you and I choose to do wrong When you and I choose to stay home from church when we choose to listen to or watch those things that we know are not pleasing to the Lord. When we choose to partake of the world's entertainment or fun, which we know grieves the Holy Spirit that dwells in our heart. What we're doing is we're taking off the robe of righteousness, and we are removing ourselves from that place when God blessed us so richly. Oh, we long for and look for that time, but it will not be until we are clothed again in righteousness. It is noteworthy, brother beloved, that he says that this righteousness clothed him. I think that that idea is the idea of that it was something that was evident. People could see it. It was real in his life. It wasn't just something inside that, oh, I'm righteous inside. I'm right with God in my heart. My mom, she can't stand the song. Oh, I want to be a Christian in my heart. You guys know that song? Lord, I want to be a Christian in my heart. My mom says, well, just do it then. Like the whole song's like, you know, I wanna do this in my heart. But I understand the the idea of the song is like Paul who says the things that I would I I don't and the things that I don't I do and that struggle that's in the heart of man and so that prayer of that song is Lord this is my heart's desire and that's what I want but my mom she just always she can't stand it. She's like it's like just somebody just making a big excuse for not doing right, you know? And that's we're supposed to choose to do right. And it clothed him as something that was evident that people could see. Not that he made a show of it, not that he was flaunting it or putting it out and say, boy, look at how good I am. But beloved, he lived in such a close walk and relationship with God that people understood he was in communion with God. I think about Moses when he came down from the mountain, and the people looked at him and they said that his face shone with the glory of God. They said they could see that he had been with God. The people see that you've been with God. The people see the righteousness, not the righteousness of yourself But the righteousness that comes from God, that righteousness that clothes you when you're in communion with God and you're walking with God. That righteousness that can only come with that kind of a close and endearing relationship with your Heavenly Father. Matthew 5, 16 says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. And glorify your Father which is in heaven. Many years ago, there was a financial journalist by the name of B. C. Forbes. He started a very well-known magazine. That's published all over the world today, one of the foremost publications on finance, Forbes magazine. One day Forbes was interviewed, or he was able to interview Rockefeller. And he asked him his ideas, Rockefeller. Do you have any advice? What would you say is the most important thing for a young man who is just starting his life? What should he do? Rockefeller said the most important thing for a young man to do is establish a reputation of character. He must inspire the complete confidence of others. What Rockefeller was saying, if you want to be a success even in this life, he's saying people need to know. That you're going to do right. And even as a young man, you have a character about you, you have something about you that people look at you and they say, Well, he is going to do right. People looked at Job and said, he is going to do right. He was clothed in righteousness, and God's hands of blessing was on him. Why? Because he provided for others and because he put on righteousness. We know Job was a righteous man. The Bible, Job chapter 1 tells us that. He was perfect and he was upright. He feared God and eschewed evil. To be perfect is that relationship before God. God knows and sees exactly what you are, to be upright. Is the relationship before men. Men look and see who you are and what you're going to do and how you're going to act. And he feared God and he eschewed evil. God tells us that about him before he tells us about how richly he was blessed. The Bible tells us, seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Too many, even Christians, are looking for all these things. And they've long since stopped seeking first the kingdom of God. That is not what's most important. Righteousness is not most important. Riches is what's most important. But the Bible says you cannot serve God in mammon. Job did right when things were going good And the Bible tells us that Job did right when things were going bad. You know, sometimes It's harder to do right when things are going good. Because you've got nothing forcing you to look up. Nothing causing you to pause. God's hands, a blessing is there, and you're enjoying it all, and life is good, and so you're letting your walk with God, your relationship with God all kind of drift, and maybe not be as important or as much of a focus as it once was We see lastly tonight that God's hand of blessing was on him in such a powerful way because He provided for others, because he put on righteousness, and lastly tonight, because he prevented wickedness. We see in verse number 17, he says, and I break the jaws of the wicked. And plucked down, plucked the spoil out of his teeth. You see, Job took a stand against wickedness It wasn't just that, oh I'm gonna do right because I I I'm supposed to do right and I'm gonna I'm gonna do this for God. No, he's he he he took a stand against that which was wrong and he said this is This is not right. You can't do this. And he took a stand against sin. And beloved, we need to take a stand against sin today. In our lives and in our families, in our homes, we need to take a stand against sin. Fathers, it is incumbent upon you as the protector of the home to stand at the doorway of your home and be the protector. Keep that sin from getting into the home, from anything that would defile the home, anything that would cause a reproach upon the home, anything that would destroy or hurt the hearts and minds of the young people that are in your home. It's your job to protect them. To take a stand against sin. And sometimes your kids are not going to like it Why can't we watch that? Why can't we listen to that? Why can't we play that? Why can't we go there? You know, when I was a kid, some of you are going to think I'm crazy, but when I was a kid, I loved roller skating. I was good at it. I enjoyed it. But you know what? Never was allowed to go to a roller rink when I was a kid See, some of you are like, what? See the music they played a roller rink is not God honoring. They have their dance sessions out on the on the floors there. And the environment at the Roller Rink is not God-honoring. It's not the kind of environment that kids should be hanging out in and having a having a you know just that kind of environment you gotta be careful about that So the only time I ever got to go to Roller Rink as a kid was when the church rented the whole rink. And then we would rent the whole rink and then we would play our own music. And I'm sure the DJ thought, what in the world kind of music is this? These guys are are roller skating to to what? Uh I'm sure he was not very impressed with our selection of music, but it was God honoring. What I'm saying is, as a kid, man, I wanted to go to the roll of the ring so bad. That's something dad said, nope, that's not for us. That's not what you there's a lot of things that you get to do, but that's not one of them. Because that's not God honoring. You can do things that will please the Lord. We're going to take a stand against that because of the environment, and I don't want to subject you as a kid to that. But taking a stand, he took a stand against the sin that was around him to protect him and protect his family. He stopped the cursing. He stopped the criticizing. He stopped the corrupt speech. He said, we're gonna have a home that's God honoring. We're not gonna allow things in that should not be there. Christian, you need to get a backbone and take a stand against sin. Maybe even just in your own life. Christ is worth standing for. Righteousness is worth standing for. Elijah stood up against Jezebel. Stephen stood up against the crowd. Jeremiah stood up against the king. Peter and John stood up against the high priest. John the Baptist stood up against Herod. Go through the pages of Scripture and see people that God blessed and God had a powerful relationship with, and they were people that stood against sin. So what I'm saying, beloved, do you remember a time when? But do you remember why? And maybe if you can remember why, you could get back To the wind. That time of rich blessing. Let us stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. A mess pianos to come and play our invitation this evening.