That was the least fun I'd had all year. But God is good and he did see us through it and looking back now I think of my kids only learned from the hard stuff. And so I feel so bad for women who are protecting their children from the hard stuff. You better let them know The hard times are there so God can be seen in their lives. Well, we have a little paper there with we're talking about just hanging there. And this is longevity in marriage Just because I've been married 57 years, uh every ten years I tell him I get a re-up on the option. So in about three years I can decide if I want to do it for another ten. So And Joshua 24, 15 says, choose you this day whom you will serve. There's a reason that God said this day. He did not say this week, this month, this year. He said this day today. If you try to do things way far in advance you lose what you could have today. So choose this day whom you will serve. And I know that busy as we are and as many mistakes as we make that we have time every day to do the will of God. And I think that sometimes we lose track of that Having time every day to do the will of God is not all the spiritual things or having the house clean or getting whatever your husband needs. Sometimes it means that you have to leave the housework Take the kids with a jar of peanut butter crackers and go to the lake. Sometimes it means that you have to forego plans that you've had to help people that are in need. Sometimes it means that Someone is hurting, and this time, right now, is the only time that you can help them. Later isn't the time So remember, this day is the day that you can do the perfect will of God. I once read it's better to burn the candle on both ends than to leave it in the closet and let the mice eat it. So sometimes when you think, oh I'm really stressed, there's just more than I can do, just calm down. You'll make it. It'll be okay. So what we're talking about doing things in order, decide to use it now. In high school, I had a very attractive boyfriend that I'm not married to I didn't know him then. And he had given me this bottle of Chanel number five. Now that is really expensive and really strong stuff. I don't think anybody on the earth uses that anymore. But at the time that was the big thing. And I just would use that so sparingly, I just didn't want to I mean it was too precious to use, so I just didn't use it Do you know that I still have this bottle of Chanel number five in my closet? And I leave it there to look at it and think Use it now. This reminds me that if you have something stored away and you think it's too good to use and something someone gave you and you think it's really precious, but what if it breaks? Wouldn't it be better to use it a few times than to never use it at all? I bet each of you have something in your house that you're saving for something. I actually have a cardboard box in my house that I got when I worked in high school at an airplane place and it's like it holds patterns, it's very valuable. I'm talking about things that you think are special, but what's more special than today? Especially with your kids. What's more special than today? Let's talk about keeping score. I'm gonna try to keep moving because I don't want to be the problem. My son has to say, mom. I read at we this verse in Psalm 103, verse 12 is what's listed there, and I'll let you read that at another time. But there's a famous saying that says, A Christian may fail many times, but he is never a failure until he begins to blame. someone else. Did you get that, ladies? A Christian may fail many times, but he's never a failure until he blames someone else. Do you know keeping score of past wrongs or unfulfilled expectations, that's a tool of the devil. If you were ever tempted to club your husband with one of those wrongs and remind him how much of a failure he is or whatever. You just think in your mind, that's the devil trying to make me do that and I am just gonna have no part of it So you don't want to keep score of your husband's mistakes, but you know what? You don't want to keep score of your own either. How many times have you thought, well I can't really do that because the last time I did that, that didn't work Don't keep score your own failures either. Let go the things that can keep you defeated. Satan knows just the thing to use. He knows just the time to use it. And he knows just how much force to use. You know, Satan doesn't care if we study our Bible, he doesn't care if we go to church, he doesn't care what we do. He just wants us to put it off. Just don't do it today, he says Well, that's another trick of the devil that we don't want to have any part of. We need to focus what really counts, and then be sure that you don't let things take over your life. Critical spirit Unthankfulness, pride. Each of you know something in your life that you wish was not there or that you could control, or that God would help you see how to make it better, how to make it not affect you. And if we remind ourselves our own faults As in Psalm 32. 5, I acknowledge my sin, it's easier to keep things in perspective. My husband already said, forgiving and forgetting their choices we make in marriage and in daily living Forgiveness confirms your love. Forgiving means you never bring it up again. That's a hard thing to do. We like to build our case, you know. Uh you know, if we just pile this up then that makes us look so much better. I've never understood how that worked, but that's what it is. So forgetting things don't ever bring it up again Sometimes marriages start going wrong very quietly, little things. And often it starts going wrong long before the marriage falls apart If you're not loving your husband, it's a choice you have made. And you say, but you don't know what he's done. Well, my mother was married to an alcoholic for over 50 years Terrible man, he beat us, he did everything. And of course in those days you didn't have health group help groups and you didn't have places to go and things to do. You just stayed put. But the other thing is My mom didn't want to make us make a choice. My brothers may have gone with my dad, uh not knowing what a horrible thing alcoholism was. But she stayed with him because she fully believed she made that commitment that was what she was supposed to do. She didn't give it up because She just couldn't do it. She made the commitment to love and forever, to be a good wife, and she did that. She had some amazing, amazing experiences that helped me when I got married, talking about the hard times and Blight a hundred and nine degrees and six kids and they he exaggerated. They did not sleep on the tracks. There was an old railroad station there. They slept on the platform. That was relatively So I always accuse my husband of giving me the card just before it's gonna break down. It's that's just a fun thing we play. And always when I had the six kids with me So I know that a lot of things that happen, you say, Well you don't know what he's done. I can't forgive him. But God can. Why can't you? And there is nothing that you cannot forgive And I know that there are some awful things that happen. Awful. Uh we've been witness to many, many things that you think. But God is the one in control. You must let him. You can forgive him. I'm not saying you have to stay with a husband that's Mistreated your children or something. I'm saying that God will provide a way for you to keep the vows that you have made. And I do know that you don't fall out of love. You hear me ladies? You do not fall out of love. You choose to turn and walk away. It's a choice. It's not, oh, I don't feel like loving him today You have made a choice. You choose to turn and walk away. As we go into number three, persistence rewarded. Did I tell you what number two was? Is it blank there So early decisions and keeping score. Persistence rewarded. You will rarely see the outcome of your persistence. John 9. 4 says, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. Marriage is a perfect journey for two imperfect people because God ordained the marriage, the two imperfect people. It's hard but rewarding work. Time is passing and is not recoverable. Don't let things you could do push away the things that you should do. I think sometimes as moms, wives, we don't protect our personal walk with Christ Uh you know, when you're busy and everything's going wrong and everything's coming up, we don't remember that our personal walk is where we start. If you don't have a personal walk with God and if you don't ask Him for guidance and leadership, even to disciplining your children or being right with your husband and All of these things I always say that worship then serve. You worship the Lord and then serve him. You're not going to be of any use to him. Oh, you'll get the busy stuff done. But you'll only know where God wants you to work and who he wants you to work with and how he wants you to work if you take care of your own spiritual life first. Nothing a teacher, a friend, a coworker, nothing that they pass on to your spouse or child will be as influential as showing your love for God's word. Like my son said, he has good memories because he remembers that we try to do it God's way first. We didn't try everything else and then come back. We did it God's way first. Time is passing and not recoverable, so don't let things you could be doing push away the things you should be doing Psalm 119-60 says, I made haste and delayed not to keep thy commandments. Taking care of your spiritual life is imperative. Be where you're supposed to be, doing what you're supposed to do. Revisit the good memories. This is fun. Proverbs 10, 7a says, the memory of the just is blessed. JM Barry said God gave us memories so that we might have roses in December. Of course now you can have roses any time of the year. But roses in December is signifying that He gives us these memories in order to help us have the things come back that gave us such joy. Looking at a family album is so entertaining. We have such wonderful times and we revisit these memories and we're so happy to share them. But you know, memories can actually sustain life Any of you that have studied history, there's examples of prisoners of war, concentration camp survivors, and other situations where the remembering their home, remembering their mom, remembering their life, remembering the Lord. Is what sustained them. Actually let them live through those horrible experiences because they use the memory that God gave them. We look back and thank God for things that have happened in our lives Not only is this a blessing to us, but it encourages us to keep on keeping on. My son was tell me about the trip across the desert. Well that wasn't the only trip across the desert. We had nine people in a station wagon, all teenagers. Which, you know, little kids are hard, but teenagers are such a joy. We had nine people in this station wagon. It's a hundred degrees out and we had a blowout My son Daniel had been driving and his he kept saying Dad kept saying, son, now remember, ri it's hot out there, slow down. Uh uh Dad uh said it over and over again, finally Daniel stopped the car, got out Walked around to the other side and said, okay, Dad, you can drive now. And not two minutes after he started driving, that's our blue. I mean it's what kaputt. And so all this out there, horrible hot weather, but that we don't like those memories. So we went out in the desert, we found this big piece of wood, we found some charcoal from somebody's campfire We wrote a great big help sign and we leaned it up against the trailer. My husband didn't appreciate it, but we sure had fun. So everything that we've ever done, we've tried to make fun out of it Even if it's a hard time, you can remember the good times. We should never wait to do something that pleases Jesus. Anything that you have in your list of things to do, don't wait to do the things that please Jesus. And in that, remember that things don't count, people do. We must center our lives around the whether it's our family, our husband, our children, our extended family. People count. Then we have rest to restore. Exodus 33. 14 says, I will give thee rest You know from experience that resting improves your attitude and your experience. One lady said, if God had to give women wrinkles, he might at least have put them on the soles of her feet. Which I think is a great idea. But since we don't have that option, we need to rejoice in what God does do for us and how He does it. As you age, you may not be able to bounce back physically But you can always bounce back spiritually. That will never get old. That will always be the first thing that God wants us to do. Trusting in God in every stage of life allows us to serve in many different ministries, but you must take care of yourself first. Cold pizza for breakfast and granola bar for lunch probably won't cut it when you're my age. Take care of yourself younger. And I don't mean you have to go on a health food diet. I do mean you have to drink all your water, but be more thought conscious, thinking about the things that would help you. You could always serve God better if you feel better. And I'm so thankful that God wants us to continue to serve no matter what. Our age, our physical limitations, financial situation, even our mental acuity. Rest is vital God says again in Matthew 11, 28 to 30, I will give you rest. Now finding rest may not be so easy for some people. At night, my husband lays down his head and within one, maybe two rests, he's gone. And uh I see well, all these shaking his head just like I used to say if there was a fire I'd have to drag him out by his feet because he is not waking up. Well, and then there's me I sit there and I think, Oh, I have so many things to do, Mark and then I think, Well, I might as well just, you know, get it make a list and then I think, Oh well my mom, I might as well just knock some of these out, right? Get those things done. That's what we do. My husband sleeps and I makes these things happen in a written list. Sometimes God calms the storm, but sometimes he lets the storm rage and he calms his child. If we can remember that we're we're to ask the Lord, is this a storm where you're going to come to help me? Or is this a storm that I'm supposed to go through so that you can help me to help others. Everyone will have these storms in life. There aren't any that don't have them. And I think that if we look at this in the way that God looked at it, in the way that God taught us to look at it, if we're really right with God, if we're taking care of ourselves If we're looking for ways to be the best wife, the best mother that we could be, then God's going to be right there answering the prayer. It's when we get frustrated and let things get really piled up that we almost can't dig ourselves out. I know that there are lots of things that have happened in our lives that Uh my son talks about we're always taking people in. That's just something we've done. One time we had a family of five living in our motorhome, so we moved them in the house so we could put a family of six in the motorhome. And uh Many times that we've had people say, and people say, how can you do that? As long as God gives me a house, as long as God touches my heart to do that, then I have to do that. It's not convenient. Heaven knows it's not convenient. Sometimes you have people say they're so ungrateful you think, what am I doing this for? But because I'm not doing it for them. I'm doing it for God And I think those things helped my children to see what this Christian life is all about. My mother-in-law was very sick the last few years of her life. She stayed at our home in our home for almost three years And she had some very bad health issues. And um seventeen times she was in the hospital about last year. And she would get sick on the floor And my son came. He wouldn't say a thing, he'd just go get a mop bucket, put the disaffected in, and he'd mop up right behind her. Never said a word. A sixteen year old. Okay, if you don't train your children to care for others like that, they're not gonna care for you, honey, when you get that age. I mean it, they're having. And part of that goes back to what he spoke about, the ungrateful spirit, not saying please and thank you When our kids are little it's so cute to teach them to say please and thank you. If we went to the bank and they didn't say thank you for the sucker, we made 'em hand it back And the lady is in the bank would say, Oh, that's so cruel Think, okay, what else do you want me to teach on? Duh and so when they're little we do that. But as they get older Oops. We didn't think of it to make him do it, and we don't do it ourselves. When was the last time your child or your husband did something for you And you didn't say thank you. And later on you're thinking, I wonder if I even said thank you for that. We're just not a grateful people anymore. And that is showing up in our churches and our families and our homes because we are not the grateful people that we should be. I think if the Lord gives us time to serve him more, that we would there's such an age of difference because you know all of you are into the uh technical age. I'm still trying to figure out how to make this work. You see, I'm just like, oh, how did I get that stuck on there? So my granddaughter who is a autumn Take care of you. So it's a a little bit of a disadvantage that I I can't relate on that level, but I can relate on the level that we're all women We all have the same goal in life to be good wives, good mothers. And it helped me an awful lot when someone told me about submission. Now, you might not think this, but I'm not really a very submissive person. I pretty much think my ideas are pretty special. And that probably doing that would be the best route we could take. But someone told me once, don't you know? Submission is ducking so God can smack your husband up across the head. So once I figured out that if I would just stay out of the way God would take care of that. It made it a lot easier to be submissive. So I'm asking ladies if there's any way that you can put that into your daily life. Make sure that you understand. It's not that you're giving up something. It's that you're letting God take care of that submission issue. Because we'll never be able to do it on our own. Unfortunately, we're females. So I won this off a little bit early, just in case there were some questions. I know that we have a very group here, but if there's something that you'd like to ask, if I can answer it, I will answer it. If I can't, Mary will answer it Yes. I was um Normal teenager, very popular, held office, did all kinds of things, thought I was really something. Junior in high school I went to church at Calvary Baptist Church in Laverne, California, and he preached on hell. And I knew that I didn't want to go there. And I asked the Lord to win my heart. That evening I was baptized. And I remembered we sang There's Room at the Cross. It was on a Sunday morning save and Sunday night. It was the day of my grandfather's sixtieth birthday And I have a whole list of things that God gave me to remember. And you say, oh man, I don't even know when I was saved. Well God knew I needed that information because a month after I got saved, the pastor at our church was put in jail for embezzling the offering. If I were putting my faith in that man, my life would have been destroyed. But because I had my faith in God and because God let me remember all of these things But growing up in the home of an alcoholic was a tough thing. And I vowed I would never marry a man who drank or smoked. And I had plenty of dates, I could have chosen from plenty, but God gave me the one that was going to have those goals. And sometimes we see our children being friends with people. I mean friends are friends, but I think unfortunately we're way too lax in what we allow our children to do in dating and even their attitude about things Um we've always had a real good relationship with our children as far as when we ask them not to do something they didn't and I think parents are allowing their children to get away with things to the point where they have no influence over them anymore. And so when it comes time to be Choosing a husband or wife, your voice doesn't count. And so now instead of raising your children, you're raising your grandchildren. And they say if you raise your children right, you don't have to raise your grandchildren. And that is true biblically, that you must raise your children correctly. And then God led me to Oklahoma to meet the man. that I thought was the biggest hick that ever crossed the planet. A farmer. A farmer. I mean I'm from California. I'm a Beach funny. I don't you know what? But God just kept running us together, run us together, so I'm from California, he's from Missouri, we met in Oklahoma, got married in California, moved to Iowa. I mean it's been like that ever since and it's been fifty seventy years. I cannot tell you all the places we've lived. But God has blessed and at each milestone of the way, He has provided that opportunity. to serve and to be served. I don't think we have soft enough hearts anymore. That we're not thinking in terms of what we can do and how we can do it the best way we can for the Lord