You can turn your Bibles this morning to Isaiah, Isaiah chapter number six. We've been considering certain words that for all of us have great meaning. where just the utterance of these words can bring a flood of emotion, much like a familiar smell can take you back to a childhood memory can take you back to a particular place. There's certain words when spoken, they draw us to that place and they're precious to us These words have great meaning in our lives. Thus far, we've considered the word forgiven. We've looked at and discussed the idea of ministry and the meaning and magnitude of mercy. Did you know that through the passage of time that words can sometimes lose their meaning or their meaning can change? Uh it kinda happens in society over time. I'm not sure how many of you wear, but the word awful at one time meant what we today now believe what we use is the word awesome. Awful initially was you would stand in awe of something. Over time that changed to where we look at it and say it's something that's awful. We know what that means, but awesome kind of replaced it. The word fathom. We currently look at and think about the word fathom as to something that we can get an understanding of. Can you fathom this? But it was originally a unit of measurement. Something quite interesting, the term cheater A cheater was actually a title that was given to individuals who served as a property manager for the Dukes and Earls. in uh the original like surf s society. And the problem was is their practice, their behavior was so consistently reprehensible That the title became a description. And long after the title was gone, the description hung around. Somebody that was known as a cheater was a liar, dishonest. That was the way they were. Although originally it was just a title given to somebody, but those people that filled that position were so terrible in their honesty that that became synonymous and today that word still remains the same for us. Well, that's not to mention the most recent words that have come to mean something completely different Or brought on whole new meanings such as bump, swipe, cloud, meme, text, tweet, viral. There's so many of these things that in just the past few few years have taken on a whole new world of meaning From what they were originally intended with the digital and tech age we live in. But there's another word I would like you to consider this morning that is seems to have lost a lot of its weight It seems to have lost a lot of its original meaning. For some, it's come to mean something completely different. They interpret it in a completely different way. And it's found in our text this morning in that word is holy. Look in Isaiah chapter six. In verses 1 through 3. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon the throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphim Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto the other and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. Lord, we come to you this morning and we turn the service over to you. We ask you, dear God, that you would draw us into your presence, that you would allow me to step out of the way, that you would allow the purity and the holiness of your message to reach into the heart of your people. God, I pray that this topic that's not as popular as it once was, we would be reminded of its validity for us today and be stirred and challenged to live holy lives for you. God, I pray that you would use this message in Jesus' name. Amen. He said, holy, holy, holy is the Lord. of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. First of all, this morning I want you to see that cry of holiness. That cry of holiness. Now The Lord is holy. If I wanted to find out about somebody, what I would do is go to somebody that knew them. To somebody that had spent the most time with them, to somebody that really understood them. Matt and Lauren are new here. They're going to be joining the church today. Now, many of us know Matt, at least from a distance. He's been associated with our church for some time, but very few of us have had any connection with Lord. Now if I wanted to know about Lauren, I wouldn't come up here and ask Miss Trudy about Lauren. She does not know much about Lauren. She could guess, but if I wanted to really know about Lauren, what I should do is talk to her mom, who was here last week, right? These last few days Her mom is the one that knows her. Her mom is the one that could give us the inside story, the full scoop, right? Somebody that really knows her is one that could tell us about her Well, I wonder if we were wanting to learn about God, I think it might be fitting to go and talk to those people, those that have spent the most time with them. If you want to really get an understanding of who God is, there's nobody that spent more time in the presence of God than the angels. So as we look at the scriptures, we can see what the angels have to say about our God. The angels who are always in the presence of God, when they want to talk about God, what do they say? They say, holy. Holy, holy. We see in the book of Revelation, chapter 4, verse number 8, these angels that are gathered around the throne. These angels, it says, and the four beasts each had of them six wings about them, and they were full of the eyes within, and they rest not day and night, saying, holy Holy, holy Lord God Almighty. These angels that are gathered around the throne, they don't rest day or night. They are all day, from the sunrise till sunset, and then from sunset till till sunrise they are crying holy holy holy they've been declaring the holiness of god from the beginning of time From the beginning of time till today, day and night, day and night, this attribute of God, His holiness, the angels are in heaven even now, declaring around the throne the holiness of God. We have seen here in our text we read that the seraphim, in this chapter, is uh in Isaiah chapter six verse number one through three, the seraphim there gathered around the throne. Each one having six wings. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, with twain he did fly. And listen, one cried unto the other And said, holy, holy, holy. These angels, these seraphims, they're there. They're around the throne, and they're calling to one another. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord. And this angel over here looks back to him and says, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord We've got to get back to the place where we start seeing God as a holy God, high and lifted up, and we come into his presence with thanksgiving, but with a recognition of how holy he is. Man, we see seraphim. That word means the burning one. Burning ones. They're burned literally on fire with the holiness of God declaring that. For all time. Not just the seraphim, but we could look at the Word of God and we see the cherubim. Another class of angels. The cherubim are the special forces. The cherubim are the elite angels. You know, angel uh by definition is a messenger. But the cherubim aren't very often sent with a message The cherubim are seen in the Word of God given special tasks, special duties. They're given the responsibility of protecting the holiness of God. The first time we see the cherubim is in Genesis chapter number three. Man had sinned. God had set up the garden as a perfect and a holy place where he would come in the cool of the day and walk with Adam and Eve. But man sinned and brought sin into that holy place. And God cast Adam and Eve out of the garden. God said that sin cannot be in this place and cast him out of the garden and he set there at the gate of the garden a cherubim with a sword of fire to protect that holy place. I don't know how many of you remember, but there uh when God gave directions and instructions for the establishment and setting up of the temple of the tabernacle, they had to uh put up these curtains. The veil which separated the holy place from the holy of holies. And that veil that separated that God said, I want you to put something on the veil. I want it to be embroidered on the veil so everybody that they see it, they'll recognize that this place is protected by the cherubim. They were to put on the veil an image of the cherubim. And everybody would see that that holy place was protected by the cherubim. Listen, their job, their task, their responsibility, these great angels, is to protect the holiness of God. In Mark chapter 1, we see another angel. In Mark chapter 1, there's a man there who is possessed of a spirit. This is a fallen angel. This is an angel that was cast out of heaven. You know, you would think somebody that had cast out of heaven, somebody that had lost his place among the angelic choir. They could not stand there in the presence of God anymore, that they wouldn't have anything good to say about God. You would think all they would want to do is declare and and and talk about how bad God was But this demon, Jesus had been teaching in the synagogue at Capernaum, and this man came Possessed of this spirit. And the spirit began to communicate. The spirit began to talk to Jesus. And Jesus began to talk to him. And in fear and trembling. This fallen angel recognized who he was talking to. And the fallen angel said, This: Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Thou art come to destroy us. I know who thou art, the holy one of God. The fallen angel. What I'm saying is, all of these angels, when they want to talk about God They don't talk about his omniscience. They don't talk about his omnipotence. They don't talk about his omnipresence. They don't go declare his love. They don't declare His inexhaustible grace They don't declare his mercies that are renewed every morning. When the angels want to declare and talk about something, what they declare to the Word is God is holy. Now this topic, this subject has almost drifted to non-existence in our churches today, but I want you to know we serve O holy God. He is holy. Even the fallen angels know of his holiness. Not only is there that cry from all of the angels of this man, this God is holy. But there's an expectation of God for you and I to be holy. There is a call from God for us to be holy God's plan has always been for man to be holy. Man messed that up when he sinned in the garden. He brought sin and defiled the heart of man. And now, wherefore as by sin enter the world, wherefore I death by Badi Badi. Help me out. As by one man sinned into the world, so death passed upon all men for all have sinned. I still messed it up. You know what I'm saying. This man can you quote it, Pastor Derek? There you go. This sin defiled the heart of man, and death passed upon all men. So from that time till now, every single one of us that are born into this old flesh are born with sin. It's through the shed blood of Jesus Christ that we're able to have that sin forgiven and that sin washed away. And given the possibility of holiness. But God wants us, there's a call of God for us to be holy. God wants us to be holy. In Leviticus 19, verse number 2, he says, speaking unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy. For I, the Lord your God, am holy. You see, God set the example, and then God said to his people, listen, you are going to be holy. The plan is for you to be like me. You were made in my image, and that is a holy image. I know that's the Old Testament. There are those people who say, well, Old Testament doesn't count. Well, God knew there would be some people like that, and so those things that are really, really important, He He gave it to us in the New Testament too. And more places than one, but it tells us in 1 Peter 1, verse number 16, Because it is written, quoting the Old Testament, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Beloved, we are a reflection of God when we're holy. It is God's plan that we as His children would be a reflection of Him. And we are no greater reflection than when we are holy. And we defile and mess up that reflection when we are not. As we were challenged in Sunday school, the idea is that we are to be an example Of the believer. At any time or place in our life, it is God's plan that He could look and say, here is a believer Here is a Christian. Here is what somebody that's following God is. And what is that? Holy. Holy. Beloved, God doesn't conform to a standard. He is the standard. And that standard is such that it not only loves righteousness, but it hates sin. I think in modern Christianity we've got a whole lot of people that love righteousness. And praise God for that. But the problem is we got a whole peop a whole lot of people that love sin too. You see, holiness is both Aspects. Love, righteousness, but also hate sin. Modern Christianity has come to the place where we want to claim the presence and the power of God, but we want to live like the devil. There is no acknowledgement in the average Christian's heart of the holiness of God and the difference that's supposed to make in our life. God is holy. Beloved, our walk is to be holy. Our walk is to be holy. First Peter 1, verse number 15 says, But as he which hath called you is holy, So be ye holy in all manner of conversation. In all manner of conversation. Every part of our life Is supposed to be touched by holiness. Every aspect of our living is supposed to be impacted by holy living. We're supposed to be holy on Monday morning when we get up. We're supposed to be holy on Friday evening when we're out for the night. We're supposed to be holy on Tuesday afternoon when we're at work. We're supposed to be holy in all manner of conversation Not just on Sunday morning when we put on our Sunday going to meet and clothes and grab our Bible and go to God's house with our fixed halos. That's not the only time we're supposed to be holy It's supposed to be every part of our life. We're supposed to live holy lives, all manner of conversation. Beloved, holiness is not a burden, as many would like to look at it. Many look at it as a burden like, oh, I've got to live a holy life. Man, that means I've got all these things I can't do, and all these things I'm supposed to do, and it's so hard. Holiness, beloved, is God sharing with us His best. Holiness is not a burden, it's a blessing. It's not just a list of rules, but it's the availability of righteousness. It's not just a list of don'ts, but it's a life of power, and it's a life of victory over sin that this world would want to tie you down. When Moses saw that burning bush in the fire, on fire and not being consumed in the wilderness. You remember the story. You went over there to look at it. I don't suppose this a bush on fire in the wilderness is exceptionally strange. It's a very dry climate. Maybe somebody had a fire and forgot to put it out. Maybe some lightning. There's different things. There were probably brush fires and such. There's things that I'm sure Moses has seen, but there's something about this fire burner. This bush being on fire, he saw it and he said, It's not being consumed. Moses saw that and he says, You know what, I'm gonna go check this out. it's burning the the bush is still there. Now as I was thinking about this, I wonder like, did Moses pass this burning bush on the w out in the morning? You know, he's taking care of a flock and he he's out in the morning and in the afternoon he comes back by and the bushes don't burn? He's like That was burning this morning. That's not be I'm gonna go see. I don't know what happened there, but the bush wasn't being consumed, and he realized there's something different, and as he approached it, you know the story. God spoke to him from the burning bush. God called him and Moses began to walk up to the burning bush and God said, Wait, Moses, stop, take off thy shoes, for thou art on holy ground. He said, there's something special about this place. There's something special about this ground that you're walking on right now. Moses, it's got to be treated differently. You've got to act differently in this place. Moses, this is not just common every day. There's something special here because God is here. His presence is here. It's a holy place And what I want you to understand is we as God's people got to get back to going to the holy place. When you're in your home and you crawl up to the corner of your closet And grab your Bible and begin to read the pages of Scripture, and you call on to God and pray for His help in your hour of need. You're in a holy place It's a special place. You're in a place where God's presence is, and it needs to be valued and realized as such. And let that impact change the way that we're living when we leave that place. It's a holy place. We need to get back to realizing that the church house is a holy place. When we come through the doors of the church and we gather in God's house and God people begin to sing and lift their hands in song to honor and glory of the Holy God. When we begin to pray And ask God to meet with us and speak to our hearts and to challenge us. This church it becomes a holy place because God is there Do you recognize that holy place? We gotta treat it with some reverence, some respect. Start treating it a little bit like God showed up. Our walk is to be holy, but our worship is to be holy. Our worship is to be holy. Psalms 96, verse number nine says, O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Now I don't know how many of you were outside this morning around seven o'clock before time change here. That sun's coming up later and later. But man, this morning there's a beautiful sunrise. I mean, so beautiful. It wasn't just a little pink over on the on the horizon. No, the whole sky was filled with this pink hue. And I mean it was beautiful sunrise. And we see those things and we look at it and we think, man, that is beautiful But you know God when he's up in glory and he looks down here at earth. I mean he made that sunrise He set that sunrise in the sky this morning. But do you know what? God looks down and says, Wow, angels, come and look at this. John is being holy That's beautiful. Hey, Shamar is acting holy. That's beautiful to me. God beholds your worship in the beauty of holiness. Our worship is to be holy. Worship today in many aspects is more physiological than it is theological A lot of worship today is just about feelings. Just the physical. Not even so much about the spiritual. Oh, I know the music is powerful. There's no doubt about that. I know it stirs up a lot of strong emotions and you can really embrace the feelings it brings. There's no question about that. But is God there? Beloved, without a genuine acknowledgement of the holiness of God, there is no worship. Without a genuine acknowledgement of the holiness of God, there is no worship. We need to cry out like Isaiah. We say, Lord, give us a vision of your home. Holiness. Give us a vision of your holiness. Allow us to see you high and lifted up. Allow us to see you, Lord. Isaiah 6, verse number 5, there he says, Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. He didn't see the Ark of the Covenant No, what he saw was the Lord high and lifted up. He didn't see into the holy of holies and be in awe of that. No, he got a glimpse of God and was in awe of that. He didn't notice the size and the magnitude and the craftsmanship of man's hands in building the temple. No, he saw God and was in awe. I pray today that we wouldn't be blinded by the Edifices that are constructed by men that we wouldn't be unable to see God. I pray we wouldn't be blinded by the function and form of religion that we don't see God That's gonna blind us and keep us from seeing the thing that should bring us to his presence. That should put us in awe. Oh, we can have great big ceremonies and lots of pomp and circumstance, but if God doesn't show up, then what is it for? We need God. We need to see His holiness. We need to be brought into His presence where we see Him high and lifted up The building fades away. The ceremony drifts into the background. The music quiets down. We come in worship worshipful spirits into his presence in awe of his glory, in awe of his majesty, in awe of his holiness, and we see ourselves for who we are. Beloved God's grace has never removed his holiness. Today we've become a people that presume upon the grace of God as we continue daily in our sin. We've gotten so familiar with God's grace today that we've completely forgotten about His holiness. And God has grace, and we praise the Lord for that. But it doesn't remove his holiness. An example of our familiarity with his grace. And our resistance to his holiness. Let me ask you this: have you ever caught yourself looking at the holy, just God of the Old Testament? And you see his righteous judgment put out onto God's people and thought, wow, that's harsh Well that's a that's a harsh God. I can't tell you how many people have told me they wouldn't want to serve a God of the Old Testament. But the God of the Old Testament is the God of the New Testament. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He is still holy. He still does not allow sin into his presence. When we think that God is being unfair because we've been punished for our sin, we're more familiar with God's grace than we are with His holiness. The real question this morning is not why does he judge some men so harshly? The question this morning is why hasn't he judged us all? Can I remind you that good that God destroyed the entire earth because of the wickedness of man? I mean you think the atom bomb was powerful? The atom bomb destroyed one city in one country In one continent. The Adam Baum is nothing compared to the power of God. And his holiness brought him to the place where he said Said man's heart is only evil continually. It ought to set us in awe and recognize and see that heart Holiness of God. He has called you and I to holy living. Beloved, it is the purpose of our life It is the reason we're here to be a reflection of His holiness to this world. This world would see Jesus in you. And you are no greater reflection than when you are living a holy life. That's God's call for you this morning. How well are you reflecting and magnifying the holiness of God? Instead of the principle of holiness being discarded Instead of us resisting that, every Christian should be pursuing that with an insatiable desire We should be pursuing holiness. It seems as though so many Christians are fighting against it. They're resisting it. They're saying, oh God's grace covers that. Oh I don't have to do that. Oh God understands. That doesn't matter. I can live this way, and Christians are continually, continually, continually Pushing to be able to hold on to and be a part of and participate in more and more of this world's wickedness. They're pursuing after the things of this world With all kinds of passion, with all kinds of desire, with all kinds of goals and ambitions, but the things of God we neglect We push away. We resist. But our passion as Christians ought to be to pursue holiness. That's what we should be seeking for. That's what we should be longing for. There should be an inexhaustible desire in our heart to get and to have and be more holy because that's what He is. He is holy. Beloved, if imitation is the highest form of flattery, then every single one of us ought to desire to imitate God. Are you imitating him today? Are you living a holy life? Are you a reflection of that holiness in all manner of conversation? God calls us to a holiness because God is holy