I want you to turn your Bibles to Psalms one thirty-six this morning, Psalms one thirty-six. We have been considering some words, some words that have powerful meaning to us. This is a thought that I had probably 20 years ago actually in when I was an assistant pastor in Lawrence, Kansas. I wrote down the title of this series. The title of it is just a word. And I thought at some point it'd be nice to write a series of messages on those words that in the Word of God just jump out at us. Those words that speak to our hearts, that stir us, that just they just the very mention of them brings to our heart and mind certain thoughts that can change our spirit, it can give us hope, it can give us joy, just because that word was mentioned, and the first word that we looked at a few weeks ago was the idea of forgiveness. And what forgiveness means to us, and how forgiveness, those that have experienced it, I mean just knowing and experiencing the forgiveness of God, and how that can be overwhelming for us, the forgiveness, and how we are to forgive those that have trespassed against us because we have been forgiven. That word forgiveness. And then we looked at the word of ministry. That word ministry and how we all of God's people are to be given to this This task, this call of God to minister to others. It's our goal, it's our responsibility as we serve inside of a church and as we are part of God's family that we're to be ministering to others like Christ who came not to be ministered to, but to minister. And I pray that is the heart passion of God's people to be ministers, to minister to other people. But this morning we want to look at another word that we find In Psalms 136, actually, in every verse of Psalms 136, follow along as we're just going to read the first three verses here. He says, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto God of God's. For his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks to the Lord of Lords, for his mercy endureth forever. We're not going to read all 26 verses this morning, but each of these verses declaring a characteristic or a an immutable attribute of God, something about God, and then ties with it the fact that it is his mercy. That endureth forever. The word we want to look at this morning is that word mercy. Mercy. That word appears 276 times in the Word of God, and if you add the other words like merciful another four times, or mercies another 44 times. This certainly is an important aspect for the Christian. Mercy We're not going to read the all 276 verses that have mercy in them today. We will, as we walk through the message today, reference and look at many of the texts which contain that word that are very meaningful to us as God's people. Psalms 36, verse number 5 says, the mercies The mercy of our Lord is in the heavens, and thy fullness reacheth unto the clouds. This mercy of God. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts as we get into this message this morning? Just a word, mercy. Lord, we come to you now and I humbly present myself a willing servant to present your message this morning. Lord, we ask that you would be with each and every person here. Lord, as I spoke in the beginning of the service, we don't want this to just be a gathering. We don't want to just come into your house for a few minutes and say, oh we we did our duty or we went to church, but Lord, we want you to meet in a real and powerful way with us. We want you to do something in our hearts that We know without doubt or without a question it is you. We come to you with hearts full of worship for you today. We recognize your power in our lives and we submit ourselves to you and ask you to speak to us. We ask it in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Mercy. I remember one day In nineteen ninety-seven I broke the law. I have to go back to nineteen ninety-seven to find a day that I broke the law. Well, at least a day that I broke the law that I got caught and then I had to go to court. I remember in 1997 I was in court. I had broken the law and I was standing in that dreaded traffic court before the judge. And I remember declaring to him, Judge, I understand that there is no justification for my actions. I certainly stand guilty before you today. I have no nothing that I can say or present in my defense, but I plead the mercy of the court. I am not lying to you and I am not preaching. I'm that is what I told them. I said I I had no I stand here before you guilty. I was taught if you tell the truth, people will have mercy on you. That judge did not have mercy on me. He threw the book at me. I don't know what happened, but it did not go well. He did not appreciate my honesty. I I don't know But he did not have mercy on me. But I wanted mercy. I was guilty, but I needed mercy that day. Beloved, we all need mercy. This is not uh just something that God does Or has. A. W. Tozer said mercy is not just something that God has, it is something that God is. Beloved, God is mercy. And because God is mercy, because this is one of his immutable characteristics. Every one of us here can expect to experience the mercy of God in our lives. It's something that God is. You may be here this morning and say, well, I'm not sure about that, but I want you to know today that every one of us are experiencing the mercy of God. The presence of his mercy is evident in our lives. God's mercy is upon us each and every day. We know that Lamentations chapter 3, verse number 22 says, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Beloved, I can tell you right now honestly that it's because of God's mercy that I'm still here. It's because of God's mercy that I'm standing before you today and still have breath to breathe and am able to preach the holy word of God. It's not because I've done anything of myself or because I deserve it or because I've earned it. It's because God has been merciful to me, a sinner, and allowed me to do it I I I know it's hard to believe, but I've done some dumb things in my life. I've done some things that if it hadn't been for the mercy of God Oh my goodness. My own parents would have killed me, let alone God. We, it's only because of God's mercies that we are not consumed, beloved. Just this week, a dear saint of God who is in the room this morning was discussing with me and talking about how they don't understand this world and how far gone it is, how wicked it is. And and and they look at it with with just boggled mind at how God could allow it to even continue. Almost wondering, like, why doesn't God do something about it? Because of God's mercy. Because of God's mercy, and I praise God for the mercy that He's extended in my life. But I want you to know that the reason that Baltimore as a whole and even this nation as a whole is not consumed is because of God's mercy. Because of God's mercy, everyone here is experiencing and needs God's mercy. I was listening to a message this way this last week about a missionary retiring from the field of his age. He had served many, many years there faithfully. He was preaching and talking about how when he was a young pastor, assistant pastor at 27 years old, he was an assistant, and he was asked to go visit an older gentleman in the hospital. Eighty-five year old father of one of the members of the church. He said I went to the hospital and I pr got prayed up and I was ready to present the gospel to this man's father and I walked in there and after the pleasantries of meeting and introductions and explaining I was there on behalf of their his son and wanted to talk to him. This man was a very successful farmer, made a very profitable life out of being a good farmer and uh this young Assistant pastor said, well, I was trying to get the get around to the gospel. And so I started talking to the farmer about, hey, God's been really good to you. God's given you eighty-five years on earth and He's allowed you to have a successful business and to be a good farmer and uh you know for you to Reap good crops and he started sharing that and all of a sudden this 85-year-old gu guy just got irate and started yelling at him and said, Don't tell me that God has ever done anything for me Don't you tell me that anything I have came from God. You see these hands right here? These hands have labored for 85 years to get and to hold on to everything I have. That young man at twenty-seven years old said I was just blown away like he said I to be honest, I didn't even know what to say to him. I didn't even know how i He said, I all I could think is, sir, every breath you take. Is a gift that God gave you. Love it, I don't know if you're here this morning and maybe haven't recognized or seen the mercies of God in your life, but I want you to know He's being merciful to you. He's being merciful to you. Every breath we take, it's only because of God's mercies that we're not consumed. You need God's mercies today because you're a sinner. Oh, I don't want to be offensive this morning, but I I must tell you the truth. The truth of the matter is that we are all sinners. I stand before you as a sinner this morning. And we need God's mercy because we're sinners. Psalms chapter 3 says, as it is written, there's none righteous Know not one, there is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way, they are altogether become unprofitable, there is none that doeth good, know not one The Bible's clear, beloved, that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And as a sinner, I need God's mercy. I'm glad this morning that his mercy is present in my life, whether I ask for it or not. His mercy is present in my life. That's the amazing thing about God's mercy, it's present whether I asked for it or not. His mercy has been extended to me. His mercy has been extended to you, giving you another breath to breathe, another opportunity to come to Him Not only is it present in my life, but I have the privilege, beloved, to petition him for mercy. I can petition him for mercy You know, unlike that judge who did not have mercy on me when I should have got mercy. No, I was guilty. I was guilty, I have no doubt. Um but unlike that judge, our Heavenly Father We can petition our Heavenly Father for mercy if you remember the story of David after he had sinned with Bathsheba and gone a year running from God and and not doing what God wanted. And ultimately the man of God confronts him and says, Thou art the man. And David realizes his sin And the gravity of it. And he calls out to God in Psalms 51, and he says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving-kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies He says, have mercy on me. David realized his sin and he said, God, I need your mercy. There's enough mercy for you today, beloved. David's story tells us and explains to us that there's an inexhaustible supply of God's mercy for us. It's amazing that when you read the scriptures, you find out that God's wrath is weighted out, but his mercy is immeasurable. His wrath is given in just recompense. His la wrath is given in measured amounts, but his mercy is immeasurable. We know that God is rich in mercy, Ephesians chapter two, verse four. But God who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us. He's rich in mercy. He has, you know, as an immutable attribute of God. Ponder this, Christian. God has just as much mercy today as he did when David cried out for it. And he'll have just as much mercy tomorrow as he does today. You see, he's not like you and I. You know, our mercy runs out. Our mercy runs out about three seconds after somebody does something we don't like. Right? I mean, we we just think, okay, God, kill him. You know uh yeah, they deserve it. It's obvious, Lord, just kill 'em. I mean we our mercy is gone We of course appreciate the mercy God has extended to us over and over again. And God's mercy is that way for all men. He has the same amount today as he's ever had. This expecting of God's mercy I want you to know that we're experiencing his mercy. We experience his mercy in many ways every day, as we've stated, for we know that his mercies are renewed every morning. They're renewed every morning. And his abundant mercy is what allows me to stand here before you today. But I want you to think about a couple of things about ways that we experience his mercy, and there's many that you could also take and apply. I just want to give you a couple here. Think about this. We experience God's mercy. As he pleads with us. As he pleads with us. Revelation chapter 3, verse number 20. He says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him And he will sup with him, and he with me. The God of heaven, the creator of the universe, the savior of mankind Stoops to plead with you and me. That's his mercy. To plead. That word mercy, one of the definitions of the word that you'll see in the concordance, uh literally means to stoop to an inferior. God stooped to an inferior when he left the portals of heaven and entered the heart of Caleb Atrell. And pleads with him to live and do right. Pleads with him. What an amazing thing. I mean you think about You pleading with an ant. You don't give an ant any thought. It does it doesn't even cross your mind. But God comes and in his mercy he pleads with us. He pleads with me when I resist him. When he tells me he wants me to do this or he calls me for salvation and I say, No, I I'm not ready to trust you yet, or no, I'm not ready to surrender yet. No, I'm not ready to do that yet. And God in his mercy is pleading with you, Christian. He's pleading with you. How long are you going to reject his son? How long are you going to take the sacrifice of his son, the Savior, Jesus Christ, and disregard it, reject it, and refuse to follow him? But he's pleading with you. Don't wait too long What a merciful God that He would take time to plead with us, to plead and beg and ask you to come back, wayward son. God would have been justified in destroying Nineveh. But in his mercy, he sent a messenger Give him one last chance to hear the truth. Give him one last chance to come to God. In his mercy, he would have been justified to destroy it, but in his mercy he sent a messenger. He would have been justified to destroy Sodom, but he he sent a messenger. He said, if there's just ten righteous, I won't destroy it. God's mercy. Dear friend, in God's mercy, He's pleading with you today. Backslidden Christian. Wayward son. God's pleading with you. with you. In his mercy, he's given you a chance and he's saying, come home. Come home. In his mercy, he pleads with us. He pardons us. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us of all sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What an amazing thing that God would forgive us again. Boy, He provided payment for us. In his mercy, he provided a payment for our sin. God's justice is equal to his mercy You see, justice has to be done. God cannot just just disregard his justice in order to extend mercy. Justice has to be met. But God is merciful and his mercy is equal to his justice. We know justice is when I get what I deserve. A judge met out justice, even though I wasn't happy with it. Mercy. He could have had mercy on me. And grace is when I get favor, even though I deserve punishment. You know Let me illustrate it like this. Let's say you were driving to church this morning and you were texting instead of driving. I know you never do that. But let's say you were and you didn't realize that the light rail guard was stuck down like it does sometimes. stuck down. You you weren't paying attention. You were texting and you drove right through it. That guardrail busted your front grille, put a big scratch across your hood, cracked your windshield. and put a scratch across your roof before it finally snapped off. And there you are on the side of the road with a busted stop railroad crossing stop road The police come and they say uh Shamar, do you drive? Not yet. Okay, don't ever do this. Bob drives, we'll use Bob. So you're driving in and the police comes and they and says, Hey uh How'd this happen? And you being a fine Christian, you say, well, I wasn't paying attention. I drove right into it. And you know, destroyed it I know and then the the police officer says, Okay, well here's your ticket for reckless driving. And by the way, I'm going to report this to the county, and of course you're going to have to replace your car and you're also going to have to replace this guardrail that you broke. because it's all your damage, it that's that's justice. You have to pay for it, you did it. But let's say it was Officer Cortez that was here a couple weeks ago for our Faith in Blue Sunday, and he recognizes you from Hunt Valley Baptist Church and says, Wow, you know your pastor was talking about extending mercy. I'm going to extend some mercy to you today. I'm not going to give you a ticket for breaking this guardrail for reckless driving. I just want to exhort you to do a better job and pay more attention. in the future. We're gonna let it go. And you think, wow, amen. I got off scot free. And you and you just gladly you you get in your car and you take off. You're like at least I don't you know have to pay for that guardrail. Well but see justice hasn't been done yet. Right. Because somebody has to pay for the guardrail. So grace is when Officer Cortez says, Listen, I'm not gonna write you a ticket. But what I am going to do is I'm going to write you a check. Here's a check for the damage to your vehicle. All the damage you caused is going to be covered by me. And I'll write a check to the county and I'll cover the damage to the Railroad crossing. That's God's grace. You see, justice was met by his sacrifice. When he did that, he was able to extend mercy. And what I want you to know is the need for God to maintain justice. was met by Jesus' sacrifice. Because of Jesus sacrifice, God can extend mercy to you and I Because of what Jesus did, we can have mercy. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him Understanding that God is not at war with me today because Jesus took my place. Charles Wesley wrote this. Depth of mercy can there be? Mercy still reserved for me. Can my God have wrath forbear? Me, the chief of sinners fair. I have long withstood his grace, long provoked him to his face, would not hearken his calls, grieved him by a thousand falls. I have split his precious blood, trampled on the Son of God, filled with pain unspeakable, who yet am not in hell. Because of God's mercy. Because of God's mercy. We experience His mercy, beloved. Because He pleads with us. We experience it as His payment was given for us and we experience as his continued patience with us. He is patient with us. I mean you think about the patience of God, that is astounding. It is astounding. You talk about mercy on display. One writer described God's mercy like this. He talked about it as the hands of a clock. The hands of a clock fixed to the center, one short, passing every once every 24 hours, yet the longer hand passing every 60 minutes Describe those hands as the hands of God, and the shorthand is the hand of God's discipline that all inevitably must come around, but comes around so rarely. It's over sixty fold that the longer hand, the hand of God's mercy, comes around in our lives. God's mercy continually extended to us. How many times did Jesus find his disciples sleeping King Richard III went out one twilight evening to reconnoiter around his fort, and he found a sentinel asleep at his post. The king promptly stabbed him in the heart And left upon his chest a note written, I found him asleep and left him so What a contrast is that to the patience of the tender, loving care of our Father who found his disciples asleep. We experience God's mercy as He patiently, lovingly calls us to watch and pray. Even after I've experienced His grace Even after I know my sins have been forgiven and my home is in heaven, still I fail him. I have not loved him as I should, or cared for him as I should, or served him as I should And yet still he is merciful to me. God's mercy My goal this morning is that this word, this word, the idea of mercy would be driven home to your heart, and I hope you know and understand that even in God's judgment, you're experiencing his mercy. All of us are experiencing God's mercy each and every day. And as a partaker of that mercy, it is my responsibility to express that mercy to a lost and dying world. Luke 6, 36 says, Be therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. We are to be merciful to others as God has been merciful to us. God fully expects you and I to have mercy for others It should be our practice to be like Christ and be merciful. Doesn't God say, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy? Beloved, it is our job, our responsibility to have mercy on others. To have mercy on the lost, to have mercy on those around us. You might be one here today who tends towards truth. You might be a letter of the law kind of person. You broke the law, we're gonna chop your head off. You you you you might be that kind of person. I want you to know God wants us to be merciful. James chapter 2 verse number 13 says, For he shall have judgment without mercy that hath showed no mercy. For he shall have judgment without mercy that hath showed no mercy. You want you want to hold people right here to the line and crucify them when they cross it? God says you do that, that's how I'm going to deal with you. Beloved, it's our responsibility to have mercy. Having experienced the mercy of God full and free, given to us not once or twice, but daily, his mercies are renewed and extended to us in our life. We better have some mercy for others. We better have some mercy for others. It is our power to have mercy. Showing mercy doesn't make you weak, it makes you strong. Proverbs 20, verse number 28 says, Mercy and truth preserve the king, and his throne is upheld by mercy. The king's throne is upheld by the mercy that he extends. So somebody has offended you? Do you have mercy? Somebody's crossed the line or done one too many things or done gone too far, but do you have mercy? You see, mercy sees the heart behind the hurt. Mercy sees the person behind the pain. It sees the struggle behind the sting. Mercy sees that person for who they are. And loves them anyway. To practice mercy is to have wisdom. James chapter 3, verse number 17 says, But the wisdom that is from above. The wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated. Full of mercy. Wisdom from above is full of mercy. Do you have enough wisdom? When you're showing mercy, you're showing wisdom. If you have your Bibles, would you I want to show you one passage and we're going to conclude. Look in Matthew chapter. Chapter nine. Jesus is talking here. When Matthew is called to serve his Lord, a sinner, forgiven by God. And the Pharisees didn't like it much. The Pharisees wanted to hold the line. The Pharisees wanted the letter of the law. Why is Jesus associating and talking to publicans? Why is he dealing with these sinners? And Jesus responds to them in verse 12 and 13. But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that would be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. But go ye and learn what that meaneth I will have mercy and not sacrifice. For I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. He says, You guys, in all your laws, Pharisaically standing up there I'm a healer. And I came to heal the sick. I'm going to have mercy on the sick. You want to hold to the letter of the law? I want to heal the wounded. I want to help those that are sick with sin. He said, I'm going to have mercy on them. Our churches sometimes get a little too pharisaical, a little too much about what we're doing, and not enough mercy on this world. They're sinners. They're sick. And except for God's mercy, we wouldn't know the grace of God either. And Jesus came to share that mercy with the Lord. And he tells the Pharisees there, he says, you need to go and learn what that meaneth. Christian, it is our responsibility to learn what it means to be like Christ and have mercy on a lost and dying world.