A few weeks ago, one of the missionaries said something about his service for the Lord. I don't know exactly what the statement was. I don't recall exactly how he presented it. But I know that when that statement came across my mind, the Holy Spirit began to birth this message in my heart. I began to develop and put this into Thought and jotted a few notes and then over the next week and a half began to work on this idea. The message I'm going to bring you today, it fits into a series that I started last year. series entitled Just a Word. As we began that series, we looked first at the word of forgiveness. God used that message in a great way in our church. We also looked at the words of ministry and mercy and holy. The title of the series is just a word, and what it's about is these words that over time and through the days as our lives pass, these words begin to mean So much more than just accumulation of letters. The impact that these words have on our lives is great. And when that word is mentioned, when that word is said, it Brings to your mind maybe a flood of emotions, maybe a memory, maybe great meaning for you. So this morning, the word that I would like to deal with, that I pray God would drive home in our hearts and minds, is the word sacrifice. When we say the word sacrifice, when that term is given, when those nine letters are symboled together and form that word sacrifice. What does it mean to you? I want to describe for you this morning this word. I want you to ponder its impact on our lives. I want you to think of it as well, as I desire to present this as kind of a progression. Of the Christian life, where this word sacrifice begins to take on new meaning. And then again, new meaning. And then again, new meaning. This term sacrifice. And how it relates to us as Christians, I want you to realize that first of all, the term sacrifice really is the place where we are introduced to Christianity. That is the beginning point. The Bible says without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. Anybody that's ever become a Christian did so through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. That sacrifice. Beloved, that was given for you and I. So Christianity begins, it starts with that term, sacrifice And when a person, an individual who's living his life and going about his days, but he is carrying on his shoulders the weight of sin that he has had his entire life And that weight is heavy, and oh I know in the busy and hustle-bustle of life, it's not much thought is given to it, but I also know that in the quiet of the night, when one lays his head down on the pillow, he ponders and thinks about what is next, and what can I do with all this weight and this guilt and this burden that I carry. And praise God that He has given to us the message of Jesus Christ. That message that is encapsulated in the gospel. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, who gave himself a sacrifice for us. Romans 5, verse number 8 says, But God committed his love toward us, and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. Us. Beloved Christ died for us. Boy, the Old Testament has a lot of actually there's an entire sacrificial system in the Old Testament. And we can learn a lot of things from that sacrificial system and the different sacrifices that God's people were asked to give at different times for different reasons, and we can look at those and Apply them, but I want you to understand the entirety of the sacrificial system in the Old Testament was but a picture of the one great sacrifice that would be made, Jesus Christ. Where the sacrifices in the Old Testament could just cover sin, and when they sinned again, that sin had to be covered with a new sacrifice. The one sacrifice that Jesus Christ made doesn't just cover sin, it washes the sin away. Jesus Christ in his shed blood that was given for you and I washes all our sin away. That great sacrifice. Beloved, I want to talk to you about that sacrifice for a couple of minutes. First of all, I want you to think about or realize how precious that sacrifice is He says, but with with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. But 1 Peter 1. 18 says, For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold, but From your vain conversations received by the tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Jesus. It's a precious sacrifice It's a precious sacrifice. I'll tell you what, God sent his only son. It's precious. God's only son. He gave his son for you and I You know, John 3. 16, if you know it, quote it with me. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believed It's a precious sacrifice. God gave his only, one and only begotten Son for you and I. He gave them for to us. Can you imagine giving such a sacrifice? It's precious, friend. Jesus gave himself. Jesus was in heaven with all the glory, with all the grandeur, sitting at the right hand of the Father, the angels singing his praises I mean the the the the the part of the Godhead, part of the creator of the universe in heaven, and he gave all that up to come down to earth I mean, beloved, one of the things that we we talk about with those that go on before us is the the idea that if they had the opportunity to come back, they would say, Why why would I go back there I I'm in heaven. And if we knew the glory and the joy and and all that we would have there, we would say, Man, why did I wait so long to get here? Why was I fighting so hard to stay on earth? There's nothing on earth that I need or want. It's all in heaven. Jesus gave it all up and came to earth. It's a precious sacrifice. Not only is it precious, beloved, it's a perfect sacrifice. It is only because it's perfect that He can wash away our sin. The perfect blood of Jesus Christ. Somebody said his perfect service made him the perfect sacrifice to provide for you and I the perfect salvation. It's only because he never sinned. He was not tainted with the sin of man. We know that uh That sin is part of our blood. It's part of our nature. The Bible says for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. Every single boy and girl ever born is a sinner Because we have that sin given to us from Adam all the way down through generation, and there's no way around it. You might be a really good guy or gal, but you know in your heart you're still a sinner I i i if you don't think so, you have other issues. And we'll talk I mean we we know we're sinners, okay? We understand that. But see, Jesus Christ didn't have the blood of Adam In the blood of God. And so he was perfect, without sin. He says that we were redeemed not with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Jesus Christ, as of a lamb without blemish. And without spot. It was a perfect sacrifice that was made for you and I. Not only that, beloved, can I just remind you this morning that it was a painful sacrifice? You see Jesus didn't just uh uh take some pills and go to sleep. He didn't even just get get shot with a gun and and and his life taken like that. I'm sure everybody here has seen and read the accounts of Jesus' sacrifice on the cross for you and I. How the Bible describes that he was beaten so much that his visage was unknown. You couldn't even tell who it was that was up there because his body was so torn. How they literally ripped his beard from his face and pushed a crown of thorns down on his head and made him carry his own cross to the top of Golgotha. And hung him there. He cried out, I thirst, and they gave him vinegar to drink. It was a painful sacrifice, but Jesus did it all so that you could know Him as Lord and Savior. What a slap in the face it is when Jesus gave that great sacrifice and men here on earth would say, No, I don't want it. He did it for you so your sins could be forgiven. And beloved, this is where the Christian life begins, when man realizes they're a sinner and they see the sacrifice that Jesus paid, and they say, Okay, Lord I see the sacrifice you gave. I understand that your blood can wash away my sin. And I'm putting my faith and trust in you and asking you right now to forgive me of all that sin today, this hour You see, we recognize that sacrifice and accept it as payment for our sin. That's where the Christian life begins. What a joy. to consider and think about that great sacrifice. I'm excited this morning that it's also a permanent sacrifice. It was made one time and once and for all. It was the one sacrifice. Never again does Jesus have to die. And once you've accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and been forgiven of your sin, never again do you see you don't have to crucify Jesus over and over and over again He died once and for all, one time, and his shed blood is sufficient to forgive you of all sin that you've ever committed You have been clothed in the righteousness of God. It's not your righteousness that God the Father sees when he looks down from heaven. For you and I both know that on our best day we're still just filthy sinners But the Bible describes and talks about how when the Father looks down from heaven, he sees the righteousness of God that was imputed unto us. given to us by Jesus Christ. We have been clothed, just like you don't see my skin on my arms or my shoulders here today, because I've been clothed by this suit I have been clothed by the righteousness of God, and when the God the Father looks down, he sees the righteousness of his son, even though inside that I'm still just a sinner. But I've been forgiven. And Jesus Christ forgave me. And once he forgave me, I'm forgiven for all. Eternity. It's a permanent sacrifice. Oh, what a joy. What a joy. Hebrews 10, verse number 12 says, but this, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin, forever. Forever. Amen. One sacrifice. I want you to see that this is where the Christian life begins, and if you're here this morning And if you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, maybe the acknowledgement of that sacrifice that was made for you never really sank home to your heart. Maybe you never really understood that that's why Jesus did that and that you could be forgiven of your sin today I implore you to accept him today. To take that sacrifice that was made for you. Don't reject it. Don't say not yet. Don't say not now. Don't say another day. Accept that sacrifice today. This is where the Christian life begins. But secondly, I would like you to see a sacrifice offered. You see, friend, as we begin to grow in the Lord, and the truth of what Christ has done for us comes home to our heart, we start to say, okay, God. I'll sacrifice for you. Because of what He did for us, beloved, we don't sacrifice for any type of atonement. There is no forgiveness of sin offered because you did a good deed, because you did a good thing. But, beloved, because of all that he has done for me, I desire to do something for him. Oh, and how small and how little of a thing can I do? Have you ever seen a small child wrap a gift and bring it to you as a parent? And it's something that they got out of your drawer. Something that you already owned, and they wrapped it all, got it all as good as they can, you know, all tape all over the place and everything. They bring it to you and they say, Daddy Mommy, look what I got you. They're bringing you something because of their heart of love, because of all that you mean to them And they're offering that to you and giving it to you, and you accept it, and you say, wow, thank you so much. This is amazing But you already own it. It's already yours. But what you understand is the heart of love behind it. That caused that child to do that. And beloved, when we sacrifice for God, he looks down, he owns everything. He owns it all. This whole world is his creation. And we're just giving back to him or offering to him what seems like such a small, insignificant thing in a grand scheme of life, yet God understands the heart of love that motivates that sacrifice, and God's pleased with that. Beloved, that's where you you start to grow in your Christian life when you realize the sacrifice Jesus made and you say, Oh, I want a sacrifice for you. Paul tells us in his word that that's our reasonable circuit. You know the verse. I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reason. You see, Christians start to learn that. They start to learn that, hey, this is reasonable. I can do this for God. I want to sacrifice for God. Okay, Lord, I see all you've done for me, and so I will do for you. Oh, beloved, the Lord might ask of you something that's valuable. He might ask you to give time and treasure and talent in his service. And these sacrifices bring joy to God. Can I tell you something? There is no victory. There is no satisfaction. There is no real joy in the Christian life apart from sacrifice. You've got to come to the place where you say, listen, Lord, I see what you've done for me, and I know it's small, but I want to do something for you. I want to sacrifice for you, Lord. You know, that's what it is God's plan that his people willingly sacrifice. He said, take up your cross and follow me. He said, Come on now. You've got a cross to carry, you've got a cross to bear here on earth. And so the Christian says, Okay, Lord, I'll do it because of what you've done for me. Oh. Do you know that just doing good can be a sacrifice for God? Hebrews 13, 16 says, but to do good and to communicate, forget not. For with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. For with such sacrifice, what such sacrifice? Doing good. Doing good But you know, not just doing good. You know, God might call upon you for a great sacrifice. Do you remember Abraham? Abraham in the Bible? In Hebrews 11, 17 he says, by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. You know the story. That God, Abraham and Sarah had known that God had promised them a child. And they waited for this child and they waited and they waited and they waited. They waited until Sarah was ninety years old. How many ladies are glad? Tiffany, are you glad you didn't have to wait till you're ninety? She waited until she was 90 years old, and then God blessed him with a son. Then some years later, God came to Abraham and said, Abraham. I want you to sacrifice your son. Okay, Abraham, do you trust me? Can you follow me? Will you give it up for me, Abraham? Sacrifice your son. Man, can you imagine the joy in the heart of Abraham and Sarah when God finally blessed them with a child and they began to raise the child for him and honor God with their lives. and try and point him to their Lord and Savior. What a joy was in that home with that child. But can you imagine the jolt they got When God came and said, Would you sacrifice your son? Would you give your son up for me? He was willing to give his son completely and totally to God. What you need to understand, beloved, is that God was not asking Abraham to give up some gross son God was not asking him to give up something that Abraham shouldn't be doing. Abraham was living right. Abraham was serving God, honoring God, pointing Isaac to God, but God came to him and said, Would you give up Your son. The thing that I gave you. You see, the question this morning is not what's wrong with it. The question this morning is, Lord, do you want it? Whatever it is in my life, Lord, do you want it? Is it something that you would have me give up for you? Is there something that you would have me sacrifice for you? Because this is where a Christian begins to grow. When they reach the point in their life, it's Not about rules and it's not about do's and don'ts. It's about his heavenly father and saying, Lord, what do you want? And just saying, Lord, I just want to please you, I want to honor you, I want to bring glory to you, and Lord, if you ask it of me, whatever it is, it's yours Are you willing to sacrifice? Abraham was willing. You see, God tested Abraham one day. He came to him and said, Would you give me that which you value most in this world? Would you give it to me Beloved, I believe the day comes in every Christian's life. When God comes to you and he reaches down into your soul. And he puts his finger on that thing in your life that you value most. And he says, Will you give it to me? Do you trust me? Do you love me? Will you give it to me? Will you say, okay, Lord, I love you. Yes, Lord, I trust you. It's yours. Whatever he asks Would you say, I'm willing to sacrifice it for God? Can I ask you this morning, have you reached that place in your Christian life? Or you said, I'm willing to sacrifice for God. If you have, maybe I could ask you later in your own time to sit down with pen and paper And ponder and think about. What have you sacrificed for God? Maybe you could write down and say, Lord, show me what I've sacrificed for you. What have I loved? Laid on the altar and given to you because you've asked it of me. I want you to see the next step in the Christian life Last day this morning, I want you to see a sacrifice without sacrifice. A sacrifice without sacrifice. You see, Paul had reached a place in his life that he understood sacrificing for God was not really a sacrifice at all. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 17, he says, Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy. And rejoice with you. Paul said, if I am offered as a sacrifice for your faith, if you understand the context of this passage of scripture, Paul had just been imprisoned. He, of course, had been tortured. He had been beaten. He had been stoned. He had been through numerous things And he says, hey, if my life is given this word sacrifice here is literally the the same word as that which is used for the the uh My mind just went blank. Oh Lord help me. Uh the poured out offering. What do they what do they call that? The drink offering, yes. My mind pour, that makes sense, the drink offering. That's what it did the drink offering where they would take and pour out The drink offering. Paul was saying my life can be poured out for God. And it's not a sacrifice, it is a joy Paul had reached that place in his life, and this is where Christians begin to grow. Initially, they say, Oh Lord, I'm willing to sacrifice for you, and I'll do it because I love you, and I'll I'll just sacrifice for you It for you because that's what I should do. And oh God, help me to do it. But as we grow as Christians, we realize the sacrifices we make for God are not a sacrifice at all. Oh, beloved. In Acts 20, 24 he said, But none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus. He said, listen, my life doesn't really matter. I'll just give it all to God because I've got joy in serving Jesus. This is the place, beloved, that mature Christians get to. You first accept and are willing to sacrifice, but when you grow, you grow to the place where sacrifice is not a sacrifice at all No matter what God asks of us, we gladly offer it. And give it and say it's not a sacrifice You see, how can I sacrifice and give to God something that He already owns? I was out with one of the members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church yesterday and he offered to pay for something for Missions Month. And I told him, I said, hey, no, no, no, you don't need to pay for that. We have that planned in the missions budget and and it'll be taken care of by the church. You don't need to pay for it. And and he said to me, he says, No. He said, listen, the same person is paying for it either way. You let that sink in. What he's saying is whether it comes from the church's bank account or my bank account, the same person's paying for it either way. God owns it all. He said so to me it m it really doesn't matter. It doesn't make much difference. Maybe the words of David Livingston can help me illustrate this point. You know David Livingston, that missionary, who ultimately gave his life on the mission Field. Died in Africa. So beloved of his people they wouldn't let him bring his body back Anybody that is in Christendom that knows the story or looks at the life of David Livingston would say, oh, he sacrificed it all for God. But can I give you the words of David Livingston? He said this. People talk of the sacrifice I have made spending my life on the mission field. Can that be called a sacrifice which is simply paying back a small debt that is owed to our God? Is that a sacrifice which brings its own reward or helpful activity? The consciousness of having done a good thing Peace of mind, and the glory of the truth of that which is to come in the hereafter? No, away with such a word. Away with such a thought, it is emphatically no sacrifice. Rather, it is a privilege. You see, that's where the mature Christian gets to. It's no sacrifice at all. To sacrifice for God He goes on and he says, a sickness, suffering, or danger now and then. With the foregoing of the common conveniences and the charities of this life, may cause one to pause or one's spirit to waver. But let it be for just a moment. For all these things are nothing when compared to the glory that shall be revealed in and for us. I have never made the sacrifice When anybody that looks at his life would say, Wow, and we're excited about these missionaries that go. And we say, Man, they're sacrificing to go. But anybody that understands the call of God and reaches that point of Christian maturity, they realize any sacrifice is no sacrifice at all. Nate Saint understood it. You know, Nate Saint, he was the pilot that flew Jim Elliott and his three friends back into the jungles of Ecuador. You guys know the story, and many people know the story of Jim Elliott, but maybe Nate Saint's not quite as as famous, but he loved God and served God with his life. And in Nate Saint's private journal, He said this. People who do not know the Lord ask us why we waste our lives as missionaries. What they forget is that they too are spending their life. And when the bubble has burst, they will have nothing to show for the years they've wasted. You see, beloved, every single person alive today is spending their life, sacrificing their life for something. It they might be sacrificing for monetary gain. They might be sacrificing for some type of popularity or or power. They might be sacrificing for what is called the American dream. But everybody is sacrificing and giving their life for something. The question today, beloved, is are you willing to sacrifice and give your life for the one who sacrificed it all for you? And only in that do we have the eternal glory and the blessing from God. Nate Saint, like Paul, like David Livingston, like thousands and thousands of other saints, Christians. Understood. That truly sacrifice for God is no sacrifice at all. Paul said, Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and served Service of faith, I joy and rejoice. It's not a sacrifice, it's an opportunity. An opportunity To do something for your Heavenly Father, to do something for God. And it is no sacrifice at all. C. T. Studd lived his life reaching the lost Some wish to live within the sound of church or chapel bell, but I want to run a rescue shop within a yard of hell. That's how C. T. Studd lived his life. What you might not know about C. T. Studd is that he was actually a world-renowned cricket player. He was on his way to becoming world famous. Very successful athlete Not only that, he came from a wealthy family, had at his disposal all the conveniences of life. He got saved, and as happens with many Christians, for some years, he ran his own way. He knew Jesus as his Lord and Savior, but he was living for himself Then one day he sat under the preaching of D. L. Moody. And God reached down into the heart of C. T. Studd, and in that message, he just lit a fire. And C. T. Studd began to get on fire for souls in reaching the lost. He began to spread the gospel and share the news of Jesus Christ and the death, burial, and resurrection of his Lord anywhere he could. He see he said later, he says, I have had the test or turmoil, I have enjoyed or been part of every pleasure this world has to offer. And I can tell you None of them have given me a fraction of the pleasure that I have had when I have been able to bring a person to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. CT said, even though he had all this wealth, many would look at him and say, he gave it all up to go be a missionary in China. He lived as a missionary. He lived as the Chinese people, dressed as they dressed and lived how they lived. At the age of 25, his father gave him a substantial inheritance C T Sud gave it all to missions. All but $3,500 of it. He gave $3,500 to his wife. But his wife, seeing his testimony, she gave the $3,500 as well. So ultimately it all went to missions. And not to his mission work. He gave it to different mission works around the world to see people Saved. We would look at that and say, Wow. What a sacrifice. Yeah. He gave it all to God, but he said this: if Jesus Christ be God and died for me. then no sacrifice is too great for me to make for him. I don't know where you're at today. Maybe you're here and you've been confronted this morning for the first time with the fact that Jesus Christ sacrificed his life. For you. And you've never put your faith and trust in that and accepted the shed blood of Jesus Christ to forgive you your sins and to take you to heaven. I want But if you're here and you've done that and you know Jesus is your Lord and Savior, maybe you're like C. T. Stud and you you're you're saved, but God hasn't lit a fire in you. You haven't learned how to sacrifice Yet. But you say, boy, I see what Jesus did for me. I want to be willing to sacrifice. Or maybe you're willing to sacrifice and you want to take a step towards God. Help me be able to view my sacrifice for you as no sacrifice at all. Because it's all yours anyway