We're going to get into the Word of God this morning, if you would turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number three. Romans chapter number three. I'm going to read verses 20 through 26. I'm going to ask you to keep your finger there and keep the Bible open to this passage of scripture as we will continue to reference it, even though we're going to jump around in Romans some. and reference some other passages of scriptures. We're going to continue to come back to this as a text as it teaches very clearly the principles we're looking at this morning. The title of this morning's message is just a word Justified. Justified. Romans chapter 3, verses 20 through 26, he says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law There shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all, and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Whom God hath set for to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. Through the forbearance of God, to declare, I say at this time, his righteousness, that he might be just And the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. For the last few weeks, we have been practicing the song that we sang this morning as a choir. The words of that song have been stuck in my mind and my heart, along with the tune and the melody of it. But more importantly, the powerful, amazing message that the song carried. Declaring the truth of our justification. The awesome truth That's clearly taught in the scriptures about justification for the believer. Now, I understand the doctrine of it I sat in systematic theology, studied soteriology, as we as we went through the doctrines and You know, justification is an aspect of soteriology, which is the doctrine of salvation. I understand that, but this morning I don't desire to Present to you a dry and dead truth of a bygone era I desire this morning to present to you the living truth of the Word of God, that for each and every one of us present here, we have been justified By Jesus Christ. It is a present truth. It is something for us today, and I pray that it would not be something that we would ever Let fall by the wayside that this truth would be something that young people would know and understand what it means to be justified May we never be as in Joshua's day where they said there rose up a generation that knew not the works of the Lord. Boy, we would be sinning against our children if they grew up in a church like ours and they didn't know what justification was, what it means. You may be here this morning and you're fully and completely and well aware of what justification is and I implore you to Maybe listen and be reminded and stirred again about the blessed truth of justification in Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning you say, so far I've only understood about seven words that you've said, Pastor Caleb, uh something about the kids. and uh trying to teach them, I got that. But all the other words, I don't know what you're talking about. If that's you this morning, I pray that you would understand the truth that's given to us about our justification in Jesus Christ. And that if you have never been justified, you would do so at the close of the message today. May we this morning remember what Christ has done for us when he provided our justification. May we find a renewed appreciation for that. And may our love for God grow. As we ponder and think about what he has supplied when he supplied justification. Dear friend, This is an awesome truth concerning you and your standing before God Almighty. I want to make it simple and straightforward this morning, although there's a few words in there that uh maybe we're less familiar with. But even in the outline, we're going to be very basic, going to give you first of all the description. What is this justification that we're talking about? What is it to mean or to say that we've been justified? Beloved, it is necessary that we have a proper understanding of this doctrine. You know, doctrine means teaching. So it's it's it's necessary that we understand the teaching with regards to justification if it's something that we're going to believe You think it's necessary if I'm going to believe it, I ought to know what it is, right? I ought to know, be able to talk about it. I ought to be able to appreciate it. I ought to be able to say this is what it is So we talk here about justification, first of all, it's a legal term. Robert Moray writes, he says justification is a judicial, legal, and forensic declaration or verdict by God. Justification is more than just a pardon, for pardon means declared guilty, but delivered from punishment. Well, justification is God's declaration that we are not guilty before Him and therefore not worthy of punishment That is mind-boggling, friend. Justification is not the same as sanctification or regeneration or redemption, though these are good doctrines as well. It is in and of itself a truth that we must understand. Jonathan Edwards in 1750 said, a person Is said to be justified when he is approved of God as free from the guilt of sin. He is deserving of punishment, but having the righteousness of God belonging to him entitles him to the reward of life. Through justification. What he's saying, beloved, is that one's justification is not a change of your state as a sinner. But a change of your standing before God. Now that phrase, state and standing, we just heard in Sunday school. In the last was it last week? Two weeks ago. So it should be relatively familiar in your mind, which is why I used it this morning, because I think that we understand that we are sinners. And that because we've been justified, that is, to be declared righteous, does not change our state as a sinner. I'm still a sinner. I've been declared righteous. Now there are false teachers out there today that would say that they live without sin. That they're able to live a perfect life, they are neither biblical nor practically correct. Uh they have to in their heart of hearts know that they are stating a lie when they say that. Because none of us can be perfect. None of us can be 100% without sin, this side of glory, in that glorified body, we'll receive one day. So our state, we're still sinners. But through this teaching, the doctrine of justification, we are declared righteous in the eyes of God. God looks and sees the righteousness of his son when he looks at you and I. We have all heard the saying justified means just. As if I had never sinned. Just as if I had never sinned. You see, it it gives you that because of what Jesus Christ has done. Your justification doesn't make you righteous now, presently, but it presents you righteous before God. Justified. This doesn't even make sense to us as humans in our in our you know an eye for an eye world. In our, you know, right and wrong, because we function and live in a world of merit. That's how we think. You see, a man before court is justified based on the innocency of his claim. Of his action. You you would go through court and go through the whole trial, and at the conclusion of the trial, they would determine, well, this man is innocent of these charges. Therefore, we're going to declare him not guilty. But you see, beloved, Jesus Christ justifies based on our mercy on his grace. On his grace. Not on our merit. Because we stand guilty. We are there before the Almighty Judge and we are as guilty as charged. But God says they've been justified. Doesn't even make sense to us. Being justified freely You know, it's amazing when you ponder and think about the fact that, you know, forgiveness of sin is in itself Just unbelievable. Just being forgiven And to know that there's nothing between me and my Savior, to know that uh all of my transgression against the law and all the sins that I've committed in my life have been forgiven, that is an amazing truth in and of itself, but beloved, justification goes so far beyond that. Yeah. You know the definition of grace, right? You know, God's mercy is God not giving me what I do deserve, and God's grace is giving me more than I deserve. Going beyond. Well that's what he describes here. He says being, in verse number 24 there, he says being justified freely by his grace. You see, he's forgiven us. He didn't give us the punishment, the judgment that we deserve. But he went beyond that. And in his grace, he justifies us. Declares us righteous. In First Corinthians 5 21, the Bible says, For he hath made him to be sin for us. Who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Beloved, he took on my sin and gave me his righteousness. That's justification. That not only do I stand forgiven by an Almighty God today, but I have imputed unto me, given unto me, the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Himself, me, a wicked, wretched, undone sinner, woe is me. And yet when God looks down, he sees the purity, the precious blood of his son that's been applied to my account. Wow. Forgiven and justified today. Jesus took my place. Back during the Civil War, George Wyatt was drafted into the Union Army, having a wife and six young children. He was very distraught about leaving and going into battle. Leaving them alone without a breadwinner, without a way to provide for themselves. And he went and talked to his neighbor, which was a good friend, and his neighbor had six strapping young men. He's talking to his neighbor about this problem that he had, and what was he's he's like, but I've been drafted. I I have to go, what can I do? His neighbor's name was Mr. Pratt. One of Mr. Pratt's sons, overhearing the conversation, came up and said, Dad, if you would allow me, I'll go fight in his place. His dad said okay, and apparently was accepted by the Union Army that as long as that position was filled, he could go and fight. In George Wyatt's place. Richard Platt signed up, went to basic, and when they brought out his clothes, they handed them to him. And his uniform set on there, George Wyatt. He was Richard Pratt, but he was fighting in the place of George Wyatt. The war progressed and he was killed in action. And over time the need for more soldiers came, and once again, George Wyatt received a draft notice in the mail And he took it to the courts and he presented it and he said, I cannot be drafted again. And they said, Well, what do you mean you you can't be drafted? He said, I can't be drafted because I already died. This confused the judge. He said, sir, but you stand before me. How can you say you've already died? And he said, I died in the person of Richard Pratt. If you would check the records, you'll know that Richard Pratt went and fought in my stead. And the judge Consulted the military records and found the statement to be true. And he said to George Wyatt He said, Sir, you have been exempted from any demand on your service, for you have already paid the ultimate price. You see, he had a substitute. He had somebody that went And ultimately died in his place. That's what Jesus Christ did for us. He was our substitute. He took sin upon him so that I could be forgiven of my sin and be made righteous through Jesus Christ. Justified by faith alone. Peace with God through Christ the Son. Righteousness not of mine own. I will stand before the throne. Justified. But what is the means? How do we get this justification? How do we acquire it? He says in verse number 20 there. He says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight. It's very clear that one was not justified through the law. We know that they are not justified by works. Look in Romans chapter 4 and verse number 5, just one page over there. Romans chapter 4 and verse number 5, he says, But to him that worketh not, You see that? But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. We know, beloved, that it's not by works. And this is very important that we understand from whence comes our justification. We need to know where it comes from. This is this is not dry, dead doctrinal teaching this morning. This is something there's been wars fought. There's been people who gave their lives over this. Actually, the start of the Reformation. This is the heartbeat of the Reformation From whence came man's justification? For the Church of Rome would say it comes by keeping of sacraments, by observing of rituals, by following the traditions of the church. But the Word of God says that justification comes by Christ alone. We must know and understand where our justification comes from. It's not any deeds that I can do. I'm not justified today because I'm righteous. I'm not justified today because I'm such a good guy or I've done very good deeds and I've helped the poor and cared for the sick and and and took after the the the widows and and and did all these good deeds in society No, beloved, I'm justified by one reason, and that's because of Jesus Christ. There's three things I see in the scripture that we can see about where our justification comes from. We see it's from Jesus, it's by grace, and it's through faith. Can I show those to you in Romans 3, verse number 24? He says, justified freely. By grace. In verse number 25 and 26, he declares to us that is Jesus again. He says, wherefore God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins. That are passed through the forbearance of God to declare, I say, at this time, his righteousness that he might be just And the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. This is a powerful truth right there. That God must both be just But also the justifier. That is amazing. In one verse we have both truths that God, a holy and a righteous God, must be just. The law must be upheld. The truth must be heard that man is a sinner and his sin must be accounted for. Beloved, it's his holiness that demands justice, but it is his love that provides justification. I've given the illustration many times, but I don't know how how clearly how more clearly to present it. The picture of a judge who stands at it at his seat. And demands that the penalty of law be upheld. You have a fine to be paid, and it must be paid. You can't just say, oh well, I love I like you, you're a nice guy, whatever, I may even love you, but you know what? So you you're free to go. No. Justice demands a penalty is paid. But love causes the judge to stand up and take off his robe. And come down to where you are and pay the penalty for you. That's what in that verse we see that God, both his justification, both his justness, that God is just. The law must be upheld. We must answer for our sin. But his love caused him to send his son to earth to give his life for you and I. So that he might both be a just God and the justifier of those that want to receive his Son. His Son provides justification. Justified freely by grace. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Means it comes from Jesus. We see that it's by grace, being justified freely by his grace. It is the grace that makes us join heirs with Christ. The power of this statement is driven home by C. H. Spurgeon when he said this. I said that clothed in the righteousness of Christ. We are accepted as if we had never sinned. You need to listen to this. Engage your brain. This is Spurgeon, so he gets a little bit deep. I said that clothed in the righteousness of Christ, we are accepted as if we had never sinned, but I correct myself Had we never sinned, we could have only stood in the righteousness of man. But this day, by faith in Christ, we stand in the righteousness of God. In the righteousness of God Himself, the doings and the dying of our Lord Jesus Christ makes for us a wedding dress more glorious than the human merit could have ever spun. Even if fallen Adam had been the sinner himself. Think about that. Had man never sinned, we would stand just in the righteousness of man. But by God's glorious mercy and his grace, we stand through faith in the righteousness of God. That is an amazing truth. And we see, beloved, that it's through faith. It's through faith. Look in verse number 28 there, Romans 3. 28. He says, Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith. Without the deeds of the law. Look in Romans chapter 4, one page over, verse number 5. He says, But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith. Is counted for righteousness. Beloved, it's by faith that we accept the substitute substitutionary. Substitutionary, sorry. The substitutionary death of Christ. He is our substitute. He went in our stead. But you have to apply it to your account. You have to by faith accept what he did for you. You have to say, okay, I believe that. I believe God died. That God sent his son, and his son gave himself a sacrifice for me, and his sacrifice is sufficient for me. And I'm going to accept and apply his shed blood to my account. By faith you do that. Can I read you another quote from Spurgeon? So yeah, I'd rather hear from him than you, Amen. Spurge. Spurgeon. He said the believer in Christ receives a present justification. This is so so amazing, Christian. Listen to this. He receives a present justification. Faith does not produce this fruit by and by, but right now. So far as justification is the result of faith, it is given to the soul in the moment. When it closes with Christ and accepts him as his all. Are he asks, he says, Are they who stand before the throne of God, that is those that are in heaven right now, standing before the throne of God? Are they justified now? Yes. So are we, as truly and as clearly justified as those who walk in white and sing the melodious praises of the celestial harps. The thief upon the cross was justified the moment he turned his eye of faith to the Savior. Just as Paul, the aged, after years of service was not any more justified than the thief who never served at all. We are today accepted, beloved Today absolved of sin. Today acquitted at the bar of God through justification. Today, forgiven. Today, justified. It's not anything that we can do through Jesus by grace, through faith in Him and Him alone. The results of our justification, can I give you these quickly? He says, first of all, that you have peace with God. Romans chapter 5. You can turn over and look at Romans chapter 5, verse number 1. You guys know that verse? He says, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, beloved, there's no other way you can get peace with God. As I described, you can't work enough. You can't do enough good deeds. You can't try. There's no other means through which you can get peace with God. But by justification you have peace with God. You have peace with God. Not only that, you have no condemnation. Look at Romans chapter number eight. Romans chapter eight. In verses 33 and 34, he says, Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again Who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. He says, beloved, nobody can lay anything to your charge. There's nobody that can come and accuse you because you have been justified, made righteous by Jesus Christ. You're Um docket at the court. So they call it a court docket. You're you're you're next Your docket reads Name Caleb Batrel Charge Center Verdict Guilty Sentence Death Price Paid Paid in full. They can't lay anything to your charge because it has already been paid by Jesus Christ. You have hope of eternal life. You don't have to turn there, but in Titus 3, verse number 7, he says, that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. You have eternal life. These are the results of this justification. I'm going to ask the choir to come back up this morning. I want to close the message here just a moment and sing again the song that we opened the service with, entitled Justified. But I'm going to ask you, are you clothed in the righteousness of God this morning? Through justification? Cloth by Him? Or maybe, do you suppose that you might present yourself before God one day clothed in your own righteousness? Can I tell you that is pitifully insufficient? You can't you can't get clothed in your own righteousness Now I want to ask you, in just a moment we're going to have an invitation after we sing this song. I'm going to ask you, if you know you've been justified, praise God for it. If you're here this morning and you you don't know that you've been justified by applying the shed blood of Jesus Christ to your sinful heart. I would implore you to do it today before it's too late. Would you hear the message of this song, Justified? Can you do it? Even time to find the soil, my sister's not a oil, I will tell you for that one drive. Are the righteous judge of neighbor of the world? For yet, he fire, judging ready for his bar. Excuse thousand them all has trained and all has been perfect just as your seems abort. I will stand before the born justified in this our presentation. I see that I can for the form who tried to I am here in time. God of our messy For Christ saint degrees that we've got. The green and tone shall ever be shit in my victory. Christian God new Christmas, inside of my own, I will stand for the wrong justice.