Turn your Bibles to First Peter this morning, First Peter chapter number four. Get down towards the end of the New Testament where you want to be there, you know, Hebrew Hebrews, James, First and Second Peter. You get all the way to Revelation, you can just start turning back a few pages and you'll you'll end up in 1 and 2 Peter. You know, a few weeks ago I preached a message uh entitled Just a Word. Forgiveness. And I suppose that that message as as much as any that I've ever preached, uh I had people comment and talk to me about what it meant to them, how it impacted them, the difference it made in their life with what they're dealing with. Even uh by the testimony of members of our congregation, we've seen um what impact that made. I don't know how many other messages I'll bring in what this ultimately is going to be a series, but this morning I want to bring a message entitled Just a Word. Ministry. The word ministry. You see, we have come to the place in our There's a lot of different aspects and a lot of different ways we think about that word ministry. Uh I think we've come sometimes to think of it really just from the standpoint of a pastor. He's called to the ministry. And that's his job and he gets paid to do it and that is his calling in life to be a minister, and we think about it that way. Sometimes we think of a place or a location like Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We think of this being a ministry. The church is a ministry and it is. And we're recognized that way in a legal status and called a ministry, the ministry of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And of course, inside the church there are many different ministries that are part of the overall ministry of the church. But as we think about that word ministry and what is it or how does it apply to us individually, the fact of the matter is, is we are all called to be ministers. We're all called to be fulfilling the role and being involved in some type of ministry. So we want to look at this this morning, the idea of ministry, and we see that word mentioned here in our text this morning, and I believe that God will take this and And speak to our hearts. At the very least, I pray that He would stir us to be more actively committed and involved in serving others Fulfilling this duty of the Christian to be a minister. And maybe God would call somebody to full-time ministry. There's certainly that aspect of it There are those that God has put a call on their life. They may have wanted to do something else. They may have much rather have gone into another field. But they couldn't get away from it. God wouldn't let them rest. God called them and pulled them and you know they they were constrained to go and to fulfill God's call and be in full-time ministry But sadly I think much of our church today has relegated or delegated or at least Drop the ball with regards to ministry and said, Well, that of course is the pastor ministry or the pastoral staff's ministry, or it's people that are called to that, but not us individually. I want you to ponder or think about that idea as we look at this message this morning. Just a word, ministry. In 1 Peter chapter 4, follow along as I read our text, is chapter number 4, verse number 7 through 11. He says, But the end of all things is at hand. I'm going to come back to that phrase in just a second. He says, be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift. Even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever. And ever. Amen. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts as we look at this thought this morning? Lord, we come to you right now. I turn this service over to you. I yield myself to you, a vessel unworthy on my best day, but Lord, you're worthy. And I pray that our hearts would be turned towards heaven and that we would see the truth. shared in the scriptures this morning and be challenged to be more like Christ and to minister to those around us. To fulfill this duty of every believer. To minister. Lord, we just pray you would use this thought. I trust this morning that you will. In Jesus' name. Amen. He begins this by saying, but the end of all things is at hand. My friend, if you cannot see the signs of the times. Your head must be in the sand. If you cannot look around at our society and our world today and see that uh the ever-approaching end of days is at hand. It is coming so fast. It seems some days as if it is just right here. You just see the signs of the times and and and man they're appearing everywhere. Amen. It's that time. And you know, we as you lift up your head and you observe that, you start to think, oh, even so, Lord, come quickly. We're ready for you to come, Lord. It's that time. Boy, the world has waxed worse and worse. Of course, we know that our individual days are numbered. God said he set the bounds of our habitation. Nobody's going to live one day longer than God has deemed. God has predestined. He has determined how many days we're going to live. We're going to live and and it's in God's hands. If we trust God and we know God, we understand that and believe that He is in control, He gives life and He takes life, and ultimately we yield to Him. Sometimes in his mercy and his grace, he will allow somebody to live longer, as we saw with Hezekiah. We certainly can petition and beg him and say, Lord, we want to uh live, you know, my dad's request. He wants to live to see all of his grandkids grow up and get saved and be serving the Lord. The problem is, is his kids keep having kids Now he's gonna have to live like a hundred and ten to see that happen. You know, I he I I think he oughta he should have sent out a memo and said, Okay, you guys gotta stop. But he's praying, Lord. He changed it a little bit. He said he wants to at least see them all saved. And uh so you kinda let off the see 'em all serving God because that of course they gotta get much older to reach that point. But we know that our days are numbered. It's appointed unto man wants to die, and after this the judgment. That time's coming. We understand that. And if this old world and all its depravity continues to go on for another fifty or a hundred and fifty years, we know that ultimately he's coming again. Amen. The end of things is at hand. Well, with the end of one's life, we are often struck with that which we have lost. That which we no longer have. That is what we struggle with. But let me remind you that with the end of your life also comes the end of your hardship. The end of your struggle, the end of all those burdens and cares, the end of the battles. Also, it's the loss of opportunity All of the opportunities that would come down the road, those opportunities are gone. The opportunities that are before you from night right now until the day that God calls you home, those opportunities are there for you It's up to you to seize and to grab a hold of those opportunities to work, to witness, to worship, to fulfill God's call on your life, to minister. I want us to look at this idea of ministry. Are we ministering as God's called us to? Are we doing what we're supposed to be doing not just today, but every day? I just want to walk through this text. We're going to look at these verses here. And each one of these verses kind of has a message for us with regards to ministry. First of all, I want you to take heart in the idea of the motive of ministry here. The motive of ministry in verse number eight he says, and above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Beloved, the true motive for ministry, all true ministry comes out of a heart of love. It is a heart of love that constrains us, that motivates us, that makes us minister to someone else. Jesus, the ultimate example of that. Jesus, all that he did was motivated by love. But he committed his love toward us, and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. He gave us that love even when we didn't love him back. He loved us and died for us. Everything that Jesus did, we know of course that Jesus came not to be ministered to, but to minister. You think about that, God in the flesh came and dwelt among us And he didn't come here to be crowned king on earth. He didn't come here to be recognized as setting up his kingdom at that time. But he came to minister that all through him might be saved. He did that for the world. That should be the heart of the believer. To minister, to love, and love, beloved. Must give. For God so loved the world, he gave We know it's possible to give without loving, but it is not possible to love without giving. Oh, it's been said so often it's almost cliche. But the fact is true. For the very expression of love is giving of yourself. That it's gonna happen. When that love is there, you're going to be giving of yourself. He says here, it's a fervent love and above all things have fervent charity. I thought, fervent, what is that fervent? I mean I in my mind I think well it must be passionate love. Right? Must be fiery love. That's why I think of fervent, I think of heat, I think of fiery love. But I looked up the word here, and it literally means In the Greek it literally means without ceasing. Without ceasing. And that's challenging to me. Because any of us are able to love for a little bit. We can love for a day or two. We can love for one event like last week we we showed some love to the police officers and it was one day of hearty effort and wonderful. We all did such a great job. Let's pat ourselves on the back. But without ceasing. Love without ceasing. That means it's a love that continues to go on and on and on. I'm glad this morning that's the kind of love Christ has for me. It's a love without ceasing, but beloved, we are called to be loving others without ceasing. Wow Many of us willing to give or sacrifice for a day or two or for one event, but are we willing to keep on giving of ourselves? Willing to meet the needs wherever they are. You know what I've learned after 21 years in the ministry? Most of the time the opportunity for ministry takes place at the most inconvenient time. That's just the facts. It usually doesn't happen when, oh yeah, I have nothing else to do. Be glad to help you with that. Usually the opportunity for ministry takes place when you've got ten other things to do When you've got something else that you need to accomplish or want to accomplish, but you love says, hey, I'm going to put this down, I'm going to stop doing that, I'm going to forget about what I wanted to get done, and I'm going to take an opportunity to minister to somebody. Seeing those needs. Sometimes we need to put forth a little effort to identify the need. Now I'm going to walk out on somewhat of thin ice here for just a minute, uh men. Hang with me here. Um How many of you men would be glad to do whatever your wife wanted as long as she just told you what it was? If she just said, This is what I want. I mean, ladies, we are not uh psychic. I mean we we cannot read your mind Okay. Oh, we know there's something wrong, but we don't have any idea what. And we would be glad to fix it if we just knew what it was. Right You know what, ladies, he doesn't love you any less if you have to tell him what you would like. Now I know you guys are ready to throw stones. If I have to tell them that it doesn't matter, it's not special anymore. I I understand. I'm just trying to help your marriage. Help him out, give him some guidance. He wants to do it for you. Sometimes he just doesn't know I want to apply this to ministry though, because I said sometimes we might need to put some effort to identify the need. And you know, men, it might not hurt us to put forth some effort to try and use a little perception, to try and see what she might need, to try It's hopeless, but try and read her mind. Try to figure out what how you can help. The effort, the effort is worth it. She'll she'll she'll she'll see the effort. So it's worth it. In the area of ministry, we need to not be so consumed with ourselves that we don't see the needs. That we don't see others and where they are at. Can I get personal for a second? I'm sitting on the pulpit here looking out As we began the service today, I was trying to find somebody that I could go to and say, Will you go sit with Brian? He's sitting by himself today. Everybody here knows that hurts. Everybody here hurts Everybody here knows he lost his wife. Everybody here knows he's in church without her today. But do we see the need? Do we see the need? I don't want to put Brian on the spot, but I want Brian to know that he's loved by this church. And love says I get outside of myself and do something a little less comfortable to minister. Maybe you need to pray and ask God to help you to see the need. Lord, help me to be observant. Help me to see the need. Help me to be to to to just see where people are. Because true love must give. True love covers a multitude of sins. What he's saying there is that we will continue to minister even when we are not treated right. You see, love must give and it continues to give even when we're not treated right. Even when nobody said thank you to us. Even when nobody patted us on the back or recognized or appreciated what we did. Even if somebody insults you or takes you for granted. Because love covers that sin, right? If we're ministering for a pat on the back, when the pat comes, we say, forget it. I did that and nobody saw it. But if we're ministering because of love, we have to do it. And and if if nobody pats us on the back, that doesn't matter because that's not why we were doing it. We were doing it because we love. And that love covers their sin. It covers their unappreciation. It covers their insult. It covers their carelessness. It covers, and you just you just let that go. Why? Because I love them. It is was Christ's fervent love for us that took him all the way to the cross. When the world rejected him, he still loved us. It's the kind of ministry that Paul had. Paul said, and I will very gladly spend and be spent for you, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved. But see, love continues to minister. So this, beloved, is the motivation for ministry. The motivation why we would do it, why would we give of ourselves like that? Because we love. We love God first and foremost. And we hear the call to minister to others, and so we allow Christ's love to flow through us to other people Then we see the manner of ministry in verse number nine. He says, use hospitality one to another without grudging. Hospitality. It's almost a bygone thing. People have lost the ability to be hospitable. Used to be somebody came to your door, you would invite them in and offer them something to drink. Now you could be longtime friends with somebody. You come to their door and they come out and talk to you on the porch. You know, it's just the uh hospitality This word hospitality in the Greek has a much deeper meaning. It literally means loving the stranger. Loving the stranger. Here's what I'm saying. We're all willing to I mean Bob, he he and I we're good friends. Bob needs some help. I'm glad to help him. He's he's a friend of mine. Yeah, I'll I'll take an opportunity to minister above. Yeah, I'm glad to do that. Now Armando, sorry. Love the stranger. One of our family out. Somebody we love, somebody like that. We look at and say, Oh yeah, I'll be glad to do that. But this hospitality is being willing to minister Even to somebody we don't really know. Even to somebody that we're not really close to. What about that person that comes through the church first, second time? Had only been here once or twice. Still what you would call a stranger. Somebody you haven't built a relationship with. Would you be willing to minister to them? Somebody else. We have a minister here at the church called Hunt Valley Helpers. It's an opportunity to minister to those in our community most of the time to people that we don't even know. Small things, rake their front yard, clean up some leaves, help them empty their garage. You know, most of the time some elderly members of the community that maybe they can't do that themselves or their kids have moved away and they're can't, you know, these things come to us randomly at different occasions, and we just take an opportunity to minister to them. Don't know that anything will ever come back to the church for that other than that we're fulfilling the will of God to minister to people. He says, use hospitality one to another, loving strangers, without grudging. That is, we're to minister because we want to, not begrudgingly. Not because we have to. We're to do this with a willing heart. There are times I give my children responsibilities, jobs, and uh they do it because they have to. They do it because they don't have a lot of choice in the matter. You can at times, I know you would never think it, but at times you can actually see on their face that they don't want to do it. It's not what they really wanted to do. They would much rather be doing something else, but they do it because they have to. Beloved, we're not to be ministering because, well, I'm commanded to do this and so I I have to do it Worshiping ministering motivated by love, it should come a desire, a want to. Not grudgingly, not begrudgingly, but because we desire to. On Friday, I came home and I had a list of things that I would like to do. It was later in the evening. And of course, you know it's getting dark earlier and earlier now, and so you're losing daylight I wanted to cut some firewood, get some firewood cut up, and I really wanted to wash the car. Pastor Derek was down there working on the bus. And so I I'm walking out. We also had a bunch of stuff in the yard that needed cleaning up. And I'm walking out the door heading down to help Pastor Derek. And my son Tim comes out and he says, Dad, you need help with anything? I said, yeah. I said, well let's get this stuff picked up right here. So we got the stuff out of the yard, we put all that away, and Caleb came over to help. Then Tim and Caleb and I went down and we helped Pastor well we watched Pastor Derek work on the bus for a little while. We were a good moral support for him. You know, a little bit here and there, but I don't like getting greasy, so um Uh he had it well under hand. I was yeah he didn't need my help. But we we encouraged him and helped him a little while and then it was kinda getting dark and I'm like uh well the other stuff on the list I'm gonna have to let go So I'm talking to Pastor Derek, Miss Christina for a while, and then I turn to head up to the house, and Caleb and Timothy are washing the car. I didn't even tell them that's what I wanted to do. I didn't it just needed done and they were washing the car. They were out there till after dark washing the car. Then later that night as we were w doing devotions, I found out that Timothy had gone down and c cut wood for about two hours before I got home. Did he did all and I didn't everything I had on my list to get done, they got done. Awesome. And I didn't even tell him to do it. What I'm saying is all of that service was done out of love. Not because I said, Go get this done. Right. That's how we're supposed to be ministering for our Lord. Is because we love him. The Bible says the love of Christ constrains us. We see here the method of ministry in verse number 10. And every man hath received the gift. Even so minister the same as one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. He says here that first phrase there, as every man hath received the gift. As you've been given a gift. You understand that we've all been given a gift. And I'm not going to take time and teach on this because we're actually in the middle of a very good study in Sunday school on the gifts. The gifts of grace that God has given to us, and everybody has a different gift, and it's our responsibility to find out what that gift is and to be using it to minister to others We ought to be doing that. God has done that. He says here as God has given you your gift. Everyone has a gift Anybody that knows the forgiveness of God, you know the power of the shed blood of Christ as your sins have been forgiven and you're on your way to heaven, you know that. God's given you a gift. And you're supposed to be using that gift to minister to others. He says here, so minister. As every man has received a gift. So minister. Do it. Take the gift that God has given you. I'm glad this morning that God doesn't ask me to do something that He hasn't prepared me for. God doesn't ask me to fulfill a role or to minister in an area where it's not my thing But he has given me a gift from in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. And that ability to minister is in me. Whatever that gift is, and I'm supposed to be using that gift for God and his glory. Are you doing that this morning? Paul told Timothy to stir up the gift, to use it, to to magnify it, to let it grow in your life, to do what God wants you to do. God gave you and I a gift to minister the same one to another. Blooded, if we are not using the gift that God has given us We are failing to be good stewards of what God has given us. God has entrusted you God in His infinite wisdom has come down and uniquely gifted you and given that gift to you and He entrusted you with it. If we're not using it, he says we are to be good stewards of the manifold grace of God. What God has done in our heart and our life. That manifold means many. It means abundant. It means in multitude of ways that God has gifted us and blessed us in our life. We're to be using that in and through the ministries of the church to help people, to minister to people. And if we're not, we're not being a good steward of that. Maybe we buried our gift. But we're supposed to be ministering with our gift. God will use your gift in ways that you can't even understand. One day there was a couple of young men out and An area of town where there's known to be needs, a little less uh lower on economic scale, place where people could use some assistance. These couple of young men from church were out, a church, not this church, but they were out ministering. They actually had several baskets full of bread. And they were giving out these this bread. They were knocking on doors and they were giving free bread away, saying, we just want to take an opportunity to tell you that God loves you. And here's some bread. They came upon one door, and there was some rather large loud arguing going on inside. They almost turned and walked away from that door and went to the next one because they're a little apprehensive. I mean, people in there are screaming, right? But they decided to go ahead and knock, and the person at the door, the gentleman, opened the door and he says, What do you want? And uh one young man with some bread in his hand, he said, Sir, we don't want anything from you today, but we would like to give you something. We have some bread here that we would like to give you just to say that God loves you. And the man goes, what did you say? He said, we just want you to know that God loves you. And he looked at him and he says, You cannot know what that phrase means. He said, yesterday we buried our four-week-old baby. And he turned to his wife and he said, see, honey, God loves us. We were just discussing the fact that God had forgotten about us. We were just talking about how could this happen to us? God must not know our name. And a couple of young men just delivering some bread. God used to give a message of his love. To reassure a young couple who was going through a trial that God still sees them. God will take your gift and use it to magnify his name. And really that is the mark of all ministry. It is to magnify Christ. It's not about personal gain or personal recognition, it's about magnifying We see in verse number eleven, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. Again we recognize that God gave us the ability to do that. And we'd use that gift that God gave us what? He says that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. God wants to be glorified. And the mark of any true ministry is that it will bring glory to God. We know that all we do is supposed to glorify God. We know that. 2 Corinthians 2. 1 Corinthians 10, I believe. We are to whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. We know that. We understand that. But the fact is, beloved, there's no way to reconcile the selfish, self-centered lives of most Christians today with the call to be ministers. We are called to be ministers. The name, the title Christian, literally means Christlike. Christ came not to be ministered to, but to minister to others. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Ministering to others. To be like Christ is to be ministering to others. Friend, there's always more to be done than can be accomplished. It's always the case. In everybody's life, in everybody's situation, in every ministry If you look around this room, there's more needs in this room than there are people. But do we see them? There's something I read this week about a painting, a work of art. A work of art can be so inappropriately framed. The work of a master painter can be so inappropriately framed, and hung in such disadvantage of light That only another master could recognize its merit. Yet it can be so worthily framed And placed so skillfully that the power of the artist's works can be recognized by even a casual observer. So it is, beloved. with the work of a Christian. Sadly, our lives many times are so inappropriately framed. with the things of this world, with the cares of our days and the worldliness of society. That it all it would take somebody real godly to see Christ in you. And yet If it was framed with the right things, even a casual observer looking at your life would see Christ in you. would see Christ in you. You know what we do reflects on Christ. It sends a message to this world. As I pondered this, I thought about the gold, a Tiffany mount, which holds up a diamond. Do you know that Tiffany mount, as shiny as it is, that shine does not detract from the diamond? It actually magnifies the diamond. That mount that's holding the diamond up doesn't draw attention to itself, but it magnifies the diamond. And as we as Christians are fulfilling our role, doing what God wants us to do. We're not drawing attention to ourself. We may be shining because we're supposed to let our light shine. But that shine doesn't point to us. That shine points to Him. And magnifies him. We're not taking anything away from him. We're pointing people to him as we fulfill our responsibility to minister to others. Oh, that we would minister so that we may fully magnify the Master.