Turn you if you would to the book of Matthew, chapter number eighteen. Matthew chapter eighteen. Friends, there has in our life words that have come to hold a great amount of meaning for us. It's kind of like you could liken it to a smell, like sometimes you may smell something that just this just that scent carries you back to your childhood kitchen and standing there watching your mom bake your favorite pie. or some other fond memory. It's just if you get that smell, it just carries you back just like it was yesterday to that place or at that time and The fact of the matter is, is there are certain words, when they're spoken, they bring to our heart a certain amount of emotion and they stir us up. Sometimes it may be even a name. One name, somebody mentions a name, and at the name, they they may be even talking about somebody else, but you hear that name and You can't help but think about or remember when you met that person. Maybe you're taken back to some special time or some special event in your guys' life that was precious to you and you're so grateful and thankful for them and for what they meant. I mean it just immediately takes you there. The fact is is there are some words that hold for us tremendous meaning. The Bible tells us that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. Every word that's given to us in the scripture is of value and certainly is for our edification. But I think that you could agree with me there are some words in the scriptures that are far greater value to us than some of the others. This morning, I would have you consider one word. That one word is forgiven. Forgiven. What does this word forgiven mean to you? Look at our text this morning, Matthew chapter 18. Follow along as I read just verses 23 to 27. the start of this parable that Jesus is teaching in answer to the question About forgiveness. He says, Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents, for as much as he had not to pay. The Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made The servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him And forgave him the debt. Loosed him and forgave him the debt Would you pray with me? Lord, we come to you right now and I turn this over service over to you. I ask you, Lord, that you would allow me an unworthy vessel to preach These thoughts this morning, and you might draw us into your presence, that you, through the power of the Holy Spirit, will take your word and apply it to the hearts of your people That Lord, we would be reminded of this great truth and the forgiveness that is available to all and rejoice as having received the forgiveness of the King. I pray God you would stir us this morning. Ask us in Jesus' name. Amen. Not far from New York City, there lies a tombstone, and that tombstone has only one word on it. The person laid to rest there didn't feel that it was necessary that those that might happen by his tombstone would know his name. He wasn't too concerned about that. He didn't care that people would know the date of his birth or the date of his passing. There's only one thing that he wanted all who would pass by his tombstone to know, and he put that on his tombstone, and that is the word forgiven. That is what was important to him that the world over should know that he had been forgiven. Can I ask you this morning, have you been forgiven? Have you been forgiven? We see in this text here that there was a king that forgave the debt. Have you been forgiven by the king? Can I ask you: has there ever been a day or an hour, a time in your life where you Jesus said to you what he said to that man sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee. You see, that man, sick of the palsy, had four friends that bore him up and they carried him to Jesus. They had faith that Jesus could do something to help him. They they they just believe that God had the ability and the strength, the the capacity, the wherewithal to help their friend and They didn't let uh obstacles get in the way, and they didn't let the crowd or the press keep them from getting to Jesus. You know the story. They found a way. They broke through the roof and they lowered him down into the presence of the king And that man laying there on that cot, he may have been thinking of only one thing. Boy, I would love to be healed of this palsy Boy, I would love to be able to stand and to walk, and that might have been what was most pressing in his heart and mind, but Jesus knew he had a greater need And his greater need, greater than the ability to walk, was that he would be forgiven. And Jesus looked at him and said, Thy sins be forgiven thee. Have your sins been forgiven this morning? Is there anybody in here that said their sins have been forgiven? Man, we ought to rejoice and thank God for the fact that we can declare that we've been forgiven by the King. Peter asks Jesus, Lord, how oft shall my brother who has sinned against me and I forgive him. How oft shall I forgive this man who's just continually sinned? And you know the story. He's like seven times. I don't know, but I think that Peter probably had somebody that had offended him seven times. And he had decided, how many times should I forgive? Yet, seven, is that enough? Because I've done that already. And you know Jesus said seven times seventy. In answer to that, Jesus gives this parable. And he said, Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. This king began to take an account to Look and and kind of look I would say it almost like the state of the state of the kingdom. You know, he wanted to take account of how things were, where where were his deficits and where were his increases and how things were progressing. And as he was doing this, as he was considering his situation and all of his servants, one was brought to him As he began to reckon, again to think and consider these things, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. Now there are varied opinions as to the value of 10,000 talents. It's anywhere from the millions to the billions. based on whether the talents were made of silver or made of gold, or based on uh how much they uh equate inflation to from that time till now But the message is clear. The message is, is this man owed a debt. That was so great, 10,000 talents. There's the average man would have no means or capacity anywherewithal to earn that, even in his lifetime And yet this was his debt. There's no way he could pay it. Yet he owed it. Verse number twenty-five says, But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment. To be made. He was going to sell everything that he owned. He was going to sell the farm and all the cattle and livestock. He was going gonna sell everything that he possession, his home, his wife and his children into slavery, and just make a payment. He wasn't going to be able to clear the debt. He wasn't going to be able to satisfy the debt, but he would make a payment. And we see this servant here. He says in verse number 26, the servant therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me. And I will pay thee all. You know, there's a couple things here. First of all, I see that this man had no concept of the significance of his debt. He didn't realize the debt that he owed. He had no way of understanding how great or significant that was. He was under the delusion. that if he just had a little time, he could pay it off. You know, that's like a child who is dreaming about owning a Bugatti. And thinks, well, just given enough time, I'll buy me one. They just have no concept of how much money that is But they like the picture and they've seen a a YouTube video of it and they they're like they want one of those fast cars You know, the sad thing is there's many people in the world that were born dead in their trespasses and sins, and they have no concept of the amount of debt of sin they carry. They have some delusion that they think, well, if I just do a little bit of good, it'll counter all this weight of sin that I carry. But beloved, they could do all the good that they could possibly do for all of their days, and still there would be a debt of sin that was not paid. You understand, beloved, if you could from right now, this moment, everybody in here, if we could decide, okay, from today until the day I die, we are gonna live righteous holy lives. We'll never sin again. Wouldn't that be nice? We're not going to sin again. We're going to live holy from today until the day we die. Praise God for that, but you know you still have a lot of sin from yesterday and last year and all the years we've lived up to this point. That we owe a debt for. This man was under the illusion that if he just had some time he could pay it, but he also understood that he had a debt that had to be paid. And he acknowledged the king's right to demand the debt be paid. He didn't deny that the king that he owed the king. He didn't deny the fact that that this debt was present And if anybody's ever going to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, they've got to realize that they have that debt of sin And that he is the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the Creator of the universe, and the Savior of our souls. And he has the right to demand that the debt be paid And he acknowledged that and realized this is the king, and I owe it to him, and I ought to pay it to him. I've just got to find a way to do it. But praise God. The king knew this man could not pay at all. Then the Lord of the Servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him his debt. Forgave him. He didn't even know how much debt he had. And the king forgave it all. Every man, woman, boy and girl who ever lived was born with a dead of sin. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of us had a debt of sin that we couldn't pay Wherefore, as by one man sinned into the world, and so death by sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. And we have such a large debt we have no means or capacity to pay it. The king is right and just to demand payment for this sin. And beloved, for any and all who would come to Him and admit the condition of their soul and the need of His forgiveness He will forgive them. He will forgive them. He paid a debt He did not owe. I owed a debt I could not pay. I needed someone to wash my sins away. And now I sing a brand new song, Amazing Grace, the whole day long, Christ Jesus paid a debt I could never pay. He paid the debt on Calvary. He cleansed my soul and he set me free. I'm glad that Jesus did all my sins erase For now I can sing a brand new song, Amazing Grace. Christ Jesus paid a debt that I could never pay. Jesus paid that debt. He forgave you this morning. And there ought to be something in your heart as you're reminded of the truth that all the sin that you've ever committed and all the sin that you ever will commit has been put under the blood of Jesus Christ. And forgiveness has been offered to you by the King of Kings, a debt he didn't owe. One we owed that we had no capacity to pay. But Jesus gladly, willingly sacrificed himself for us so he could be forgive us of all that sin. Praise God today we are forgiven. He says in 1 John 2. 12, I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you. Why I remember back in December of 2007. We walked out of the storefront down there on Timonium Road. My wife and kids loaded up into our Blue Dodge Grand Caravan. Well we piled in and I had just got in the car myself and was closing the door and Pastor Gus, who was not a pastor at that time. They had just started coming to the church. Pastor Gus came out of the building and he came up to the car and he he said, Caleb, would you come come inside for a minute? Would you and um sure You know, he didn't tell me what he wanted, but he seemed a little bit urgent about it. Seemed a little excited about, you know, hey, could you come in? I just want to tell you something. I came in and we walked into my brother's office and There my brother was standing behind his desk and he had a smile on his face. Now that was in stark contrast to Miss Laura, who was standing there crying. I was asked to come into this situation. I come in and hears Dave with a smile and Laura crying and Gus looking Like a calf at a new gate. I I mean he just not not sure, you know, and and I'm wondering what am I doing here? W wh why am I here? And Miss Laura looks over me with tears in her eyes and she says it was on a Sunday. Jesus lifted me. That night she looked at me and it was tears of joy that she had in her heart because Jesus Christ had forgiven all the weight of sin that she had been carrying for so long Finally, she laid it on the cross of Jesus Christ, and her sins were forgiven her. And we could walk around the room this morning and talk about each testimony that she You have of the day when you laid your sins at the feet of Jesus Christ and because of his sacrifice on the cross, he forgave you of your sins. I don't know exactly all of your stories. I don't know exactly where your testimonies are or where you were at or in church or at home or on the job or driving down the road or what it was, but I know what happened Is somehow in your life you realize you had a debt of sin. And you had come to the knowledge that Jesus Christ gave Himself a sacrifice to forgive you of your sin. You realize that truth And you said, in your heart and mind, maybe you prayed aloud, maybe you prayed in your heart, and I don't know exactly what you prayed, but it was something like, Dear Jesus, I realize you gave yourself for my sin. And I ask you today to forgive me of my sin and to take me to heaven with when I die. I believe that you died for me, and I believe that Jesus, that God the Father, raised you from the dead for my sin. And I'm putting my faith and trust in you today. Oh, I don't know the exact words that you say but said, but I can tell you this that at that moment He forgave you. At that very moment, your sins were forgiven. He forgave you. Boy. What a privilege. There's never has been a person Nor yet will there ever be one that when they bowed their head and said, God, will you forgive me? That God looked over the portals of heaven and said, Your sin is too bad. I can't Forgive you. This never happened. And it never will. For the blood of Christ is sufficient to cover all sin. Samuel Colgate, the founder of Colgate, the company He was a devout Christian and a member of a small church. He was at an evangelistic crusade that the church was having, and they, in preparation for this This crusade had spent a great amount of time praying that God would bring lost people through the doors of their church. They prayed that God would draw the lost into community to their congregation during that week and that the messages would be filled with the power of the Holy Spirit. The word of God would pierce to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and they prayed earnestly that souls would be saved. The very first night of the meeting, the pews were full, and the singing was vibrant, and the message was hot. And at the close of the message, the very first person down the aisle was a well-known lady in the community. She was known very well because she was a prostitute. She came down to the altar and she began to weep, and the church looked on piously and thought, boy, if anybody ever needed a savior, it was her. She confessed her sin and asked Jesus to forgive her and to save her soul. And at the close of the invitation, the pastor walked down to her and she stood and He asked of her, what did you come for? And she says, I can I have repented of my sin and put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I'm excited to know him as my Savior and to be forgiven of my sin tonight. And there was hearty amens all around. And then she went on and she said, and today I would love to follow the Lord in baptism and become a member of this church. And it got quiet. Just like that. It got so quiet you could hear a pin drop. Until Samuel Colgate stood from the back of the auditorium and he said, fellow believers We have made a terrible blunder. Apparently, as we prayed earnestly for God to save souls, we forgot to tell him what kind of souls we wanted him to save. We forgot to ask him and put guidelines or stipulations in what type of sinner we wanted to come and be with us. Boy, we should confess our failure this morning and maybe pray again. Of course, recognizing the error of their way. Quickly, somebody made a motion that she be baptized and added to the membership of the church, and the church unanimously voted to bring her into the membership that day. Beloved, God forgives all sin. Have you been forgiven? I think that in heaven, as one Stands or kneels or bows to confess their sin and ask Jesus Christ to save them of their sin. I think that heaven stands in anticipation. That all the courts of heaven are called to attention and The choir is made ready to sing, and the book of life is open, just waiting to have the name recorded, and just waiting for God the Father to call through all the throne room of heaven that one word, forgiven. There is one more that's been forgiven. Record his name, put it in the Lamb's Book of Life, and the choir begins to sing and rejoice because of another one that's been forgiven. Have you been forgiven today? In the book 'tis written, save by grace, oh the joy that came to my soul. Now I am forgiven, and I know by the blood I am made whole. Boy, if you've been forgiven, you ought to be able to say with a hearty amen. Praise God. Beloved, if you haven't been forgiven in just a few minutes We're going to give you the opportunity. Maybe you're not exactly sure how to do it and talked about praying. You say, I don't I'm not sure or what to pray, or I don't know, but we would love to take a Bible and show you in the Word of God the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ and what He did for you to forgive you of your sins. You can know the joy of being forgiven today. What a privilege. I hope you would at least give us the chance to help You to make a decision to be forgiven. If you have been forgiven, can I remind you today that not only have your sins been forgiven by the King, but They've been forgotten by the King. They've been forgotten by the King. In Hebrews 10, 17, he says, And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more. Listen, friend, God the Father has chosen to forget your sin. Why are you holding on to it? Why are you allowing Satan to bring that up in your heart and mind? Don't let the devil bring that sin back. Don't let the devil bring back what should be under the blood. Don't you think God is powerful enough to forgive you of your sin? The Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 9 through 11, he says, now, he says, Know ye that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor adulterers, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor rivalers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you. But you have been washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus You were that. Maybe you did some sin. Maybe there is something in your heart and mind, and I don't know who it is this morning, but you're holding on. to something that happened many years ago, that that burden and weight of sin that's already under the blood that's been confessed and the king has chosen to forget it, but you're allowing Satan to bring it back up into your life and hinder you from having the joy of the Lord and victory in your Christian life and being all that God wants you to be. Be rejoiced today that the king has forgotten it. The Bible says that God takes our sin and he casts it as far as the east is from the west, that he cast it down into the deepest parts of the sea that he chooses to cast that sin behind his back to remember it no more. That's what he does with our sin. And boy, we're living a defeated life when we allow Satan to bring that back up. Carrying around guilt that should be gone will destroy you as a Christian. One young man in the performance of a prank on one of his good friends accidentally killed him. All for a prank. He killed a friend. Of course, he was so distraught The family realizing as terrible as this is and as heartbreaking as it is and as horrific of an accident that it was. Realizing still that it was not anything done out of malice or hatred, that it was foolishness, the family graciously forgave the boy. For his foolishness that cost them their son's life. With no charges being pressed, the courts Pronounced him not guilty of having done anything wrong, and he was forgiven in the courts. This boy carrying the weight of sin there, that weight on his heart of what he had done. He went to the Lord and asked the Lord for forgiveness, and you know that God forgave him. But he couldn't let go of that He couldn't let go of it, and he was tormented by what he had done every day. Every day he thought about it, and as he would go and do anything fun, he would think of his friend. How his friend wasn't there and he was there and it's his fault that his friend wasn't there. And he just continually uh carried this torment in his soul. For years he carried this to the point where he found it hard to even maintain a job. He couldn't hold down a job because this torment was in his heart. He couldn't hold down a good relationship. He lost his wife because of this torment. One day, living all alone and being tormented, the mother of the boy who died was in the area and she happened to stop by and just check on him She was shocked to hear that he had been carrying this guilt for all these years. She looked with grace at him and said, You know, myself and all of our family have forgiven you years. Years and years ago. There is no reason for you to carry this guilt. More importantly than we having forgiven you is that God the Father forgave you. And God the Father has forgotten it. You should not be carrying this guilt for something that was an accident that happened so many years ago. And it wasn't until that day. That he actually accepted the pardon that had been extended him many, many years before It wasn't until that day that he finally accepted the forgiveness that had been extended And almost immediately his life changed. Very soon after he got and held a good job. It was some time later, but he won the heart of his wife back. And they were restored. You see, holding on to that guilt that should be gone, the devil's using it to hurt you If it's under the blood, it's forgiven and it's forgotten. Praise God for his forgiveness. Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Not far from New York, in a cemetery lone, close guarding its grave, stands a simple headstone All the inscription is one word alone, forgiven. No sculpture's fine art hath embellished its form, but consistently there through the calm and the storm It bears this word from a poor fallen worm, forgiven. It shows not the date of the silent one's birth, reveals not his frailties, nor his lies of his worth. But speaks of the tale from his short time on earth forgiven. The death is unmentioned, the name is untold, beneath Lies a body corrupted and cold, Above rests the soul, at home in the fold, forgiven And when from the heavens the Lord shall descend This stranger shall rise and glory ascend. We know and will be friend to sing without end. Forgiven. Have you been forgiven? If not, God wants to forgive you today. Those of us that have experience of saving. Grace of Jesus Christ in our life and have been forgiven. We look back at that day as the greatest day of our life. We also know that there's been many times since then where we've fallen short. And it doesn't matter how many times, we can come to him. And he falls Forgiveness. Not seven times. But seven times seventy. Which of course the truth there is that There is no end. Who's counting? You say, boy, he's done this six times to me, but who's counting? We're not supposed to to be counting. Beloved, could I take just a minute as we close here and just remind you of the truth that with all that God has forgiven us, how can we withhold from Him? You know, oftentimes unforgiveness is is part of the most important relationships we have. Do you know why? Because it is in those relationships where the greatest hurt takes place. If there was somebody on the street corner and they cut you off, I mean, you might not like it, but you're never going to see them again. It really doesn't matter, right? But those we really care about. You see, the deeper the love, the deeper the hurt. And so sometimes in our most important relationships Unforgiveness exists. The relationships that we value most and we are unwilling to forgive. How can we do that when all that God has done to forgive us? We're not going to take time to read it, but maybe you will on your own. I stopped reading in verse number 27, but if you read verse 27 through 34, the story, the parable goes on where another another servant comes and he owes this little measly little bit. And that servant who had just been forgiven of ten thousand talents refuses to forgive him. That's us, friend, when we refuse to forgive. to extend forgiveness to those we love and care about. Their offense to us is so minute and so small in comparison to our offense to God. And yet we're holding that against them. We're going to put them in prison for that little bitty offense when God forgave us all of our debt. I'm speaking to husbands this morning who are living in pain because they know that they haven't been Forgiven I'm speaking to wives who are living in pain because they know they haven't been forgiven. Children and parents whose relationship is in torment. Because unforgiveness exists there. And dearly beloved, as much as we rejoice in the forgiveness of God for us, it behooves us to forgive those we love. I heard tell of a dear lady in a good church. She had a good family Things were okay. However, early in their marriage, her husband was selfish. Actually, truth be told, he was very selfish. He neglected her and neglected the children and was living for himself. Although as time went on, he realized the error of his ways, and he strove to do better. He wanted to be the right kind of husband. He wanted to be the right kind of father for his kids. However, she would not forgive him. For the years that he failed. She held that over him continually all the time, going back to that time when he was selfish And it seemed no matter what he did or how hard he labored or how fervently he tried to meet her needs and be the father he should be, nothing was good enough. And in that situation, he was driven to drink. He was driven to drink, and ultimately he was institutionalized as a drunk. A divorce ensued The family today lives separated, lonely lives. And she looks back and by her own testimony says. It was not my husband's failure to give me the attention I needed early in our marriage that destroyed us. It was my failure to forgive that destroyed us. But now it's too late. Don't let it get to the point where it's too late. Knowing and experiencing forgiveness is one of the greatest things of freedom you can ever have. To just let that go. And if you're here today and you don't you you have unforgiveness in your heart against a brother or sister in Christ, a family member, a mom, a dad, a husband, wife, your pastor. Could I implore you to get it right? To get it forgiven. Look at all He's forgiven us of. We rejoice today in that one word. Forgiven.