It's been a blessing already. Would you mind if we take just a minute and turn our hearts heavenward and pray one more time before we get into the message? Lord, we come to you right now and we ask of you that you would speak to our hearts this hour, that you would put out of our minds the stress and the turmoil of life and bring us into this presence. Bring us into this place. Speak to our hearts. Lord, there's so much going on in the world that draws our attention. Lord, even thinking this morning of Madagascar and the struggles and the trials there and Pray you view his brother Brown as he is stries to minister there and Lord people have needs that are great Think of those in the Ukraine who are continually suffering and under attack, and we pray God you'd protect them. Well, we just ask you to Bring your mighty hand in in this situation. Lord, for a few minutes this morning, there's nothing we can do about what's outside this room. But you've gathered us together, this group of people, for this hour, that our hearts might be stirred in your presence. And we pray, God, you would allow us to focus on your word. To make our hearts tender and our mind give us ears to hear as we look in your word this morning and speak to our hearts. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. If you have your Bibles this morning, would you turn to Acts chapter number 26? That's where we will be for the beginning portion of this message. We'll be going on to Judges. But could I ask you, have you ever missed a great deal? Have you ever found out a day late, you know, uh one of your friends you're at their house and they're telling you, yeah, you You should have gone, man. I was at the store and and everything was 90% off. And they're showing you all this stuff that you got and you're like, why didn't you call me You could have told me that it I mean come on. You you felt like man I I missed that opportunity. Certainly we have all been in that almost situation before. According to Webster, almost means very nearly. You know, we almost got that good deal. We almost, you know, took advantage of that. You know, sometimes it could be something that uh is good. You know, you uh I recall one time as a teenager that I almost stepped on a rattlesnake. And I'm glad I didn't. Uh praise the Lord. You know, we look at situations like that, I think probably all of us have been there before where we we're we're sitting there and and we we Oh, I almost pulled out in front of that car. It's a car you didn't see till it was you just right, oh, thank you Lord. I almost got creamed, right? Those types of things where you you you miss those and you're glad you missed them But for the sake of the message this morning, I would like to talk about this idea of almost from the standpoint of missed opportunity. Missed opportunity. How many of you hunters have a story about the one you almost got? That one you missed, the big one that you've been watching and been hunting them for years, and you almost got them. You know, it's that it's that one that that almost maybe the fish fish you almost caught. Maybe some of you that uh are investors, you you look With hindsight back, and you say, Oh, I almost invested in that, and it's too late. I could have been a millionaire. Uh, but I didn't. So you're not And I'm disappointed as well. You almost got it, right? The missed opportunities that have been out there that all of us have at different times felt that, oh, I missed it. Although there's not a lot of difference between the stating of the fact, there certainly is a world of difference between almost and did. This morning I desire to draw your attention to that word almost. From the beginning of time there has been people that have dwelt In the realm of almost. You know, that word itself leaves you empty And wanton. You know, I'm almost full. Not quite Good piece of dessert would finish it off well, you know. I'm almost there. It's as though, you know, I almost passed that test I almost got that job. You know, it's just there's something about that that's just like leaves you hanging. I almost It's as though almost leaves us with just a pale shadow of what could have been. What could have been This morning, could we investigate the scriptures and learn from some men that found themselves in the realm of almost? Could we learn from them so we might avoid that feeling, that missed opportunity? First of all, this morning we come across a man who almost became a Christian. He almost believed in Christ Look in chapter Acts, the book of Acts, chapter number 26 this morning, down in verse number 24. We'll read through verse number 28. And as he thus spake for himself, Paul talking here, he's speaking for he's defending himself. Jesus, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul. Thou art beside thyself. Much learning doth make thee mad. But he said, I am not mad, most notable festival. But speak forth the words of truth and soberness. For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him. For this thing was not done in a corner. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. Then Agrippa said unto Paul, almost Thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Almost, Paul You almost persuaded me to be a Christian. We see here in this verse a man who was close to trusting Christ. Yet he didn't. He was close to putting his faith and belief in the Lord and Savior who could forgive him of all of his sins and take him to heaven. But he didn't. And so he stood there before Paul, almost a Christian, but still on his way to hell. He was almost persuaded, but he was lost. What almost persuaded him? We see in this text several things that Were used by God to speak to the heart of King Agrippa. That might draw him and pull him into making a decision for Christ. First of all, we see that he had the testimony of the scriptures. It was very clear Paul was preaching unto him the scriptures. He says, Believest thou the prophets. He is talking about the Old Testament scriptures. Look back, if you would, at verse number 22. Back at verse number twenty-two he says, Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day witnessing both to small and great, saying none other than the things, than those which the prophets And Moses did say should come. He says, I have been preaching unto you those things which the prophets and Moses, which you know Moses is the writer of the law. He says, We've preached you the law and the prophets. Don't you believe the word of the Scripture? God's Word? I'm preaching to you this morning the powerful and precious Word of God. There is power in the Word, friend. The law and the prophets. These were written for our admonition These were written that we might believe on Jesus Christ. In John chapter 20, verse 31, he says, but these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ. It's written so that this would convince men that they need a Savior and that Jesus Christ was the one who came and gave his life to be a savior for you. This is what these pages were written for. He had the testimony. Paul was saying, Don't you believe though? Listen, this word of God is powerful. This is the only living book in the entire world. The precious word of God, it's powerful. We know that the Bible tells us that it's a sword. We know that it's sharper than any two-edged sword, that it's piercing the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. The Word of God has the power to reach down into the heart of any man and touch him right where it counts. That word of God, the Bible tells us, is a mirror that it reflects, it reveals, it shows us exactly who we are. Sometimes that's why we don't like to look into the mirror. This word has power to show us who we are. The word of God, the Bible says, is a hammer that can that can smash, that can crack the hardest of hearts. The Word of God describes itself as a fire, a fire that burns, and it burns, and it would melt the coldest of souls. The Word of God, beloved, is a light, a light that shines into the darkest parts of our life. And reveals to us exactly what is there. The Word of God, beloved, is the very source of our faith. For faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. This is a powerful book. Can I tell you this morning that every presentation, every declaration of the gospel of Jesus Christ that contains the Word of God is a powerful declaration? No matter how small or minute it may be, every opportunity that you have to give out a gospel track, every opportunity that you have to be a witness, to preach, or to teach, or to share the Word of God, it is a powerful opportunity. C. H. Spurgeon, when the Metropolitan Tabernacle was under construction, he went into the building just to see the work that was being done, and he wanted to test out the acoustics. So he walked down front and he stood where the where he would one day stand and preach and he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. That's all that he said. And he thought, man, this sounds pretty good. And he turned and walked out. And there was one worker in the building. And that worker heard that powerful word of God. And it reached down into his heart, and he said, There's somebody that can take away my sin? There's the Lamb of God can wash away my sin, and he felt the weight and the burden of his sin, and later that day he confessed Jesus Christ and trusted him because of the testimony of the scriptures. King Agrippa had the testimony of the scriptures. Not only that, he had the testimony of the saints. We're not going to take time to read it, but this entire chapter here Is Paul giving his own testimony? Paul is declaring to them what God had done in his heart. He begins in verse number five and tells them that he was a Pharisee. You know, a Pharisee a Pharisee. He says, I I was a Pharisee. Listen, I persecuted, even put to death these Christians. That's what I was doing In pursuit of what I thought was right. And then he says, How can you charge me for believing the hope that the law and the prophets told us was coming? He said, How can you charge me for believing in what the law and the prophets, all of the Old Testament prophets told us Jesus was coming, he's here, I believe in him. How can you charge me for that? And then that most glorious testimony that we've referenced and looked at many, many times, but Paul on the road to Damascus. He tells him, he says, This is what happened to me. I was on the road to Damascus, and there a light shone from heaven, and he declares unto him what God did in his heart. You know that your testimony can be a powerful witness. Just sharing what God did for you Has God done something for you this morning? Has He changed your life, given you hope where you had no hope, encouraged and strengthened you? Then you can share your testimony with the lost world, and it in itself is a powerful testimony. That God can use to draw men to Himself, to convince them that they need to make a decision. Agrippa saw this and he realized what Christ had done for Paul is something that could be done for him. But he wasn't quite ready. You might be here today and maybe you've been involved in religion for a long time. You see, Paul was a Pharisee. He had lots of religion. He was very zealous as a as a as a Pharisee, as as a religious person. You know, he he really uh was all about the religion. But he realized he didn't have Christ. And he needed to make a decision to accept Jesus Christ. You know there's a world of difference between believing in and believing on. You say, well I believe in God. Yeah, Satan does too. Satan believes in God, believes there is a God, believes God's God is there, and And yes, you know, we celebrate his resurrection. You may believe that these things happened. But has there been a day or an hour when you put your faith and trust on God? The Bible says that Satan himself believes in God. But he says, believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. We say, well, I believe this chair will hold me. I believe it, I can declare it to you, but I haven't put any faith and trust in it until I sit down. And there's a lot of people that have a lot of religion. They believe in God. And they're exercising their religion and they're showing a measure of their faith, but there's never been a day or hour where they put their faith and trust on Jesus Christ. Not just belief in his existence, but believing on his name. Believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Putting your faith and trust on him. That is saying, I believe he came, he died, he was buried, and he rose again, and that his shed blood is a complete and total payment for my sin. And I'm trusting on him. And him alone for my salvation. Not just an understanding up here that you know he did it, but a belief in your heart and putting your faith and trust on him for it. You see, that's what Paul did. And that's what Paul tried to convince Agrippa of. Not only did he have the testimony of the saints and the testimony of the scriptures, but he had the testimony of the Savior Himself. Verse number 23 he says that Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should raise from the dead and should show light unto the people and unto the Gentiles. He said, Agrippa, you've watched all these things take place. He said, This didn't happen in some corner of the world where you didn't have any observance of it. This didn't happen in a place where you could not have seen or known anything about it. You've seen this. You know what happened. Do you believe he did this for you? You know he was crucified. You know he rose again. All this was done. But Agrippa said, Almost thou persuadest me. And I wonder how many times on a Sunday service here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we've preached the glorious message of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the death, burial, and resurrection of our Lord and Savior. who gave himself for you, and we've extended the invitation to trust him. And how many have sat in their pews and they may believe about these things. But they walk out almost persuaded to make a decision. Almost thou persuadest me. To be a Christian. I stand down front at invitation time and say, Would you come? Would you come and let us take a Bible and show you how you can go for sure? You're on your way to heaven? Woo! And you walk out and say, Almost you persuaded me. You were so close, yet not quite there. There's a big difference, beloved, between almost and I did. One day we're going to stand before a heavenly father, and he's going to look at you, and you're going to say, I almost believed on you. I almost did. That one Sunday. I was right there. I was so close. to going down and and and taking a minute and putting my faith and trust in you. Doesn't that count? And Jesus is going to look at you and He's going to say, Depart from me, for I never knew you Almost is not dead. A few minutes and we have an invitation. If you're here this morning and you've never put your faith and trust in Christ, don't walk out of here almost persuaded. Do it today. Do it before it's too late. Just one word. Almost. It's so close, yet not there. Almost, we see, secondly, we find a man that almost fulfilled his call. Turn your Bibles if you would to the book of Judges. Just moving into the Old Testament a little ways. The book of Judges, chapter number 13. We see here a man that was called of God to do a particular task. God had given him a job to do, told him what it was. And yet he didn't fulfill his call. He almost did. The Bible says in Judges chapter 13 and verse number five, he says, For lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head. For the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. It was God's plan, if you know the story of the book of Judges, and I'm not going to take time to teach that this morning, but you know there was a cycle of events. God's people would get backslidden and get away from God and they would go into judgment and be under bondage and God would raise up a judge that would free his people from the bondage and bring them back to him. And God raised up this man and in endued him with special power to do his work. And he almost did it. But he didn't quite do what God wanted him to do. From birth, beloved, I want you to see that Samson had a planned start. From the beginning of his life, God had a plan for Samson of what he was supposed to do. Manoah's wife was barren, but God. She couldn't have any kids, but God said, okay, it's time for you to have a child. Aren't you glad this morning for but God? Things that look impossible in this world are not impossible with God. They couldn't have children, but God came and said it's time for you to have a child. The Bible says that the angel of the Lord came and Spoke to them. You know that angel is not just a angel. It's not just a angel It's the angel of the Lord. It literally means the angel Jehovah. God, shown his glorious presence And told them they were going to have a son, and his son, their son, was going to deliver the people. Although in his foreknowledge he knew That Samson was just going to begin to do the job. God created him from his mother's womb to be a deliverer of his people. He was to be separated, set apart as a Nazirite, a person who took a vow of consecration. Unto God and God alone. And God called him to do this, and then God gave him not just a planned start, but he gave him powerful strength. God gave him the strength that he was going to need to do this amazing task. Reading the biblical account of the life of Samson is like reading a superho superhero comic book. I mean it's it it but it's not fictional, it's actually what took place. This man, God gave him a strength that that is supernatural, it's it's almost indefinable Samson killed a lion with his bare hands. Slaughtered 30 Philistines because they played a trick on him. Tells us that he killed a thousand of his enemy with the jawbone of a donkey. They came at him with arrows and and spears and and swords. He's like, Well, I don't have anything else. Here's a here's the jawbone of a donkey. I'll use this. And he slayed a thousand of them. God gave him supernatural power to do the task he was supposed to do one day because he felt like it. He grabbed the gates of the city, ripped them off their hinges, and carried them to the top of the next mountain Set 'em up there. There you go. Just because. Supernatural power. I want you to understand that this great strength given to him by God was not given to him for his personal profit. Was not given to him for his personal gain. Or his personal amusement. But it was given to him to accomplish God's plan. Now let me draw that back to you and I. I want you to understand, beloved, from the moment of your conception, God had a plan for you. God has something that He wants you to accomplish, something that you're supposed to do for His honor and glory. Not only does He have a plan for you, but God has enabled you, He's given you the power to do what that plan is. Anything that God asks of you, He will enable you to do. God gave Samson this supernatural strength, and God has blessed you or given you whatever it is you need to accomplish God's plan for your life. God hasn't given you that for personal profit. He hasn't given you that for personal gain or personal amusement. But see, Samson, not only did he have a planned start, not only did he have powerful strength, but Samson had a problem with self. You read the story of Samson. Samson's story is all about me. It's all personal. He says, get her for me because she pleaseth me well. He wanted what he wanted because he wanted it. He had a problem with self, and I know Samson is not alone in that this morning. Self takes over, and self looks for glorification, and self looks for satisfaction. instead of fulfilling God's plan, he almost did what God wanted him to do. But self got in the way. I don't know about you, but I don't want to live in the realm of almost. I think about the heartbreak of those who have talked to me later in life And they said, I almost did what God wanted. I almost went to the mission field. I almost surrendered. I almost was a witness. I almost gave that to God. I almost surrendered this. But almost is not dead. And now, later in life, they weep tears of sorrow. I will never forget it, an 83-year-old man, as I was driving out of the parking lot of a campground that God gave us in Lawrence, Kansas, twenty-six acres of land with buildings on it and and cabins and all of this God gave to the church to use Use as a camp. I was driving out of the campground one day and there's an older man there. I stopped and went up to the window Began talking to him, and the story of his life started coming out, and he began to cry. And he said, fifty years ago God called me into the ministry. And I didn't go. He said, oh, if I could go back and do it over, if I could change it, if I could give God those years, but he can't. If you're here this morning, don't reach the end of your days and say I almost did what God wanted. God had a plan for Samson. He began, he began to deliver them, but he didn't finish the job. Lastly, this morning, I want you to see some, a group of people that almost followed God's commands. They almost followed God's commands. Don't turn in the book of Numbers, but turn back in Judges chapter number two. We'll be there in just a second. I'm going to read you. Some passage of Numbers, God told the children of Israel, he told Moses, he said, in Numbers chapter 33, he says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan, Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all the pictures, and destroy all the molten images, and quite pluck down all of their high places. And ye shall dispose the inhabitants of the land and dwell therein, for I have given you the land to possess it. You see, God told his people what they were supposed to do. He gave them very clear instructions. They're to go into the land. They're to possess it. They're to drive out all the inhabitants of the land. They weren't supposed to dwell there in unity with him. They weren't supposed to set up shop with them and and go ahead and let their temples continue to stand. They weren't supposed to intermarry with them. They weren't supposed to continue to make friends with them. But how many of you know that's what happened? They went into the land and God had given them a clear command of what they were supposed to do. God, beloved, had brought them out of bondage. He had set them free and given them a promised land. He said, When you go into the promised land, I know there's going to be problems if you don't drive out the inhabitants. So here's what you need to do in order to be a success in the promised land. You've got to drive out those inhabitants. And Christian, can I tell you this morning That God has saved your soul and He's forgiven you of your sin. He's set you free from the bondage of that. He's promised you an abundant life that you can live for honor, bring honor and glory to Him. And he said, in order for you to live an abundant life and be successful as a Christian, there's some things you've got to get out of your life. But too many of us are like the Israelites. We're saved, we've been set free, we're on our way into the promised land and looking forward to it. But we're dragging everything else with us. We're almost enjoying that abundant life Almost observing God's clear commands. Look in Judges chapter two. Verses one through five. The angel of the Lord came up to Gilgal To Bakam, and said, I made you to go up unto out of Egypt, and I have brought you out of the land which I swear unto your fathers. And I said, I will never break my covenant with you And ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land. Ye shall throw down their altars, but ye have not obeyed my voice Why have ye done this? Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you, but they shall be as thorns in your sides. And their God shall be a snare unto you. And it came to pass when the angel of the Lord spake these words unto the children of Israel that the people lifted up their voices and wept And they called the name of that place, Vakam, and they said, there, sacrifice there unto the Lord. That word Bakim is means a place of tears, a place of weeping, because of the sorrow that they felt for not getting rid of it Not doing what God said to do, they almost obeyed God's command. I suppose the children of Israel are like a lot of kids. You see, they had selective hearing. You tell the kids, hey, there's ice cream in the kitchen. Bam, they're there. I mean, oh, ice cream, they're on it. Yeah, we're here. Uh I mean you don't even have to announce it. You don't even have to you just start opening the containers and they show up, right? Ice cream? But when you say, hey, it's time to stop playing the game, clean the kitchen, somehow they did not even they I didn't hear you. I didn't I didn't hear you You see, God had given us a promised land and boy they love that. Yeah, amen. But drive out the inhabitants? Oh God, no, we didn't hear that Beloved, I'm afraid so many Christians come into church and man, they love, they love the preaching on the love of God. Oh, they love to hear messages on the grace of God. And oh, preach and preacher, the grace of God, and how He'll never leave us and never forsake us, how He is my strength. when I am weak, how he is ever-present help in my time of need. Lift it up, preacher. Let us have it. Tell us about how glorious our Savior is. Amen But when the preacher gets up and he says, Thus saith the Lord, there is some sin in your life that God wants you to get out. Oh wait, I'm not sure I heard that. Uh I didn't no, that's not I think that must be how you're looking at it, preacher, not how I see it You know, uh we we want to take the preaching like that and say, Oh, I didn't hear it. But God's given us some clear commands. And to be successful in this promised land, there's some things we got to get out. We got to get rid of. He's delivered us, beloved, from a life of sin, and he wants us to drive out of our life every single sin, every rebellious act. Push it out. Don't let it remain as part of your heart You've started on your journey. You've almost followed God. Is there something holding you back today? Is there something keeping you from being Sold out for God. Oh, brother. Lord Jesus, I long to be perfectly whole Break down every idol, and cast out every foe. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow We sing the song, but do we mean it? Lord, break down every idol. Break down every idol. Cast out every foe. Wash me, Lord. I want to be as white as snow. Too many Christians they try and take a step towards God, and every time they do, those old habits they're still hanging on to. Those old friends they're still hanging on to. Those old idols are still part of their life, and they're wondering why they can't be successful in the promised land, is because they've almost obeyed God. They almost did what God wanted. And one day we're going to stand before the Heavenly Father and we're going to have to look into His eyes and say, I almost was faithful, Lord. I almost did what you wanted me to do. I almost was a sincere Christian. I almost had the faith you wanted me to have. I almost did it. And we will reap tears of sorrow because we've had to be honest with God and say we almost did what he wanted And the sad thing is, beloved, there'll be some, as I stated already, who will have to say I almost believed on you. But almost is not did. I ask you this morning Would you come to him before it's too late? Would you yield to him while you still have time? You see, Christian, we're supposed to almost fail. We're supposed to almost fall. We're supposed to almost quit. We're supposed to almost throw in the towel and give up on God. But we're not supposed to almost start. The psalmist says, but as for me, my feet were almost gone. They were almost gone. There's times in this Christian life in the struggle and the toil of it you might almost give up. You might almost stop You might almost not be able to keep going, but praise God, with his strength we keep going. But I hope today we're not a people that will have to stand before God and say, I almost started. I almost committed. I almost decided to surrender. Almost decided to submit to you and obey your commands. I almost decided to believe on Jesus Christ.