Amen. It's good to be with you tonight. Can everybody hear me? All right, good. Acts chapter 12 is where we'll start. We'll look at four different passages. In two thousand and three we got a burden to start a church in Hump Valley and we worked on it and worked on it and then then uh in December I was we had a storm, ice storm, and it filled all my eavesdrops. Well, um another storm was coming in two or three days. And I my eavesprops were all ice. And so I went out there on a ladder and a a blow dryer. and was blow drying those eavesdrops and it started to rain. But I had to get that done. I covered my head, I kept going And I ended up I got 'em all cleared out, but I got double pneumonia. And uh this is in December before the churches planted in April and I was a f over forty days on antibiotics. And then uh I was free for about a week and I got a kidney stone. You know, uh when Zion prevails she shall bring forth And uh there was a lot of travail and then we came down and we had the week of meetings and did all the visitation. By that time I was better and I rejoiced that a church was planted down here and you folks are faithful on a Wednesday night on the first day of the year. God bless you. Thank you for coming. Um I thought you'd like that little background of of what happened there. We're in Acts chapter 12 and verse 25. Where it says, and Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had fulfilled their ministry and took with them John, whose surname was Mark. Now, they came back from a uh meeting in Jerusalem when they got back to Antioch. Then they started out on their first ever missionary journey, and they took John Mark with them. Look down in the next chapter, chapter 13 and verse 13. Now when Paul and his company loose from Paphos, they came to Perga and Pamphylia, and John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem So John, Mark, left them. They just got started on the trip, and he left them. In verse chapter 15 now, Acts 15, verse 37, and Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought it not good to take him with them who departed from them from Pamphylia and went not with them to the work. And the contention was so sharp between them, that's between Paul and Barnabas, that they departed asunder one from the other. So Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus. And Paul went with Silas, I believe it was. But now turn over in your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 4. 2 Timothy chapter 4. Now, Paul's toward the end of his life. He's writing the pastoral epistles to Timothy and Titus. And he says in 2 Timothy 4. 11, only Luke is with me, Luke's the physician, the doctor, take Mark. And bring him with thee, for he is profitable to thee for the ministry. Now When I first went to Brogue in 1990, uh there were two sisters from our area that visited the church with their families. And both of them came to the altar and both of them received Christ as Savior. That was exciting. They got hungry. And they wanted to know more about the Bible. So I went to their h their home, uh one of them uh their home in Red Lion and hell held Bible studies for weeks and weeks and weeks And uh then they stopped. They missed one service and then the next and eventually they visited once or twice more. But they never restarted. They never got going again. It was sad. It was like the tin man in the Wizard of Oz where he stopped. And he rusted in that position. Remember that? So you say, well that could never happen to me. Hmm Somewhere in Lancas County in Pennsylvania sits a man who today won't go to church and he won't take talk Bible to a a believer who comes by to try to encourage him or whatever. But it wasn't always that way. In fact, he was a missionary that our church supported sent sent out under B IMI. And he once preached the book every week as a missionary, and of course traveling to different churches. subsequently on the field and preaching there. He once studied. He once prayed. He once went soul winning This was a man who knew what the Bible said. He and his wife lived a separated life. And then they stopped. Many have tried to reach them and tried to knock on their door to help them, but they won't respond. And they never restarted. A good number of folks leave the church because they want their sin more than they want God's ways We know that to be true. Some don't want to separate from the world, so they leave. Some leave because they get bitter about something, or they get hurt, and then they leave And uh but some get in a spiritual rut and they just never get started again. All over Christianity and in every community there are Christians who have quit Whole churches are giving up biblical standards. Preachers across the country, as we travel, are throwing in the towel and quitting. The the potential in teenagers and post-high school uh young people in that age group is not realized if they quit. They miss what God had for them. I intercede specifically for young men and young ladies in our churches. I beg God not to let them become discouraged or disheartened. and quit. I see in them the hope to reach their community for Christ. Our young men on fire for God could make a big difference in our community if that would happen. God has a plan for your life. Let him stir your heart. Guys and gals, let him stir your heart. I know there's a lot of young people and for that matter adults. who just kind of sit there and almost dare you to move them. I dare you, God, to move me. That's not the right attitude. You're not going to find the will of God that way, and you're not going to have the blessing of the Lord on your life if you have that attitude. Let Him stir your heart to be used of Him again. We need an answer from God's word on this matter of keeping from getting into a rut that's going to stop us. And I think we have it tonight in the Scripture. It's called Keep Restarting. That's the title of the challenge tonight. The Devil Wants You and Me to Quit He wants to put an end to what God wants to do in our lives and through our lives Your flesh wants gratified and wants to override your spirit. That's the way it works. Your flesh wants satisfied right now. Well, how do you know that, preacher? I'm in the same flesh. I'm in the same battles you are. But the Holy Spirit says, wait, I have a much better way for you to go than to yield to the flesh. Brethren, can I remind you that we are in a holy war, every one of us? Doesn't matter how long you've been saved. That war just keeps going on and on till Jesus comes or we pass away. We must be willing to start again. And again. And again. And again. And keep restarting. Make up your mind that you will be a restarter. I'm going to drive that point home tonight. Before we're done, I think you'll see what I'm saying. I'm not sure I understand you, preacher. Okay, here it is. Don't quit that ministry that you have in the church. I don't know if you run a van or bus, you teach a Sunday school, you work in a nursing home, or in you're in the choir or orchestra if you have one, your nursery that you work in perhaps. Maybe you're the treasurer or the secretary. You work with youth, steward, deacon, usher, sound man, whatever it is. Restart your burden. If that burden's been ebbing, then restart that burden as we start a new year. Get a fresh vision for it tonight, whatever you're doing. I'd never make it in the ministry if I didn't repeat this over and over again in my own life. You know how many times I felt like quitting? I'm 74. I've got some years. And there have been many a time I felt like it. Don't quit that ministry. You'll be so glad if you'll endure and you'll keep restarting and letting God fire you up again for what you're doing for the Lord. Don't quit trying to reach the loss for Christ. You say, well, it's harder than it's ever been, I'll grant you that. But our assignment has not changed And so don't quit going out and visitation of soul winning. If you have quit, resolve to restart in 2026. Get a burden for the lost again. If you have never gone, resolve yourself to start the next time your church goes out. Tell the preacher that you'll go. Don't quit trying to overcome that habit. That's what we're talking about here. That bondage, maybe, in your life, that one area that you have reserved and that you keep having defeat. in that area of your life, whatever that is. If it's smoking or drinking or drugs or pornography or gaming or gambling, get a fresh backbone to beat it, be determined. I'm going to have victory over that. I'm going to God and God is going to help me and I'm going to see victory in that area in my life. If it's overeating or a tongue control problem or a thought control problem or eye control problem or some other problem. Resolve yourself afresh before God as we're starting a new year to overcome it. Restart a path to victory in your Christian walk. And thank God that he doesn't quit trying to help us. He keeps restarting and convicting us of things that we need to change in our life. Thank God he does For 2026. Every head of department needs fresh vision for their area Every person of how God can use you in the ministry in this church. Listen, your ministry is not an add-on to your life, it is your life. It is what God's purpose is for you on this earth. And so do everything you can, move things out of the way that you can give yourself more fully to that ministry this coming year. Every young man who has submitted to go into ministry needs to restart their vision as we start a new year. The devil wants to distract and discourage you. Don't let him do it. Determined to restart. Someone may say, Preacher, I give up ever tithing. I start and I stop. And I start And then I stop again and I disgust myself. I might as well quit trying. No, that's exactly what the devil wants you to think And you can put anything in there in the place of tithing. He just wants us to quit doing what we know to do from the Scripture. So now, the secret to the Christian life is to never end on a stop. You hear that? Don't ever end on a start, a stop. Start again. Keep restarting. Now that's the introduction. We're in trouble, I think, Brother Gus. Keep restarting. Say it with me. Keep restarting. You can do better. Keep restarting. One more time. Keep restarting. Alright. Now, uh, I want to pray, and then we're going to look at several characters. who propose a pattern for us of restarting. Let's begin with prayer. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, now we're excited to be together tonight to start this new year. And I pray in Jesus' name that the power of God will be here to speak to our hearts about this matter And as we approach the new year, help us, Lord, to see. We can't give in. We can't give ground to the devil. We can't quit. We have to restart And I pray, Lord, it'd be a great encouragement to the saints tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. The lives of a number of men illustrate this truth of restarting. And one man immediately comes to my mind, in 1831 he failed in business. But he restarted, and in 1832, the next year, he ran for state legislature. And he lost. He was defeated. But he restarted the next year. He uh tried another business adventure, and don't you know that failed. But the very next year he restarted and he was elected to the legislature. I think it was in Illinois. In 1838, he was defeated for the Speaker of the State House But he restarted and in 1840 he was defeated in a bid to be one of the electors. But he restarted again and in 1843 he ran for U. S. Congress And he was defeated. Unbelievable. But he restarted, and in 1846 he was elected to Congress. You know why? He kept restarting. In 1855 he was defeated in a bid to become senator. But he restarted the next year. He ran for vice president. But he lost. Again he restarted in eighteen fifty-eight. He ran for Senate again. He lost again. But he restarted. Probably people started calling him a loser for all the things that he didn't win But he persevered and he restarted and in eighteen sixty he ran for, was elected to the president, be a president of the United States, and his name was Abraham Lincoln, that's right. What was his secret? He kept restarting. He didn't let setbacks deter his vision. He didn't let it happen. By the way, his wife was his biggest cheerleader. She I looked it up and she campaigned for him. She encouraged him to keep Keep trying, uh uh honey. You can do it. Uh yeah, yeah, but I lost last month. Doesn't matter. You can do it. I believe in you. This'll work And she kept cheering him on. She believed in her husband and God's plan for his life, in spite of the failures along the way. What are you going to do? I mean, say it with me one more time. Keep restarting. That's right. We see the same tenacity in the life of Peter in the Bible. He started in Matthew chapter 10 when Christ sent him to preach. Then he stopped in Matthew chapter 16 and verse 22 when he rebuked Jesus. Can you imagine rebuking Jesus And in verse 23, the next verse, Jesus rebuked him and said, Get thee behind me, Satan. But Peter started again. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to get this thing right yet. Matthew chapter 17, as he was one of the three that was viewing the transfiguration. He was with Jesus in the mountain And then but then he stopped again in Matthew 26 when he gave up and swore and denied that he knew Christ. No, blanket me blank uh no I don't know him. And that was a failure. That was a denial. But thank God. In Acts chapter 2, he started again. And he preached. And 3,000 received Christ on the day on that day. I'm so glad that he kept restarting, aren't you? That was one of the greatest days in Christianity 3,000 received Christ because he restarted. Was Peter perfect? No, and none of us are. None of us are. We all have this flesh, and the flesh wars against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh, and these two are contrary one to another. And he had that battle going raging in him too, just like it is in you and me God used Peter because when he failed, he soon humbled himself and restarted Think of all those uh stories about Peter where all within a three-year period. He's up, he's down, he's up, he's down. That happens to you and me too. But God can uh help us to win that battle. and restart. I wonder how many would come to Christ if you would restart tonight? I wonder if you're just around the corner from the greatest blessing and ministry and fruitfulness in your life. Just restarting. And you be there. And that's what happened with Peter. Restart your commitment. Restart your church attendance. As we begin the new year, and we're at this is midweek service, so I'm preaching to the choir. You're here and praise God for it on a holiday. But restart your zeal for hearing preaching. Boy, I love preaching I mean, I want to hear preaching. Restart your zeal for that. Restart your daily devotions. Restart your witnessing. Your calling, the ministry that you have. Restart your vision for that. Restart your determination to beat that bondage in your life or whatever that is. Restart your family devotions. If you can say, well, I used to so and so forgot, then you need to restart and get back to what you were doing. Shift your spiritual life from park in the drive again tonight. I go like this. Most cars don't have shif gear shifts anymore. In Utah, Salt Lake City, we flew in there and rented a car and we got that car out. And I must have started it by accident the first time 'Cause it worked just fine. But we got to the restaurant, we ate, we came back out, and you know, it's push button And in order to start it you have to have your foot in the brake, but nobody told me that. And so I'm pushing the button, I'm pushing the button, I told Sherry I said, I think we got a dud I don't know what's going on here. She got the manual out, leave it to my m the woman to r read the manual, right? And We figured it out, and it ran just fine. Some marriages are in part, and they need to shift and drive again Rekindle your love for each other tonight. Restart the flame in your marriage in 2026. Some parents are in park in their child training. You're letting your children run the house again. You're giving in to their whining again. Restart your love and discipline training for your child. Some are just bitter. Things have happened in your life, you're bitter at brother or sister or family member or God. But They let it keep them from going forward. Get a fresh start tonight as we start a new year. Don't pay stay in that rut another day. Let this be the end of the current rut and restart tonight. It's so frustrating when a starter goes out on a car. Oh man, that's happened to me. I mean, there you are. You got a newer model car. It's beautiful. Looks nice. Good engine. Kick the tires, got new tires, good tread, all of that. Only one problem. You turn the key and it turns over, but it won't start Oh boy, I'm disappointed. The accelerator works, it'll rev up. The steering wheel works. New battery, the brakes work, but without a starter, you're not gonna go anywhere. The starter's gotta work. You need a starter in your spiritual life. You need to restart maybe tonight. In fact, I had a starter go out And when I kept trying to start it, you know what happened? Pretty soon I didn't have the battery strength. The power to my car started to decrease. If the starter won't work. This is a call to all Christians to fix your spiritual starter tonight. Restart. Go forward in 2026. Another character in the Bible is John Jonah. He was called to preach to Nineveh. Remember that? And he didn't want to go to Nineveh. He didn't want them to repent. They were wicked. They'd been bad. um to Israel and so he didn't want to go there. He quit and he ran the other way, boarded a ship and was running from God. And maybe somebody here to start the year. You've been running from God. God's got some plans for you. But you don't want to do what God wants you to do. Maybe someone here is running from the call of God on your life. Maybe you're running from the will of God. And you know that you are. Listen, nobody's ignorant if they're running from God. They know what God wants them to do. They just don't want to do it. Jonah was like that. He kept going down, and if you read the book of Jonah, in the first chapter you watch the word down. And he kept going down until he they threw him overboard and he reached his dead end in the fish's belly. New Testament Jesus called it a whale. And that's when he restarted in the fish's belly. But he could have restarted before that saved himself a lot of heartache and certainly saved the whale a lot of heartburn and we could do it too before we have to face God's chastening. We could restart. We could recognize that we need it, and we're challenged from the Word of God to do it, and by the examples in the Scripture. And we restart because we see God is speaking to us about doing it before we reach our dead end. Oh boy, that would be great. Jonah restarted and God used him in the great revival in Nineveh, where even the king got right with God and repented and sacked cloth and ashes. And bring that heathen city to God. Brethren, there's a lot at stake in you and me restarting. Expanded ministry, breakthrough, is on the other side of us deciding I will restart. I'm not going to say quit. I'm not going to say stop. I'm going to kick it in gear again. I'm surrendering to God again. Other lives are in the balance, not just yours. Don't miss the opportunity tonight to restart. We talked about Lincoln. He restarted over and over again. Peter? restarted. Jonah restarted. Another character who restarted was David. Turn to Psalm 51 in the Bible now. Psalm 51. David started by being faithful in tending sheep. And then he started by defeating Goliath, right? The giant from Philistine He was the chosen king, and but he was loyal to King Saul. I mean Saul chased him all over, but he wouldn't touch God's anointed. He was doing good. He was going forward. But then David stopped with Bathsheba. You remember that? And do you realize that this could have been the final chapter that we read about him? If he stays stayed in that state? But he didn't. David restarted. In Psalm 51, he repented and prayed. Look at this Psalm, unbelievable. Verse 2. Wash me thoroughly. from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. And I acknowledge my for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. That's how it is when you sin. I mean you feel that guilt, don't you? And I I've experienced that. And uh it's right there. Oh man I did that. Why did I do that? I shouldn't have done that, that kind of thinking And that's what he says. In verse nine now, Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquity mine iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach Transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. And there's the breakthrough. When does that come? Then. When? After he restarted. Then he'll be able to be effective to tell others. If you've fallen in sin, don't let it be the final chapter. In your life? Don't come back to Christ and restart. Let him write a new chapter in your life. Thank God that he's willing. Thank God that he forgives and restores. But David fell again after this. After going all through that. You'd think that he wouldn't do it, but here he does. He goes again. And uh he numbered Israel out of pride in his heart in 2 Samuel chapter 24. You know, pride is One of the big three. We have the the lust of the eyes, the lust of the the flesh, and the pride of life. And we don't hear much preaching on pride, but uh this was where he fell. However, when he faced God's chastening, he repented, humbled himself, and guess what? He restarted again. Amen. David was a restarter. That's one reason I believe that he's called the man after God's own heart. Because he would own up to what he did. Took him a while sometimes, but he would own up to it. And uh, brethren, our failures do not have to be final. No, no, no. God wants to use you again. If you have sinned, do what David did and turn to Christ in humility and repentance and let him Restore and renew you as God did David. And now we come to the end and back to our text and John Mark. We'll finish with him. Our first glimpse of him is in Acts chapter twelve that we read where he is uh we see him as a young man. That's chosen to go on the very first missionary trip with Paul and Barnabas, but it was a grueling trip. It was a tough trip. Weird things happening, good things happening, but also challenges. In the next chapter, chapter 13, they sent him home. because he had gotten homesick or bored or distracted or was too immature to do it. We don't know why. But he left and departed, the Bible says. Paul was really upset with him about this and didn't forget it. But that could have been the last chapter in Mark's life and mission. Ministry right there. You realize that? That could have been it. But Mark wouldn't quit. Mark bounced back. And I'm glad that he did. In chapter fifteen, Barnabas saw it, and he gives Mark a second chance, and Mark restarts. But Paul still doesn't trust him, and they go their separate ways. However, in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 11 that we read, Paul changes his mind. Years now have passed. And Mark has restarted and proven himself now. And Paul says, he's profitable to me. Bring him to me. He's profitable to me for the ministry. And we find that it was John Mark who subsequently wrote 16 chapters in the New Testament. Amen. I mean, he came back. He restarted. He could have just laid down and quit right there. And you could just lay down and quit where you are in your life. And the things that have been mounted upon you and things that have happened in your life, it's been a tough 2025 in many lives that we know. But John Mark didn't quit. Amen. And God used him. What was the turning point? It was when John Mark would not quit humbling himself and wouldn't quit coming back to God. He kept restarting. Say it with me one more time. Keep restarting, say it? Keep restarting. I challenge you tonight to give up that bondage And start again on the right path. Try to be consistent in that area of obedience again. Shove your spiritual life in drive and go forward tonight. We used to have a coal add-on to our furnace. So you could put coal in there or wood. And it would heat all through the ductwork in the the house. We had a big old house, thirteen rooms. And uh it was uh That house I ca I can't remember, but I think it's a hundred years old. Anyway, it had lots of leaks and we needed lots of heat. In the fall, the weather is chilly But it's not really too cold yet, so you're not sure whether to fire it up or not. And but and by the way, it's easier to keep a fire going than it is to start a new fire And so you ought to have seen Shirley and me as we're sitting there and we're freezing. It's I th we think we're freezing It's October, maybe late October, early November, and it's co cool. It's cold, but it's not cold, cold. And we're sitting there and we're shivering looking at each other and one of us says, Well, I started the last fire. The other one says, Well, I started two of them before that, so it's still your turn. Now later on, our son grew up and that solved the whole situation. I taught him how to stoke the fire. But uh why would you want to freeze when you can be warm again? Right? And why would you want to settle to for being lukewarm or even cold spiritually when you could be warm again? You could be on fire, hot for Christ. Is it possible that some have let the fire burn down in their lives? The urgency. Every one of us has experienced that sometime in our life, but you've got to keep restarting. Have you ever wondered if God would receive you again? Maybe this time you went too far? Maybe he wouldn't hear my prayer? I don't know. Have you ever wondered if God could use you again after this? I wonder, have you ever wondered if God would help you to overcome that area of bondage again? You prayed about it a number of times. You felt fallen to it a number of times. Would he really want to hear my prayer of repentance? He will. He does. And you can, if you will restart. Abraham Lincoln, he restarted. Peter, Jonah, David, Mark, John, Mark, they kept restarting. And now as we face a new year, it's your turn. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Maybe somebody feels afraid to try it again because of past failures. And yet you want to be a restarter. You'd be so happy if God had just received you again and get you going again. Maybe You haven't quit yet. Maybe you've been fatigued and discouraged and you've thought about it and you really need a fresh vision and you do need a jump start. Put it in drive tonight. and restart for 2026? Or maybe you've been afraid to thoroughly get right with God because and and thoroughly yield your life to God for fear that the Lord Might make you do something you don't want to do. Or for fear that you can't make it. When we restart, you know that God changes our wan? And what we want. The closer to God we become, the more we want what He wants. You know that God wants you to renew your vows to Him tonight. Could I encourage you to be at the altar tonight and let him restart you? If you've never trusted Christ as Savior and you're here tonight, so glad that you came. But he is calling on you to let him start you by saving your soul from the consequences of your sin. If that's you tonight, you can be saved tonight. No Christ. and be forgiven on your way to heaven. And I trust that you will. We're going to pray. The pianist will begin to play an invitation song. And the invitation is for you to come to this old-fashioned altar tonight and meet with God to start the new year and get restarted. Everyone standing to your feet, we're going to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name now, I thank you for the challenge from these men in the Bible. And Abraham Lincoln, that we can restart. And Lord, in spiritual terms We just need to come to you. And Lord, get a fresh vision, get a fresh start. And I pray that it will happen in someone's life tonight here. Oh Lord, strengthen someone not to quit. Lord, don't let stop be the last word, the last chapter. Help us to start again right now. In Jesus' name, your heads bowed nice close