Amen. They're passing out one sheet per couple because these are color sheets and I think they cost four cents apiece. So Uh anyways, we're uh we're we're budgeting our money and and what do you expect a financial guy to do? Uh so uh anyways, you say four cents. Yeah, when you do this th three thousand times it it adds up So this morning we want to look in our Bible to Luke chapter 12, and I'm going to look at verse 13 to 23. Here our Lord is speaking to uh these Pharisees in Luke 12. You'll sever several times he deals with the area of money in Luke, in the book of Luke, and uh in Luke 12 verse 13 to 23 All right, reading from Luke twelve, verse number thirteen And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my mother, my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me. And he said unto him, Man, who made you a judge and a divider over you? He said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentiful. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, this will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And then I will say, and I'll and I'll say to my soul, soul that was much goods, lay it for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee, then who shall those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. And he said unto his disciples, therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your light what you shall eat or what you shall drink, neither what you shall eat, neither for the body what you shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. And God has fleshness to the word, let's bow our heads and pray and ask God to give us that which we need. Lord Jesus, we come before thee this morning. We want to thank you for the truth of thy word. Thank you, Lord, for the practical part. And Lord, I pray that you would use this part in your word to speak to our hearts this morning that we might get wisdom and understanding. And Lord, that we might be doers of the word and not just hearers only. Thank you for this privilege of sharing the word. I pray, Lord, you would draw someone's heart closer to you today. Lord, some might may be going through some financial difficulties. Some are going through some sorrows. I pray, Lord, that this day would be a day of comfort and a renewed conviction to serve you. We ask your blessings in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Some years ago there was a survey taken. entitled The Day America Told the Truth. And it was some just questions they asked American people. And so they asked this question and just see how people would respond. And the question they ask If money were no object, what would you do for the rest of your time? And so when they ask that question The number one answer, anyone want to try to guess, the number one answer people came up with, if they had money, they were a gazillionaire, okay? We'll we'll make Donald Trump make him him a poor boy too. So if you got that kind of money, what would you do? Anyone want to try? Travel that was the number one answer. Ah, the family feud is on. Let's see on this side over here. The number two answer. What would you do if money were no object? Some people said I would buy a new house or build a new house. I watched that H H G G G whatever is that H G B T T V, whatever this thing is. You know what I'm saying I watched that thing and they had a thing on there one night of the most expensive houses in America for sale. And you know what there are something like twenty-six million dollars for a house, thirty million dollars for a house. And you think these people would be happy? As Tiger Woods, he had several of those houses and walked out on all of it. For an immoral favor. Money doesn't make you happy. Travel was the number one answer. I'm gonna tell you, I've been a pilot for a long time. I've flown a million miles this year. I've gone 12 time zones in the past for four weeks. I went to one of those timeshare places one time and and you know they had the real you know the pressure they put on you and they really make you feel like a heel if you just came for the prize, but that's all I came for. I came because my wife wanted to go for the prize. And so I went there and I listened to the sales pitch and they're really putting the pressure on. And I thought, you know the guy looked at me and he said, and someone told me, if you ever go to one of those time chairs, stare at the floor and grunt How's this? What do you think of that? You know, and stare at the floor. Never make eye contact and don't carry on the conversation So well the guy says, no, isn't there anything you like about this place here? I said, well sure, it's a beautiful place. He said, what would it take you to buy one of these? I said, I'm not interested. Then he said, Well how about and he pulled out his big four-inch thick catalog of all the other RCI resorts that you can go to. How many have ever been to one of those pitch sales? Boy, they really put the screws on you, don't they? I won't ask how many bought one But they really put the screws on you. And I looked at that and I'm thumbing through all this stuff and throwing it a pages. And then he says, Is there any place there you want to go? I said, no, I have none of them. Then he looked at me stunned, and my wife says to him, He's a pilot. After a million miles, if I could go anywhere, I wouldn't go home. And then number three answer. If money were no object, you would buy a new car. And number four, this was surprising when I read this one. Number four, people said if money were no object, they would just kick back and do nothing for a while. You know what this add one, two, three, four up, if you add them all up, it comes to meaninglessness. If money were no object, you would live for meaninglessness things in life. Then life is not even worth living if you're living for the meaninglessness. And that's the top four things which America wants. In this passage here, you see a man that he seems to be prosperous in this parable here, an earthly story with some heavenly meaning. And in this parable, you see this man who has an abundance. I mean, things are going great. Now you don't get there because you sat back and slept in past 5. 30 in the morning, especially as a farmer. Some of you remember the days I remember as a kid we go to grandma's house and stay on the farm and get up at four o'clock in the morning and then you're out there at 4 30 up in northern Vermont in the cold and go milk cows. Wow. So you didn't become a prosperous farmer because you did nothing. So he's a hard worker. And then God starts to prosperous things. And then Jesus tells this parable, and he says, this man had an abundance. And he spake a parable unto them, verse number 10, 60, I mean verse 16, unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentiful. And he thought within himself, saying, what shall I do? And that's where we all are this morning. What shall I do? Am I going to continue my lifestyle to get to the end of my life and I find out that I lived it for the meaninglessness? The emptiness of having abundance, having a seven-figure bank account. They tell me now that a millionaire is almost every 10 seconds in the United States today. It's because money has just inflated. It's just more paper. Just bigger numbers. Yeah. Some of us remember, some of us a senior citizen remember when you bought a house for $10,000 and it was a nice house Now that it won't even get you the room edition on. Yeah, it's just more numbers to get the same thing. My son asked me one time, he called me up and he said, Dad, I just got the job at the law firm. Oh great. He said, they're giving me uh a hundred percent match on whatever I put in my 41k plan up to six percent. Whoa, that's great, 100%. He said, how much do you think I need to save? I said, now son, you're 23 years old. You need 5 million to be poor. Let's face it, fast forward forty years from now, you're going to add another zero. Every 40 years in the United States, it has another zero on what you need right now. There'll come a day when some of us will and you you're I know some of the young people won't believe this, but some of us older folks we already seen it where we thought 5,000 in 1960 was a great paycheck. Now it's 50,000 and you're poor. And if you can invest a million bucks today and get two percent, you you have two percent on a million bucks, how long are you gonna live off that? And so if you're gonna have five million, I said to my son, if you get five million, you're gonna need at five I mean a two percent rate of return. That's a hundred thousand hundred thousand dollars a year that you're gonna have and how you're gonna live off that in forty years from now. It's just something to think about. As I see this the the series you're having debt on debt being debt-free. One sure thing, he makes you think And and he has an attitude that makes you feel like I'm not gonna be that dumb. But uh because that's what he does. He he in in he uses intimidation to get you to thinking, and then he wants you to say, Look, I'm going to do something about it. But in this passage here, Jesus is not using intimidation. He just asks a question. And so this man says, What shall I do? Boy, I have no room to bestow all my goods. God is evidently blessing this man, and God does not say that riches are wrong. It's not wrong to have a six or seven-figure bank account. It's wrong when your possessions start to possess you. And this man's attitude toward money was out of balance. What God gave him began to possess him. You ever had something like that? We got a little piece of rental property. I mean there was a while there when that little piece of rental property, it owned us. We didn't own it. And we said, just gotta get rid of it. Well, we hung on, we hung on, and hung on, and God bless it, it it's finally doing something. But uh our possessions will start to possess us. Giver just think if I could just have and what would you say? Finish the sentence. If I could just have and you think of something. I remember years ago I I played that little game and I thought if I could just you know when you live in Fort Lauderdale and not far from the beach, if I could just have a yacht. You know, we could do yacht visitation, right? We can do yacht visitation. That sounded really good spiritualized, anyways. And uh lo and behold, somebody in our church owned a yacht repair business. I mean they repaired the engines, went to those big, big giant houses down there in Fort Lauderdale and they did the repair. And so we got to use one of those yachts. This guy owned a big newspaper company in Chicago, and he would fly down to his big house down here in Florida every now and then, but he would let our church use it. Oh great, now we got a yacht. And uh my father-in-law had this great idea that he was going to be uh going to take the Bahamas for the Lord. And he got this fancy Pith helmet. You know who I'm talking about? MacArthur. I shall return. Well he got this attitude. I'm going to do the I shall return to the Bahamas, and we're going to win the Bahamas of the Lord with this yacht. And so we got 16 teenagers, took them out over there, and we're going to comb these islands, you know, three or four days, this one and next one. We're going to just get the gospel out. So they went over there and I didn't get on that one. I was the pilot and I was supposed to fly some young people over there. We're supposed to fly over there and just throw out the window all these sheets and leaflets about this Bible club at such and such a school on this island. This sounds like a great idea. We're gonna take the island for the Lord today. With MacArthur without his corncob pipe. And we're gonna go do this. Well they got out there in those seas and it got really rough. You ever been on a 30-foot yacht and it starts to get rough with nine teenage teenage girls and guys? Well, uh you let your imaginate the rest. But when they got there about twelve hours instead of five hours. They called me up and my father-in-law said, Bob, come get them all. Come get every one of them. I said, what's the matter? He said, they all have a bad attitude. They were sicker than a dog. Yeah. They weren't ready to do anything. And I went over and buried them back and forth, buried them back and forth. And then when it was all done, it was my turn to clean that boat. I don't ever want a yacht ever. Just be careful what you pray for, because God just might give you what you want. And then you're not going to want what you got. There's a whole lot of people like this man who pulled out his barns and built greater and expanded and expanded and now your business is growing and you have no time left. Wow. This man's possessions began to possess him. His goals became his God. And then his own desires began to destroy him. This man needs to be in balance, but he's out of balance. There's got to be a balance between rich and poor. And so the this man's life became enmeshed. With uh with the accumulation of money. The accumulation of money is not your goal in life. You've heard me say it, I probably said it from this church before. No one cares if you're the richest man in the cemetery. It doesn't bound to hill of beans. And this man gave his lifetime. Then the man not only did that, but he left God out of his plans. As if he was the master of his own future. This will I do. Wait a minute, where's God in this? I've had many of preacher, you've heard people say this, Pastor, I I'm moving to such and such a place. Oh, where are you going? I'm going to Texas. I went to Florida. I always ask, did you find a good church? Before you move from this church home, find a good church before you go to another place. Because you know you can make your plans and you find out down there, sure your salary doubled, you got more responsibilities, and you don't see your family. Always make sure that God is in control there. This man left God out of his plans and went about as if he was the master of his own future. Friends, do not let your flesh dictate what you want and make you uh go out there and do something that you're gonna lose. Your flesh can dictate you to a lot of things, and you can convince yourself it's going to be great. But you need to take a good look. Is it God is in control of it, or is your flesh in control? You take a look, and that's why I gave the paper because the chart was worth a whole lot here. Take a look at the chart. You get one side, the unbelief, or in the flesh. And if you're in the flesh and you're and God's not in charge of that and not God is not directing you, then what's going to happen? You have impure thoughts You have impure music, you watch the wrong kind of movies, TV shows, and so on. You know what's happening? Wrong friends, young people, wrong internet sites. What we did in our house, by the way, we put a filter on the internet, and then I also got whenever my kids got on the internet, it sent me an email so I knew where they were going. And they better not go to some place they shouldn't be. And then if they wrote a letter to their friend, I got a copy of it. You can put that in there. Everything that goes out of your children's email, you get a copy of it. And that's just young young people. Don't say anything, you don't want the whole world to read it, because someone else probably will read it. Start criticizing your parents and find out your parents are not as dumb as you might think they are after you become teen get teenagers of your own someday. But anyways, internet sites, social media, and so on. When you've got godly thoughts and godly desires, what happens? You have godly friends, pure thoughts, godly entertainment. uh accountability uh to God, uh godly speech, love, and so on. When Jesus rules, what do you want? I want to please God. When the flesh rules, I want to please myself. You start looking on the left and right over there, on I wanna on um ungodly thoughts or selfless desires, I want what I want because I want it. And I want to be satisfied. I want to feel good. I want a purpose in life. That's in the flesh, but when you're in the spirit, I want what God wants. I want to obey God and I want to glorify God. Can it get any better than that? That your goal is to glorify God, not die with the richest, biggest, meanest, baddest pickup truck in your parking driveway? No one will care. And here this man he became out of balance with his possessions. And because he cut out of balance, four sins developed in his life. You notice over here when we read this, what does he say? I will pull down my barns and I will build greater, and I will say to my soul, and you know, five times you're going to get the word I. Whenever you get out of balance with your desires with prosperity, you'll start to become real proud. Proud people, they're hard to get along with. In fact, nobody wants to be around proud people. And someone said to me, nobody's friendly to me. Well be humble and be friendly to them. Because humility is like a magnet that draws people to you. But pride pushes people away. Nobody wants to be around that. I I after thirty-three years I I figured out I got a great solution for a long marriage. Number one, a short memory. And my wife is always always right. Well that's good. I don't have to be the one that's always right. And who cares? Who cares? It doesn't mount the hell it bees anyways. Quit young people, young couples, quit trying to fix the blame and fix the problem. So pride comes in and pride will destroy a home, pride will destroy friendships, pride will destroy a business. And so this man has an overemphasis on pride. He becomes self-centered, and he has a covetous spirit. This will I do, I will pull down my barns and build greater, as if greater is going to solve the problem. I found the more things you have, the more those things start to have you. I love it. After 36 years of flying across the country, I love it. I take one suitcase, go where I go, and come back. I don't need five or six suitcases. I don't need a moving van or a motorhome. You know, but some people they've got all that stuff. And then they can't find what their stuff is, so they go to Walmart and buy some more stuff. You're laughing because it's so true. And what good is your stuff? It created a problem. Yeah. It didn't solve a problem. It created another problem. Yeah. And then you not only see this man, pride, the sinner pride comes into his life. But also his prosperity manifested itself in covetousness. His ego causes him to worry about protecting his material things. So he has to accumulate more things. More isn't always the answer. I was just a couple of weeks ago out in Ohio in an Amish village. I mean, there was a lot of Amish horse and buggies. I thought that's a simple lifestyle. They don't care what's going on politically. They don't care what goes on in the stock market. They're just praying for the weather. They teach your children all the traits. They make a lot of their own clothes. And they're certainly eating healthy, growing their own food. I thought, this is nice. No worries about what the auto industry is doing tomorrow, what the tax man at the IRS is doing, what the government's doing. And now they're all this stress. I thought This is almost nice. The more you possess, those things start to possess you, and then when they start to possess possess you, you want more. Yeah. If I could just make a little bit more money, I would buy a nicer car. My old 1999 gets me from A to B anyways, so who cares? It just gets me there. And and it works very, very well. And I love it, no car payments. No car payments for the past thirty-three years, no car payments. And that's a choice. You know who the bigger spenders are? Men or women. Who are the bigger spenders? Men are always the bigger spenders. Then buy the meanest, baddest pickup truck, jack it ten feet in the air, and put a boom box in it. And they live in the city. It's not like you live in Oklahoma where you need that kind of truck to pull a ton a couple of tons of hay. That's what they are. And women, men spend money for identity. I am somebody because I have this car. And then women spend money for security. I know how many outfits you know I got this section of a closet that's like this far I won't tell you how big my wife's section is, but you know, I have nothing to wear. I can't I mean how could you find something in this place? I I'm not saying that this I I'm just saying this is so typical in America. You have such an abundance you can't even find something. Or nothing fits me anymore. Well what are you keeping the old stuff for? Well, I might lose weight again. Covetousness. When you've got it The more you you eat and the more you drink of covetousness, the more you're gonna want. It's like salt water. The more you drink salt water, the more thirsty you get, and eventually it kills you. And then you not only see the sin of covetousness, but number three, and here I mean see, you'll see that he had the sin of presumption. That is, his attitude to toward God shifted from an attitude of dependence on material things. He began to lay his possessions without consideration of God's will in his life. He said, This will I do. I will do this. He was presuming he had many years. Wasn't Hezekiah thought many years? And God said, this night. Some of us don't get that from a doctor and said this night it just happens. Dear pastor friend of mine just Driving down the road a couple weeks ago down on Melbourne Florida and some seventy year old kid was drunker than a strunk. Came down the road and just drifted right into his lane so he tried to turn sideways and go into the ditch over here on the other opposite side because this guy's in his lane and the guy bang right T-boned his wife She's in intensive care for a month. Praise God this way she came out. Life can be changed overnight. What good is all your stuff? Well it makes me feel good. Our security and our identity comes from God Almighty, not your stuff. Yeah. That's that's the best part of life. My security doesn't come from the job I have. My security is from the God who gave me the job. Here this man's possessions began to possess him. His goals became his God. Then their desi their desires began to destroy him. He became presumptuous. And number four, or D, he also see the sin of selfishness. God prospers us that we may give ourselves totally to Him Give our time, our talents, and our treasure. Why does God prosper you? Because God just didn't prosper to pick up pile of big heap Life is more than filling up Mount Trashmore down here in Virginia. You know what Mount Trashmore? Anyone ever been there? Mount Trashmore. It's where they dumped all the garbage at Virginia Beach for decades. Dumped it. So it's so high up there like a hundred hundred and fifty feet up. And it's acres, I mean, I don't know, maybe a hundred acres of this Garbage. And they covered it all up and made a park on the top. Now you can see all the ships out there and beautiful view from the top. This is Mount Trash More, really. That's what everybody calls it Mount Trash Moore. Go down to I on 64, go down 64 and go right past it. Mount Trashmore. And I thought, you know what? This is what people are living for. Mount Trashmore is the epitome of what people have traded their life for. Because, friends, you don't spend money, you spend time. Got it? You spend time because you don't have an unlimited amount of time. It's going to come to an end. It's been one for one, it's happened. So we're it's going to come to an end. And you spend time and you exchange your time for stuff and your stuff ends up in Mount Trash More or some other dump. Don't live your life for the dump. Live it to make a difference in eternity. This man became selfish. He wanted more and more. And then after he got all this stuff, he finds out his possessions are possessing him. His goal became his God Then his desires began to destroy him. His prosperity manifested itself in presumptuousness, selfishness, covetousness, and pride. Lord, just give me a better paycheck. Just help me get the raise. I hear it all the time. You know, if money were the answer, you'd think a credit card would solve a problem because now you can go Borrow more money. But after people spend all this money on the credit card, they curse the credit card even. Money is an exact index of someone's character. You want to see what someone's like, look at how they spend the money. Hello? Yeah. My my daughter, she's dad, I like this boy. And I'm gonna go work at the summer at the camp. And boy, I and she calls me up and she says, Dad, you're coming up to camp this summer, yeah. I'm gonna come up there. I want to introduce you to him. Uh-oh. You know what my ask might one of two questions I wanted to ask? What's his credit report? And what his tithe report is. Because you look at how you spend money, it shows your values in life. What's important will show up on that credit report Then I wanted to see his tidy port because my father said to me when I was younger, he used to say, Son, you can toot your horn doesn't mean there's gas in the tank. Hello? Hey? You can toot the horn. There ain't no gas in the tank. You're just tootin the horn. Well there's a whole lot of people coming to church. They're not putting any money in the plate. There's no gas in the tank. So I said, you know, this guy comes to church and he and he what's he like? Is he here to check out the girls? Or what is he here for? I want to see his tithe report because I want to know if he's real. You can give without loving, but you can't love God without giving. You literally love God, you're gonna give. I found out when we got grandkids. Boy I tell you, I don't know any woman God gave a guilt feeling over spending money on the grandkids. There is no such thing Women never feel guilty on how much they spend on grandchildren. Why? Because they love those kids. Oh well, help us Lord. And uh I'm I'm trying to spiritualize this and said, I I'll I just bought my grandson a gold dollar, one of those silver dollars. I said, that way he'll keep it. He better keep it. This man here in this passage we find His life was out of balance. His possessions started to possess him. His goals became his God. Then his desires began to destroy him. Be careful. Be careful. Because this man, he lost two major things in his life. Two things he lost in this passage. Number one, he lost his reputation. He lost his reputation. There's a risk in prosperity. And labor and your labor and your love gets transferred from what your love for God starts to transfer to love of things. Yeah, it does happen in Christians' homes too. The man who has his focus on the material and not the spiritual is a foolish man. This man spent his time thinking about his body rather than thinking about his soul. And he lost his reputation. Thou fool. You spend more time taking care of the body than you spend on taking care of the soul. God says you're a fool. That's why I get out there, I'm going to take care of the body, but I've got the headphones in my ears. I'm listening to the scriptures every morning, running up and down these streets here. I'm going to get the word of God in. And then something equally so, this man lost something not only spiritually, he lost his reputation, because God called him a fool, but he lost something materially And spiritually, he lost his reward because he had no treasures laid up in heaven. If you go through life and all you've got is houses and lands and no treasures laid up in heaven, what good is it? I've got to have a s I've got to have a purpose in my life greater than me and my accomplishments. I need a purpose that says, Lord, here this person here is serving the Lord and this you know I'm glad to say my son and my son-in-law and my daughter did get married, and they're in Malta. If you don't know what Malta was, that's where Paul had the snake bite. I asked them if they were going into a snake handling ministry, but they chuckled. But go serve the Lord. Life has got to be a lot more purpose than just accumulation of things. Look at there and say, you know, in our family, and my wife's side, five generations of preachers That's really what life is all about. It's producing something that will last for eternity. But this man is Pride and his possessions and his covetousness ends up with something that's going to make a debt in Mount Trashmore, not a difference in eternity. So this man became a fool, his reputation he lost, and if something else he also lost, he lost his reward. Because he had no treasures laid up in heaven, and he was not rich towards God. What good is it if you die? When you die, they can, you know, everyone wants to know how much they leave behind. I've been the executor a couple of times, written a couple of thousand wills over the years, helped write them. I sit down and they said, how much does so-and-so leave behind? All of it. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? You leave it behind and what reward you have for eternity though. Because I'll guarantee you everyone everyone you can answer this question. In 90 days after you're dead and gone, and there's some money left behind, the heirs are going to buy a new what in 90 days? New car. But grandma and grandpa didn't have a new car. They're still driving that sixty-eight Biscayne, you know. But your kids will have it. And what good is the reward? Many men started on the road of prosperity and have pierced themselves with many sorrows. Disillusionment sorrows. If I could just make this kind of money, if I could just get up to a thousand a week, if I get up to, you know, if I could just gross this much money, I could buy this house and disillusionment after you get it, what is it? It has no meaning in eternity. Disappointments in life, disillusionment sorrows, destruction of your family If you had to go out and get money and leave your family in the ditch, friends, you live your life for something meaningless Destruction of our eternal rewards. This man lost his rewards. So let's bring it down to a close and say. What are the some signals that we ought to be looking? Signals on this road of prosperity because we're because we're in fact we're Americans, we live probably richer than 80% of the rest of the world. And there's a great responsibility comes with this. So let's just watch out. Are we going the same direction this man is going? This man and this passage. He lost his reputation, has lost his reward. And and uh and are we going that same direction? So here's a couple of questions we want to ask. We ought to be asking ourselves, do you visualize what money can do more than what God can do? Well, you know if we just had enough money out here, preacher, we could we could get that new audit term over there and we get that property going but you know if we just had enough money. We need more of God before we need more money. And then number two, when you start to plan your life around, are you planning your life around godly goals? Or earthly goals. Planning your life around money rather than God's will. That's a dangerous sign. What's God's will? I asked the young man, I said, now you graduated high school, what are you gonna do? He said, I'm going to Bob Jones. Oh, yeah, what are you gonna study? He said, Medicine. I said, Well they got one of the better medical schools in the country down there. I mean a hundred percent of their Seniors do get accepted who are in medical school. You go to pre-med, they've had a record of a hundred percent getting into med school. Whoa. I said, what do you want to be a doctor? So I can make a lot of money You're gonna be disillusioned when you finally get there. I tell people I I I love to say I'm a billionaire. Not because of dollars and cents, because I married to the same woman for thirty-three years. And my kids want to serve the Lord, and I call my son for advice at his law firm. Wow, that's great. That's what makes you rich. Not the size of the house. Not the car I drive. That doesn't impress anybody. People make make they look at my car and they look at the license plate more than they look at the car. I'll let you explain that later. Be careful today when you delight more in material riches than in spiritual riches. When the acquiring of wealth begins to choke out God's work, God's word and God's spirit in your life, you're on a dangerous road. How many here have ever found themselves changing their ethics to save a few dollars? We'll stop there a minute, huh? I am glad for the new tax law because I've seen so many people out there that think that everything ends with double zeros on their tax return. How much you spend on meals? Oh, put down $500. How much you spend for work clothes? Oh, that's what's going to be $400. You know, and what we're seeing is people are making up numbers Just to save a few bucks, when you have to compromise your biblical beliefs to try to save a few dollars, money is gonna hold of you I'd rather be guilty of paying too much in than be guilty of fixing the numbers trying to make it look good. And I'm sure glad that at least now they're saying sixty percent of the people will file with a short form next year. I love that. Because then people won't be able to make up numbers and pull them out of thin air. Yes, Christians do that too. There must be a balance between the material and spiritual if God is going to prosper your life. And this man became out of balance. And many Americans today and many Christians are building their life around financial goals rather than godly goals. I'm going to take a week off, another couple weeks, just to spend time with the grandkids. You know why? I want to get the gospel in. Just get them all day long, tell them Bible stories. I'm just going to spend some time. Yeah, being a kid and telling them all about Jesus Christ. I'm sure they heard it, but they need to hear it from Grandpa. If there's a gap between you and your family, it's not a financial gap. It's a communication gap of spiritual value. Values. And that's more important than all the money this world has to offer. Are the needs and riches of your family more important than the goals and pursuits of your job? Are your needs and wishes for your family more important than your goals and pursuits of your job? I'm going to put the emphasis on taking care of my family, not just money-wise. But spending quality time-wise, communicating with the family, doing some little things. Go out there and take that little granddaughter and go pick some flowers. Have her go give it to her daddy. Values that are really important. Not the dollars and cents. Let's pour heads and pray. Every head bowed and every eye closed. So the question started this morning. What shall I do? What shall I do this morning? What is true success? True success is the man who still has his family with him in eternity. If you left your family in the ditch for a career, you're a failure this morning. You may have worldly success, but you could be a failure. Because God didn't have first place. No one can take the place of those you love. Your wife, your kids, grandkids. But we're seeing so many Americans are working for retirement ease rather than retirement service. We're transferring our faith in God to faith in money. What good is it You got all this money, and your grandkids don't even know who God is Psalm 106 says, God gave them what they wanted, but sent leanness unto their souls. My friends, the grass always looks greener on the other side. Do you find out that it's growing over the septic tank? How about today planting some seeds to make a difference for eternity by committing your life and your finance to the Lord Jesus Christ? Father, you see the every head bow here this morning, and Lord, you know our heart's desire. Lord, we know that all these material things will pass away. Yet we're so caught up in the abundance here in America. Well you didn't tell us that riches are wrong, but I say, Lord, that the riches in America have created Christians who are apathetic. We only care about ourselves. Oh Lord, I pray this morning you would stir our hearts and give us a heart for missions. Give us a heart to go and make a difference for all eternity. Lord, help us remember this morning that if it's going to happen, it must start in my own household with me. Lord, help me to surrender my finances and my desires to you. Lord, keep me from going down the way of the flesh, but help me walk in the spirit that I might not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We ask your blessings in Jesus' name