Um now why don't you turn to Joshua chapter number one this evening? This is graduation night. This is uh kind of a time for us to remember and uh reward or at least congratulate uh those that are graduating that are taking the next step in their life and moving on. There was a college graduation taking place and as many times it's very big. Uh I remember going to uh Bradley's graduation and uh hundreds and hundreds of graduates uh there at Penn State and it was It was just massive graduation and uh there the president of the college, it was a hot, humid day, and he was in in an effort to keep that line moving of the hundreds of graduates that got to get across the stage, he would shake hands with each one and move their diploma and when he m or moved his move their tassel and he'd say, keep moving forward. And he just kept telling every person that came up there, he would shake their hand, move the tassel and say, Keep moving forward. And his goal was to get them let's get it over with, let's go. I know this is you know, a lot of people want to stop for pictures and, you know, make a spectacle of themselves uh on their crowning day of achievement, but he was trying to tell him keep moving forward. Now that was Great advice for the uh production that he was trying to get through, but it really is great advice for life. Uh to keep moving forward. Because the fact of the matter is although this is graduation and we celebrate the completion of a task that is done, the accomplishment of a set of course of study or maybe uh earning of a degree or d or a uh certificate of completion because you've uh earned your journeyman or another area. But you know, it's graduation. Yes, we're celebrating what's been done But it's also called a commencement ceremony because it is a beginning of what's new. It is looking to what's next, and many times in life we we want to uh You know, we reach graduation and it's like, oh, finally, I'm done and I can just relax, I can just stop, I can just quit I've accomplished what I set out to do and now I don't have to work so hard when really we've finished that step, but it's time to keep moving forward. Would you look with me in our text this evening to Joshua chapter number one? We see in verse number two, he says, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise and go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, into the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. Tonight I want to challenge you to keep moving forward. In your life, keep moving forward I was just just, you know, images pop in your mind and I just I just had an image of Dr. Larry Brown sitting on the stage there at Anniversary Sunday. Slamming the door, saying, Shut the door, shut the door, shut the door. I'm not going to say keep moving forward that many times tonight but I want you to get the idea that we need to keep moving forward. It really doesn't matter where you're at in the stage of life, we must keep moving forward. This is kind of the uh the the the mantra of the more mature or the aged, you know, the idea of you've got to keep moving. You you can't uh you know, some people think well I I'm gonna retire and uh I just want to be able to relax and do nothing and they start going downhill. Those that are wise or understand it, they're like, well, I gotta keep moving. I'm going to either keep working or I'm going to finish my job and I'm going to retire from that, but here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to keep moving You gotta keep moving forward or else you're gonna stop moving at all. You know, there's no body's gonna give out on you. You gotta keep moving forward, and regardless of whether that's kindergarten graduation or all the way up to a job completion or you know you you finally got married or you finished college or you finished a course of study. Each one is just a stage, it's just a step We've never arrived. We need to continue to move forward. I'm going to give you three points tonight, just briefly. First of all, is obstacles will steal motivation. We see the children of Israel here on the brink. of the Jordan River. In Joshua chapter 3 and verse number 1, and Joshua rose early in the morning and removed from Shidam and came to the Jordan. And all the children of Israel and lodge there before they passed over. That Jordan River was an obstacle, and you know, as sure as you choose to take a step to move forward, there's going to be an obstacle that's going to get in the way. There's going to be something that's going to uh steal your motivation that's going to cause you to think, oh, why why bother? I mean you just try and go on a diet and see if that first week that you said you're not going to eat any unhealthy food if Miss Laura doesn't bake up one of those honey bun cakes And bring it to your house. You know, you're like, oh no, I was I was not supposed to be eating this stuff. And Miss Laura's like, I want to be a blessing to you. And uh she didn't know And you're like, well, I gotta eat it now, you know, Amen. Well the Lord must know. Uh you know, we're like as soon as you decide you want to make a stand on something You know, you're going to say, oh, I'm going to start running. Uh I'm going to start exercising. As soon as you commit to start exercising, what's going to happen? You're going to break a leg. You're going to You're gonna you're gonna something's gonna get in the way that's gonna hinder that step of progress that you were planning to make. That in your mind, this is what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna start tithing, and then as soon as you do, you lose your job I'm going to take this step in my life, and as soon as you do, there's an obstacle, there's a Jordan River that comes up right in front of you. We're going to go into the promised land, and then there's the Jordan River immediately Understand that that's what's going to happen. And Satan does that to steal your motivation, to keep you from being willing and ready and wanting to move forward. You know, beloved, fear is one of the greatest hindrances to forward movement there is in the world. It's fear. There's probably nothing else that hinders forward movement anymore than fear. Standing before the Jordan or whatever it is that is an obstacle in front of you, but we've got to guard against fear I've seen grown men on all fours shaking, holding on, on top of an eight-foot scaffold. Because they they Yeah, Greg's like that's me. Uh I mean they just you know that fear of heights, th they are not gonna take a step. They aren't letting go of anything. They're up in the air and they know they're not supposed to be there. That this is not Normal. Nobody normal likes being this high and and that they're they're just that fear will not allow them to take a step. Well, beloved, there's things in your life that maybe God would have you do that you need to be able to overcome the fear to accomplish those That fear is going to keep you from stepping off the brink into the Jordan River to do what God wants you to do. The children had been here once before, but fear kept them from moving forward. Fear cost them forty years in the wilderness. They went and they looked in the land and they saw the milk and honey and they saw the rivers and they saw the beautiful land, but they also saw the walled cities And they saw the giants that were there, and fear kept them from moving forward for God. They knew God had promised them the land. They knew God wanted them to go in and possess the land. They knew the command of God to go in and do that, but they fear caused them not to. Beloved, fear God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of sound mind. I want you to know that fear sometimes is hindering you from doing what God wants you to do. God wants you to be a witness. I want you to share the gospel with the lost and dying world around you, but how many of you would be honest before the church tonight? You'd say, you know what, fears kept me from doing it. Fears kept me from sharing that gospel track. Fears kept me from opening my mouth and speaking about Jesus Christ because I was afraid of the response I was going to get, because I was afraid of what they might say. Over and over again, fear is going to hinder you from doing what God wants you to do. From going forward in the power of God to accomplish the will of God. Through the eyes of man, it may look impossible, but beloved, through the eyes of God, and with the help of God, nothing is impossible. They're standing on the brink of the Jordan River. What they needed to do was gather there, prepare. And if you read the text here, we'll see that God told them to step step into the river. The river didn't part until they stepped in, until they dipped their toes into the river. Until they had enough faith to move forward and take that step for God. You see, the obstacle is going to test you. The obstacle is going to tempt you. The obstacle is going to try and keep you from doing what God wants you to do. I don't know what the obstacle is in your life that's keeping you from stepping forward for God, to accomplish what God would have you to do. But whatever it is, we as God's people are to keep moving forward. Don't let the obstacle hinder you from that. God wanted Israel to move forward in his power, wanted Israel to trust him. This walking through the Jordan River was going to be an experience that would exercise and build their faith So that they could trust him and believe him in the hour of battle that was to come. This was just the first step. This was just the first miracle that God was going to perform. You see, this is going to build spiritual muscle for them. With God, obstacles are just opportunities. They're opportunities for God to show Himself strong, for us to grow in our faith and to be able to believe and trust God in our lives. You know Walt Disney was fired from a newspaper because they said he lacked imagination. He actually went bankrupt several times before he actually before he ever started Walt Disney, the organization and the Walt Disneyland and all of that. See, if he would have quit moving forward after he got fired, nothing that he accomplished in that realm would have happened because he stopped, because he gave up, because he quit You and I need to keep moving forward. Don't let the obstacles that come, the job change, the challenge. That you face keep you from doing what God wants you to do. Faith is what overcomes fear. You see, nothing had changed. in the these Israelites' lives, the situation hadn't changed, the giants hadn't shrunk. There wasn't all of a sudden less of them. There was probably more of them. They had forty years to grow up. They had forty years to to expand, to prepare for the Israelites that were right across the river and they're they're coming in at some point. They they you know, no the situation if anything probably was more dire than it was. 40 years old earlier, what is it that caused them to go across that Jordan and to possess that land? It's because faith overcomes fear. And I want you to see where faith comes from. Look in Joshua chapter 3, beginning in verse number 7. Following along with me down to verse number ten. He says, And the Lord said unto Joshua, this day excuse me. This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. And thou shalt command the priest that bear the Ark of the Covenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan. And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither and hear the words of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, Hereby ye shall know that the living God is among you, and that He will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Hevites And the Phariseites and the Gershonites and the Amorites and the Jebusites. You see, beloved, they heard the word of God. And the Lord said unto Joshua, and Joshua said, Hereby you're going to hear the words of the Lord. Beloved, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. If we have time and we we're walking with God and we're getting our direction from God, we can have faith to move forward in the power of God because we know it is God leading us. Because we know it's God's direction. They had to be ready to move forward in faith at God's command. They had to step in and get their feet wet In verse number 15, the Bible tells us that the Jordan, all of its banks, were overflowing at the time of harvest. I don't know how deep that was. I tried to do a little bit of study on it, and I read one person that said uh Jordan River at that time could have been as much as a hundred a hundred feet deep and a mile wide. Now I've seen the Jordan River. I find that pretty hard to believe. I I don't know. But it doesn't matter how deep or how wide it was. God stopped the water from flowing. And they walked across on dry ground a multitude of people. That water stopped and was held back at the command of God as soon as those that bore the ark feet touched the water. They had to have the faith to take that step. They had to have the faith to keep moving forward. They couldn't have waited there on the brink of the Jordan and the problem, beloved, is A lot of times we're waiting for the Jordan to part first. Sometimes there's great apprehension in our life about the next stage. Yes, you've completed this stage, but then that opens the door for the next stage, and those that have stepped on through to the next stage, you're like, okay, what's next? What do I do now? Where do I go? Uh what do I pursue? And making those decisions sometimes can be scary. And you do so with apprehension, but let me encourage you to keep moving forward. We see here that obstacles will steal motivation, but obedience leads to miracles Obedience leads to miracles. In Joshua chapter 3, looking at verse number 14 through 17. And it came to pass when the people removed from their tents to pass over Jordan. And the priest bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people, and as they that bear the ark were come unto Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped in the brim of the water For Jordan overfloweth all his banks at that time of harvest, that the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city Adam that is beside Zertan, and those that came down towards the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, failed, and were cut off, and the people passed over right against Jericho. And the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, and all the Israelites passed over on dry ground until all the people were passed clean over Jordan. You see, as soon as faith was exercised, as soon as obedience was exercised, the miracle took place. It doesn't matter how many said it couldn't be done. It happened. It doesn't matter how many scoffers there were or how many said, oh, we're we're not going to be able to cross the Jordan, it's going to take us months to get over the Jordan and and and by then the the the cities of Jericho is going to be all prepared for us. And you know there may have been a lot of people complaining and wondering about how that was going to happen, but ultimately when they had faith to step forward. The miracle took place. You know, there was a time when they said it was humanly impossible to run a four-minute mile. They actually uh had been trying to break the four-minute mile for for many hund um hundreds of years back in the Greeks Uh the Greeks used to put wild animals behind their runners to try and get them to go faster, to try and make them, you know, beat the four minute mile. And and nobody could beat the four minute mile and they Doctors went on record saying that, well, th the reason is is because we are not amate uh but e butty what's that word? Yeah, see you guys know. We're not that we're not built that way. We can't do it. And and the human body could not endure it. The the lung capacity is too small and the Blood vessels don't flow fast enough, and ultimately they actually said if they if somebody ran that fast, the human body would come apart. Until and forgive me, I have to look because I don't remember his name. Some of you got Roger Bannister. Roger Bannister broke the four-minute mile. Then all of a sudden it became possible in people's minds. And in the next year, there were hundreds of people all around the country that broke the four-minute mile. There was a limitation that was in the mind, and beloved, many times what God would have us do, the only limitation is our own minds. We don't think we're capable of doing that. We don't think we're possible for us to do that. I'm standing up here today as a pastor of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and can I tell you that for a long time I said I can't do that It's not something that I can do. I I'm not supposed to do that. I shouldn't do that. I'm not able to do that. And you guys tell kept telling me, yes, we want you to do that. And I said, no. But God said, hey, this is what I'm calling you to do. I'll enable you to do it. It is one of the greatest things that that I have the privilege of doing in this life is pastoring Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And I resisted it for a long time because I looked at myself and I said, I can't do that. But I know that in myself I can't, but God can. And where God wants you to go, if you'll just submit yourself and yield to Him. He will do miraculous things with you. He'll enable you to accomplish things you never thought possible. But we've got to be willing to be obedient to him And when we step out in obedience, the miracle takes place. We've seen so many things in our lives, the miraculous things about being willing to step out and God meeting us there. Beloved, there was so much more at stake than just getting to the other side of the river. The growth spiritually and the faith being exercised and the accomplishment of them going into the promised land. God was leading them on to victory. You see, beloved, they could have stayed in the wilderness. God was feeding them there. God was meeting their needs there. They could have just stayed in the wilderness. For the average person looking that well what well why don't we just stay here? This is good enough But, beloved, you're not experiencing the promised land. You're not experiencing all that God would have you experience in the full, complete, abundant Christian life that God wants you to have. You're settling for the manna in the desert when God wants you to have the milk and honey of the promised land. But you've got to move forward in faith to accomplish it. You see, miracles happen, beloved, when God's people are obedient. Too many times we're waiting for the miracle first. Lord, if you'll save my family, I'll be a witness. Lord, if you'll multiply my income, I'll give. Lord, if you'll heal the sick, I'll pray. But the miracle only comes after the obedience. Miracles is what leads to memorials. You see, beloved, these are the highlights. These are the victory reels. These are the mountaintops experiences that we have in this Christian life. These are the times that we look back on with fondness and memories and we set them up as memorials in our lives and times when God showed himself strong and We got the privilege of seeing a miracle in our lives, and those stand as memorials for us. You all I know have in your lives memorials, things in your minds that you've set up, or maybe you've made notations in your Bible, or you have typed up somewhere the story of something that took place in your life that you look back upon with fondness as you consider God meeting you somewhere and performing a miracle in your life because of your obedience. I can look through my life and see different times that God has done that for me. I told you recently I was working at Walmart and the environment there was such that it wasn't conducive to me being spiritually minded and I was battling with a pure and clean mind and ultimately I really felt that God wanted me to uh resign my position there serving at Walmart and do something else. I really didn't know what else. But I I didn't elaborate on that, and that is that ultimately I really felt like God wanted me to turn in my time so that I would be there for all of the services of preaching conference, which is basically revival, there at the college. I could have continued to work through that week, and if I would have worked through the week of revival, I would have got a $500 bonus because of profit sharing for that store. And in my mind, you know, I told you I've never really worried about money too much, but $500 to a college student making $725 an hour That's about 115 hours worth of work by the time you take taxes and stuff out of that. And and that's a lot of money, $500, $500 But I really felt that God wanted me to turn in my time so that I could be there for revival and not miss a service. And I said, well, it's just five hundred bucks So I turned in my time and I let them know that uh I was going to be ending my job. I was going to be going home for summer. I was supposed to go home for summer anyway in four weeks. I just did it four weeks earlier so that I could be there for revival and I could be off for for uh finals and stuff like that so that I could study and pass my classes. And uh I really felt that's what God wanted me to do. Well, you know what the miracle is? I did that in the first night of revival Somebody walked up to me and they had no idea. They said, Hey, I just want you to know, Pastor Pastor Caleb. They called me Pastor Caleb, yeah. So I just want you to know, Caleb, that uh the Lord told me to put $500 on your school bill today. And God said to me, a college student, who is just trying to do right. Who was struggling to pay his bills and just just saying, Lord, I'm just just want to please you. And God said, You did what I wanted. I took care of the $500. That has been a memorial in my life. A time when God said, You were obedient, and here's the answer. And I have those times in my life that I can look back on and I can say, man, look at what God did. Look at how God blessed because of our obedience. I would implore you as God's people to continue to move forward so that you too can have some miracles. Dr. Clarence Sexton said, I am inspired by the memorials. But what I desire most is to see the miracle. What are you saying is boy, it's exciting to see the memorial. It's exciting to hear about what God did Uh you know, in this story, uh they had to set up two stones. They had to set up two memorials, one in the midst of the river that was going to be overcovered with water signifying or picturing that old man that was buried and covered, never again to be seen, that old man that was left behind, and then they set up a morial. on the bank there that was supposed to be seen and revisited and gone back to, that they could go and they could point to their children's and their children's children and say, this is what God did right here. This is a picture of Him delivering us across this river. And they had that memorial and Claire Sexton was saying, Boy, I love hearing about the memorials, but what I want to see is the miracles in my life And beloved, it is only when we step out in obedience that we get to see the miracles. When we by faith are willing to overcome the obstacles, because as soon as you make a decision for Christ, Satan's going to be there The obstacle will be there, the hardship, the challenge, the frustration, the delay. It's all going to show up. But by faith, we continue to move forward. We keep moving forward for God. And then we get to see the miracles. And we can set up some of our own memorials in our life of what God has done for us. Those are times where your faith is strengthened beyond compare, more than any message ever could. Because that's personal between you and God. What God did. The challenge tonight, I couldn't believe when I was listening to Akira's testimony how it was almost a description of this message. It's like I went to college and I got to experience all these things and I grew and God taught me these lessons and and just being obedient and taking that step and and Not thinking I could do it, but then I did and God allowed me to do this and experience things that I never thought I would experience. Why? Because she was obedient. Because she did what she was supposed to do, because she took that next step. What if you wouldn't have gone to school? You would have experienced some things here. If I could liken it to our story, you would still be not that this is a desert. Okay? We're not saying this is a desert. And and and we're all living on manna. But for her, what God wanted for her was to take that step and go do that If she wouldn't have had the faith to step out and say, okay, I'm going to go away from mom and dad, I'm going to go do this, she wouldn't have got to experience all of those things and to grow And to see God in her life manifest himself and bring her through some Jordan rivers So she could have some memorials for herself. And we can all have those if we'll keep moving forward. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?