Uh I think your Bible's turned to John chapter fourteen. I want to start out by apologizing to the ladies. I've got a fellow in my church and every time I say I'm sorry, he said, Preacher, don't ever say you're sorry. Just get up there and preach what God's laid on your heart. Uh uh my wife left me with a list of instructions. And I looked at her and I said, It's A mem's retreat. She said, you've got to take a towel and soap He said, honey, I'm gone for three days. It's a men's retreat. She said, there are boys there. I said, they're young men. And she said, those those people at Hunt Valley, she said, they are refined. I've been accused of a lot of things over the years. Refinement is not one of the things that has ever stuck Uh so I uh I apologize to the ladies uh right now and the stories they come home and tell you are probably true. Probably absolutely true. I appreciate uh Pastor Battrell. He is uh he is a friend. Uh common sense, and there's a I'll tell you what, in ministry Especially in the last eight weeks, it has been revealed that there's not a lot of guys out there with common sense. Common sense, steady leadership, uh leading you through this. I appreciate him very, very much. John chapter fifteen, John chapter fourteen, verse fifteen. If ye love me, keep my commandments. If ye love me, keep my commandments. Now verse 17 could reflect the news today. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, it's obvious in the evening news, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. Folks in the riots, they don't know him, they don't see him, they don't have hope in him, they don't trust him. But ye know him, for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. Verse 21, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me shall be loved of my father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. Verse 24. Well, let's do verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words, and my father will love him. And we will come unto him and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not, keepeth not my saints. Look verse 15 again. If ye love me, keep my commandments. What does that mean? What does that mean? Let's pray. Father, I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing to those that have gathered this evening. Pray that they would uh not uh turn me off at the onset, but they would they would listen and that they would take home a truth, something that they know They've seen, they've memorized, they're familiar with it. But that it would have a greater meaning and impact on their life. We'll praise you for what you do tonight as we turn to you in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Keep my commandments. What does that mean? If you asked me that ten years ago, I would have, without batting an eye, said it means to obey. Obey God. Is that really what it means? We're going to look at that tonight. Just do a little bit of Bible study. It is a Wednesday night midweek prayer service, prayer and Bible study. What does it mean? So I looked at I got my books up I have a few. I looked it up. This is what it said. The unmistakable meaning of the passage is that obedience to Christ's commandments is both a sign and a test of our love for Him. That's a That's a mouthful. But is that what it means? Interesting. So I got on another book, and this is what he said. Obey totally undermines being saved by hearing and believing, and suggests keeping to remain Satan. I didn't like that guy at all. Had a burnt book burning after after that. And uh this was interesting This is a suggested fix. They say it is to understand. I gotta do my theological voice here. They say It is to understand that God is not referring to commandments as laws, as such. If you don't obey them, you really have not done anything wrong. It's mind-boggling. Now I say that. That is not me saying that. That came from a book that probably should probably should be burned. Keep my commandments. It appears 13 kinds. In the Bible. Eleven out of those thirteen are in the Old Testament. Two are in the New Testament. If you love me, verse 15, keep my commandments. It seems like it would be something important. It's a Wednesday night crowd. So if I went around the room and said, Do you love God? You would say, Yes, yes, yes, I love God. It's Wednesday night. I'm in church. It's hum hot and humid outside. My hair melted the minute I walked outside. Yes, yes, I love God. If you love me, keep my commandments. And if we say obey, and that's not what it means Do you really love him? Interesting. Interesting thought. There's only thirteen of them, so we're going to look at them, consider them just for a few moments this evening. Exodus chapter 6 16 verse 28, the Lord said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws? Exodus chapter 20, verse 6, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Very similar to what we just read in John chapter 15. Leviticus chapter 22, verse 31. Therefore shall ye keep my commandments and do them I am the Lord. Now, there we have keeping and doing in the same thing. Now it's possible that God would Repeat something for emphasis. If keep means to obey or to do, then in that sentence God said, Do my commandments and do them. Keep them and keep them. Obey them and obey them. Which is not Without precedent. But is that what is being said? Leviticus chapter 26, verse 3. If ye walk in my statutes and keep my commandments and do them, well, there it is again. That it is tied with obedience, doing. Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 10, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments and my statutes, which I have set before them. Second Kings chapter 17, verse 13. Yet the Lord testified against Israel and against Judah by all the prophets and by all the seers, saying Turn me from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes according to the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants, the prophets. Nehemiah chapter 1 verse 9. But if ye turn unto me and keep my commandments and do them, there it is, again, they're showing up together. Though those where some of you were cast out into the othermost part of heaven, yet will I gather them from thence and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my throne there Three occur in Proverbs. Proverbs 3 verse 1 says, My son, forget not my law, but let thine heart Keep my commandments. Proverbs chapter 4, verse 4. Let thine heart retain my words. Keep my commandments and live. Proverbs chapter 7 verse 2, keep my commandments and live and my law as the apple of thine eye. Interesting. It was a Thursday. There was a ladies' retreat that was happening. My wife was heading out of town and she left me in charge. It always gives her little concentration. She she trusts me by myself. She doesn't necessarily trust me with the children. And so she left me a list. Uh not a honeydew list. It was uh uh get 'em up in the morning, you've got to feed them breakfast. I'm uh food is a kind of an optional thing to me. Uh uh I she wa she had left uh for a week of vacation when we were first married, and about the third day I think I had a terrible headache and I couldn't Why does I never get a headache? Why does my head hurt? And I realized she'd been gone for three days I hadn't eaten uh for three days. So food is optional. And uh so she was worried that I wasn't gonna feed the kids Now my mom, when we were growing up, she taught us the boys. She said, no woman in their right mind is ever going to marry any of you guys. So she taught us to cook and she taught us to do laundry. And so I can cook. I I just prefer not to. And my wife knows that. So she gave me uh a whole list of things that she g and suggestions and and stuff in the refrigerator and uh and and she left. It was a Thursday. Thursday is a Bible study day for me And uh she's she's on the road, she's with the ladies. I've she's gone over the list, uh I I've gone over it twice. I have signed on the dotted line, yes, I I promise and affirm to the best of my ability that I will not kill the children while you are gone And that uh th they will be in the same shape as you found them when you return, those kinds of things. And uh she was gone. And I set up shop. I had my Bible spread out, my computer there, I had my book spread out, and the kids We're in the room. And the sliding glass door going out into the backyard. And I said to them, now, this is Bible study day for me. And I got I've got stuff to do. So go out in the backyard and play. And do not, do not bother me, do not come in the house, do not talk to me unless it is a bleeding wound. And they're cool. And and they're gone. Fifteen minutes later, my middle kid Praise the Lord for middle kids, right? He's back in the house and he says he opens the door. Metal children are so so precious. And he and he opens the door and I looked at him. I looked at from my Bible, you know, a spiritual thing. What do you want? And he pointed down to his leg. And there was a cut. And it was cut enough that blood had started to push out from it just a little bit. Like a foreign cut or something like that. And he said, Daddy, see blood. And I said, that is blood. That is not a bleeding wound. Go back and play. And so he did. I shared that on Sunday morning, the week after uh that happened and got back, and a lady uh met me at the door and she said, How could you do that Such a fashion. I cannot imagine that God would ever treat his son in such a fashion Come on, look back at her and said, Lady, I have you read about the crucifixion? So don't come to the door and tell me you shouldn't treat your children that way Uh I I probably won't be kind. So uh the question is, would you uh would you say with me that I kept my wife's commandments The guys would probably say, yeah, yeah. The ladies would say, no, no. I'm glad. Be thankful. You should be thankful for who you're married to. You should be thankful for who you're not married to. You'll know how to pray for my wife a little bit better. No, I did not keep her commandments, and I did not keep them in the sense of obey them. I did not keep uh her commandments in the sense In the biblical sense, either. And you'll let me say. Well, let's just look. Understanding the key. The first mention, typically when we come up with something, and so several months ago I looked at this particular passage of scripture because it seemed to be important. If ye love me, and I want to say, yes, I love the Lord, keep my commandments, so I shouldn't I should want to know what that means. And so I got my Bible out. I looked at those three references that I gave you in the beginning, and right away I was like, I don't like any of those And I'm always encouraged when you get a book out from a smart person and they just absolutely get it wrong. And they're the smart people. And so, principle of first mention, that's a great method of Bible study. You get your Bible out and you go to the place where it's first mentioned. Interesting, the place where it's first mentioned is in the book of Genesis. That's a good place to start. Genesis chapter 2. Verse 15, God said to Adam, the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. Well, isn't that interesting? So if now don't don't write me off as a heretic yet. Because if you affix obedience To keep, then you have a major problem with the first place it appears in the Bible, Genesis chapter 2. 15, because what you're saying is that God said to Adam, dress it and obey it. No, that's not what God's saying. No, that's not what God's saying. Dress it in the keep it. The second appearance in the Bible Is uh Genesis chapter 3 verse 24. Angel's a flaming sword which turns every way to keep the way of the tree of life. Adam and Eve got put out of the Garden of Eden. God put an angel there and said, Keep it! We're supposed to obey the entrance to the garden. No, no, no. And nobody looking at that would say, well, well, preacher, that doesn't mean obey. But keep definitely means obey. Now these guys down here in the front row are thinking, cool, I don't have to obey. Oh, yes, you absolutely have to obey because keep is tied with do, and when you don't, you are in Dutch. So do I have to obey? Yes. Yes, you have to obey. But if you love him, keep his commandments So what does it mean? Stand guard, to protect. That's what they were supposed to do. Same charge as God gave to Adam in Genesis chapter 2, 15, to dress it and to keep it, protect it, guard it. And would you let me say Adam failed right at the very beginning? He allowed Satan into the garden, didn't see him as a threat. Always gives me pause. And we put locks on our doors, we put security cameras, we put all kinds of things on monitors to keep our children safe, but what have you unlocked the door and opened up and let into your house when you're supposed to be keeping it? Genesis chapter 6, verse 19. Noah, every loving thing of all flesh, two of every sort, shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them. Well, if keep means obey, then Noah, God just said to Noah, I want you to bring the animals into the ark and obey them. No, we don't we don't believe that. But we still believe that keep his commandments means obey. Keep me implies that we are obeying them, but what does it mean? What does it mean? Noah was not commanded to obey the animals, and he was not commanded to have the animals obey him, but he was definitely commanded to keep them Protect them. Keep them close. The angels were admonished to keep the way, the passage. They were supposed to stand there and stand guard. Why? Because if they let Ann through And eat through, there is going to be eternal, disastrous consequences. There are 362 matches in God's word of the word keep. Keep the seed, keep the covenant, keep thee, keep me, keep the flock, keep the food, keep the feast. And if you atta it obey to that, it's gonna it's gonna mess you up all the way through. Again, I'll say, can you guys look a little A little stray worthy. You absolutely have to obey And don't walk out of here and say, am I preaching saying no have to obey? You absolutely have to obey. Absolutely. Without a doubt, without question. But what does it mean to keep? Keep the Passover, keep the ordinances, keep the statutes, keep the commandments, keep the Sabbath A year later, Mrs. Bishop went on to ladies' retreat again. This time she was more descriptive. with her instructions. She said, now last year you didn't do so well. And so she gave me some additional instructions and left them on the counter. Take them so I could not lose them. We had a little girl at that time, a little Caitlin, she was our only girl, and she was the youngest, and it was the first time that Mrs. Bishop had trusted me with precious little cake. And uh she gave him many, there were many, many extra instructions. You know, you you you wreck the middle kid? Hey, some people have to die. That would better her uh that would have been her reaction. But when you mess with the little girl, and you are toast. And so uh she she leaves and we all wave at the door and uh everything's going fine and that night Caitlin comes up to me and she she's probably three, maybe going on four years of age She she's so so so precious. Now my oldest one, he was a sneaky one. My middle one was my middle one. But Caitlin, I mean she's just precious. I mean she never she never gave me a moment's problem. She was just she was just a sweet sweetheart. She loved her mom, loved the Lord. She's just she was just easy. If we had her first, we would have had two more. If we had had the middle one first, we wouldn't have had any more. And so she comes to me after the first day and uh the first night and she she it's seven o'clock and she says she is she is her mother. You know, control. She's got control issues. Uh don't tell that to the guy she's engaged to. She's got control issues. And and so she comes up to me and she said, Danny, Daddy, it's seven o'clock. It is time for me to go to bed. I said, Yeah, yes. it is. She said, I'm gonna go put my pajamas on. I said, sis, look at your clothes. I said, are they dirty? And she goes, well No. I said, you don't play like the boys, a roll in the mud. I said, you're a girl, right? He said, yeah. I said, so your clothes aren't dirty. I said, so why why dirty a completely clean set of pajamas I mean just just sleeping goes. It'll be okay. And she went, I don't think Mama I don't Mom it's okay. It's okay. Dad dad dad's in charge. And so she said okay. And so she climbs up in the bed and I kiss her good night and She gets up the next morning and she says, So what do you think I should wear today? I said, sis, you're already dressed You are ready to go. Ready to go. And so all day Friday, you know, she plays and does the thing and we go uh we we go out to lunch together and uh we come back and it's Friday night. And she says, Daddy, I Really, uh it's seven o'clock. I need to put my pajamas on. I said, sis, you are so precious. And and the boys, I agree. But you're you're not I said, sis, so it's it's Friday. Tomorrow is Saturday, and your mom's coming home. Wouldn't it be neat to have the same set of clothes on that you had when mom left And she looked at me with a dumbest look on her face. She goes, Yeah, yeah, that would be deep And so I said, You go you you're not that dirty It's not a big deal. And and then we won't have to do clothes and wash the jammies, you know. And uh we'll we'll be good. Daddy will be good, Daddy will be happy, you'll be good, and we'll see if mom notices And so it's now it's Saturday. She gets up in the morning and she doesn't even ask me to put a new set of clothes on because we are going to see if mama is attempted. And uh so we're at the church, mom comes in, you know, welcome home mom, you know, kind of thing. And she gets out of the van with all the other ladies. And uh Caitlin and I are standing there. Caitlin, she's just so proud of herself, you know, if you're gonna Just grinning from ear to ear. And Gara looks at me and she looks at Caitlin and this is what she said. Please tell me that that is not the same set of clothes you had on when I left. And she went, yeah. And I have not been left in charge ever since. So again to the ladies I say, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Now uh was I obedient to my wife? Hey, changing clothes was not on the list. He wasn't there. But did I keep her commandments? No. We're precious in that sense. And do or listen. So if you love me, keep my commandments. Verse 21, again, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them. Obedience is certainly part of that. But to keep it, to keep it close, to keep it precious, listen. Children obey your parents in the Lord. Is that a command? Absolutely. Do you have to obey it? Absolutely you do, or your parents are going to send you into eternity. I brought you into this world, I can take you out, kind of thing. But if it's precious to you When you're tempted to disobey, if it's close to you, if obedience to your parents is something that you guard, because it's precious. Listen, my family is precious to me me and I guard them. And at night, when it is nighttime, I check every door and every window to make sure it's locked. Because they're precious to me and I want to keep them and protect them. In the middle of the night, when I hear a sound, I don't nudge my wife so she gets up to hear what it is. I get out of bed And do the bob and peek and look out the window. And I stand there and see what's going on in the community. Why? Because my family is practical To me. And so I'm going to keep them. I'm going to guard them. Are God's commandments precious to you? There are many Christians that obey God's commands, but they do not keep them. They're obedient. Do you love me? Oh yeah. Do you obey me? Absolutely Do you do it with the right attitude? Are you excited about it? Is this something that's precious to you, or is just something you do because mom's watching, dad's watching? But we don't keep them. Because we don't know what it means. And so God's commandments aren't precious to us And on a Wednesday night, again, I come in the room and say, do you love God? We would say, absolutely, yes, I love God. Do you keep his command and say, well, yeah, I obey them But if God's saying, if you love me, then my commandments are going to be precious to you. You're going to keep them close to you. You're going to guard them. It'll give you a whole greater meaning of the word. And what it means To love God. If you love God, when when the preacher tells you to do something, I'll do it. I'll do it on the outside. But I know You're not doing it on the inside. You're not keeping the commandments. And you say, I don't love God. You struggle with your obedience to parents, to authority. You name what it is If you love God, those things will be precious, precious to you. Obedience is certainly an important first step in the Christian mind. See, I hate it when people redefine words in the Bible or just eliminate them. The new Bible versions, when it comes to 1 Corinthians 13, and even in uh some weddings and Baptist circles, uh they don't they don't like the word charity And so they substitute it with love. Would you let me tell you that God put charity in there for a reason? Because it is a higher level of love. But we we cheapen it when we take it out because we don't understand the meaning. What is charity? Charity is a specific part of love. It is a love, but a love that gives. And you can love without giving. Lots of people do. But God says, if you love me, you're going to keep my commandments. They're going to be precious. You're going to understand what it means to keep them. You're going to protect them. You're going to keep them close. You're going to guard them. You're going to cherish them. And when it comes time to obey them It's going to be the natural thing to do. And many people do not obey God's commands because God's commands are not precious to them. We keep them at arm's length. We know what they are, we can recite them, we can quote them. We can say amen when the preacher preaches them. But they're not precious to us. We've confused the terms and the concepts, and we have lost the meaning. Not because it's not clear in Scripture, it is absolutely clear in Scripture Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Obey your heart? No. Protect it. When we see that passage, we say, oh yeah, we understand what that means. That means protect God. Guard guard your heart. But when we come to John 15, we read, if you love me, keep my commandments. We read verse 21, he that hath my commandments and keepeth them. He it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father. And I will love him, and will manifest myself too. Preacher, I I I God just doesn't seem close to me. God just seems such a long ways away. I just so distant. It's like there's a wall there. Because God's commandments aren't precious to you You know them. If we took a poll in the church, people would say you obey them. But based on the King James Bible meaning of the word. We don't keep them. They're not precious to us. We don't guard them as a precious commodity. If you love God, His Commands will be near and dear to your heart. Do you love him? You tell me.