In the United Kingdom. We just finished up uh the life of Saul, the first king who ruled uh in the kingdom as a united both over Israel and uh Judah the southern and northern kingdom. He ruled them together. And we are moving this morning into the life of David. the life of David. Israel's about to experience what they should have or could have experienced at the very beginning with the king of God's choice instead of the king of their own choice. You see, at first they wanted a king, not a king that would be directed by God, that would follow God. They wanted to be like other nations. They wanted a king that would go out before them into battle. They wanted a king that would stand up like other kings and rule them like those of the world. And they they got their choice, but they found they weren't real happy with what they got. And so through the course of events and God's leading Saul, the presence of God left Saul, and David comes on the scene. And we get to see David is anointed as king, and ultimately they get the king that God would have them to have, the king that would follow God and would seek God first. King David is that man. There's some 60 chapters of the Word of God that are devoted to his story. There's no denying the fact that David is central. uh to the story of God and what he wants to bring about in the world, ultimately delivering unto us the Messiah. His name is mentioned 1139 times in the book. And the lessons that we learn from the life of David are many and powerful, for sure. These lessons are all through the life of David, where we are challenged and stirred and and uh provoked, hopefully. to do better. Now the main points of this outline that I'm giving you today come directly out of Wilmington's Guide to the Bible. I will have that noted in your notes as we get to the end. Your notes right now are Mm not even half of the life of David. Uh I just knew we wouldn't get that much further than what I've given you. And so I just stopped and said, we'll do that this week and what I'll hand you the rest of the notes for the life of David next week and we'll see how far that we can get. One of the reasons that I uh really work to try and get like one lesson and get it all done at one time. It's not so much that I want to ultimately get to the end, but I know here's what I know that this is going to get put online. It's going to be on the website and there's going to be the lessons that they download and I would like them to be kind of units. a unit, you know, and instead of breaking it up into all these segments and trying to figure out where I am and where whatever. So that's where I've been trying to work hard to get it into, okay, one lesson. on paper is one lesson taught. Uh and that's been where some of the pressure has come uh for me to try and really get it done because I'm trying to once it's done and it's gonna be up there for years, it many people will be listening to it. And if it's one lesson like that, it's very easy to follow. There's no way with the life of David we're going to get it into one lesson. going to be several uh and that's just the way it's gonna be. So we see here first of all David the Shepherd. David the Shepherd, 1 Samuel 16. I really couldn't improve upon the outline right out of Wilmington's uh guide to the Bible that their their description of the life of David as they walked down through his life, and so I just took it right from there And we again we will note that on the paper for you in the future, just the main outline here. So David the Shepherd Boyd, chapter, 1 Samuel chapter 16. So if you remember, can you give me the outline, Pastor Gus, the timeline that I gave you, if we could show that quickly here? Now this is the balance of the timeline of the life of David I'm going to try and get this to you on paper. I know there's a lot there, and unless you have binoculars, you're not going to be able to read a lot of it. But the green line here is 1 Samuel. This neon green is 2 Samuel. And the life of Saul is notated in orange here. And on the top here we have the reign of Saul. So here's 40 years. It stops right there, the reign of Saul. And uh you start and you have ten years where things were relatively good, things were going good, and then you have fifteen years where Saul is being foolish, doing all the dumb things that He knows God doesn't want him to do, be in disobedient to God, offering sacrifices and uh all of the things that he did for God to ultimately judge him. And then you have fifteen years here where David, the life of David and Saul overlap. So it's it's right here in chapter 16 uh where David comes on the scene Now, you this yellow line here is the life of David. So David is born. David is born right here, right at the beginning here uh is where he's born. But you know he's a young man. He's out in the shepherd, he's out in the field doing what he's supposed to be doing and uh growing up. And uh around the age of sixteen or seventeen years, uh old David right here enters the scene. And we see God's hand on him. Then we have those 15 years where Saul and him overlap. Our goal today is to finish these 15 years. Right in here where we see now what happened in the life of David, where last week we saw what was happening in the life of Saul. Now You know that the Psalms uh cover all of the Old Testament. There are some psalms that are written way back here in the very beginning. And there are some songs psalms that are written way over here at the end. The vast majority of them are written here during this time. And so that's where we're going to address it. But I put on the timeline here all these red lines, if you're far enough away and you can't see those red words, that are psalms that are written and when they were written. So Psalms 59, written right here, basically right when David comes and he he fights Goliath, Psalms 34 and 56, Psalms 57 and 142, while David's hiding in the cave from Saul. Psalms 52 and Psalms 31, Psalms 27, when all of these different Psalms were written by David through through his life. So those are notated on there as well. I'm going to try and get that to you in print. You might still have to have a magnifying glass to read it because that's a lot of information. If you take that page and you shrink it down to uh four and a half by eight That's going to be a pretty small timeline, but we'll see how it comes out. Hopefully you'll be able to read it. I know that the font on Saul's life here is 0. 6. So that's pretty small, but that's the only way we could fit it all on there. So you'll hopefully you'll be able to see it, at least get a general idea to be able to see this. But we see David enters the scene there, basically at chapter uh 16. Saul's life continues and Saul continues to do what he's going to do. And we looked at Saul and completed his life, got all the way to chapter 31, but now we're backing up. To chapter 16 in 1 Samuel, and going to look at David as God's directing and leading him. So first of all, we see him as a shepherd boy. In verse Samuel 16, 1 through 13, God sent Samuel to anoint the next king. Seven of Jesse's sons went before him, but God had not chosen any of them. Seven of these boys went and and Samuel thought, boy, what surely one of these young men, strapping young men, fine uh young men are are the one that God wants. But God taught Samuel a valuable lesson that day, and that is that God looks on the heart in chapter sixteen, in verse number seven, that very familiar verse. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him, for the Lord seeth not as man seeth. For the man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. Can I tell you something? That God has never chosen a man based on his outward appearance. based on his skill or his ability. God has always, when he looked for a man to stand in the gap, when he was looking for somebody to use in a mighty way in this world, he's always looked for a man whose heart was given wholly to him. You may have somebody that has a lot of skill and ability, and they can do a lot of things on their own, but you take an old country boy from the backwoods of Tennessee who's got God all over him, and he'll pass that talented guy up like he's standing still. Because God has taken him and brought him and using him in the power of God instead of in his own strength. God is looking for a young man, a young lady, an individual whose heart is sold out for him Psalms 119 and verse number two says, Blessed are they that keep his testimony and that seek him with a whole heart. Are you seeking God with a whole heart this morning? Is that your desire and passion? Are you going wholly after Him? That's what we ought to be doing. ought to be our drive. David said in Psalms 119 and verse number 10, With my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh let not me wander from thy commandments. Can you say that today? With my whole heart I have sought thee. God will use an individual, whoever they are, wherever they come from, in a mighty way if their heart is wholly given over to Him We see this shepherd boy who was wholly given to God, serving God, working, uh doing what he was supposed to be doing, just tending the sheep, nobody special. They didn't even bother to bring him before the kid before Samuel when Samuel came and said, Hey, I I'm here. God told me to come here. We're going to anoint the next king. Nobody even thought to get David. They said, Well, he's not even an option But he was the option. So we see that they call the shepherd from the field, but they found a boy after God's own heart. A boy after God's own heart. Samuel anointed him in front of his brethren, and verse number 13 there, and the spirit of the Lord rested on David at that at that moment. We see that Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David. from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Rama. He was anointed and the Spirit of God came and rested on this young boy, this young shepherd. From that time forward, David is the central character of the story of Israel. Yes, Saul is still the king, or still on the throne. But David is the king. He's been anointed, and there's a time of preparation that God has for him, but ultimately he is the one that God has chosen. He just hasn't fulfilled that position yet. So then we see, secondly, David is the singer. He gets anointed, and there's some things that people knew about David. It's amazing. David is providentially brought to the palace God brought David to the place where he needed to be in order to be prepared to be the next king. I mean, where else are you going to get the training that you need to be the king? Except in the palace. Well, how does a shepherd boy whose job is to tend the sheep end up in the palace? God works He afflicts Saul with a troubled spirit, and then his servants realize, hey, you need something to help you. And you know what? There's an old shepherd boy over here that we know about. And he could come and play some good music for you, and he could help you. So David is providentially brought to the palace. We see in chapter 16 and verse number 18 that his skill with the harp is known Then answered one of the servants and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in plain So we see his skill with the harp is known. It's something that I don't know if he carried his harp around town or what he did, but people knew that David had a skill with the harp. And that everybody enjoyed, maybe he would come into town and do some uh, is it basking how do you say that? Busking. Maybe he would go in town when he wasn't kidding the sheep and begin to play and uh gat people would gather around. I don't know, but somehow that there was a group of people that knew about his skill with the harp And then we know that his strength of the soldier was known. He goes on and he says, not only is this guy good at playing an instrument But he's a mighty valiant man, a man of war. Listen, that that lets me know some of these Uh people that you know, young boys are like, I'm a man, I don't I don't play instruments, I don't I'm not gonna play the piano, I'm I'm a man. Listen, you can be a man and play an instrument. You can be a man and learn how to uh use instruments for the honor and glory of God. David did it, a mighty man of of war. He was a fighter. Strength as a soldier was known. Not only that, his steadfastness was known. They they knew where to find David. They said here he's a man of war. He's prudent in matters. And a comely person and the Lord is with him. What a testimony of a young man at this point still just a shepherd. Boy, wouldn't that be something if that was your testimony? Hey, here's a guy. He's got skills. Here's some skills. He's got some talent, but he's also he's strong. And you know what? He's prudent. He's steadfast. He's going to do whatever he's assigned to do. Whatever his responsibility is, he's going to get it done. He's not full of excuses. Uh he's full of energy. And he's going to get the job done. They they understood this. They knew this about him. So David is providentially brought to the palace. David uses the power of music to calm Saul's troubled soul. In verse number 23, we see And it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp and played with his hand, so Saul was refreshed. And it was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. Listen, the right kind of music can help you drastically in your life. You're struggling with the flesh. Stop listening to the world's music. Listen to God's music. Listen to the kind of music that feeds your spirit, that strengthens you spiritually. There is a difference in music. People like to say music's amoral. That means uh has no morality in it at all. It's it's ah moral. You can listen to whatever it makes no difference. That's not true. You know when the ushers are taking the offering and there is a slow Dragging. I'm sure it's melodious and as beautiful as can be, but you know when the song is slow, do you know the ushers walk slower down the aisle? I've sat up there and watched it. They walk slower down the aisle. And when they're when there's a song that's upbeat and uh I heard an old old story. And and boy, they they're going down the aisle. Amen. Amen. Let's get all right. I mean they're they're into it. It's music affects your spirit And the right kind of music will make a difference in your life. Don't buy into the lie that it doesn't matter what you listen to because it impacts you spiritually. You want to be a stronger Christian, surround yourself, listen to good music. It's very evident here in the life of Saul that he had a troubled spirit, and he said, hey, let's get some good music, and that troubled spirit left him. Having a problem with that? Get some good music around you. God uh used this to bring David into the royal court where he could be prepared for what he was going to be doing down the road. You know God will take you and direct you and put you where you need to be. David was providentially brought to this place. We need to stop worrying so much about what we're going to do five years from now and worry about what we're doing today. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And if we would simply yield to God today and do what we know God wants us to do today, and if we do the same thing tomorrow, then ten years from now, if we're still doing that each day, you will be where God wants you to be. You will be prepared to do what God has for you to do down there. A lot of times young people get so burdened and heavy about, man, what's God's will for my life? What am I going to do down the road And the meantime meanwhile, they're not being obedient to their parent, they're not being faithful to church, they're not uh serving God where they should be right now. And if they would just do what God wants them to do today, they wouldn't have to worry about down the road God would lead them and direct them. God would guide their steps and put them where they need to be so that they would get and have exactly what God wants for them. We see here David the singer, then we see David the soldier into chapter 17, that great and powerful story of Goliath and David and defeating that giant and I suppose there's as many messages out of Samuel, 1 Samuel chapter 17, out of any passage in the Word of God. I know Dave Smith, I'm loosely related to him because My brother married his daughter. Uh but brother Dave Smith, he came and spoke for a Roundup Sunday a couple years ago. And if you guys remember him, he's a short guy. Uh but he said he has preached more messages out of 1st and 2nd Samuel than uh the rest of the Bible, uh not totally combined, but that he has Hundreds of messages out of first and second Samuel. And uh these I'm sorry, first Samuel chapter sixteen and seventeen. These two passages of scripture very powerful in so many lessons that we can learn here. But you see David as a soldier in chapter 17. We we begin with the champion from Gath in chapter uh seventeen, verse number four, uh he says, and there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath of Gath. whose height was six cubits and a span, and he begins to describe this giant, Goliath, who was a Gittite from Gath. He was over nine feet tall. Um Goliath was, you know, in my study, it's funny. because I I I have about twenty different books that I reference and study to prepare to teach these lessons. And uh I s read them and whatever. And it's something as simple and as basic as the size of Goliath Uh I found many different numbers on how tall he was. He was nine foot five, he was nine foot six, he was almost ten feet, he was, you know, in excess of nine feet. I just put over nine feet. because none of those guys can agree and I'm not a scientist or whatever. I'm not going to try and determine exactly. We know he's over nine feet. And uh on the weight of his spear I put fifteen pounds. I was listening to a preacher just a week ago ago I think I don't remember where I was. If it was here, forgive me, I can't remember. But he was talking about how heavy the head of Goliath's spear was, and uh he said it's sixteen pounds. He said, he said, have you ever thrown a sixteen pound? 16 pound bowl bowling ball. I mean can you imagine chucking a sixteen-pound bowling ball like a spear, like throwing it like to hit somebody? I mean that's pretty heavy. Uh but uh I put fifteen pounds because I found people that said it was eighteen pounds. I found one person that said it was twenty-five pounds. And so I don't have any idea where these guys are getting these numbers, but uh we know it was an excess of 15 pounds. That was a general consensus, so I just put 15 pounds or or up. But here's the thing. David didn't need to really know uh Goliath's stats. He didn't need to know how strong Goliath was, because he knew how strong his God was. And he knew that God was going to give him the victory, and he went out there just a shepherd boy, but he went out in confidence because he had God on his side Goliath was covered in armor. His head and his legs and actually his back was covered with brass, had a brass shield covering these things. He had a staff that the Bible says is like a weaver's beam. Uh the spearhead was fifteen pounds. Uh actually it was a blank for you, not not filled out. So there you could put 15 pounds, but uh The reason I tell you about those discrepancies, because if you start reading or looking at different people, you'll find like, wait a minute, I I have in my notes it was 15 pounds. Uh listen, it's not gonna mess up your theology if you say it's eighteen pounds. Nobody really cares, okay? I mean it's not gonna hurt us theologically if it was eighteen pounds or twenty pounds or whatever. It's not that big a deal So just, you know, we're in the general vicinity. We know it was heavy. That was the idea. He was a strong guy. We've got that. And so we can move on. So the challenges against God. uh in 1710 this this champion of Gath comes out and he challenges God. The battle was set in the Valley of Elah. I've had the privilege of being in the Valley of Elah. We have uh on the wall in here uh uh a plaque from stones from the Valley of Ela. Here you go. Nothing is impossible with God. These five stones were picked up out of out of the Valley of Elah. The stones that are on the bottom of this plaque. So this is hanging in our guest chamber there. Actually in the Valley of Ela, uh we were there and I believe that it was in that valley that uh Pastor Lewis, you know that the valley was set and on one side up on the hill was Israel's army and on the other side up on the hill was uh the Philistine army, the Gittites, the Ghast, all all of the enemies of God. And uh they would the valley was that in the valley of Elah there was set the battle and Goliath would come out and yell And it's not as big as a of a valley as you might think. If you'd like to look it up. But uh anyways, in that valley there, there's nice steep hills on the on each side. And some of the guys were like, I want to climb the hill. And so a bunch of guys went up the hill and they're looking overlooking the valley and coming down, um, Pastor Lewis began to run down the hill. And you know what happens when your body gets going a little faster than your feet can? When he's going and he was running and he was full out. I mean, he was trying to make it to the bottom where it would level off and he didn't make it. And he was running full out down a steep hill and his front of his body got too far ahead and he flew. He was airborne, hit the ground, and went sliding. I got it all on video. It was it was epic. It was definitely uh a viral video if it would have been uh around the time that people were posting that stuff. But uh Anyways, uh yeah, Pastor Lewis has called me three times over the last how many every years and asked me for a copy of that. Uh I said, I already sent you a copy twice, but I do have it. Uh and so uh he w needed it for something. But anyways In that valley was a raid r a raid the battle, and uh you can see how these armies were would be up on the sides of the hills here, and the challenge was called out for forty days he mocked God. You see, the problem is is it wasn't just a challenge against the Israelites, it was a challenge against the God of the Israelites And David heard that and said, Man, is there not a cause? So we see the cause of a good man. He comes on the scene and he says there in chapter 17, I believe it's in 29, where we hear those familiar words where David cries out and says, Is there not a cause? And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? He hears this mockery of his God and the enemy making fun of the God of Israel and he says, man, somebody needs to do something about this. Isn't there anybody that would go out And meet this guy. I mean why why are we all standing back here afraid? He said there's a cause. Something needs to be done. And David was shocked to hear the voice of this Goliath who mocked God. David said, Let's do something. But when he stood up and said, Let's do something, he was belittled by his brothers Oh, his brother says, I know the naughtiness of thy heart. I know that you came, you you you have a job to do, and you left that because you wanted to just come up here and play around on the battlefield What are you you oh you're gonna act like the big man on campus now? Listen you decide to do something for God and stand up and you're gonna have critics You're going to have people that you thought loved you or that were close to you. They're going to begin to question your motives. Oh, you're just trying to make us look bad. I remember years ago when I was working at Walmart, uh the the other workers actually came to me and told me, You need to stop working so hard. You you you don't need to get that much done in a day because none of us are doing that and you're making us look bad I said, well the option is you work harder. I'm not going to change. They weren't they weren't happy. They were upset at me. I was just, you know, 16, 17-year-old boy, but I had been taught when you're on the clock you work You don't stand around, you don't stop and talk. There's always something that could be done and should be done. And you're not looking for options or ways to get out of work, but ways to get things accomplished. That's what you're getting paid for And so that's what I did, but they they they didn't like it. And listen, when you start doing right, there's people that don't like it. There's people that are gonna mock and they're gonna make fun, they're gonna question your motives as they did David's here And we see the commissioning of David into battle in 1731. He says, uh, boy, and when the words were heard, which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul. And they and Saul sent for him. So he called them and says, hey, come on, let's talk to Saul. Saul's gonna uh agree or see if you can go do this. And he says, okay. So David stands up to go fight. Listen, we need some Christians that are willing to stand today. They're willing to hear the wickedness that's going on in the world and stand up for Christ. You know what? It might not be woke, but it ain't right. It might not be PC, but it ain't right. There ought to be some Christians that are willing to stand up and say, hey, this is not right. This is wrong. This is not what God would have. This is not pleasing to God. This is not right for your family. This is not right for our country. This is not right for an individual to do. And we've come to the place where uh even Christians are afraid to speak up or say anything because the world attacks so viciously and so hostile against any dissenting voice. But there needs to be some Christians like David who will stand up and say, Hey, you're not going to mock God. You're not going to stand there and make fun of Jesus Christ at the Olympics and not say anything about it You're not going to mock the Lord's Supper and pervert this this way and the Last Supper of Jesus Christ and the Christians just remain silent. I praise God that there was an uproar over that foolishness And there ought to be. Christians shouldn't sit down and be quiet when this world mocks our God, the creator of the universe and the savior of our soul. We need Christians that are willing to stand up. God has always looked for men that are willing to stand in the gap. That's what David did. He said, I'll stand up, I'll go fight. He goes to Saul and says, hey, don't worry about this, Gittite. Don't worry about Goliath. I'll take care of him. And Saul tells him, what? You're but a boy, and he has been a man of war since he was a boy. How in the world are you gonna fight him? David tells Saul how he defeated a lion and a bear out in the field caring for the sheep, not in his own strength, but in the power of God. He was able to take a lion and and save the lamb from the mouth of a lion, and to uh save his sheep from a bear. And knowing that God could do that, he says, I know that God can deliver this Philistine. unto me as well. And so Saul sends David into battle. He tries to give him his armor. I'll says, hey, take my armor, but David refuses it because it wasn't proven. He says, hey, this armor doesn't fit that good. You're substantially larger than I am. The armor's not going to work. David instead he takes five smooth stones and his God and goes into battle. As he goes into battle, we see in 1743 that Goliath curses David by his gods. He says, And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. But beloved, David killed Goliath by his god. He comes before him and he says, Hey, God, the Lord, is going to deliver you into my hand. And David kills Goliath. So boy, everything's going good. David's on top now, man. He has, through the power of God and uh the people have seen David kill Goliath and the victory that he has won there uh is attributed to him and then all of the Israelite army go out and they defeat the Philistines and all the rest of those that were killed that day are a tr Excuse me, attributed to David because he's the one that opened the door that won the victory for that. And of course we know the ladies begin to sing his praises. Oh, uh Saul has killed his thousands, but David has tens of thousands. And David is praised all over. He begins to be hailed, but he turns from being hailed to being hunted. All of a sudden we see now David the sought. He was sought after. Chapters 18 through 31 is this time period where David and Saul are playing cat and mouse through the hills around Jerusalem. I was able to, when I was in Jerusalem, to go into some of the different caves and the places. I don't know what's so interesting about caves, but uh they're they're fun, aren't they? I mean getting in caves, you guys are like, nope, uh no way. No, they're fun. They're getting in caves. Uh the kids and I went up for vacation in PA and there's this cave that you can go into and if you keep following it through you can come out the other side. And uh so we went through it a couple of times and one of the kids was running late. I don't remember exactly what happened, but uh They said the the other one came and they said, Well, uh you want to go through it, we'll take you through it. We've been through it before, you can go with us. And I said, Well, I don't want to go through it But what I was doing is I was st I was staying by the exit because when you come out the exit, the exit's a small hole and you gotta kinda like maneuver your way and climb out the hole. And so I was staying by the exit so when they came out I could scare 'em. So I'm like, you guys go ahead and uh I'm just gonna chill here with mom. And so we're standing there, as soon as they were gone in the cave, I ran around the other side of the mountain and got to where they came out and I got 'em. That was fun But uh, you know, dark caves. But it was fun getting in those caves and seeing all where David was hiding and uh playing cat and mouse with with Saul. And uh we see here in these chapters, first of all, that young David grows in power and popularity. I talked about that already, how the ladies sang his praises. He grows in power and popularity. We see a strong friendship with Jonathan is formed, a strong friendship with Jonathan is formed, and we spoke and talked about that uh in one of the services last week. But a servant uh We see that David had a servant's heart as well in chapter 18 in verse number five. He says here, and David went out whithersoever Saul sent him. and behaved himself wisely. David went out and served whatever Saul said, he did it. He had a good spirit about him. He wasn't all puffed up in pride. He wasn't hate I'm the one that killed Goliath. Who are you to tell me what to do? No, David was a servant. He did what God wanted him to do. He was willing to serve. He wasn't too big for his britches. I remember one time many years ago I was an assistant pastor at uh Heritage Baptist Church And um the one of the guys called the church, one of the other assistants called the church, and you know, I was an assistant pastor, and And I don't remember how something happened that I picked up the phone and I was just messing with them and I said, Hello, this is Pastor Botrell. And that bothered him. Later he came to me and he says, Listen, I think you're getting a little bit too big for your Bridges uh answering the phone pastor Battrell. I don't I'm j I don't care, you know, and I was just a pastor. I was assistant pastor. You know, but uh he didn't like me answering the phone like that. But uh I'll never forget it. But David wasn't too big for his bridges. Even though he had the praise of people, uh he he was still a humble guy, still a servant, just doing what God wanted to do And so we see that he had a servant's heart, but we see that the spirit of Saul is foul The spirit of Saul is foul, I mean he's just got a rotten spirit. You know, when you get away from God, you're going to have a foul spirit That's just the facts of the matter. You're going to end up with a foul spirit. Now you may feel justified. You may think that you're okay, that everything's fine, but the facts of the matter is you're living with a foul spirit, and that's where David or Saul was living In verse number 10, and it came to pass on the morrow that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house of David, played with his hands. uh at other times and there was a javelin in Saul's hand. And we see that Saul casts this javelin, tries to kill David, tries to stick him to a wall. Uh and uh that evil spirit that had taken the heart of Saul is foul. And because of that David is demoted. Oh man, everything was going good, but uh here's a problem. Listen. That's life. That's life. You're gonna have good days and you're gonna have bad days. You're gonna get the experience today where you defeat Goliath and everything is awesome, and you're on top, and man, is it fun! to be a Christian. Oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. Oh, it is wonderful. I mean you're excited and you got a song and you got a joy and and a a spring in your step. But listen, Satan is just around the corner and you're gonna have some bad days too. You're going to have some days where it's going to rain and Satan's going to try and discourage you. David gets demoted. Understand that's part of life. Just pray for strength to get through it and stay faithful because you're not going to be in the valley forever. The sun is going to shine. Darkness is for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. And you can, if you'll just stay faithful, you can experience the goodness of God again. David is demoted And then we see that David is deceived. David is deceived. You know that as The the man went to fight Goliath. Saul said, Hey, whoever fights Goliath, I'm gonna give him my daughter to marry. And uh David goes, fights Goliath, and wins And uh Saul says, okay, well, I'll give you my daughter. Here's Mirab. Um you can have her to marry. So I don't know, David's preparing for the wedding. Maybe she was The most attractive? Maybe she's ugly, I don't know, but here's the thing. The fact of the matter is, is she was the one that was promised. David's getting ready for the wedding. He thinks, okay, I'm going to get to Saul's daughter. We're going to get married. I mean, this is amazing. I'm going to be an heir to the throne. I mean, this is unbelievable. And uh then Saul gives Mirab to Adriel. Oops, sorry. That's not going to happen. He said, I'll tell you what, I'll give you Macal. You can have Mikhail. She was promised, but we talked about this last week. You remember Saul's intention was to kill David. So he says, I'll tell you what, you can have her But I don't need a dowry. What I want you to do is go out and kill a hundred Philistines. And David said, okay, he and his men went out and they actually killed 200 Philistines. Just for good measure. They double it up. The hand of God was on him. We see that in verse number 27. He says, wherefore David arose and went, he and his men with him, slew of the Philistines two hundred men. They slaw they slew 200 men. So Saul thought he was going to have David killed. He thought, boy, David's going to be done with here. But uh no, that didn't happen. And so Saul is more and more frustrated and we see that David is dogged. Go ahead, you can laugh. He is hunted like a dog. Isn't that a isn't that a y y like a dog chasing you on your heels? That's a dog, right? I mean you're You're y dogs. Yeah, you're like fine, we'll let you have it, Pastor. All right. Good. Well he he is chased like a dog. He's hunted down. David goes on the run And Saul is going after him. Chapters 19 and 20. Saul makes his uh third attempt and he continues to try and attempt to take David's life. Now understand, beloved, that Jonathan was the natural heir, but he submits. To God's plan. Jonathan was a natural heir, but he submits to God's plan. By Jonathan taking his robe off and putting it on David. Was a picture of him submitting to and understanding. Listen, I know that I'm the prince. I know that in uh the natural course of things, that the son of the king should be the next king But I'm acknowledging the fact that God is in control and God has put his hand on you, and I'm taking off my uh robe of royalty and I'm putting it on you Picturing his submission to the plan of God and his support of David as the king. And they covenant together and make some promises to each other which later in in uh when David is king, David honors that covenant if you remember Mephiboshev And uh David looks, is there any relatives of Saul left? Because I had promised him that I would care for his family And uh unlike other kings when they come to the throne, they killed everybody off that was before them. David said, David was mad at those that killed Saul's family, and we'll see that. But he also took care of Mophibosheth in honor to the covenant that they made to be gather together. And then David begins to run for his life And we're going to pick up there next week where David is running for his life and uh through the hills uh of Jerusalem there. And hopefully learn some more about his life and what God's doing in preparation to put him in as the king Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this Sunday school hour, the time and your word. I pray that, Lord, you would take these thoughts. And Lord, may we, like David, seek you with the whole heart. I pray, God, that we would be faithful in the positions that we've been put. However, we in our mind may think they're simple, it's just caring for some sheep on the backside of the desert, but Lord uh they're your sheep and we've got a job to do and I pray that we would understand that every classroom, every floor that's cleaned, every nursery worker, every song that is sung is is ministry for you and it's all important. And I pray that we would be faithful to do it as David was faithfully serving in his place. Lord, I just ask you to use these thoughts to change us, not just for information that we would hear and know the story, but that we would be changed and be more like you because of them. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed. All right, so we're going to just get right into it. We, of course, are here in the United Kingdom looking at the second of the uh three kings that led uh God's people as a united front uh before the kingdom was divided and uh we were began last week looking at the life of David. We got to uh what would be Roman Numer number four, letter D. Uh David is dogged. He's chased around like a like a dog, uh hiding from Saul in the hills uh and caves around Jerusalem. Saul continues to attempt to kill uh David over and over again in chapter 19. The friendship with Jonathan is evident as Jonathan was the natural heir, but he submits to God's plan and God's protection of David, uh signifying by putting his robe on him that he understood that he was gonna David was going to be the next king, and he gives him his robe and showing that position. They covenant one with another in chapter number chapter twenty, uh uh to care for one another, to protect one another's families, to uh be there for one another. They establish this covenant and David goes on the run for his life. He's going on the run for his life. He takes a short trip to Nob, just north of Jerusalem. And there, Eli's great-grandson, Ahimelech, was the high priest. And Elimelech was there serving as a high priest, and David and his men come upon them. And uh we see a lie that David tells in chapter twenty-one in verse number two. So we see this here um I gotta go back a couple chapters here. In chapter twenty-one and verse number two, David comes unto him. And he says, And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business. Had the king told him to do something? Had the king sent him on a mission? No, he was running from the king. He was on he was afraid for his life, and he was running from the king, but he says, Hey, the king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee and what I have commanded thee, and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place. So he says, Hey, the king sent me here. I'm on king's business. Uh no, I can't tell you what that business is. The king told me not to do it And of course, Himelec not knowing that says, oh, you know, okay, uh alrighty's in. And uh he and his men, they eat of the table of showbread. And he communicates the to him, hey, there's a need here, and they say, well, the Himalach says the only bread we have, the only food or sustenance we have is that of the table of showbread. That bread is there and still set apart and holy and he said, Well we have need of it and uh you know, hey, uh the time would come where it would be taken and used to feed the poor and and those that need it, and we're in need of it now, so uh why don't you give it to us? And he, the high priest there, decides to go ahead and do that. Now, Jesus In the New Testament, when he was talking to the disciples, the uh the Pharisees came to him and they said unto him, In Mark chapter 2, they said, hey, and it came to pass as he went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples began as they went to pluck ears of corn. And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the Sabbath day that which is not lawful And he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did when he had need and was inhunger, he and they that were with him? How he went into the house of God in the days of Abathar the high priest, and did eat the showbread, which is not lawful to eat, but for the priest, and gave also to them which were with him. And he said unto them, the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore the Son of Man, the Lord, also is also of the Sabbath. So he was saying, hey, there was a need here, and you what he's saying is the priest, although he didn't observe the letter of the law, he observed the spirit of the law. in understanding that this was that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. And uh that To obey is better than sacrifice, that, hey, this is God's plan, and there was a need there, and God would care for his people, and so it was acceptable. Uh was not really what was planned, but God was saying it was acceptable. And Jesus reiterates that when he was talking to him in the New Testament there. Now David uh Here in chapter 21 and verse number 9 uh tells us that he took Goliath's sword. He took Goliath's sword. Uh you see When you get away from God, you stop relying on God to do the work, and you start looking for other means, other ways to accomplish the task. You know, I think maybe David forgot that Goliath's door didn't help him much. Goliath, that great big man had that sword. And it didn't help him because David stood before Goliath with God. But now that David is on the run and kind of out on his own, he's looking for another way to do this. He says in verse number nine, then the king. uh called to Zibbeus, Saul's servant, and said unto him, I have given unto thy master's son all that pertaineth to Saul and to his house. I'm looking at the wrong I s I went back to second Samuel because that's where we're going. I'm in twenty-one, verse number nine. I read the wrong verse there. So Verse number 9 he says, And the priest said, The sword of Goliath, the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here, wrapped in a cloth, behind this ephod, and thou wilt take that. Take it. He says, hey, if you need this, take it. Here's Goliath's sword. What's mind-boggling is David takes Goliath's sword and goes down to Gath. To find protection. I mean that doesn't make any sense. You take the sword of the guy that you killed, that you chop the head off of their giant, their man of war. And you carry that sword into the enemy camp and say, Hey, I'm here. I need a place to hide for a while. Yeah. It's a statement for sure. Uh, you know, but he he is on the run and he runs to to the enemies of God. He goes down to Gath, which is where Goliath was from, and he walks in and says, Hey, I need to hang out for a little bit. I need to be with you And David over and over again spares Saul's life. If you read through these chapters, you'll see that he spared Saul's life in chapter 24 and then again in chapter number 26. Ultimately, David comes to the place where he defects, where he joins up with the enemy. David's defection is seen. in a state of discouragement and despondency. David has a group of merry men that join up with him. The Bible calls them debtors. They were disgruntled. They were despondent. These men had a problem, and that these group of men had nowhere else to go, and so they join up with David, and they all join the Philistines in chapter number 27, and he is given the city of Ziklag to abide in This city. That's where the okay, you're here. We're glad to have you, David. You're a mighty man of war for sure. Here is your city, your men. You guys can live here. You can abide here. This will be your home Having joined the enemy, he actually was ready to fight God and fight against his own people in chapter number 25. The Philistines were going to come up in uh against Israel in a battle And uh in chapter 29, they were going to fight him, and David and his men come and they show up for the battle and say, Okay, we're ready to go fight Now God intervenes and God allows David to be removed from the battle. And these men, the Philistines, are like, hey, isn't this David that Killed a whole lot of us? Isn't this the guy that took out Goliath? Isn't aren't these men I'm not real sure I want David at my back when we go into battle against his people? And so God intervenes and allows David to be removed from that battle so he does not have to fight against his pe own people. I think David would, if he would have gone into fight that battle, I think he would have fought against his own people uh because that's where he was at and that's where his allegiance was aligned but that's not where it should have been. And God saved him from having to do that Well they were away from home, all these men. They went up to the meet with the men and ready to go to battle. Uh they left their family and all their possessions in Ziklag. Well, the Philistines say, hey, we we don't need you. You get to sit this one out, David, you can go home. They say, okay. So they turn around and they head back to Ziklag. When they get back to Ziklag, they find out that Ziklag had been plundered. All of their possessions and their people, their wives and children, were all taken captive. Now it's notable, beloved, that it is the Zik it is in Ziklag that was plundered By the Amalekites. You remember back when Saul was told by God, kill the Amalekites. Don't leave one of them alive. And Saul made those excuses and he saved the king and he says, Hey, we did this because we want to offer sacrifice to God and Uh uh uh we did wholly what God told us to do. Well here they are again, the Amalekites now being a thorn in the side of David Had they taken care of that way back when, they wouldn't have had this problem now. And that's just a an ongoing reminder to us when God tells us to take a step of faith or tells us to do something in obedience. We should do it wholly and completely and get that settled before God so that it doesn't come back up in our lives and we don't have to continue to deal with it. He and his men pursue after the Amalekites in uh chapter number 30, and God gives them the victory. And we could Read many of these passages of scripture, but we're trying to get the broad overview uh to see kind of just what's happening here in the life of David as he is preparing to become the king. All of these steps and all of these things that happened, I believe, God used in the life of David to prepare him to be the king that God wanted him to be. And we come to the conclusion of 1 Samuel, and in chapter 31, Saul and his boys die. In fulfillment of the prophecy that God said that they would die and that they would die on the same day, and they did. And so David's preparation is coming to an end. We move into 2 Samuel and we see David, the sovereign. Second Samuel, we see David the sovereign. Now, Gus, could you throw up the uh timeline there for me? Um that we printed out for you, but it's hard to read um on the paper because it's a little bit So you remember this green line here is 1 Samuel. Right here, Saul dies. Chapter 31. The time of preparation for David is done. He's going to be moved into the king. He's going to be called as a king here. This line here is 2 Samuel. This is the life of David. We see he's born way back here. But now here, right here, he's anointed king of Judah. So he's king of Judah right here. In this timeline, you see seven and a half years right there. For seven and a half years he reigned just in Judah before he is anointed king over all of Israel. So there's some conflict, some civil war, some battle going on in between uh the two tribes here or the the two separations there, and David is king just for a little while right there. Um so we see, first of all, that David is found agonizing over the death of Saul. He certainly is discouraged, he's despondent about having lost Saul's life, even though Saul uh attacked him even though Saul was basically his enemy, he uh he wa he was hurt that Saul had passed away. And uh he's agonizing over the death of Saul Then David is publicly anointed as king in chapter number two. So let's see here. Well, let's look at chapter 1 and verse number 17. Uh one to verse number seventeen, and David lamented with his this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. David agonizing and and And so he's publicly anointed as king in chapter two and verses one through four, and it came to pass after this that David inquired of the Lord, saying Shall I go up unto any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said unto Hebron, so David went up thither, he and his wives, and verse number three, and the men that were with him. Did David bring up every man with his household, and they dwelt in the city of Hebron? So David's there, he's in the city of Hebron, and David right here at the beginning shows his reliance on God. Right from the first step. He's been running from God from Saul, he's been on running through the hills of Jerusalem, and right away he chose his reliance on God. He says, Okay, God, Saul's dead, what should I do? Should I go up? Should I go to take the position of king? And God tells him, you need to go up. And he says, okay, where? Where should I go? We see this direct reliance upon God and God's direction. Christian, we would do well to follow that example. To rely on God, to look for God, to direct our steps, to lead us each step of the way that we go. Too many Christians are going their own way and then just Hoping God will bless it. Or maybe later happening to ask God to fix the problem afterwards. Oh Lord, can you help me solve this problem now? Because I've gone and made a mess of things And we've all been there. So if we would heed like David, just he knew he was supposed to be the king, but he says at a time, Lord, should I go up And where should I go up? David begins his rule here. He rules over just Judah. And verse number four, there he he and the men of Judah came. And there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. So just over the house of Judah. They said, hey, you're you're the king, and we're recognizing that because we saw God's hand. Saw God do this, so we were anointing you as a king, but not the whole nation accepted him yet. So for uh at the same time Abner sets up Ishpasheth uh as king of Israel, verses eight and nine. But Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of Saul's host, took Isbosheth, the son of Saul, and brought him over. This is one of the reasons that in this time period and many through history, when a new king took over, they would kill all of the other king's family. But David wasn't going to do that. And so Ishbasheth, one of Saul's boys, came up and and Abner says, Hey, we're going to make you king. Of Israel. We want you, not David. And uh so they set him up as king. And for seven and a half years David reigned in Hebron. Verse number five that tells us that. He says And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh Gilead and said unto them, Blessed be ye, the Lord, that ye have showed this kindness unto your Lord, even unto Saul, and have What am I? Oh, I'm sorry. It's 5-5. I'm reading in chapter 2. In chapter 5, verse 5, it tells us the 7. 5 years. And Hebron, he reigned over Judah seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all of Israel and Judah. So he reigned there for seven and a half years in Hebron. And during that time he becomes stronger, he develops in his ability to lead, the people gather unto him, his leadership grows, God blesses him And we see over and over again that he is being successful. But uh ultimately Abner is questioned by Isbosheth. So you remember Abner set up Isbosheth as king. He says, hey We don't really like David. Why don't you, I mean you're one of Saul's sons. We want you to be king. And Ishbash said, that's a good idea. I think I could do that. And and Abner says, let's come on, I I I will make this happen for you. We're gonna call the men together. And and and he gets them there and he gets them in the position. As king. Now Isbashes is king, and uh he comes back and he questions So now he's the king, he's the leader. We see he questions Abner. Uh let me see here. So, at chapter 3 and verse number 7, you see, Abner had taken one of Saul's concubines. as his own. In chapter 3 and verse number 7, he says, And Saul had a concubine whose name was Risfah, the daughter of Ahai, and Ishbasheth said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine? He says, what are you doing, man? That that woman belonged to my dad. Why are you doing that? And uh Abner says, Who are you to question me? I put you in that position. He didn't like it being questioned. You know, people that don't want to follow leadership, they won't follow it anywhere You know, Abner didn't want to follow David, didn't want to recognize him. He wanted to set up his own guy, and he said, I'm going to make you king. And now Ishracept is king. The king comes and says, wait a minute. This is my father's concubine. Why are you going into her? And he's like, you can't question me I put you in that position. I made you this person. So Abner is offended. You can read through the story there and read about all that, but Abner's offended and he negotiates with David to defect. In verse number 21, he says, And Abner said unto David, I will arise and go, and I will gather all Israel unto my Lord the King. So now he's moving and going to bring Israel to David. And he says to the king, that they may make a league with thee, and that thou mayest reign over all that thine heart desire. And David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. So Abner wants to defect here. David's man, he says, okay, you can go in peace, whatever, you do what you do what you gotta do. Uh but the problem is Is David's man, Joab, takes revenge on Abner for killing his brother So David's man, Joab, he says, Joab's the leader of David's army. He says, hey, uh, Abner, why don't you come over here? I want to talk to you. He gets him in a back alley and he says, here I've got a secret for you. The Bible says that he smote him under his fifth rib in verse number 27. He says, and when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly. and smote him there under the fifth rib that he died for the blood of Ashal his brother. So he said, I'm not having this guy who's a traitor who killed my brother. So he goes and he takes his uh vengeance out on him. But Yisfraseth's position is weakened by the defection of Abner. He no longer has control of the children of Israel and all that's going on there, the conflict between the people, and Ishbash's own men kill him. Now in your notes there, did it get fixed? Do you you see is it chapter four verses two through seven? Okay. Um I had a typo here in mine from the beginning, uh but my notes are uh earlier revision. So it is chapter four, verses two through seven. His own men come to him and they kill him. And David mourns the death of Saul's family again and punishes those responsible in verses 8 through 12. Ultimately, David is able to reunite the nation. Chapter 5, verses 1 through 3. So here David, at the age of 30 years old, begins to reign over all of The nation of Israel. All of Israel and Judah together, they combined after seven and a half years of division, with him just re reigning in Hebron and over just a part of the nation. Now they're all together underneath his his reign as God wanted it to happen. And uh We see some resistance in Jerusalem, but the people recognize his victory in battle. They recognize God's hand on his life. They see that God is blessing him, that God is with him. In chapter 5 and verse number 10, it says that and David went on and grew great, and the Lord, God of hosts, was with him. This is a declaration of the people. They understood that David was being magnified by God, being lifted up by God, that God was present with him, and so the people unite behind him They remove the Jebusites from Jerusalem, and there in Jerusalem the kingdom is established. They begin to build the kingdom. They begin to establish a nation. and become stronger and stronger. David acknowledges God as King in chapter number six, recognizing he's followed God, he's humbly submitted to God, wants to do what God wants for his life, and he acknowledges that God is king David reveals his love for God right there in the beginning. He says, hey, what's most important is God. We're going to follow him. He's going to be the center of our nation. And in this picture, in evidence of that, he brings the ark of God to Jerusalem. in chapter 6, verses 2 through 11. So during the- in those verses there, verses 2 through 11, we have the story of David bringing the ark of God to Jerusalem. However, they foolishly followed the pattern of the world and tried to move the ark on a cart. This was not by God's direction. God's plan was for them to put two staves in the ark. It was manufactured. It was built that way. And only the Levites were supposed to carry it. They were supposed to carry it upon their shoulders. This was God's how he set up to do it. This is what they were supposed to do. But they thought, oh We remember the ark got moved on a cart, and man, that was a lot easier. But that was the world that did that, not God's people. And they were not to do God's work the world's way. In chapter 6 and verse number 7, we see that fateful move by Uzziah, who tried to save the Ark from falling, and he is killed. We see him here, he says, And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzziah, and God smote him there for his error, and there he died by the ark of God. You know, the story is that they were moving this ark on a cart, which it wasn't supposed to be on a cart to start with, and the cart jostled. And Uzziah decided, man, we don't want the ark of God to fall, and he reaches up to stop it, to save it from falling. But man was not supposed to touch the ark. Had it not been on a cart, had they been carrying it at with the staves as they were supposed to, they wouldn't have been in danger of falling But it begins to tilt. Uzziah tries to stop it and save it with all the best intentions in the world. But he disobeyed God. He touched the ark. And God killed him for it. Beloved, there's some lessons we learn from that, and doing the right thing the wrong way is still wrong. It's still wrong. The Ark of God represented or was the presence of God with his people, and that holy of holies, that sacred thing, was to be handled in a sacred manner. And what we need to do is we need to be careful that we don't get too familiar with the things of God. I grew up in a Christian home, went to the Christian school my whole life, and all of those years the Christian school was in the church house. We met for church for school in the church. And one of the downsides of that is the familiarity that young people get with the building and the church and all those things because it becomes to be kind of like our playground because that's where we spend all of our breaks and all of our free time and and the sacredness of the house of God is completely lost. And we have to guard against that as parents and as people. Now we don't want to be so stuffy that you can't, you know, walk into the house of God and and you know, be comfortable, but we need to remember this is a sacred place. And this is in the auditorium is not where we throw footballs You know, this is not where we uh play games. This is it is a sacred place, and we want to be very careful to maintain and keep it that way, and especially in the hearts and minds of the young, because they they will very quickly uh associated as a place of play. And we've got to guard against that because it is a holy sacred thing. We if we get too familiar with the holy We forget how precious it really is. And God's people had forgotten how precious the ark was. So they decided they were going to set this ark on a cart. Now they did it up. If you read the story here, they did it up. They built a new cart. A brand new, they didn't just grab any old cart. They built a brand new cart and said, man, this cart is wholly set apart for God. And they had instruments and they had a parade and they had all kinds of people out there. They were doing it up big for God and to recognize God, but they weren't doing it God's way. You know, just because it's big doesn't mean it's right. Guys doing okay? Just because it's big doesn't mean it's right. Just because you're sincere doesn't mean it's right. Uzziah was as sincere as he could be. His intention and his desire was 100% good. He didn't want the ark to fall. But sincerity doesn't equal right. And listen, I don't doubt the sincerity of many believers, many Christians or churches that are trying to use the world's methods to reach the world. I don't doubt the sincerity of their heart, the sincerity to try and reach people, the sincerity to try and get the gospel out But we're not to use the world's methods to do God's work. And it's we we must guard against that. There is no clearer picture in the Word of God probably than this. Because you have the Philistines who move the ark of God on a cart. Now God's people are going to move the ark of God on a cart, and God says, no, that's not the way we do it. There is a way that I have set up this to work and how you're supposed to do it. So David gets the Ark of the Covenant back to Israel. It's there. They've set the tabernacle up. The tent where the Ark of the Covenant rests. David's in the city and he's doing really well. But he realizes that while he dwelt in a house of Cedar, The ark of God was dwelling in curtains. He says that in chapter 7, verses 1 and 2. And it came to pass when the king sat in his house. And the Lord had given him rest round about all of his enemies, that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains He says, Man, I'm dwelling in this house of Cedar, this beautiful home that the king of Tyra has built for me. The king of Tyra, you can read about it, but the king of Tyra comes down and says, Man, David, we want to build you a house. He pays and invests a lot of money and and and helps David get a home of cedar built. And he David's sitting there and he thinks, man, I want to build a place for the She kinda glory of God to rest that is befitting the glory and the majesty of God. And David has this desire in his heart to do this good thing for God. And it's a great thing. And Nathan says to him, hey, that's a good idea. Why don't you do that? Look what he says in verse number three. And Nathan said to the king, Go do all that is in thine heart, for the Lord is with thee The prophet just says, hey, I think that sounds like a great idea. Let's build a magnificent home for God. Let's do it. But you see, Nathan the prophet hadn't consulted God on that yet. That very night, God comes to Nathan and says, wait a minute, here's some things I need you to communicate to David. Ultimately, he tells him no, but he uses the prophet to communicate a message unto him, and he tells him that he's going to be rewarded, and he's rewarded with what we know as the Davidic covenant. The Davidic covenant. Verses 10 through 16, there's several things. Verse number 10, we see that he is promised some things. He is promised a place in verse number 10. He says, Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people, Israel. And I will plant them that they may dwell in a place of their own and move no more, neither shall the children of Israel afflict them any more as before time. So we see two of the promises there in that verse. First of all, there's a place. Could I tell you that God has a place for you? God is a place that He's prepared for you. God is a place that He wants you to be. That's where you should go. That's where you need to be. You need to Find the place that God has for you. That's a principle that's seen many times in the scripture. The prophet Elisha was On the run, and God tells him, Hey, I want you to go to this place that I have prepared for thee And that is where I will feed thee during the famine. And he goes to the Brook Cherith. And then he says to him, Hey, we're done here at the Brook Cherith. I've got a place for you. I want you to go to The woman of Zarephath. God has a place for you, and you need to find that place. And then he promises him protection there. He says, Hey, the enemies of God, the enemies of you, are not going to afflict you as before time. He promises him protection. He promises him posterity in verses 11 and 12. He's going to establish his seed. He's going to make a house for him He says, you're going to have a family. Your name is going to be known. There's going to be posterity for you. Your lineage is going to be long. And then he promises him punishment if he doesn't do it in verses fourteen and fifteen. Now notice the Difference here, the contrast in between what he told Saul and what he's told David here in verses 14 and 15. He says, and I will be his father. And he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men. But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. He says, I had told Saul if he disobeys me, I was going to separate from him. David, if you don't follow me, I'm going to chasten you, but I'm not going to leave you. My mercy is going to be there. And that's the promise that God has given all of us. He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee But he has told us he's going to chasten us as sons, amen. That's what God's going to do. He's He's made that very clear, but He gives this promise to David, he's like, I'm not going to leave you, David. I'm going to be with you. Not like I did Saul. I'm not going to depart from you. Like the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. He's not going to do that. I'll have mercy, but I am going to chasten you, David, if you fail to follow God's plan. And then he gives them a promise of perpetuity in verse number 16, that his reign, his kingdom, these things are going to continue on, which ultimately is realized in Jesus Christ, and that reign is going to be forever So David reigns over all of Israel after defeating many of God's enemies. Chapter 8 and verse number 15, he restores all to Mephiboshev. The story of Mephibosheth is a very uh powerful illustration of the mercy and the grace of God, this man, Mephiboshev, who had no right to to any grace, who had no means of repaying David, who was all alone out there and by every natural right should have just been killed. But David shows mercy and grace and extends a hand to him because of the covenant that he made with Jonathan. Mephibosheth was alone, he was crippled Born in a family under the curse of God. Do you remember Saul's family was under the curse of God? You know we have all been born in a family under the curse of God. You were born in your sin, the Bible says. And your trespasses has separated us from God. So David reaches out to him, shows his love to him, his kindness to him. He actually brings him into his own home. And the Bible says here in chapter 9 and verse number 11 that he treats him as a son. Isn't that what Jesus did for us? We've been born into the family of God. Had no rights to it, did not deserve it, yet we've been brought into the family of God. We see that in chapter 9 in verse number 11 He says, Then said Ziba unto the king, according to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy servant do. As for Mephiboshef, said the king, he shall eat at my table. as one of the king's sons. He didn't just say, I'm going to take care of him. Uh here, give him some money. Make sure his needs are met. He said, no, I'm going to bring him into the family. We're going to treat him as a son. And that's what God, the King of Kings, did for us. We see the achievements Basically, through these first ten chapters here, the achievements of David as he becomes king, God uses David in a mighty way to accomplish his plan among his people. It was a time of struggle But it also was a time of great success. And uh I don't believe I gave you any blanks there because really it's a list of things we already talked about, but uh David unites the kingdom. It was done through his humility. He was humbly serving and following God. It was done through his compassion, which is seen in his care and concern for Mephiboshev. Uh David won great victories over their enemies. He conquered much territory that God had promised to them. Can you Uh do you have the map of the territories of Saul, David, and Solomon, Gus? Okay, so you see here the kingdoms, this smallest color here, this is King Saul, King David, and King Solomon. So King Saul David's kingdom expanded out here, established peace all around, prepared and laid the way. So God had promised Abraham that the children of Israel would possess land from the river of the Euphrates, which is right up here. the river Euphrates, all the way to Egypt on the south. This is the river of Egypt right here. They the the land that God had promised them was from here to here. This is all the way back in the Bible. This is land that God had given to them at that time, and they possessed At this time. Okay, now there's a lot of conflict over that land today, and who owns that land. But that was land that was given to the children of Israel by God. From there to there. And uh you hear a lot of comments and consideration about those things. Now we've got to wrap it up, but this point David the Sinner, 2 Samuel chapter number 11. We are going to, I'm going to deal with that point in the morning service. So you can keep your notes and we will cover that point in the morning service and you will see probably the most direct illustration of the difference between a Sunday school lesson and a preaching service. So it's the same notes, it's the same lesson, but they're handled differently because the goal and the objective is different. In Sunday school, the goal is an impart an impartation of information, trying to give us a grasp and help us to learn and get a hold of some facts. But preaching is to draw people to a point of decision. to present the information in such a way that we have to determine what we're going to do with it. That's what preaching is. And so we're going to cover those notes in the morning service this morning. Let's close and we'll be dismissed. So we are looking at the life of David, and uh we've discussed already. I hope you don't feel like we're getting bogged down here. We will conclude uh David today, but there's so many lessons to learn from his life and things that we've touched on as we've gone through, but we saw David as a shepherd when God called him to be king and pulled him out of the field and sent him to the throne. Obviously there was a lot in between there, but that's the direction he was going. Then we see David as a soldier, how he came on the scene and defeated uh Goliath and then was used of God mightily in winning many victories for Israel, and the people praised and sang about him. Then we saw how David was sought by Saul. They Saul was uh jealous of his victories and and his popularity and Saul said, Man, the only thing left for him is to take the kingdom Uh everybody el everybody already loves him. Uh I need to do something with this guy. And so Saul uh seeks him all over the kingdom, tries to uh kill him, but God preserves his life and protects him through it all Uh then we see David the sovereign uh as he becomes king. David uh is found agonizing over the death of Saul and Jonathan. And he is anointed king. He acknowledges God. He recognizes that God is the one that did it. He humbly says, Lord, what do you want me to do? Where do you want me to go? He seeks God each step of the way. And because of that, God blesses him mightily. He reunites the nation. uh and is victorious in that. And then he realizes that God dwelt in curtains, but he dwelt in cedar, that he had a very nice house and he desired to build a house for God. But uh God says, no, that's not going to be for you to do. You've got bloody hands. You're not going to be able to build the house for me. Uh but I'll let you prepare for it. And we're going to talk about that in a little bit. But uh he gives him a covenant. We talked about the covenant last week in Sunday school and listed a few of his achievements. Then in Sunday morning service last week, uh forgive me for through we're gonna go through this real quickly here, but we saw David the sinner We preached that in the Sunday morning service last week, walked through that. But uh for those that are online listening or whatever, I'm just going to run through this quickly We saw that there was no caution in David's life regarding sin, how he was careless with the ladies, careless with his responsibilities, didn't do what he should do, and that put him in the place. where he wasn't very careful with his eyes and uh that caused him to uh go and sin and do what he shouldn't have done In his sin, he tried to cover it. There was a covering of his sin in uh verses six through twelve of chapter number eleven, tried to find a way to cover it up, to hide it. And uh that caused him to continue. He continued in sin. One thing led to the next. Sin begets sin, and he continued in his sin, and then we see a cost for it. We also got into during the message there about David the sorrowful. In fact, the matter is, is Nathan comes in chapter number 12 and confronts David. The same man that just a few years a few years ago was used of God to anoint David, to call David from the field, is now accusing David or confronting David with his sin, directed by God to do so. David uh is at first very in his indignation is great over the story that he's told uh by the prophet about the man that stole the one little ew lamb and And he's mad. He says, man, that should never have happened. That man should die, and he should have to repay fourfold. Ganathan says, thou art the man. And David is struck with the reality of his sin and what he had done. He confesses his sin. He acknowledges it right away, unlike Saul, who's Hard heart would not repent. David repents of his sin and God forgives him. In chapter 12, verse number 13. Now, David still reaps the consequences of sin, and a lot of times there is still going to be reaping. Uh, you know, one of the things in the prison ministry that we've just got started, uh sometimes men may think or feel like, well, if I come to God and God forgives me, then everything's okay. But they are still serving a sentence, whatever that sentence may be. It may be a year or two or ten years, and they're still going to have to serve that sentence. Yes, God can forgive them of the sin or the crime that they committed, but they still have a penalty that has to be paid And s David finds that out. And uh the prophet tells him, Hey, your baby's gonna die, and it does. The baby that was conceived in this adulterous relationship with Bathsheba uh is born and then dies. They're brokenhearted over it. Amnon lusted and uh raped his own half-sister Tamar in chapter 13, verse number 14. Uh this is again in The prophet told David that there was going to be these things amongst his home that was going to cause these problems. Absalom, uh Tamar's full brother, if you look at the house of David, the lineage there uh you will see that uh under Meka, the bride Mekaiah, that Absalom and Tamar were both her children and uh so they were full brother and sister but uh the Amnon was only half brother uh from another lady there with with one of David's other wives. And so uh Absalom uh is furious about this and he kills Amnon for the sin against his own sister. Absalom steals the throne from David in chapter fifteen and David weeps uh from the anguish that is ultimately because of his sin. So he pays these these dear, dear prices. Then there's conflict in the kingdom. I don't believe that we got into this last week, so we're going to pick up right there dealing with David's conflict over the kingdom. In the middle of this time of punishment, in the midst of God uh coming and David have to pay the penalty for his sin. Absalom flees the city after killing Amnon. Absalom flees the city. He says, hey, I've killed my half-brother. I've got to run for my own safety. He spends three years with his pagan grandfather. During that time David never reaches out to him. David never goes to visit him. David never tries to mend that relationship at all. David allows that bitterness and that rift between him and his son to continue to grow. Can I encourage you, if there is a rift, if there's a problem somewhere, don't let it continue to grow That's not going to help anybody. You need to, if thy brother, if if thou hast aught against thy brother, go to thy brother. That's what the Bible says. Go to them. and repair that. Go talk to them. That's the only way you're going to get through it. That's the only way anybody's ever going to be able to go past it. So you need to deal with it. David did not deal with it He let it sit. Absalom spent three years away and allowed this bitterness to grow. Absalom is recalled to the city. Finally he reaches out and says, Well I want to come home. Can I come back? He's recalled to the city. He's in Jerusalem, and still David has nothing to do with his own son. Now this doesn't line up with what we see in a couple of chapters where David cries out and says, Absalom, oh my son Absalom, would to God. I had died for thee. So he's brokenhearted over his son who died and is gone, but for all these years he wouldn't spend any time talking to him. He wouldn't repair this relationship. And uh I'm not running down this road right now, but this is one area where David failed as a father, uh, not working on that relationship with his son. So for three years he was waited, Absalom's called back was not allowed to come before the king. This bitterness is allowed to grow until Absalom plots to take the kingdom. So Absalom's angry, he's upset, nothing's been done to repair the relationship, and now Absalom says, you know what? I'm going to take the kingdom from my father. I am an heir to the throne. I could be next in line. I'm going to go ahead and pursue this and decide to try and take the kingdom from his father. So we see in chapter 15, where we're going to start looking at the Word of God, beginning at verse number 6, that he diverts the hearts of the people. Look well, let's just back up uh in verse number two. And Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate, and it was so that when any man had come uh had a controversy to come to the king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and he said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is one of the tribes of Israel And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right, but there is no man deputy of the king to hear thee. You see Absalom here, he's saying, Hey, you have a pro you have a problem? Man, that is a problem. That is really important. Notice that the king has not put anybody here to hear your cry, to deal with your problem. But I'm going to hear you. I'm the king's son. And he's standing there and he is undermining his father. He's stealing the hearts of the people. Look at verse number six. And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel Absalom undermining his father, standing there, and in at one time, in verse number four, he says, Absalom said, moreover, oh, that I were made judge in the land. that every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice, he is at the same time patting himself on the back and undermining his father, saying, Hey, uh if I was doing this boy, here's how I would take care of it. Oh yeah, you're you're you definitely have a grievance that should be heard before the king, but he doesn't care enough about you to send anybody to listen. He doesn't bother with it, and he's undermining his father. He's he's on purpose. You need to be careful, Christian, about flattery. Be careful about flattery. The the Proverbs has a lot to say about false flattery, and I know that we enjoy hearing it and we like it when somebody takes our side and we like it when somebody wants to uh pat us on the back, but understand Absalom's objective had nothing to do with caring for those people. What his goal was was to steal the kingdom from his father. That's what he wanted, and he was using the people to do it. So he was healing the hearts of the people. First he diverts the hearts of the people there. And then he divides the kingdom. Look down in verse number ten. But Absalom sent spies through all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron You remember when uh David became king initially that he reigned in Hebron for a little while. And so Absalom says, you go through the land. get all these key people uh situated throughout all the land and we're gonna blow trumpets and everybody all throughout the land we're gonna spread the word that Absalom's reigning in Hebron, that he's the king and we're going to follow him. And everybody that doesn't know anything yet, everybody that's been kind of kept in the dark. Will think, oh man, the the whole nation. Everybody, I mean, it's everywhere. Everywhere you go, there's a guy that's saying we're gonna we're following Absalom now, and he divides the kingdom By trying to connive or deceive the people into thinking that David was no longer ruling, then he drives David from the land in verse number 17. Verse number 17 he says, And the king went forth and all the people after him and tarried in the place that was far off. The king went forth out of the land, all the people after him. He he had to leave. He drives David from Jerusalem On his way out of town, Shimei, we're not going to look at all these, but we kind of uh going for a couple of chapters, we're going to move through the end of this, but Abishai wants to kill him, but David says, uh So Shimei, if you remember the story, Shimia, David's on his way out of town with his men, Abishai is right with him, and Shimmii is up on a on a Hill and he's throwing stones at David, chucking little stones like a pest, you know, he's throwing stones. And he's yelling at David and he says, Oh, thou man of blood You you bloody man, you you killed so many people. Now your chickens are coming home to roost, and this this little gnat is up on the hill like a like a snot-nosed brat, and he's throwing little stones and and mocking and making fun of David and saying, That's right. You run and go. And Abishai says to says to the king, uh let me go up there and kill that guy. Let me just let me take him out. I mean, this is ridiculous. Why are you the king? Why are you listening to this idiot? And uh the king says, No. You're not going to go kill him. He says maybe God put him there to humble me. Maybe God took maybe God is telling him to say those things about me so that I would get a correct perspective of where I'm at And and there there is a uh book, the title of it is uh uh Three Kings. I think it's three. A Tale of Three Kings by Edward somebody. And he describes and talks about the difference of how David responded to Saul. when David was the uh next king that's supposed to be in place, and then how David responds to Absalom when he's the king and somebody is taking over. And then how David responds to Saul, I mean to Solomon when Solomon does take over. And it is a fantastic study on how to deal with leadership and the the different positions that you might be in Sometimes you might be the servant, sometimes you might be the leader, sometimes you might be the one under attack. How should you respond? And very powerful uh book. We ought to get it in the bookstore for you. Uh but a tale of three kings is It's an easy read. I would encourage anybody to read it. Uh, that really breaks down the dynamics of those relationships between those three different kings and when they ruled. But Abishai wanted to kill him. David said, nope, don't kill him. So Absalom moves into Jerusalem to take the throne in chapter 16 and verse number 15. Chapter 16, 15, Absalom comes in and says, boy, I'm taking the throne. And Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem and Ahithophel with him. So his counselor, his leader, general was with him. He comes in, he takes the throne in Jerusalem, thinks, well, I'm ruling now, I am in charge. Ahithophel in chapter 17, right in the beginning, Ahithophel says, I want to pursue David. I want to take twelve thousand men. We're gonna go, we're gonna attack David, we're gonna kill him. And uh uh Hushai Says, no. This is chapter 17. Moreover, Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David that night. He describes what he's going to do to him. But he calls in verse number six, and when Hushan was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken after this manner, shall we do after him, saying, If not, speak thou. So Hushai says, listen, David right now, you know he's a mighty man. You've heard the songs about him in battle. David is a mighty man of battle. Not only that, he has a large group of his mighty men with him. These men that have been faithful and follow him. I mean, pretty much any story of battle for the last 50 years has been about David and these men. And right now they are like a mother bear who's been robbed of her of her cubs. Right now they are mad. They are hornets. I mean you you you do not want to mess with them right now. And he says, Don't do this. I don't know if it was God's direction or what, but the wisdom of that probably saved David's life and these men. I mean, if they would have taken enough men, they could have done it, but God preserves preserves David by this advice and Absalom chooses not to go after David. Let's let him cool down. Let's let him get comfortable. We'll deal with him later. In chapter 18, David sends men back to deal with Absalom. He asks them specifically, hey, we're going to get the throne back, but you need to be careful with my son. Remember, he's my son. Be gentle with him, he actually says in chapter 18 in verse number 5. And the king commanded Joab and Abishai And uh it types saying, deal gently for my son's sake, with the young man, even with Absalom. He says, hey, we're going to get the king back, go kingdom back, go take back the throne. And they they wisely say to him, listen, you don't want to be in this battle. Uh the the generals say, you are worth 10,000 of us. We don't want anything to happen to you. We're going to protect you. Let us go into battle. You stay here. And so the king says, okay, I'll do as you say. I'm going to stay back You guys go win the victory, but remember he's my son, be careful with him. So uh if you recall the story, uh Absalom is fleeing the city. He's riding on a donkey and his hair gets caught. He has long hair and his hair gets caught into a tree. And uh Isn't it frustrating your mind goes blank? Uh there's a um preacher from many, many years ago. And my mind Mine just went bank. The name of it. Lester Roloff. Lester Roloff preached a message entitled, And the Mule Walked On. And uh the dead and the mule walked on. And and it was on that story of David when he was f I mean uh Absalom when he was fleeing, he was running and he you know, he was bouncing, and and his long hair flew up and got caught in a tree and the mule walked on. So he's hanging there by his hair and and can't do anything about it. He's stuck. And uh so uh then one of the servants comes and sees Absalom there, and he runs and tells the general, and the general says, Well why didn't you kill him? And this servant said, and and and the general even told him, I would give you 30 pieces of silver for that, 30 shekels. And the servant said, if you gave me ten thousand shekels, I wouldn't touch that man. That's the son's king. I mean that's the king's son. And uh so this young servant has got more wisdom and Joab says, you know, uh nope, we're gonna go deal with this. And he turns around and goes back and he stabs Absalom through the heart, the Bible says with three darts. And so he kills Absalom. Then they come back and they tell they carry the news to David. David's been eagerly awaiting the news of the battle. Were they victorious? But mostly he asks after his own son. And look at chapter 18 and verse number 33. Chapter 18 and verse number 33. There's lots of conversations there you can read through there, but And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept as he went. Thus he said, Oh, my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom Would to God I had died for thee, Absalom, my son, my son. He was broken. His son had died, and he was broken over it. This, of course, opened up the throne. Absalom was no longer on the throne. The uprising was squelched, and David is able to return to Jerusalem in chapter 19 there. Now his life is coming to a close. We're getting to the end here. We're coming to the closing chapter. He does deal with some scrimmages. He fights another battle with the Philistines. He uh defends the Gibeonites. He's got a few other things that he does in the coming chapters. But in chapter number 23, we see his last words are recorded for us. And I know this stuff's not in your notes. If you just want to make note of it or mark it down, but in 23, his last words are recorded for us. And in chapter number 24, we have the sin of David where he numbers the people. Uh out of pride, he's reaching the end of his life and he says, you know what? I want to see how many people we've amassed. I mean how how how big is our following? How many likes do I have right now? How many people have clicked through on my video? This goes very much against modern culture and this seeking of uh personal praise and gain and how many likes you can get and how many followers you can get. David said, How many followers do I have? And his his wise counselor said, what does it matter? Why do you care? You can look out of your palace and see that God has blessed you magnificently. It's more than you can possibly count. I mean, why would you bother with it? Uh just glory in God's goodness And he says, I want to see how many there are. He sends his men out. They take nine months to do a census. And they come back and they report unto him what they find. Shortly thereafter, God smokes his heart and he realizes the sin of what he had done. And God sends the prophet to him and tells him, hey, you've sinned against me. You're going to pay a penalty, a judgment. But I'm going to give you the option to choose one of three judgments. And the prophet lays out three different penalties that he could decide to pay. And David wisely chooses to fall on the mercy of God. He says, I will put myself at the hand of God in the mercy of God, because I know his mercy endureth forever And uh opposed to me choosing a penalty or opposed to me saying, hey, this is what I want, I'm just gonna ask for the mercy of the court. I did that once. It didn't do me any good. I standing before court and just said, I uh I am guilty, but I plead the mercy of the court. And he said, Oh well, and he threw the book at me. Just to ever he did uh the judge did everything he could do except put me in jail. Uh the letter of the law. I was not very happy. But I had to I mean I was guilty. I mean I there's no way around that. So that's what happened with David here. But he fell on the mercy of God and God is merciful. After this, you'll see in chapter number twenty-four, Bert, look at twenty-four, verse number twenty-five. David And and you can read these chapters and just see the heart of David and see his desire to please God. Did David always do it right? No. David messed up. But he had a desire to please God. And we see in chapter twenty-four, verse number twenty-five. That David wanted to please the Lord, he built an altar unto him. And the king said unto Ryan, Nay, but I will surely uh am I in um Well, verse number 25, I was reading verse number 40. And David built there an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, so the Lord was entreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel. So as part of his punishment, God sent the plague and he built an altar and came back to God, repented, and God's mercy stayed the hand of judgment on the nation of Israel. Then we see lastly David the sponsor. At seventy years old, uh David lived a long life. He experienced much. His time, his reign is coming to a conclusion. We see this described for us in 1 Chronicles chapter 22 through 29 chronicles these events. There's a lot of uh time frame there, but he he covers these things. We're going to cover it very quickly. But because the blood that was shed, God would not allow him to build the temple himself, the temple that he desired to build. He wanted to do it. He had a desire to do this for God. And God said, nope, that's not for you. I used you to accomplish something else, to bring peace to the land. Now we're going to allow your son to do it. So David the sponsor is in this way, he is going to do all he can to prepare the way, to lay the foundation. uh on bridge builders and how it is our responsibility as parents to build a bridge for our kids. There's a lot of times in life that we've had to walk through some pretty rough stuff. There's times in life that we had to learn in the School of Hard Knocks. We had to go through that valley. But our goal is to build a bridge for our kids so they don't have to go through that valley. To give them a means, a capacity to go over that mess that's down there in the world. And as we build those bridges, we're preparing the way for them, which is what David was doing for his son. David fought the battles. David uh went to war. He he secured the peace. And then he prepared and gave all that he could to his son that he might honor and glorify God by building this temple and giving preparing all this thing. He gathers all the materials for the temple. And the plans uh from God that God had given him, they're drawn up. He gets block and iron and cedar and silver and people to serve in the temple. He's got everything lined up. He holds a dedication service. Gathers all the people, the nation together, all the men, and he presents to Solomon and his son the plans for the temple that God allowed him to draw. Here's the plans, this is what you're going to do. And he praises God for all he and his son have done. And he asks a prayer for God to give his son Solomon a perfect heart in his service. His time comes to the end, and uh he is about to pass over pass off the scene and turn this over to his son. Now on your timeline here you'll see The reign of Saul there at the very, very top, the reign of Saul is marked off at 40 years. Then the reign of David is marked off. You'll see he also served as king for 40 years. That brings us to the end of 2 Samuel, and we'll see how far we get in mentioning some of these Psalms. We have listed down here all the Psalms that were written during this time period. uh that fit kind of into what we've discussed thus far. And uh obviously we're not going to have time to teach on all of those, but they correlate to what's going on in the life of Saul and David during during those time periods Alright, we are uh a couple minutes early, we're gonna bring this to a conclusion