This prideful uh king who just would not yield to God, and then we began to look last week at the Israel underneath David, and Discussed several things there and uh very challenging thoughts as we considered the life of David and we saw David anointed as king. And uh he was put in place and ultimately was uh anointed by the prophet many, many years earlier. Uh but the time came when uh he was going to actually be put into place. And then we re we talk about how he was recognized by only Judah for a while. He just was king of Judah and Israel, the lower set of kings Kingdoms kind of uh stood in opposition to him and did not want to respond to him and uh until they realized that God's hand was on them. And we talked about how you just do right, God'll bless and God'll God'll resolve and take care of those things. And uh we don't have to, and you'll see that by the life of David in his submission to Saul, uh and then when David's King, and then he's under attack by Absalom, which we'll get to later tonight. Again, he is the one with humility and a submissive spirit, and uh God blesses again So he was anointed as king, then he was acknowledged uh as king, uh, and uh David revealed his love for the Lord. And we talked about that last week and kind of got stuck there as we talked about how the lesson David learned. When he wanted to do something good and essentially bring the presence of God to the center of Israel, bring the ark to Israel to get it to Jerusalem. And uh in his method of bringing the ark to the people of God, he found that this method was not correct. That it was a good thing he wanted to do, and in all sincerity he did it, but sincerity does not necessarily equal right. And uh so God is concerned with how we do his work. Amen? The end, although it's a philosophy that's very prevalent today, the end does not justify the means. The means are still important, and how we do things is still important. And I know the end, you know, the end and the ultimate goal, and I preached on it whenever, sometime in the last few weeks, about the heartbeat of our church needs to be reaching souls. But how we do that is important. It's not just whatever we can by whatever means. God has given us some guidelines and we need to do it with Within those guidelines that we're pleasing to God as we do it. And so we saw that David was the ruler over Israel, Israel. And he dwelt there in Jerusalem. It was something to behold. He beholds the contrast between his house and the house of God. Look in chapter 7, verses 1 and 2. There's so many lessons we can see as we walk through these pages of scripture here, but chapter 7, verse number 1 and 2 he says, And the mid of the men of Kerjath Jerem came and And fetched up the ark of the Lord and brought it unto the house of Abinadab in the hill. Am I in seven? I'm in chapter one. And that's where you're like, what are you guys doing? I'm thinking this is not looking Like it's supposed to on all right, chapter seven of Second Samuel, not first Samuel. So, and it came to pass when the king sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest roundabout from all his enemies. That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth with curtains. David sat in his house and he realized the great contrast between the place which he dwelt and the place which God was expected to dwell And he realized in his heart it was pricked that, hey, there's something out of balance here. There's something not quite right here. Here I dwell in this mansion, in this place made of wood, of a high quality wood, and yet the ark of God, the presence of God, has been made to dwell in a place of curtains And you know, Christian, we ought to at some times do a heart check and look at the blessings and the benefits of God upon our lives And see what it is that we are doing for ourselves and what it is we're doing for God. That's what David did. He's sitting there and God had given him peace. God had given him the the it says there that the his peace from his enemies. He was able to sit and enjoy himself, and he thought, wow, I'm experiencing the blessings of God. Look at this. I don't have any enemies attacking. I get to enjoy this beautiful home. And then it registered. Whoa. What about God's house? And we need to sometimes do a heart check. You understand that we need balance in the Christian life. You can be, and there's been a number of pastors through the years that have been way overbalanced or way out of balance, I should say, and they've given their entire life to the church. To the neglect of their family. And they needed to do a heart check and say, Lord, what needs to adjust here? And they need to sometimes adjust the other way. Now, usually that's not the case for most people, right? That's most of the time that's not the case. Most of the time, because we tend to be selfish people, because we tend to see our needs first. That's human nature, and I'm not you know, stepping on anybody's toes on purpose tonight, but I'm just telling you that we do that. And because of that, occasionally we need to stop and say, am I in balance? Am I doing, am I investing all my time and effort into this world, to wood, hay, and stubble? We have to go to work. You have to earn a living. Sadly. Wouldn't it be nice if somebody would pay you to go soul winning, Brother Greg? Wouldn't that be awesome? You know what's what's that guy that pays the liberals to go pick it? You know, what's his name? Stores. Yeah, Stores can go out there. If he could find somebody to pay us to go sew with it, amen. Well I get paid to do that. I'm blessed But the majority of people you gotta earn a living. I understand that. There's some measure of wood, hanging, stubble that you've got to do. But we need to have it in balance, right? How did Brother Hoffmeister put it? Don't trade your your your trade. For your per for your purpose. Purpose. Yeah. For your purpose. And that's what we gotta do is occasionally we gotta Just do a balance check. Am I in balance? Sometimes I'll tell my kids, hey, we're spending too much time playing We need to rebalance. You know, you stick clothes in a washing machine and you had the thing just go out of whack or just It starts vibrating out of the. See, if you leave it, it's going to walk out of the house, you know. It's got to be rebalanced. Well, in the Christian life, we find times like that where we've got to get rebalanced. Just gotta get things back in check, whatever those might be. And so David found that he needed to get things back in check and he wanted to build the house of God. He wanted to do a good thing. He desired to build the house of God. It's great to have a desire to do things. For God, to do good things. To have that desire in our heart, I think, is wonderful. But David was disappointed because he could not. Now if he You know the story. He could not build the house of God. God said, Nope, sorry, David, because you have what on your hands? Did anybody know? Blood. You have blood on your hands. Because he was a man of war. Again, we see God being particular about how things are done. He desired to do a great thing, but even as king, God said, You know what, David, you're a great man. I've set you up as a king. You're a good leader. But you cannot build the house of God. I'm going to have your son do that. But what's amazing is how God declares his goodness to David. He reminds David of several things. Look down in verse number 8 of chapter 7 here. He says to David, he says, Now therefore, so shalt thou say unto my servant David, he's through the prophet, he's talking to him. Aren't you glad that we can talk to God ourselves? We can just go to the Lord and He can talk to us. He says, Now therefore, so shalt thou say unto thy servant David, thus saith the Lord of hosts, I took thee from the sheep coat from following the sheep to be ruler over my people over Israel. And I was with thee whithersoever thou winst And I have cut off all thine enemies and out of thy sight, and have made thee a great man, like unto the name of great men that are on the earth. Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people. Now we're getting there, verse number 10, we're getting into something else. But what he does is he reminds David of all that God had already done with him. He says, David I took you from taking care of the sheep. I took you out of the field, David. I lifted you up I made you a leader among men. I gave you prominence. I gave you power. You were a mighty warrior. You defeated Goliath. I was going to say Samson. You defeated Goliath, David. I mean people sang your phrases, and then I made you a king, a ruler over all my people. And you know, sometimes, Christians, sometimes we get to the place where we forget all that God has already done with us And we get our heart set or our mind on what we want to do something else. Or we get a little look at we want to do this or we want to do that or I wish I had the means to do this And sometimes God's got to remind us where we came from, how much He's already done for us and through us. The gifts that He's already given us and the magnificent way in which He's already blessed us. And He said, David, I took you out of the sheep field. You would still be a sheep herder. And you and I, we would still be a sinner on our way to hell outside of the grace and the mercy of God. He picked us up. He says, I want to show you what I've already done, David. And it's amazing to me. You know when God takes something from you, he always gives you something better. He always gives you something better. And David was heart sick. Hope deferred make it the heart sick. David wanted to do something great. He wanted to build the temple of God. And God said no. Man, God took that away from me. But it's amazing what God ended up giving him. David is rewarded with a covenant. This chapter 7 here talks about the covenant of God that God gave him. One of the three covenants that are in the Old Testament. We have first the Abrahamic covenant, that's the covenant with all that all nations are going to be blessed. Through the descendants of Abraham. Then you have the Mosaic covenant. That was the covenant that God made with Moses, talking about the children of Israel would be blessed as individuals if they obeyed God. And if they didn't obey God, they would be punished. But God said, if you obey me, I'm going to bless you. And then you have the Davidic covenant that we are given here in this chapter, verse 10 through 16. And this is one of the three covenants, so I think it's important that we look at it and see it in light of the Promises given to us here, which also point to Jesus Christ. They point to the ultimate deliverance of man, to the ultimate king over men. Jesus Christ. So it starts in verse number 10, and the Davidic covenant is given here verses 10 through verse number 16. He says, Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people, Israel, and will plant them And they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more, neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more as before time. You see, in verse 10 here, there's two promises we're seeing. First of all, he promises them a place. They're going to have a place. That's why we know that Israel was going to come back, the nation of Israel. was going to come back to uh Palestine, to Jerusalem, going to be in that place, because it was a promise of God that this would be their land. And he he gives them a place and he promises them protection. The second half, he says, neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more as before time. God promised them protection. In verses 11 and 12, God promises them prosperity. He said, And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people, is Israel and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. He's gonna give them rest from their enemies. Also the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee a house. He's gonna give them a house. That's a lineage, that's a seed, that's a that's a that's a very good thing. a people. And when they when thy days be fulfilled and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after after thee, which shall proceed out of thy vows, and I will establish his kingdom. He promises them prosperity, he promises them power that he's going to establish the kingdom through them. Now in verse number fourteen, we don't like this, but he also says, he says, I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he committeth iniquity, I will what's that word? Chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men. He says, You do wrong, and I'm going to send a nation over to beat you. He says, I'm gonna get I'm gonna send somebody with a rod, and they're gonna come over with the rod of men. God says, I'm gonna send and how many times do we see that in the Word of God? God's people get backslidden, they get away from God, they start complaining, and God says, Okay, and he sends in a nation. To chasten them. Over and over again we see that. And this is the promise that God's giving to him right here that is perpetual. And in verse number sixteen we see the uh perpetuity of it. In verse number sixteen he says It says in thine house, in thy kingdom shall be established. What does it say? Forever before thee, thy throne shall be established Forever. Now, the amazing thing is, is his throne, David's kingdom was going to be established forever. You say, Pastor Caleb, how is that possible? Because uh David said. And that is not there. Now there's some things here, and I'm not the best on all of this, but here's what I know that as A descendant of David, Jesus Christ, who is the King of Kings. Who is in the line of David. And that is how a kingdom is established by the lineage of a man. And God gave him the King of Kings in his lineage, and his kingdom will be established forever. Amen. That's a promise from God. And it's exciting to see. So we see here uh the the last main thing I gave you there. What what was it? David's what? David is it acknowledged as king. We've seen that. Then we see his achievements as king Really, chapters 1 through 10 kind of talk about his achievements, but these achievements, what I want to show you is that how or why he achieved these achievements. things. He was a great king. This is the time of greatest prosperity for the children of Israel that they ever experienced. Why is that? Look at chapter 7, verse number 18. David was just given this covenant from God Almighty. I mean, how would you feel? If President Trump came to you and said, listen, Waba, I'm going to take care of all your needs. Anything that you need, anything your family needs, from now until eternity We'll take care of your family. Would that be awesome? Amen. That would be, I mean, wow. Hey I'm gonna establish you are gonna I'm gonna tell everybody you are a personal friend of mine. You are uh and you you're under my protection, I'm taking care of you. Anybody messes with you, my guys are gonna get 'em. I mean That'd be awesome, right? That's what God did for David. So did David go like this? Hmm. I'm partners with God. No, look at verse number 18. We see here a key or one of the reasons that David was such a good king. In verse number 18, he says, Then went King David in and sat before the Lord, and he said, And he said, What? Who am I, O Lord God? And what is my house that thou hast brought me hitherto? I don't deserve this. You brought me here and you've made me a king and you've given me all these things. God, I don't deserve any of this And then you want to go on top of that and you want to give me a covenant that would that my name would last forever and that my kingdom would be established forever? And he said, God, who am I Man, Christian, if we would get a hold of that kind of a spirit, instead of being puffed up, what hast thou that thou hast not received? God gave it all to us, and yet we think so much of ourselves. Instead of being like David and saying, Who am I to experience such blessings from God? Who am I to be gifted so strongly from an Almighty God? Who am I to be blessed with such a family from God? Who am I? That a king would live and die for. Who am I? Amen. Who am I? So David said, one of the reasons he was such a powerful king and did such a great job is because he led from a position of humility. He was humble. He was brought low by this promise, not brought up. He had compassion on others. Chapter 9 gives us the story, and I don't have time tonight to go into it, but the story of Mophibosheth. How he took care of the descendant of Saul Mephibosheth. Do you remember that? And any other monarch, what would they do? They would go kill him. Kill them, just take them out. Just anybody, because they might rise up. But David didn't. He had compassion. He had mercy. An example of what Christ would do. Having compassion and having mercy. So David was achieved many things because he has humble because he was humble, because he had compassion, and Israel experienced the greatest Days that they ever had. They worship the one and only true God, which we see as a continual conflict in Israel, where they want to worship other gods and get drawn away. But they I just lost my notes Who am I medicine? You guys doing all right. Live and die for Voila. I found him. You guys thought we were done. Well he's out of notes. We're going home. Yeah. Well, I'm not like some men who can just preach from their memory. If I had to rely on my memory, I'd be in trouble. Amen. The word of God. We just Take a while to walk through verse by verse though. We're getting to the end of the book of Samuel today, so we'd have a hard time just reading it all. But well, I don't know. We'll see Uh so let's see here we talked about this. Israel uh they saw his greatest days, they won many victories. They worship the one and true God, and because of that, God gave them great victories. In chapter number eight, they saw they conquered much land. If you could show us that map, uh, Pastor Gus, so we can could see the the map that kind of shows the progression of the children of Israel. The gray area in the center there is the kingdom under Saul, the very small area in the center. Then the empire expanded under David. That's the green. That's how much expansion was done when David was king. And then the last is what was added when Solomon was king, the purple at the top, that space was added underneath the king. But they conquered much land, they had much success, and God gave them great victory over their enemies that were round up about them. But do you know what happens when people experience great success? A lot of times, and It's sad that we have to have recorded in the Word of God here for us something about such a great man. But David fell into sin. We see his aberrant behavior. Behavior where he went away from what God wanted him to do. This, he parted from the right way. In sharp contrast to David's success as a warrior, to his piety that he had in his worship of the Lord Jehovah, to his goodness as a king over Israel. Stands this great contrast of the sin that he committed with Bathsheba and the murder of Uriah that followed. So we see here uh David's behavior, and I apologize that your particular notes don't continue, uh, but we can get these two What we learn here is that every man is capable of every sin. Doesn't matter who you are and what you've done and how you've succeeded and the victories that God has given you. We need to be cautious. Let him that standeth take heed. I think if he stands, right? Lest he fall. It's a tragic thing that we have it recorded for us here, but it's the The truth and God gave it to us that we might be warned of the fact that it doesn't matter how great or how high you go or how close Once you get to God, here a man after God's own heart was in a moment of weakness drawn away and enticed of his own lust. And any one of us can be drawn away in a moment of weakness. And when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. At any point in the process, we can turn back to God, and He is faithful and just to forgive us. But left to ourselves and headed in that direction, we'll end up at death David desired what was not his, first of all. You know the story of David and Bathsheba, and it's chapter 11 in our text here, if you wanted to read it, but chapter 11 gives us the story of David and Bathsheba. He desired what was not his. A man who had so much, and yet he desired something that wasn't his. That's a warning for us right there. We've been blessed and given so much, but in our materialistic society today, we are driven to want more and to desire that which we do not have. And what did I tell you some weeks ago I talked about the husband-wife relationship and I think I applied it to the church at that time, but the idea of the 80-20 rule? And how many relationships the wife that you have Meets eighty percent of everything that you would like and eighty percent of of of your now some of the men were changing their their select hun your you're ninety eight percent You're not you're ninety eight percent and just two percent of what I don't. But the rule is eighty twenty, but you I'm sure that your relationships are much higher than that. But the idea is that men will take the 80% that their wife presides for them and gives to them and meets their needs and chase after 20% from somewhere else. And a lot of times people in churches will do the same thing. two. They come to a church that they love, that they enjoy, and they like the people there, and they like this about it, and they like this about it, and they like this, and they have hey this church, hey that church Gives me 80% or 90% of what I like. But it is the devil that gets us fixated on that 10% or that 20% Whose name is Caleb Bottrell, and we say there's just one little thing about the church that I don't like. And the devil would cause us to leave something that's meeting 80 to 90 percent. of what we would need and and think somehow that we're going to get it somewhere else chasing after that 10% So we've got to be careful and don't let our hearts be drawn away like that. David won in what was not his. I mean, you think about all that he had, he wasn't right with God in that either. He had a lot of concubines. and and other women that he shouldn't have had, but with all them he wanted what? What was not his There's some other principles there, but we don't have time to go down it. He Was uh look at verse number five of chapter, what did I tell you it was? Chapter eleven. Um verse number five We see David's desire for what was not his, and then we see the disclosure of his sin. Verse number five. And I'm not there. What does it say? We see the sin discovered. Right? Be sure your sin will find you out. David desired, and then he thought, Oh, I'll just do this, and nobody will know. Be sure your sin will find you out. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And we know that, but somehow the devil deceives us and thinks we think we're going to get away with it. We see his sin disclosed, and he's like, oh no! So David deceives Uriah and verses six through thirteen he deceives Uriah, tries to hide the fact that this happened and get him home. And David, uh Uriah, the you know people have said before that Uriah was was more of a man d uh drunk than David was sober because Uriah wouldn't go back and be with his wife. He slept on the porch of the kingdom there before he went back to battle. And uh you know that's just uh one way to say it, but he tries to deceive him and ultimately he gets him killed because he was determined to cover up the sin. That's how we get. Oh, I gotta hide this. I gotta cover it up. Look at verse number 27, 11, verse number 27. And when the morning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing that David had done was the last three words. Displeased the Lord. Displeased God. After all that he had done, what he did displeased God. And then we see the man that God had once used to promote David, the prophet, is now the man that God uses to put his finger in David. David's face and say, Thou art the man. And you know, sometimes the man of God is not mad at you. The man of God doesn't have anything against you. You see, sometimes God may use me to come around your house and help you lay a tile floor. And I'll be glad to do it But then there's other times that God may use me to say, This is not right. And you look and say, Pastor Caleb, I thought we were friends. I thought I thought you liked me. I thought we I thought we had something in common. I I I mean you helped me. The same man was used by God To anoint David to be a king and to encourage him. And then what he did wrong was used by God to say, Hey, this is not right. And I'm just letting you know sometimes it and you know what? I don't like it at all. I would rather Ignore it. I would rather let it go. But I know that's what I'm called to do. And if I truly care about you I will do that. Right? You guys are sitting quiet. Getting quiet So, the exciting thing here is that David repents of his sin. Unlike prideful Saul, who would not repent Who would not turn back, who would not humble himself before God. When David sees himself before God, he repents. In chapter 12, you can read about his repenting. And although David confessed of his sin, he still had to do some reaping. He still had to do some reaping. You know, confessed sin is forgiven sin. Amen. That's forgiven. And perchance God may have mercy. But we see here by example that David still had some reaping he had to do, and what he had to endure and to go through. And so we see David's anguish. In chapter 13, really, through the end of the book, chapter number 24, we see a lot of things happening to David. David reaps for his sin, chapter 13. You see the defilement of Tamar. You know the story of Tamar. I don't have time to go into it, but she was raped by her half-brother Amnon Then we see the death of Amnon by Absalom. Absalom, his own brother, half-brother, killed him. We can go on and talk about what David had to reap, but he had some things he had to reap, even though his sin was already confessed. The last thing I'll give you this. He reaped the Absalom's rebellion. Absalom rebelled. He Sole the hearts of the people. He ultimately divided the kingdom, and David ultimately had to run out of his own kingdom for his own life. And there's some principles I want to give you about that, but we don't have time tonight to get into it. And I'll close with another thought there. But uh listen, a lot of different little things we touched on tonight. I don't know how or where or in what places maybe God spoke to you. But we're not going to have an invitation. But I think there's some challenging things in the scriptures we saw, and you respond, you do what God said. God wants you to do if there's any adjustments you need to be made. I'm going to close this in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you for tonight. We thank you for your love and your goodness to us. And Lord, we thank you for your word and how it just over and over again. And Lord, I pray that you would uh help us to be yielded to you. Thank you for the time in your house tonight. What a privilege to bow our heads in prayer together as a church family praying for one another's needs and holding up uh our friends and and their families uh for before the throne of grace, Lord. And we ask you to be with the request that we're prayed for tonight. Every prayer that was lifted up, Lord, would you answer? And Lord, we just pray that you would uh be with us now as we go our separate ways. Lord, be with the uh animal Anniversary Sunday. Thousands of invitations have been sent out. Thousands of individual invites have been given. Lord, we pray that you would touch the hearts of people and don't allow the devil to stop them from coming Coming. Would you give us a wonderful, wonderful day? And we ask you, Lord, uh, Lord, it'd be our desire that you give us a sun, sunny day and you push the rain off till Monday. It can rain all day Monday. Give us a good day on Sunday. Sunday and Lord we'll praise you for it. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.