All right, so God's blessing is underneath David. We see that the greatest time of the nation of Israel was under his reign. As we move into this uh time of Solomon's reign, there's still many great things that are going to happen But as Solomon takes the throne, he is, of course, we know the wisest man, according to the word of God, the wisest man that ever lived, blessed with a wisdom from on high And uh the the sad thing is, is that even with all that wisdom he uh joined himself uh with Wives and concubines from other nations. And these wives and concubines turned his heart, the Bible says, turned his heart away from God. And it took him and the nation as a whole in a direction away from God so completely. David, yes, David sinned. But his heart was a heart after the heart of God. And even though David sinned, he repented and he went back to God. But at Solomon's heart was turned away from God. and uh led the entire nation in that and they became reached a place where less and less they they recognized God's leadership and followed these false gods. And so they are at this time a nation in decline. From those glorious days underneath David all the way to uh a nation in captivity. That is tracked for us here in the book of Kings. We're starting today in 1 Kings and going to be walking through the book of 1 and 2 Kings. 1 and 2 Samuel tracks for us the establishment of the nation and the rise of Israel to the great and splendor splendor that it uh uh received underneath David. But first and second Kings kind of tracks the decline of the nation. You you you see slowly things progress to get worse and worse till ultimately uh the glorious temple is destroyed and the mi people are taken into captivity. So um God is still going to bring forth his plan among his people, but as a nation they are quickly moving to a nation in decline here. We see first of all Solomon's rise to power. Solomon's rise to power. There was this was achieved or brought on amidst a conflict for the throne. There was a conflict for the throne. I mean, you guys remember following the sin of with Bathsheba that David had, that there was great uh contention in David's family. There was uh we looked at that in uh sermon and also Sunday school and talked about the idea that David was still going to reap. uh even though he had repented and there was lots of contention in his family and uh the Absalom's fight for the throne and all of these things so That contention is something that was present there and it brought conflict and ultimately when David was coming to the end of his life, the opportunity for somebody to be on the throne was present. And so Adonijah was determined that he would be king. We see that in chapter uh one and verse number five. He says here, he says, Then Adonijah the son of Hagiath exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. He said, I'm going to be king. And uh, you know, a couple notable things uh here about this idea is first of all that he was the brother of Absalom It's quite possible that Adonijah got the idea of making himself king from Absalom. Hey, Absalom did this and actually, I mean he ruled for a little while. He was king for a little while, and that was when Dad was strong and healthy and a man of war. Now dad's kinda old and ready to pass off the scene and uh you know it's it it Maybe I could take this position. Now, Adonijah was the eldest probably the eldest son of David that was still living. And uh so maybe he felt it was his right by inheritance or by age and position that it would be him. But it's very clear that everybody knew that David had promised the throne to Solomon. There was no doubt about that. There was no question. If you read through this, the the conversations that are had amongst the prophets and uh the generals and uh Bathsheba and David. Everybody knew that the throne was promised to Solomon. Yet Adonijah decided, hey, uh this is my right I'm gonna be king. And so he prepares himself chariots and he goes before the people to try and s make this happen, to say, hey yeah, I am king. And and these got people acknowledging this fact. It's also notable that possibly the reason that Adonijah did this, look at verse number six. And his father had not displeased him at any time. In saying, why hast thou done so? Okay, so it's very possible that the reason Adonijah did this is because as a young boy, this boy was never told no. He was never told no. He was never said, Hey, you shouldn't have done that. The Bible is very clear here that David at not at any time did he question this young man, not at any time did he call this young man down on the carpet, not only did not only any time did he displease him. And uh that is uh a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. And uh when a child is spoiled, uh he's going to act like a spoiled brat. And so that's what you have here. You have an Ijah who's declaring himself to be king, even though he's not supposed to be, even though it's David's plan for Solomon to be king. So we see that Solomon had been promised the kingdom. Down in verse number 13 is mentioned, and it's mentioned several times through this text, but we see it here. He says, Go and get thee unto the King David, and say unto him, Dost not thou, my lord, O King, swear unto thy handmaid, saying Assuredly, Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. Why then doth Adonijah reign? You see, they're they're asking the question. They're saying, hey, go ask the king Isn't it a fact that you promised that Solomon was going to be king? And this is Bathsheba speaking here. You know, he says, go and say, hey. Didn't didn't you go talk to the king and say, didn't you promise that thy son, that your son would be king? And uh So that she's asking of him the question, or the prophet is saying, go talk to the king and ask of the king a question, and and she does. So the prophet Nathan learns of Adonijah's attempt To steal the throne in verse number eleven there, and she tells him uh Bathsheba in thirteen, hey, go talk to the king. So Bathsheba goes unto the king and tells him of all the treachery and and how uh in fact Adonijah has put himself up and made himself king in verses 13 through 21. We won't take time to read all those, but she describes what has happened here and how he went before the people and how they're calling him king. And then after she communicates with the king, they kind of had this time to they had a kind of a one-two punch, you know. They they said, Bathsheba, you go in and you talk to them. And then at just the right time, I'm going to come in as if I happen to be passing by and say, Oh yeah, that is exactly what you said. Solomon was going to be king. So we see in verse number 24 the prophet Nathan comes in and he also communicates to the king and says, Hey That's exactly what you said. Solomon was going to be king. And David, of course, knows that. It not only was that, it was God's plan for Solomon to be king. So uh we see that they communicate and talk to him about that, and yes, it is indeed the plan. Solomon's supposed to be king Let's get that done. David says, let's do it. Let's do it right now. Let's do it right under the direction, the authority of the current king. We're going to go before the people. Here's how we're going to do it. He describes the coronation. uh of Solomon to the throne in verses 28 through 53. So we're not going to obviously take time to read all of that, but uh they they set forth a plan to make it very public. You're gonna ride in the king's chariot. You're going to go to the normal place where kings are anointed. You're going to stand there and it's going to be before all the people. They're going to recognize that this is anointed uh and recognized by God and commissioned by the king. So let's go coronate the king. Solomon was anointed to be king. We see in verse number 39. So He says here in verse number 39, and Zodiac the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, God save King Solomon. So they did this very publicly. uh like a normal coronation would be, uh recognition and appointment of a king to to the throne. And uh so everybody in the nation understood that this was indeed going to be the king. Well, uh Adonijah hears of Solomon's coronation in verse number 43 says, and Jonathan answered and said to Adaniah, Verily our Lord King David hath made Solomon king. Oh boy. Adonai just says, now it's done. I tried and it didn't work. What am I going to do? Everybody that's anybody knows that Solomon's king. I've been my attempt to take the throne kind of failed. What should I do? Run for my life? He decides that he would fall on his knees and beg for mercy. So Adonijah asks for mercy in verse number 51. He comes before him and says, hey, would you spare me? And Adonijah Here says and it and she cut he comes and he asks and verse 51 and it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth King Solomon, for lo he hath caught hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear unto me today that he will not slay his servant with a sword. So he's saying, I'm his servant. Have mercy. I I tried that failed. You know what? Can we let bygones be gigons and and all get along? And and David uh sorry, Solomon decides, hey, uh It's a good idea. I want to have mercy. And so he has mercy on him and allows him to live. He spares his life there. And so King Solomon, um Said, If he will show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth. But if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die Now remember that verse because here's a promise from Solomon, but here in a little bit Adonijah gets killed. And uh you're going to see why if we take time to read it, but I'll tell you about it here. So we see Solomon uh Has mercy there, spares his life. And then in chapter 2, we pick up chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, and David charges Solomon before his death. Right before David's death, he charges Solomon. He gives him some instructions, says, here's what you need to do. Remember these things. He passes on his blessing. He says, You're king. I'm going to bless you. Here's the blessings that God gave unto me, and I'm passing them on to you. He encourages Solomon to deal with those who stood against the king. He says, listen, I've learned uh from years of experience that you've got some some uh snakes in the grass You've got some wolves in the pack and uh what you need to do is you need to deal with them. You cannot let that go. And so he determines that okay Following his father's advice, Adonijah, Joab, and Shimei were executed. Now we're not going to take time to read it, but um Solomon did not break his promise to Adonijah. Adonijah came to Bathsheba and said, Hey, um I want you to talk to the king. And I want you to get him to approve me marrying David's concubine. He asked for the hand of the last lady, which you have to read the story and follow it and track it along, but the last lady that was brought into David's life. Right before he died, that cared for him up until his death, uh, he says, I want her to be mine. And this was a play for the throne. But he was our he was David's son, he was the eldest son, and now he was gonna have David's last wife as as his wife, and uh it was a plague to put him in a position to say, hey, obviously I'm the one that should be doing this. And so his heart and intentions were not pure. And Solomon had said, hey, if he's pure and shows himself a worthy man, I won't harm a hair on his head. But that obviously was not the intention of his heart. His heart were was evil, and he was trying to maneuver, put himself in a place to be able to take the kingdom And so Adonijah is killed, and of course you remember the actions of Joab and Shimei. They were executed as well. And so this establishes Solomon as king very firmly. Everybody recognizes yes, he is king. Peace is present in the land, and David passes off the scene. In verses 10 and 11 and 12 there, David dies. And so Solomon begins to reign in providence. He has to reign by God's direction. His careful governance is guided by God. Initially, Solomon took the throne and he sought and truly submitted to God's will, to God's wisdom In the very beginning, as Solomon took the throne, he had that intention and he sought for wisdom. And instead of asking for riches, he asked for wisdom, and he wanted to submit to God. And that was very present. So Solomon, we see, first of all, here Solomon's call for wisdom in chapter 3 there. The calls for wisdom. His reigning begins With an alliance made with Egypt through marriage. In chapter 3 and verse number 1. And Solomon made an affinity with Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And took Pharaoh's daughter and brought her into the city of David until he had made an end of building his own house. He had brought her there, and right off the bat he made this alliance. Now, a lot of of Solomon's wives and concubines were political relationships. They were relationships where other nations or groups of people wanted to be recognized. and accepted and you know alliances during that time and for a large part of history were sealed n lot less with a document and more with a relationship. And so kings would marry uh somebody from another land and that would their families were essentially joined, and so that meant they were at peace together. So a lot of the relationships and uh, you know, the concubines and wives that Solomon had were political politically motivated, but it still wasn't right. Even though that was the reason, it still wasn't right for him to take all these wives. And ultimately we see that the wives are what caused his heart to be turned away from God. And so he shouldn't have done that, uh, but he did, and so right off the bat we see here A couple of things. We see the power of his position that Pharaoh, king of Egypt, wants an alliance with him. Right away, Solomon's a king, and he says, hey, we need to come to an agreement. Would you take my daughter and let's heal this where we are going to get along? And so we see the power of his position, the the magnitude of his influence in the world during that time. And uh we also see uh you know kind of the the foolishness of him making this decision, securing this alliance this way. But uh it begins with this alliance. And then David worshipped in high places. Uh I'm sorry, Solomon worshipped in high places, and he wasn't supposed to Now it notes in verse number three that the temple wasn't built yet, that there was no other place for them to do this. But just because there's not another option doesn't make something right. And the high places were notable as places of worshiping false gods. It's one of the things that's stated about Solomon built. high places for all of his wives and concubines, for them to worship their false gods. And so David and the people were worshiping there in the beginning. There was no other location, but they were worshiping God in the high places. He prays and asks God for an understanding heart to lead the people in in verse number nine. And of course you guys know the story how God came to him and said what what what Would you ask of me and how could I help do what could I do for you? And David says, Well you know what? We see in verse number nine, I need I need wisdom He says, Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people? He says, man, I I can't I can't do this, Lord. I need your help. And we see in the the immediate next verse that this pleased God. And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked for this thing. God was so thrilled with David Solomon's wisdom and his humility to seek help from him and say, Boy, what I what I need is wisdom. God would have blessed him with power, God would have blessed him with riches. God would have blessed him with influence among the people. God would have blessed him with all of these things. But instead he says, What I need is wisdom to properly lead your people. And God says, man, that Pleases me so much, I'm going to go ahead and give you the other things you could have asked for. I'm going to give you power, I'm going to give you wisdom, I'm going to give you riches. We see that as he continues on in verse number eleven, and God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life Neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyself understanding and discernment and judgment. Behold, I have done according to thy word, lo I have given thee A wise and understanding heart, so that thou there is none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall arise any like unto thee. And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honor, so that they shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days. He said, Boy, there's I I've given you the wisdom in such a way that nobody nobody before you has had that wisdom and nobody after you will have that wisdom. But not only that, I'm going to give you the things you didn't ask for. Uh you're going to see riches and power and in such a magnitude that uh no king has ever seen. And you know, that just reminds me of my light verse, Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. If we as God's people will seek him and his wisdom, just as God did for Solomon here, he blessed them with many other things. The problem is much of our life is spent in pursuit of foolish things, things that we never really get to fully acquire. And we don't have the wisdom or the direction of God either. And if we would submit and seek God, then God would provide those other things. The other things that we need for life and even things that we want for life that aren't even needs. God blesses us beyond measure for sure. So immediately God tells him, Hey, I'm going to give you this wisdom. And immediately Solomon is confronted with a situation that confirms, not just to him But to everybody else that he has wisdom. So he gets home. We see in chapter 3 and uh Verse number 16, he gets home, and immediately two harlots come to him with a dispute over a child. Now the child had died. These two harlots both gave birth to children. During the night, one of the children dies, and the mother of the child that died Takes the dead child and puts it with the other mother and takes the live child and puts it with her. And then in the morning Uh a mother knows her child, right? I mean a mother's like, this is not my kid. This the I mean I can't imagine that they look like twins. I mean I can't Pretty sure there would have been enough difference. You know, some babies are born with lots of hair and some no hair. I mean I'm sure that there was a way to tell them apart, but there was just them two in the house and who was to say So they're debating this and what well what can we do? And they go before the king with this problem. They're both saying this child is mine. And the other one has a dead child and Solomon says, oh, well, bring me a sword. We're going to cut the child in half. We'll give half to you and half to you. And the false mother says that's a good idea. Let's be fair. Let's be fair. Let's let's just let's just that way nobody has a child. And the real mother, of course, you know, it's like no, I I I will live without my child as long as my child can live. Would you no just give her, just let her have 'em, you know, because So obviously Solomon says, well, there's no question here whose child this is. And so right away his wisdom gets noised abroad throughout the land of Israel, but not just Israel, but even surrounding nations The wisdom of Solomon starts to be spread throughout all the nations and people learn of this. All Israel learned of the wisdom of Solomon. Look down in verse number 28. Of this here he says, uh, and all Israel, verse number 28, and all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged, and they feared the king. For they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do judgment. They said, Wow, this guy obviously has some wisdom. I mean who would have who would have thought of that on their own? It's wisdom of God to discern and to be able to judge the situations uh that the people have and and his wisdom was seen everywhere. So right away God confirms to him and to others. Now, Solomon's command over all the nations is clear that he is ruling in power and in the direction of God. His wisdom is evident. Look in chapter 4 and verse number 21. Chapter 4 and verse number 21, he says here. That and Solomon reigned over all kingdoms, from the river unto the land of the Philistines and unto the border of Egypt. They brought presents and served Solomon all the days of his life. So they the the the significance of the stability and the rule that he had during this time. Um this he reigned in all of this land. It is all the n the area of land that God had promised to Israel. Solomon reigned The boundaries that are marked here are the boundaries of the land that God had promised all the way back. I think it was in Deuteronomy that God had said that He would give them this land. And so Solomon is reigning in that land. fulfilling God's plan and what God was going to do. And everybody knew of Solomon's wisdom. We see in chapter 4, verse number 32, we see The wisdom expressed in Proverbs and in Song, he says, For he was wiser than all men, than Ethan, Eliezer, Hittite. Let me see. I'm looking at the wrong way. Verse 32. And he speaks it's a list of how many proverbs and psalms he had in. He spake 3,000 Proverbs, and his Psalms were a thousand and five. So we see his wisdom expressed there, the 3,000 Proverbs and 1,005 songs that he had written. So Solomon, now we're getting into the construction of the temple. Another great victory that God had made and uh part of God's plan for him is David desired to build a temple, but God said, nope, it's not for you. Uh you you're a man of war, uh man of blood, but your son will reign in a time of peace, and he will build the temple. So David made the preparations for it, and so uh Solomon's plan is to construct the temple God had provided for this for him. This temple was important because of the permanency which it represented. You see, what I want you to understand is that the tabernacle was where God rested. His Shekinah glory was present there in the Holy of Holies. And they did not need the temple for God to be among them. God was already there There was not going to be more of God because they had a temple. There was not going to be more power because they had a temple, but what the temple represented was the fulfillment of God's promises and the establishment of the nation, the permanent place where God would rest. The establishment, the permanency of it is what was so important for the nation. Having that settled. Having that temple there was a real sign of the permanency of the fulfillment of God's promises. And so they had God's presence. The preparation to build the temple seen in verses one through eighteen They start putting all of the materials together. Lots of the materials were supplied by Hiram, king of Tyra. Labor was supplied. There was a hundred thousand Israelites. 80,000 stonecutters, 3,300 foremen, uh lots of labor. I remember when we went to see the Taj Mahal, that of course was built entirely by slave labor. And uh the king had that built and there was literally hundreds of thousands of people that worked on the Taj Mahal. I think it was for 20 years. that they they worked to build the Taj Mahal. The intricate detail, the craftsmanship, the cutting of the stones, the inlaying of the marble, it is a masterful piece. of construction even all these years later. Just the even the engineering that went into it, pre-computer. It is phenomenal the the stuff that is you can see when you're there. And here we have Solomon's Temple built uh and the labors that came and served to to get this done. And the plan to build is given to us in verses six and seven. It was twice or chapters six and seven. It was twice the size of the tabernacle, ninety feet long, thirty-four feet wide, and forty-five feet high. The floors and walls were made of stone covered with wood and then inlaid with go gold, covered with gold. Uh the um they they in the reading that I did about this, the magnitude, the the amount of gold that was on the t temple is like undescribable. The amount of wealth uh that was represented in that in today's dollars is beyond I mean just almost can't even comprehend uh the uh amount of gold and things that were put into this. Not only that, we see that the entire thing was built without the sound of a hammer. There was no hammering on sight. I mean that's pretty phenomenal. Moving stone around. I mean I was loading a trailer last week and I had a bunch of wood stack wood stacked up on the trailer. And And it it was too far uh back. I needed to move it forward so that it would be front heavy. And so I just grabbed a sledgehammer. I was gonna unstack all that wood, you know. I'm just gonna scoot it scoot it forward with a big hammer. Just you know, if it doesn't move, get a bigger hammer, amen. So uh I just whacked it with a sledgehammer and you know, slowly the stack moved forward, you know. One stack at a time. And and but I can't imagine building this. We see that in uh verse uh chapter six and verse number seven. He says there that, and the house when it was in building was built of stone, made ready before it was brought thither. so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was building So they did all the preparation ahead of time, cut every stone, made it perfect, and then brought it in and then set it in place so there was no hammering or pounding or it's like you Oh man, you missed a piece. That little bitty knob down there, it won't s the stone won't move over. We gotta pick it up, we gotta carry it all the way out. It's gotta go off site somewhere to chip that little bit off, and then you gotta bring that big piece of marble back. And they did all this before they had cranes and and And you know, equipment to move stones around. I imagine it's quite a job to move some of these large stones. I've been in Israel and the base of the temple is still there. uh and you can see the stones that were laid for the foundation of the base of the temple. And these are some massive uh pieces of marble. that are there that they put there. So very uh interesting that they did so. It took seven years for them to build the temple. Uh in chapter 6 verse number 38 there it tells us that. He says, and in the eleventh year, in the month where is the eighth month was the house finished throughout all the parts thereof, and according to all the uh fashion of it, so was he seven years. in building it. So seven years it took them to build the temple and get it to completion. Then they have a great prayer of dedication a ceremony of dedication where they dedicate the temple uh to God and to his glory. Solomon begins by remembering uh what brought them there in verses fifteen through eighteen that how God directed and led and Ultimately, this is a completion, a fulfillment of those promises. Solomon requests three things of God in his prayer. First of all, he requests that the temple would bring transgressors back to him. You know that's what the house of God is for? To bring the transgressors back to him, the prodigals, those who have gone away from God. Look in chapter 8, in verse number 31. He says in chapter 8 and verse number 31. He says, If any man trespass against his neighbor, an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and an oath come Am I in chapter 8? Yep, alrighty. To swear an oath come before thine altar in this house, then hear thou in heaven and do and judge thy servants uh condemning the wicked to bring his way upon his head and justify the righteous to give him according to his righteousness. W When thy people, Israel, be smitten down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee, and shall turn again to thee, and confess thy name, and pray, and make supplication unto thee. in this house. He says, Listen, when people have transgressed, when they've sinned against their neighbor, when they've done these wrong things, when when sin is prevalent, we pray that they would come back to thee, to this house, that it would be a place where The transgressor would see the error of his way and come to you and confess and forsake his sin. Then he praised that the temple would keep the nation of Israel in a right relationship with God. And that is expressed in verses 33 through 50. And then he says, praise, and he asks that the temple would draw the heathen unto God in verses 41 to 43. He says, look, I pray that this temple would stand as a lighthouse, as a symbol of the glory of God, and that nations that are around us that People that would see this, that this would be a testament of the glory of God and the goodness of God, and that men who see the error of their way and the wickedness of their lives would be drawn to the one true God. They are worshiping in the high places these false gods, and I pray that the temple would be a beacon of light that would draw men, draw the heathen to him, he asked. That's what the house of God is supposed to be. A lighthouse on a hill that is not hid, but stands as a beacon of light that draws men unto So we see that they finished this, uh then there's a presentation to the people, and uh the largest offering that was ever given was offered. uh here the hundred and twenty thousand sheep and twenty-two thousand oxen uh in this offering uh that they come and In the dedication there and the presentation of the people, the great ceremony with the singing and the prayers and all these things in the dedication of this great and mighty temple. Now Let me get through this next point here. We're gonna won't be able to finish today, but we see that Solomon's riches are plentiful. God had blessed him as he said he would. God blessed him. You know, we read that back there that, hey, because you prayed for wisdom, I'm going to give you the things you didn't ask for. I'm going to give you power. I'm going to give you riches, and you're going to be able to see this. And God blessed him mightily. I've listed out for you some of the listings in the Word of God of His wealth. Um the queen of Sheba came to see if his wealth and wisdom had been exaggerated in chapter 10 and verse number seven. She says to him, Howbeit I believe not the words until I came, and mine eyes had seen it, and behold, the half was not told me. The wisdom and prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard. She said, boy, I had been told that you had prosperity, that you had been blessed, that you were rich. I had been told that you had an amazing amount of wisdom, and I really didn't believe it. It seemed to me to be far-fetched. So the Queen of Sheba travels all the way there just to see. And she gets there and she says, Man, the half hadn't been told. I hadn't even I uh what I had been told wasn't a fraction of the wealth that is present here and of the blessing that you have and the wisdom that is Notable in his life. Not only was Solomon blessed for him and the nation there, but the peace and prosperity that was there was known abroad. And they had that and they they uh were blessed by God to see that through Solomon's life. The problem is now we see that Solomon is ruined. By perversion. Solomon is ruined by perversion. And you know, sin will do that. All the blessing of God, everything that he has, is because of God. And he allows his heart to be turned to other gods by these wives and concubines. And we're going to get into that next week. Ruth, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea. Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk, Hagi, Zephaniah, Hagi. All right, last couple I messed up there. Uh so uh saying them a little slower, you have to think about what you're saying instead of just rattling them off. Uh but uh hopefully you're working on those and getting them down uh so that they're ready there. Uh we ought to always be increasing in our knowledge of the Word of God. And there's something as simple as just the books of the Bible. And it's amazing how many people uh do not know the books of the Bible, uh where they are. And And uh so that is a small thing that if you didn't get anything else out of this class, hopefully y you got that and you're able to walk away from it way with that. But hopefully you're getting a lot more than that. We are in uh the United Kingdom right now, gonna finish up uh the life of Solomon. which puts us right right here where we have the fall of the Northern Kingdom. Uh well sorry, the division right before the division of the kingdom for the the northern and the southern divides. So right here we're just about to finish up the United Kingdom. And during that time we have Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon Uh I obviously am going to be gone to the Philippines uh for a couple of weeks and during that time Pastor Gus is going to be teaching Sunday school and uh he is going to be looking at a couple of these books. Uh if he There's that's a pretty tall order. He may only get through to Psalms, uh, but talking about some of the books that are written during this time, uh, so he'll be doing that in Sunday school for the next couple of weeks. um as I will be gone. And then we will be picking up with the divided kingdom right here when I get back looking at that and the story in the life of the kings. But today we're going to finish up the life of Solomon, the last king to rule in the United Kingdom. We began here looking at the life of Solomon and saw that his rise to power was one that came under conflict. The conflict that was in the family kind of absi r resided and continued on uh for a period of time, but uh we saw that his coronation, his coming to the throne, then Solomon's reign in providence, an understanding that God was the one that was leading. God put him in there, that place, and God was directing him, showing him, giving him the wisdom that he had, uh his request for wisdom. God was very pleased. with his request for wisdom and blessed him with many other things as well. Then Solomon's construction of the temple, a very key element in the Old Testament uh in a fulfillment of God's plan for him to build the temple. And we talked about that, the different a elements of the temple that were built and how long it took and so on. We went through all those things. Then Solomon's riches as God blessed him uh immensely with the riches and wealth uh that was known all throughout the world actually and we mentioned how the Queen of Sheba came and She thought that it was exaggerated and she said, Boy, the half hasn't been told of of the wealth and the wisdom that God has given you. And uh, you know, if you put God first, uh The half hasn't been told as far as how good God has been and how He will bless you and you'll sit back in your later years of life and just look and say, Wow, God has been so good to me And uh so we we left off last week with this final point here, Solomon uh ruined by perversion. So that is basically the bottom of page 95 for those that are just kind of catching up on the notes. 1 Kings chapter number 11, verse number 1. We're going to begin there. We see that the heart of Solomon is turned away after other gods. His heart is turned. after other gods. It says, But King Solomon loved many strange women together with the daughters of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, the Ammonites, Edomites, the Zodinites, and the Hittites uh these strange women uh from all these other places and this is just a small list of the women that uh you know, Solomon ended up giving his heart to that should they they influenced his life. These were women that he was not supposed to. He was th these were of nations that God had very clearly instructed his people Not to combine with, not to associate with. It's stated very clearly in verse number two, of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go unto them. So the Lord was pretty clear that listen, these are the nations you're not supposed to have anything to do with, these are nations you're not supposed to be uh forming alliances with and and getting uh in political agreements with and such. Yet Solomon did that. uh and his heart was turned away. Solomon loved these strange women. And he ended up uh these wives of his, the seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. ended up causing him to be idolatrous. They turned his heart away. That's why the Bible tells us to keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. You've got to guard your heart. Um and this is applicable to everyone, but you know, I wish the teens were up here this morning and we would chase this rabbit a little further, but especially the young people gotta guard their heart. They gotta be very careful they don't let their heart get pulled. in a direction towards uh the wrong person or the wrong people because that will influence your life greatly. Just a few minutes With a child given his heart to the wrong person will undo fifteen years of parental training and and guidance and love and compassion and discipline. Fifteen years of raising and training a young person to do and live and and and act a certain way It can be undone in fifteen minutes with the wrong kind of friend. And so young people got to very seriously guard their heart, and that does fall on the responsibility of parents to help guide and guard the young people with who they're with. It makes you ponder and think about how could the wisest man that ever lived do such a foolish thing. It was very clear that he was not supposed to associate with these women, specifically so many women. Assuredly, that it that he he was not supposed to do that, yet he did. He began to be idolatrous in verse number two there. It says, And ye shall not go to them, neither shall they come in unto you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon clave unto these in love. Hey, don't do it. They're going to influence you. They're going to pull you away. And yet Solomon clave unto them. in love. He ended up building high places. As you remember, the high places were places of pagan worship, uh places where these women said, Hey, you had you you know you got a temple, but we don't worship your God Can we w where are we going to worship our gods? And so Solomon built them. Instead of instructing them and witnessing to them and bringing them into a relationship with the one true God, uh really the only God, he facilitated uh and enabled them to worship their false gods. He built altars and and high places for them to worship their gods in verses six, seven, and eight there. You know, the Bible tells us very Clearly in verse number nine that God was not pleased with this. He says in verse number nine, And the Lord was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel. which had appeared unto him twice. You see, although David failed, David messed up He never turned the hearts of the people. He never turned his heart away from God. He he fell, he sinned, he did wrong, and that had to be dealt with, but As a whole, David was a man who was after God's own heart. His heart was not turned away. And ultimately, because of Solomon's uh allowing his heart to be turned away from the one true God, w is we're going to see the divided kingdom. We're going to see the kingdom taken away from him. Uh of the tribes there, they're divided. And uh in this family there's only two tribes that continue to remain underneath his rule. And the kingdom is is ripped away from him ultimately because he was disloyal. God's anger was kindled. You know, the this message is given to us all through the Bible that evil communications corrupt good manners. Had Solomon not allowed himself to spend this time with these pagan women, he would not have been turned, his heart wouldn't have been turned away from the one true God. So it's very important who it is we associate with, who we spend time with, who we allow our kids to spend time with. You know, even in the church. You need to have some wisdom about who you spend time with. Just because they attend church or come and sit in a pew does not mean they are necessarily a good person for you to be with. Okay, I told you about the story about the young man from our church in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, where I grew up. His name was Brian. We got in trouble. Did not matter. It doesn't necessarily mean that Brian was a bad kid. I was probably a bad kid. But what it means is anytime Brian and I, we were not good for each other. We brought out the worst in each other. We just you know just facilitated and and promoted and pushed each other in the wrong direction and every time we got together we got in trouble As a matter of fact, all the memories that I have of Brian from being a kid are all getting in trouble. I can name probably five stories of times and things that would happen to us that we got in trouble. And uh one time we were in a barn at his property. They lived on a little farmat like thing and uh we're in this barn and they were taking the siding off the barn and they had these long skinny boards and uh they're all just sitting there And uh we thought, boy, these look like good spears. And so w we took these things up into the loft of the barn. You know, in the loft of the barn they have the the hay window that opens where they can put the hay in and out, you know And so we were launching these things uh out of the top of the barn. And you know somebody got hurt and we both got in trouble. And uh Yeah, the bunch of the boards got broken which they were planning to save and all of that. So there's another one of the stories. So the here's the thing. Be careful who you hang around. Even in the church house and even with your kids, uh, you know, just You know if being around that person exhorts you, encourages you, brings out the spiritual side of you, or if it brings out the carnal side of you. You know if that person is spiritually, if they're strengthening you or weakening you. And they may be somebody you're comfortable being around, and boy, this is fun, and boy, we have a good time when we're together, and boy, it's just easy. But are they strengthening you? Are you spiritually stronger after having spent time with them, or are you spiritually weaker? So don't allow your heart to be turned away from God. God's anger was kindled against Solomon because of this, and he's not pleased with it when we do the same. The king was to do four things according to the law, Deuteronomy chapter seventeen. We're not going to turn there to Deuteronomy seventeen, but we see clearly Deuteronomy seventeen, fourteen through twenty, uh that God instructed and told him that he was to keep the law and read it continually. That'd be pretty good instruction for you and I as well. To keep the law and read it continually. You're not going to keep the law if you don't read it, if you don't know what it says. But he was supposed to keep it before his eyes. He was supposed to continue to read it. And that was instruction given to God's people as well. uh to to read the word of God, to bind it about their hearts and and uh their minds. And so we ought to be in the Word of God. This is for the king it is Helping him to acknowledge or realize the source of the wisdom that he had. When you're continually in the word realizing the wisdom comes from God and acknowledging that source. Then God had told them clearly they were not to accumulate money. They weren't supposed to just be accumulating wealth and getting more and more wealth. You know, another thing that Solomon did, you can read through the Kings there and and read about Solomon, but He taxed the people very heavily. He increased and grew in wealth in a substantial way, but a large part of it was he taxed the people very heavily. And uh there's stories we may tell when we get into uh Rehabam uh about his uh wanting to tax the people more than his father. Uh and the w the wiser people said, No, no, no, you need to do less. And he ch he listened to his buddies, his friends, and they said, Do more, and he taxed even even heavier. Um but Here's the thing, Solomon was accumulating wealth. Wealth he did not need. God was blessing him immensely, yet he was taxing the people and accumulating immense wealth. Here's the thing, when God was trying to them to get the king to realize that he needs to rely on God for his supply. Rely on God for his supply God is the one that takes care of us. Our supply comes from Him. Our security comes from Him. We understand that. We should know that. We should rely on Him for that. That does not mean you're careless with your finances and say, oh well, God's going to provide, so I'm just going to go out and buy a Mercedes Uh you know, no, uh you you you need to be use some wisdom. Uh a prudent man foresee it the evil and hideth himself Uh, you know, w you've got a plan. What man that buildeth a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost? We've got to consider and use wisdom and make some good investments with your money. God expects us to be wise with uh stewards of what he's given us Uh not careless, but at the same time, uh our our supply, we need to remember, comes from God. You know, God takes care of his church as well. And uh it is God's plan to take care of the church. Uh back in 2020 and and actually for a couple of years afterwards, we would have people call the church up and say, boy, uh we could get you $25,000 From the government. All you gotta do is fill out this application and and all we want is uh ten percent and we'll do all the paperwork for you, we'll get it all filed for you, and and the government will give you this money. You don't you never have to pay it back And uh that was tempting. Church could use twenty-five thousand dollars, amen. But uh I just couldn't get peace about that. And talk to the deacons and we determine listen that God takes care of the church. We're just gonna let God take care of it And uh we did not uh go that route. I want you to know God is the one that takes care of the church, and our supply comes from Him, and we need to be very careful about accepting things from the government. Because there is nothing that comes from the government that doesn't have a string attached. And uh you know that to be true. And so we uh got to be very careful about that Uh it com our supply comes from God. The king was not to uh he was to read the law continually, noting the source of all the wisdom he has. He was not to accumulate money, relying on God for supply. He was not to accumulate horses. Not to gather a bunch of horses. We say, well, why what's so important about horses? I think the implication here for the king is to rely on God for strength. To realize it is God that provides the protection. It is God that's going to give you uh to protect you and to give you strength. To defeat your enemies or what have you. And so he was not to accumulate horses, but to rely upon God And uh very clearly God tells them in Deuteronomy 17 there that he is not to accumulate wives. Not to accumulate wives. This was in the law that Solomon was supposed to be reading continually. And observing. How is it that the wisest man that ever lived could go against God's clear direction? Well, he allowed it to happen, and then his heart began to be turned away from God, and it progressed worse and worse. And the accumulation of wives, you know that the majority of these wives were uh political alliances and uh uh marriages of expediency or convenience. Uh and here's here's the thing God wanted the king to remember that his that God was the one that protects them, not some political alliance that comes from these accumulation of wives So God was saying, this is not the way of a king that's going to honor and please God. Yet Solomon did that. He had been warned, very clearly, he had been warned by God, told not to do this. And he had been warned by David his father. In chapter 2 and verse number 3, we see that. And then in uh By God in several places in 314 and 9, 6 and 7, and 1111, God has said, Hey, this is not what you're supposed to be doing. In uh chapter eleven, where we are right here, he says, Wherefore the Lord said unto Solomon, For as much as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee and will give it to thy servant. He said, you've turned the hearts of the people, you've turned your heart away. I'm going to take from thee the uh Kingdom. So God was going to punish him. And uh God was going to take the kingdom from him, and he was going to endure the punishment of God and his separation. The kingdom ultimately was going to be divided. There would never be restored. The grandeur of the kingdom underneath David and Solomon was never seen again. They are on a downward path from which they will not recover. Ultimately, the k the Israelites go into captivity because they've turned away from God. Then Solomon ends up, Solomon's end of life is recorded for us here in verses 41 to 43. He dies. But before he dies, we have recorded for us the wisdom of this man, we could say in hindsight. Right, high insights 2020. When when you finally reach that age, we were talking some of the men in the four-year Thursday night, and the comment was made. You know, when you get to a certain age you kind of look back and you think, why did I worry about all this stuff? Why did I work so hard to to uh accumulate this in this world or or focus on that? Because so many of these These things really have no value. That's ultimately what Solomon came to the realization in the end of his life. And we have that recorded for us in the book of Ecclesiastes. So lastly here about the life of Solomon, we see Solomon's repentance through prayer. His repentance. At the end of his life, he he acknowledges uh the vanity of his ways. Uh it's clearly seen. Um let me turn there. To Ecclesiastes. Chapter number one, we see in chapter number Ecclesiastes chapter one and verse number one the words of the preacher, the son of David, King of Jerusalem, Solomon. uh repenting here, uh stating these facts. He comes to the conclusion that all of life is vanity. Vanity and vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity Thirty-seven times in the book of Ecclesiastes he uh states this fact that life is vanity, that his focus and all that he tried to gain and acquire uh was vanity. He looks at life through every human argument, every reason that man on a human standpoint may consider or think our purpose for being here. Why are we, what are we accomplishing? What is our goal? And he tried wisdom in 1 and 13, 17 through 18. He tried pleasure. In Ecclesiastes 2, 1 and 2, he gave himself to pleasure. I said in my heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. That's glee, happiness. Therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this also is vanity. I said of laughter, it is mad, and of mirth, what doeth it? Like, what what good is all this? Boy, I went out and experienced all life had to offer. I had so much fun. It was all about my enjoyment, my pleasure. I was giving all my time to these fun things. And what good did it do? Boy, it was so fleeting. There wasn't any satisfaction in it. It was so empty and meaningless. He tried work. Verses 4 through 6, chapter 2, there he tried work. You know, many, especially men, tend to define their existence by their work. It's I'm a mechanic. I'm a programmer. I'm an electrician. I I am, you know, this this is we are so many more things than that. Yet, because work takes such a big part of our life and we invest so much time into it, many people, uh, if they're not careful, they look for their worth in their work. And our worth is not combined or made up in the work that we're accomplishing here. He tried work. He tried accumulation of possessions. He tried possessions. Well, isn't that a an affliction of our society to try and establish their value in this world based off of How much they acquire. That's why those shows the life of the rich and famous That's why those shows are so popular. As everybody's looking at that as boy, they made it. Boy, they've got it. That's that's that's it. And oh what wouldn't we love to to be that person or to be able to have that The more things you got, the more problems you got. That's just a fact. I got a four-wheeler right now that hasn't run in a couple years, and I have worked on it and worked on it and worked on it. And uh you know what? If I didn't have a four-wheeler, I wouldn't have a broken four wheeler. You know what I'm saying? The more things you got, the more stuff you've got that's gonna break. And the more problems you're gonna end up having and the more uh issues you end up that's just that's just life and that's how it is, but we gotta be careful that we don't look for our meaning or value in life uh in the possessions or an accumulation of what we have. And he determined through it all, that uh it is vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. He gives us a conclusion of the whole matter at the very end in chapter number twelve of of what he came to what he realized at the end of his life, and he concludes the book with the statement, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter, fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. That is the realization he came to in the end. His hindsight, 2020, looking back on it all, and said, boy, I wasted a lot trying to pursue these things instead of pursuing God. Clarence Doreau said, there is a statement in the Bible which summarizes my life The statement is, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing. That of course was the disciples out on the Sea of Galilee, and they were fishing, and Jesus comes to them and says, Have ye any fish? And they say, We toiled all night and have taken nothing. But this man was describing his life. The sum total of his life is I've toiled all night and taken nothing. Wouldn't that be a sad epitaph at the end or the conclusion of our days to say that's that's what the sum total of my life is? And so, brethren, don't pursue those things. Let's learn from the wisdom of Solomon. And see the importance of honoring and following God, because Solomon drank deeply from all that is the human experience, and he was left wanting. He had it all in such level and magnitude that we can't understand. And yet he was left wanting. It is only at the wellspring of life. Where man finds true value and meaning, where there's true meaning for our life. What shall it profit a man if he'd gain the whole world and lose his own soul. Doesn't profit us. Only in following the Savior do we find meaning For Solomon death was just around the corner. We didn't have much time to make any change. You and I, we got time to make a change. We can adjust, reevaluate our some of our priorities or what we're focusing on. And follow Solomon's closing words. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Let's do that. Let's fear God. Let's keep his commandments. Let's put our focus on him and things that are of eternal value. This is exciting. You know, there's there's a real focus. Um and and I'm a planner. You guys know that. I look ahead. But there's a real thing in the world today where people are like, boy, you got a plan for retirement. What are you going to do? How much do you need to retire? You're 40 years old and and how much do you have saved? If you're going to retire it 70, then you gotta have this much. If you want to retire early, you gotta have this much. And here's when you can start taking Social Security. And this is what there's real focus and plan on getting everything in place so that finally you can reach the day where you don't have to go in and work anymore. But how long is retirement going to last? For some, you may be blessed. It might last 20 years. You know, most will not. But eternity in heaven is going to last forever. And you can invest all your time and energy and effort in getting ready for retirement. It's gonna last you. You get to you get to, you know, sit at home for ten years if you want. And and I'm not knocking retirement, you guys, I'm not saying you're all s sitting at home. You don't have to go into work and people that are retired find that they're busier than they were when they were going to work. So I'm not I'm not saying you're sitting at home doing nothing. Uh but I'm saying your your life changes and you You spent your whole life focusing on the time where you wouldn't have to go to work anymore, instead of focusing on when we're going to be in heaven. Because that's what is of utmost importance. That's going to last for an eternity. And things we save for retirement we have for a few years. Things we save for eternity, we have forever. So let's hear the wisdom of Solomon and make that adjustment while we still have time. Alright. We are going to be done a couple minutes early. That brings us to a conclusion of the life of Solomon.