Or uh what are the five books of poetry or wisdom? They start with you could say Job. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. Okay, those are the five books of wisdom. Then there's five books, uh, well, five major prophets, beginning with the book of Isaiah, Uh those five major prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel. Alright. It is up on the screen, which is okay. They're not in a in order on the screen. necessarily there, but it is up on there. So in between there you have uh the books of history uh after the Pentateuch and uh then you have the minor prophets at the end. So the book of history begins with what book? Joshua, correct. So let's study the books of history history together. Joshua judges Ruth 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther. Alright, you said all those now for the really, really hard ones. We have not been there yet. Ezekal Daniel Hosea. So begins with Hosea, so we haven't really reviewed these, but it's Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk. Zephaniah, Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi. Okay, so those you want to start working on, hopefully you'll be able to say those. And also if it helps you to break them up like that or to know what the content is, ultimately it will help you in understanding the Word of God So we are right now as far as studying uh we have crossed over here into the monarchy we are picking up this morning uh in the United Kingdom in First Samuel chapter number eight basically and during this kingdom era Both the United and Divided Kingdom, the greatest portion of the Old Testament, the balance of the Old Testament takes place during this time. Um you can see during this time we have 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, the Book of Proverbs. with the book of Ecclesiastes, the Book of Song of Solomon. The majority of the book of Psalms, even though Psalms covers the almost the entirety of the Old Testament, the majority of it is written here during this time. And uh then we also have uh ten of the minor prophets or ten of the prophets, including Isaiah. Uh so a lot of what's happening in the rest of the Old Testament, I know for us they're in books and they're all in order, right? But What you have to be able to visualize is that a lot of these books, you have here the Divided Kingdom, you have the Northern Kingdom, the Southern Kingdom. And so these prophets, sometimes you'll have one prophet in the northern kingdom and another prophet in the southern kingdom. And of course you'll have what's happening in the book of 1 Kings, which is repeated in 1 Chronicles. uh and sometimes some in Samuel and so it's part of all three of those books. So it's not really a It's not a linear path where you think, okay, we're going to get through 1 and 2 Chronicles and 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings and 1st and 2nd Chronicles. It's not a linear path a lot of times these books are talking about or referencing the same time period, maybe even the same people. And so that's where it might get confusing, but hopefully we'll be able to visualize and and get a good picture of that as we progress uh through this passage or this area of time, the kingdom era, uh, in the Word of God. So hopefully you've got a copy of the notes. We'll begin this morning on page number 81 Page number 81. We uh left off last week uh basically getting us right here to 1 Samuel chapter number 8. And chapter number nine, right in this area era, uh as we kick off into the United Kingdom underneath a king. uh where we have three people that we're going to be looking at in this United Kingdom. Uh you have the King uh Saul, King uh David, and King Solomon before the kingdom is divided, and you have kings on the northern and southern sides Um but as we begin here, uh the Amorites are knocking at the door. There's fear among the people. Uh they're they're calling out for a king. They they want a king to lead them. And we know from last week as we concluded the lesson that Samuel was getting old and his sons were unfit And they said, listen, you're no longer able, and your sons are unfit to lead, so we we want a king. And they they cried out and asked for a king. Samuel was disappointed about this, but God tells us in chapter 8 and verse number 7, he tells Samuel, he says, And the Lord said unto Samuel, hearken unto the voice of the people. And all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not Reign over them. Understand, here is the crux, the heart of the problem for why the people were crying out for a king. It was not so much that they wanted somebody to represent them, or it's that they wanted to reject the leadership of God They wanted to be like the other nations. They wanted to have somebody visible in front of them that they could see. And it stated very clearly here that they is not they have rejected you, but they rejected me. But go ahead. Hearken unto them. Give them what they want. They wanted a king, and they wanted it so that they could be like the other nations. God warns them about what kind of king they're going to end up. In verses 11 through 18, he describes this kingdom. And what the king is going to be like. He you know, he says, hey, you're going to be in bondage. Uh he's going to be a hard taskmaster. You understand the only representation of a king that they knew The only examples they knew were kings out in the world, kings in the heathen nations around them, and if the king in the kingdom of God, here with the children of Israel, was going to act like those kings, he was going to be oppressive. He was going to demand that they care for him, that his needs were going to be met. And in these following verses here, Brother Garland, good to see you. Been praying for you. Man, I I'm excited to see you this morning. Amen. What a joy. What a joy. And uh so he he was calling for king. Uh they were calling for a king and God tells them very clearly this, and this is not going to be what you think it's going to be. He says, uh tell the people, verse number 10, all the words of the Lord that they asked of him a king. And he said, This will be the manner, verse number 11, this will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you He will take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots. He's saying, Your boys are going to be running in front of king's chariots. And he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains over fifties, and he will set them to uh ear his ground and to reap his harvest and to make his instruments of war and instruments of chariots, and he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, to be cooks, and to be bakers. And he will take your fields and your vineyards. He's saying, you guys aren't going to like this. Everything that you think you want, he's going to end up coming in. He's going to be oppressive. And uh they they didn't believe it. Look in 8, chapter 8, verse number 19. They were warned, but look at what they say here. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay. But we will have a king over us. God was trying to warn them. God was trying to say, look, this is not gonna be all that in a bag of chips It's not going to be this amazing thing that you think it's going to be. Understand the guy that you're asking for is not the kind of guy that you want. And they wouldn't hear it. You know, a lot of times there's Christians like that. God sends a friend by to tell you, hey, you shouldn't go this way. This is not a wise decision. This is not really what you should be doing right now You're not ready for this. This is not the right stage of life for you. You're not ready to take that step. This would not be wise. Boy, I don't I don't know if I should if you should take that job. Whatever it might be. And you're like, nay I'm going to do what I want to do. Who are you to tell me? And they they reject the advice that God sends, the warning that God sends to their heart. the word of God that teaches them against it, the the man of God that's preaching from the pulpit and saying, hey, uh there's a warning sign, here's a caution, don't do this, don't do it. And Christians will say, no. I will have a king reign over me. I will have what I want to have. And they run headlong into the disaster. That God had been there trying to tell them over and over again, please don't do this, please don't do this, please don't do this, and they say, nope, I'm going to do it. And they go right after it. And they get what they ask for. So we see here in point number one that Saul is anointed king. We get to 1 Samuel chapter number 9. We are now in our timeline here. Right here, the Israel monarchy begins under the United Kingdom, first of all, with King Saul. Beginning right here, Saul is anointed king, and he's going to be over all of the children of Israel. We see in chapter 9, in verse number 2, that he was a choice man. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly And there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people. This young man was tall. He was attractive. That word goodly means attractive. He was good to look at. He was sharp looking. He he seemed to have uh everything together. He he had personality. He was from the world standpoint. Perfect. In my notes I put there that Saul was perfect, but I put it in quotes. I hope it's still in quotes in your notes. My wife edits my notes before you guys get them because there is plenty of typos. There's no doubt there. But so I haven't seen your notes. I actually I have it right here. Let's make Okay, so it's still quotes here. Uh he was perfect. Uh but that's in quotes He wasn't really perfect. He was perfect from the world standpoint. Perfect from what everything this world sees and says, boy, this is the guy. And let me encourage you, uh, just to case a little rabbit here, we're getting into election season. And when you're choosing a leader to rule you, I want you to understand that Christians should not vote on personality. They ought to vote on principle. They don't vote on popularity, they ought to vote on policy. You need to look at and see the person, the individual, who most closely lines up with the Word of God. Boy, it would be wonderful to have a prophet of God running for president that lined up completely, 100% with the Word of God. Man, that would be awesome. How many of you think the chances of that are pretty good? Probably not. Okay? So that what what that means what we have to do is we have to look at the candidates that we have, the options that are available, and you say there's no good options. Uh well. Welcome to life. There's no good. Whatever it is, I want you to understand, you need to look at whoever's available and say Boy, it's not about I like this guy or I like that guy or oh this guy looks like he's going to do a good job or you know what this guy's gonna give me some uh tax breaks This guy's gonna give me, it's gonna help my financial status. He's gonna give me this or give me that. He's gonna provide free trash. None of those things matter. Okay, it doesn't matter. What matters is what he believes and the policies he's going to put into place that are either in line with the Word of God or not Saul looked like he was all that in a bag of chips. He looked like everything that anybody would ever want. And the people said, man, this is the guy. But he was not perfect, which we will see as we continue on here. Saul was providentially guided unto Samuel In verses 3 through 9, we see that his father had lost some donkeys. He says in verse number 3, And the asses of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee and arise and go seek the asses. He says, Hey, got up this morning, the donkeys are gone. We had a uh dog that was like that. We'd get up and the dog would be gone. He had a collar, he wasn't supposed to do that, but if he found out the batteries were dead, man, he was out. He was gone. I see you guys. And he was running the neighborhood. He was checking everything out. You know, we get calls from the neighbors and say, Oh, your dog's in our trash, you know. But that's what saw Saul's father Kiss got up and he says, Hey, the d uh the donkeys are gone. And uh they thought that that was just normal life. Probably it happened before. But see, God was using this to direct his step. God was providentially leading him to where he needed to be They went, they looked, they looked, they looked, they couldn't find him. It got so bad. Saul says, man, we got to turn around. We got to head home. We've been gone so long. That dad is going to start to think, not only are the donkeys lost, but I'm lost. He's going to start worrying about me. We need to turn around. And Saul's servant says unto him, hey, uh, let's go ask the man of God if he's seen him. In verse number six, he says, And he said unto him, Behold now there is in the city a man of God, and he is an honorable man. All that he saith comes surely to pass now. Let us go thither, peradventure. He can show us our way that we should go. He says, Let's go. Ask the man of God. And he if he's seen him, or maybe God has given him some insight, he could tell us, hey, you guys need to go down here, go down there. And every time we have asked him anything, it has come to pass. This guy is an honorable man. He's not just making stuff up. He's not a Charlatan. God has used him. And I can say he's trustworthy. Let's go talk to the man of God. understanding God is directing their steps here. God told Samuel in ver in exactly what that they would be coming and what was going to happen. And Samuel meets him in verse number 19 and verse number 20. They get there And he says, uh, and Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer, go up before me into the high place, for ye shall surely eat with me today. And tomorrow I will let thee go, and I will tell thee all that is in thine heart. He says, You know what? I want you to come. You guys look hungry. Let's have a meal. And I'll let you know tomorrow what we're going to do about these donkeys. And so they go, they sit down and they eat, and ultimately Samuel tells them, hey, the donkeys you're worried about, don't worry about it, they've already been found. Your dad already has them. Basically, God just needed you to be here today. The donkeys are taken care of, they're at home already, and you're here for a purpose, for a cause. We see in verse number 20 he says, and as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind on them, for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on thee and on all thy father's house? So he tells them, hey, the donkeys are found, don't worry about it. He says, but what I want you to do, they go down to verse number 27, and he ends up telling him what he's there for. He says, you came here for a purpose in verse number 27. And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Bid thy servant pass on before us. And he passed on. But stand thou still a while that I may show thee the Word of God. He says, tell the servant to go ahead. You're here for a reason. Let me tell you what God has for you to know, the message that I have for you. God providentially brings him to this place we see in verse number one of chapter number ten. Then Samuel took a vial of oil and poured it upon his head and kissed him and said, Is it not because the Lord hath anointed thee to be captain? over his inheritance. So we see, letter B there, that he is captain of God's inheritance. In chapter 10 and verse number He is made captain of the inheritance. He was a choice man. Now he's been made captain of the of God's inheritance. He knows that he is going to be a l a leader. He is privately here anointed by Samuel in verse number 10, chapter 10, verse number 1. He anointed him with oil. A man who was anointed in the Word of God, this is a very special thing. All through the Word of God, when somebody was anointed They were anointed unto a particular task. A certain task. They were anointed to do a particular job, like the priests who were anointed to serve in the tabernacle. All through the scripture, this is a picture. There's some typology here of ultimately Jesus Christ who would be the fulfillment of God's anointing. We see here there a man who was anointed was anointed to a certain task. A man who was anointed was empowered by the Spirit to fulfill that task. So he says, okay, you're anointed to do this job. But then at the same time, he says, you're going to be empowered to do the job. We see that in chapter 10 here in verse number 10. Or well, let's look at verse number 6. Ten is when it comes to fruition. In verse number six he says, And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee. So he's telling him, he's promised him here, the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man. He said, Saul, you've got a job to do, and God is going to empower you to do that job. The Spirit of the Lord is going to come upon you. So a man that was anointed was empowered. Not only that, a man that was anointed is under God's protection. under God's protection. And we see that several times when we get further into our uh story of the kingdoms here, get into the life of David, and we see how David um w came upon Saul more than once and even though Saul was really and wed ready to kill David, he uh he he didn't David said, Hey, I'm not going to touch God's anointed, understanding that he was under God's protection. So we see that several times there. This symbol of anointing was made a reality in Jesus Christ. Messiah means the anointed one. And it's all through the Old Testament we see prophet, priests, and kings who are anointed to fulfill a particular task, and Jesus Christ fills all three of those positions as a prophet, a priest, and a king for us. He is the anointed one. Saul is given three signs to confirm his call. Three things. He tells him, hey, you're going to meet two men. And they're going to tell you where your donkeys are found. In chapter 10 and verse 2, he says, he says, and you're going to meet three men who have three kids. That would be three donkeys. Three loaves and one bottle. I mean i what are the chances it's one thing to say, well, you're gonna go down the road here. Do you know a lot of these charlatans that are out there that say they prophesy? Their prophecies are so general it's basically pretty much going to happen to anybody. You know, they'll say, somebody here in this room has had back pain. I feel it. The Spirit of God has told me. I mean, what are the chances that there's uh somebody in this room that's had back pain, right? I mean, okay. Uh and then all they got to do is wait for somebody to raise their hand. Oh, look at that. Look at how good God is. Yes, here's somebody that has a back pain. And uh I prophesy that uh you know it's it's such a joke if you have uh half a brain in your head and you're you're not blinded, I would say blinded even by Satan uh to those things. But understand he tells them here, this is going to happen. He says, you're gonna first you're gonna meet two men, they're gonna tell you where the donkeys are, then you're gonna meet three men. that have three donkeys, three loaves of bread, and one bottle of wine. He says, okay, this is pretty specific. It's not just you find three guys walking down the street and oh it must be God. No, it was three men with three kids donkeys with three loaves of bread and one bottle of wine and he's walking down and he sees that and says, Man Look at this is confirmation. He's seeing that it is indeed going to happen, and that he would meet some prophets, and that he would prophesy unto them. And he would prophesy with him, which is an ability that he did not have before, but God gave it to him here as a part of his anointing to do what God had called him to do. So we see that come to pass, and then we see not only was he anointed, but that he was publicly accepted. He was publicly accepted by the people. In chapter 10, verses 17 through 27. All the people gathered together at Mizpah. They were called by Samuel and says, hey, let's gather together. Their king is going to be here. We're going to announce him. And we see that in Verse number 17, he says, and Samuel called the people together unto the Lord to Mizpah. He says, hey, come on guys, everybody together. And said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt and delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms, and out of them that oppressed you And ye have this day rejected your God who himself saved you. He didn't pull any punches. He's like, you guys told God to get lost. And he's the one that saved you, but you said Sea and all of your adversaries and your tribulations, and ye said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands. He says, okay, I want all the people to come before me. The people gathered before him. And they walked by him by tribe, by thousands. They came by. He's saying, God is going to choose a man. Obviously God had already chosen this man, but the men came, oh everybody came by, and uh they get to uh the family of Kish and God points out, listen, it is Saul. They look for Saul, but Saul can't be found. Verse number 22. Therefore, they have inquired of the Lord further, if a man should yet come thither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff. You see, Samuel had already anointed Saul privately, and he probably instructed him, listen, we've got to bring you before the people now. And Saul, at this point, is very humble. He's very shy. He's been given a little bit of a heads up and he's like, you know what? Not me. And he goes and he hides among the luggage Among the stuff. You know, the whole family came and they went to walk, walk before Samuel, and everybody's gathered together. They probably had some donkeys and maybe uh some type of a wagon or whatever and everybody's walking before Samuel and they're waiting and and he's like, wait a minute, there must be somebody yet Where where is Saul? And they inquired after him and they're like, oh, nobody knows where he went. And God says, he's hiding. He's hiding among the stuff. And he didn't really want to. We see that humility. And can I tell you that if Saul would have stayed humble and yielded to God, God would have continued his kingdom and would have used him mightily. But Saul did not do that, and God knew what Saul was going to do. But we see that the people saw who it was and they accepted him in verse number 24. And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him, whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted and said, God save the king. Everybody saw this tall, goodly, attractive young man who just seemed to have everything together, and they said, Man, this is the guy. God saved the king. Everybody, he was publicly accepted. And then we see the confirmation of his call in chapter number eleven. The confirmation of his call. He went out And the Ammonites, who they continue to have problems with, are threatening Israel. Verses 1 and 2. The Israelites are very fearful. They're just overcome with fear, this great multitude that has come against them. and they're concerned. I mean this guy said he's gonna pluck their eyes out. He's gonna he's gonna uh you know serve one of their eyeballs up as as part of a testament of their victory over them and the people are very distraught. They they begin to weep and they begin to cry. And Saul comes on the scene and uh let's say in verse number five, and behold Saul came after the The herd out of the field, and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh. And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings, and the anger was kindled greatly. He said, What? These are the people that God has given me to lead. And they're they're distraught, they're weeping because this this people have come and threatened them? That shouldn't be. And Saul gets very upset and he calls for an army. And here's the thing, you know, somebody can say that I'm the leader But you know how you can tell if you're the leader? If you turn around and there's somebody behind you. Sometimes, you know, especially when you have over sibl older siblings, you know, they'll be like, okay, let's play follow the leader. You go first And then you take off and find out they're still sitting in the living room. They're not they're they're not playing. You know, you you're out there all by yourself. And and so that's uh what I mean by the confirmation of his call Saul asks for an army. He says, we've got to take care of this enemy that's oppressing Israel. We need an army. And he calls for an army in 330,000. Soldiers show up. 330,000 show up. A confirmation that God was with him and that the people were going to follow him. And uh it just seals the deal for him in his heart and mind that he knows that he is indeed leading the people. He's given victory uh over it, and this settles the matter for the doubters. Look in uh Verse number 12. And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring them in that we may put them to death. You see, when Saul was appointed and all the people said, uh, oh, God saved the king. Do you know what? Anytime you have somebody that's going to lead, there's going to be a few people that don't like it. That's just the facts of the matter. That's just the way it is. Look back at chapter 10 in verse number 27. But the children of Elal said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him and brought him no presents. Look how Saul responds there. He says, but he held his peace. Saul didn't respond out of anger. Saul said, it's okay. Don't worry about it. I mean, so everybody stood up and said, God saved the king, and the prophet said this is the king, and everybody was excited about it, but there was that group that was going to stand back and say Who said this guy's gonna save us? Who who who does he think he is? He's nobody special. Oh, he's gonna do something. La di da da now. I ain't I ain't I I ain't giving him any presents Matter of fact, I'm making my disagreement known. I'm letting people know because I ain't showing up to the party. You know you say a lot by your absence. When you on purpose, when you could, but you decide not to be there, you say a lot, and that's what these people did. They said, I ain't showing up, I ain't giving him any presents. Who does he think he is? Well then we get into chapter number eleven and the war broke out that we just talked about. These enemy came in. Saul calls for an army. 330,000 people come. God gives them a great victory. And then we see there in chapter eleven and uh What was it? Verse number 12? Verse number 12, chapter 11, that and the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring them that we may put them to death The rest of the people said, we're not having this. This definitely is our leader. No question. This is settled. And the detractors, the doubters, were silenced. But Saul doesn't have that. And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day, for today the Lord hath wrought salvation on Israel. He said, listen. We're not going to go killing our own people because they're not happy. God is the one that did it, not me. You see the humility of s all here at the beginning? Right as he starts out. He starts out very well. He starts out very humble. But that changes very, very fast as God gives him victory as he sees some six some success. Then we have in chapter number 12 Samuel's last recorded message. This is his last sermon that he preaches to them. Samuel says, okay. The king's in place. You guys are going to be following him. God is supposed to be leading. Sa Saul is supposed to be following God. He is the standing in his stead here on earth. He's speaking to them. And so first of all, he asked them to respond if he individually had done them any wrong in verses 1 through 5. He says, I come before you now and I am the prophet, the man of God, basically. He says, if I have wronged you in any way, If I have, as others, taken advantage of you, if I have sought my own profit in the position that I'm in, if in any way you have somewhat against me, then please speak because I want to get that right. I want to settle that. And we see that in verse number 4 they respond to him, chapter 12, verse number 4. And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us. Neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. They said, listen, we've got nothing we can say against you. You guys have uh You you have not done anything wrong. We we can't we can't think of anything that you've done, Samuel. You fulfill fulfilled your position to the best of your ability Then he asked them, he says, hey, would you guys remember what God has done for you? In verses 6 through 11, he kind of goes through, and Samuel said unto the people, Is it the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt? Now therefore stand still that I may reason with you before the Lord. For all the righteous acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your father, which Jacob he goes on, he says, Hey, God is the one that saved you, God is the one that protected you, God is the one that provided for you These are the things that God did. He said, Would you remember what God did? He says, In light of everything that God did, could I exhort you, could I encourage you? Could I tell you, please do not rebel against God? I know you've called the king, and the king's going to be leading you, but listen, don't rebel against God. God did all of this for you. We see in verse number 12, he gets down there, he says. And when ye saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but the king shall reign over us. When the Lord your God was your king. Verse number thirteen. Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen and whom ye have desired, and behold the Lord hath set a king over you. Verse number 14, he says, if ye will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord. Then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God. He says, hey, don't rebel against God. Uh this this this is everything that God did. I know you got a king, I know he's leading, but here follow God, do what God wants you to do. And the Lord sent rain to confirm his message in verse number sixteen. And the people repented of asking for a king. In verse number 19, they said, Yeah, we shouldn't have done that. But here's where we are. We're sorry. And then Samuel calls for revival in the hearts of the people in verse number 20 through 25. Again, this is Samuel's last message to the people. And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not. Ye have done all this wickedness, ye turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your hearts. And turn ye not aside, then should ye go after vain things which cannot profit, neither deliver you For they are vain, for the Lord will not forsake his people, for his great namesake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. He says, hey, we want revival. He calls for them to serve the Lord. Let me give you a couple things to underline the word of God here. Look down at verse number 24. He says, well, look at 23. He says, moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and ceasing to pray for you. He says, but I will teach you the good and the right way. So what is the good and the right way? You can underline these three words. The good and right way in the next verse. He says, only fear the Lord. Underline the word fear. And serve him in truth, underline the word serve, with all your heart, for consider Consider, underline the word consider, how great things he hath done for you. So he says, the good and the right way is to fear God. Serve God and remember all that God has done for you. This is the good and the right way. He said, This is the pathway, this is the direction that you should be going. So this is what they're supposed to do is sh Samuel's last message and uh He challenges them. Here's where you're at. Don't forget where you've been. Follow God as you move forward. I want to show you a uh timeline that we're working on putting together. I say we because Alicia was in town for a few hours yesterday and I said says, hey, can you get something done for me? And she got it partially done. There's a lot more we want to do, but we're going to have Gus put it up on the screen here. And just to kind of be able to visualize this, what's happened here. So this green line is 1 Samuel, and these are the chapters, chapter 10, chapter 12, 13, 14, basically all the way through chapter 31. Saul was anointed here, right at the beginning, chapter number basically nine right here, Saul's anointed and accepted. We see Samuel's last message. This is just what we talked about here in chapter number 12, Samuel's last message. Now there's a transition here. That takes place, just leave that up there for a second, where we see that Saul was arrogant as king. There's a transition. Saul started out good. But Saul's arrogance begins to come out, and we see several things that he does wrong right away, and that's why these are in red. We see that he offers sacrifice. uh that he is not supposed to offer. We're going to talk about that in chapter 14. He saw makes a rash vow, which was foolish and he shouldn't have done. And then 15, Saul spares the Amalekites. And then we see because of these things that God's spirit departs from Saul. God says, you know what, you've lost the kingdom. Then I threw Goliath in here because this is a defining point for Samuel chapter number 17. The top of this is blank because I'm going to put David on the top up here. This is going to be the life of David, which starts like somewhere around here The life of David starts here and goes on right along track with him. And there's fifteen years of transition between the point where David was anointed king and when he becomes king. And there's a lot that happens in there when Saul is still king, even though that David is anointed king, and you know all the stuff that happens in that transition. And so we're going to talk about those things. We've got to bring this to a conclusion today. But next week we'll be picking up right here and uh hopefully Saul reigned 40 years, you see that on the bottom? And I'll I'll be giving you this in paper as well, but Saul reigned 40 years. And this is broken up into, it's not on here, but this is broken up into these first ten years. Good years. I mean he did basically did right. Then you have fifteen years where he was at war and was doing foolish things. And then you have the fifteen years of transition between uh when he was our the Spirit of the Lord had already departed and uh he was doing wrong and just the transition hadn't happened where David come in yet. So hopefully we'll get the rest of that developed next week and we'll pick up here at point number two where Saul was arrogant as king. We see Saul is impatient. Point number one there, Saul is impatient. Chapter number 13. And uh we're gonna pick up that next week. I was really hoping to get through this uh at least the impatient part here. Uh let's let's do it. We got five minutes. Let's do the impatient. There there's a couple more blanks for you there. So we see in chapter 13 and verse number one that Saul is impatient. God gives them another victory at Gibeah in one through four. The Philistines aren't happy about being whooped. And so the Philistines respond with a great big army. And uh they're like, oh, we're gonna kill them. So they come on the scene with a huge army, and Samuel instructs uh Saul to wait at Gilgal for him to offer sacrifices to the Lord Samuel instructs Saul and says, hey, you need to wait at Gilgal. I've got something I've got to do. I will be there in seven days. Wait at Gilgal. I'll come and offer sacrifices for the Lord to give you victory in this battle. You just wait. So Saul's waiting. And yet ultimately he decides there's people leaving, there's people, people are afraid, and all his armies going AWOL. People are they're just taking off, they're hiding. And he's like, man, what am I gonna do? And ultimately, Saul decides, of his own volition, that he's going to go offer the sacrifice. He says, you know what? I'm I I can't wait anymore. If Samuel didn't show up, I'm gonna offer the sacrifice myself. So he just decides to do what he wants to do Takes it upon himself to do that which he did not have the authority to do, was not recognized by God to do, he should not be fulfilling the law of a priest or the role of a priest. Serving in that capacity and offering sacrifices like that, that was not for him to do. But he said, you know what? I need to do it. I need God's blessing. We need to go into battle now. He be impatient, doesn't wait on Samuel, offers sacrifice himself. And we see that because of that, Saul pronounces God's judgment on him. Now Saul offers three excuses, and we don't have time to look at the excuses here. But he offers three excuses. He tries to spiritualize his sin. He says, Boy, I needed to do this. We wanted to offer sacrifices to God. This is the right thing to do. You know, somebody said, He who excuses himself accuses himself. He who excuses himself accuses himself And that's what Saul was doing. He was trying to explain away his sin. Samuel knew it was wrong. Saul knew it was wrong, but Saul still, he said, Boy, I needed to do it. Here's why. And ultimately, Samuel pronounces judgment on him. And tells him right then that he's going to lose the kingdom. Let me read that for you and we'll close. So we in verse 14 he says that, Samuel chapter 13, verse number 14, he says. Behold, now the kingdom shall not thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart. And the Lord has commanded him to be a captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee. He said, You've departed from doing what God wanted you to do, and God is going to take the kingdom away from you. So Saul is gonna lose the kingdom to a man after God's own heart. Uh then we are gonna move on next week. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and pray that you'll give us a uh just a time this morning, this morning service, where we're fed from the Word of God, where we're strengthened spiritually. God, would you be with your people? Would you You just give them what they need individually where they're at. Lord, we thank you for your blessings on Hunt Valley Baptist Church and the privilege that's ours to gather uh here in the freedom of the country that we have to worship you and praise you and Lord uh taking advantage of that today to do so together and we thank you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You're dismissed. Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2nd Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. Then you have the major prophets. There's Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, and Daniel. And then you have all of the minor prophets. So hopefully you're putting those into uh committing that to memory, well you'll have that at the tip of your brain when the pastor says turn to Ezekiel, you'll know where to go. When he says turn to Hezekiah, you'll know that it is not a book of the Bible. Okay. So we are here right in the middle or the beginning portion of the United Kingdom looking at the first of the kings that ruled all of Israel, King Saul. We did the first point last week. There's three kings that ruled during the United Kingdom era when they were all underneath one king. You have Saul, David, and Solomon, and then the kingdoms divided, and we'll get into that in a little bit. I wanted to bring up a map and show you, just to give you a concept in your heart and mind about what's taking place because At least for me in my mind, when I think about the Old Testament and you hear about these nations going one against another, we live in a pretty big landmass. And for us, we are blessed that our enemies have been across the ocean. Uh we have not had to fight outside of nine eleven. There hasn't been a fight or anything on American soil, and we've gone over there to have these so When I picture like one nation going against another and that kind of a thing, I picture this, you know, you've got to travel a long ways to go do that. Well Even still today, you understand that Israel is surrounded by all of our enemies. All the way around this small nation, our enemies on every side. And so to put this in perspective, we have the entirety of the Old Testament All of the stories that we read about in the Old Testament take place in a landmass the size of Texas. Everything that takes place in the Old Testament, all of the stories take place in this region right here. You you know right here is the Nile River. So it pushes over just a little bit right here because you have Egypt that's on the other side of the Nile. And then you go all the way over here and you have there's actually four rivers that run down right here together. The other two are smaller Right in the center, right there, is about where they believe the Garden of Eden was or located. And so, you know, you you have here the uh Sea of Galilee. And what runs between the Sea of Galilee, what's this body of water down here in the bottom? Anybody know what it is? It's the lowest point. The Dead Sea and so what flows between the Sea of Galilee? It's real tiny on this map, but the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea? The Jordan River So that's the Jordan River. So when you're talking about, you know, the Israelites crossing over into the promised land, it's right there, okay? And so all of it takes place pr in this region of something the size of the state of Texas And uh so uh just I wanted you to be able to have that in your mind as we're talking about, you know, the Philistines came up against Israel It's not like we think about as far as America as a nation and the volume of size that we are and and you go over to another country. They're they're they're next door neighbors. There they're basically there's a fence and the enemy's right there all the time. And it was shocking to us when we when I went to visit Israel Uh you know, we were right there along the border several times. And you know, they've s you know the guys that were our guide and whatever, he's like, oh yeah, uh two weeks ago they shot rockets over this right here, over this little barrier and uh you know they hit in this building and they showed where it where it destroyed the building two weeks before we were there. Their their enemy is literally right there all the time. And uh that's why everybody, uh as a young man, young lady, they all serve in the military. Coming up, everybody has a stint of service that they do and they're ready to be called up at any time. And uh it's amazing that across the whole country you'll see young men, I mean basically teenagers, walking around with uh M16s on their shoulders. uh strapped with guns. They're all over the place, the the military. And you know what? It's funny, they're not all shooting each other. Uh they're not not not a bunch of people. They don't have all these wild mass killings and all that, but uh they have the these uh guns there everywhere. And uh it protects them because why? Because their enemies are right there on every side. And we'll see that as we read the story here uh this morning and look back at the life of Saul as he led the nation of Israel as their first king So we saw the first point last week. We went through all of that as Saul was anointed to be king and what he did there. We got to the point where Saul was arrogant as king in chapters 13 And 14, we looked, I had to get through uh Saul's impatience in chapter 13 last week because uh it was one of my messages. uh I think Sunday evening last week where we looked at that in more detail, the impatience of Saul to not wait and offer a sacrifice. He said, man, I've got to do this. And uh so he offers a sacrifice and he gives three excuses for his ungodly actions, and uh of course uh he who excuses himself accuses himself And uh Saul is pr judgments pronounced upon him here in chapter 13 that he ultimately is going to lose the kingdom to a man who's after God's own heart. We talked about the difference between Saul and David and what they were going after, and hopefully we are going after the right thing. This morning we're going to pick up here in chapter number 14 where we see how uh ill rational Saul is. How he just does not function in the realm of rationality. He has lost all sense of what is reasonable. Against the backdrop of insurmountable odds, the Israelites are very fearful. There's uh desertion King Saul thinks that if he offers the sacrifice that he just offered, that people would rally around him and he would be victorious in battle, but the opposite happens. And he looks around to find that there is only six hundred men with him in verse number fourteen. Look in verse number two. And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree. which is Magron, and the people were with him were about six hundred men. So out of all of the men that could have come, he's sitting here underneath the tree with about six hundred men. Well, Saul, uh I mean Saul's son Jonathan has a better relationship with God and he trusts God in these things and he calls upon God. Look at verse number one in chapter fourteen. Now it came to pass upon a day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said unto a young man that bare his armor, Come and let us go over to the Philistine garrison that's on the other side But he told not his father, he says, Hey, there's a Philistine garrison over there. There's a bunch of enemy. Uh they're all sitting right over there. Why don't we uh go take some of them out? Why don't we go wreak some havoc on these enemies of God So Jonathan looks to God for victory. In verse number six we see that. And Jonathan said to this young man that bare his armor, Come and let us go over to the garrison if these uncircumcised He says, it may be that the Lord will work for us. For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few. He says, listen, God could do this with the two of us, or God could do it with a huge army. It doesn't matter. God's the one that's going to do it. Why don't you and I get up and go charge the garrison of the enemy and see what God will do. And his armor bearer, uh his his friend, his loyal friend says okay in verse number seven there, he says, uh And his armor bearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart, turn thee, behold, I am with thee according to thy heart. Man, the loyalty or the value of a loyal friend cannot be overstated. It is amazing here that Jonathan was ambitious and desirous to see God do a great work and he calls on God and said, let's go over. And his armor bearer said, Okay, if this is what you want to do, I'm with you. And uh praise the Lord for good friends, for loyal friends who are going to be there with you when you step up and strive to do what's right, when you have somebody with you, it makes all the difference in the world. As a young man, you guys know a little bit of my story, I was uh really, I was worldly. I was a little bit rebellious, or a lot rebellious, and I wanted to do my own thing, and I wanted to live my own life However, I had a young man who was a good friend of mine, and we helped each other. There were many times I was in places that I shouldn't have been. I was exposed to things I shouldn't have been exposed to. I was around all kinds of things that this world has to offer But because Jaime and I were together when we were approached and offered drugs and alcohol and to smoke different things uh we were able to say, no, I don't want that. You know, we just kind of decided ourselves. It wasn't a spirituality thing for us. It wasn't a decision that we at that time were trying to please God or do what was right. We just looked at him and said, you're an idiot. y you know, in a few minutes you're going to be walking around like a dumbbell because you've lost all common sense because you're partaking of this stuff. And we just decided as young men we weren't going to do that And many times I I don't know where I would have ended up had I not had a friend to stand with me when other people were mocking and making fun and saying, oh, you just don't do that because you're a pastor's kid or whatever. I said, no, I just don't do that because I'm not stupid And uh, you know, it wasn't it wasn't about being spiritual spiritual, it was because I had a friend that stood with me. Value the friends that God gives you that help you to do right. Amen? That's what we need, friends that help us to do right So we see, I'm going to back up just a second because I forgot to mention that they were in a between a rock and a hard place. It's amazing how many of our statements that we say in the world today are from biblical uh foundations. We see in verse number four that they found themselves in between a rock and a hard place. He says in verse number four, and between the passage by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistine garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side. And so they found themselves in this rough spot. You know, sometimes in life you're going to find yourself between a rock and a hard place. What you need to do is determine to do what's right and allow God to get you through that that hard situation, that hard time. Oftentimes we respond like Saul and we want to do what we want to do and we end up making a mess of it But if we would do what's right, God couldn't God could bless. Everyone has uh fought very hard, um Well Saul and those that were hiding away, those that were sitting under the shade tree, they see the victory that Jonathan is winning in his garrison and they say, Hey, let's go, let's let's help him out. Let's go with him. So they go and they fight this battle. God gives them some victory And uh everyone fights very hard all day long, and Saul is so concerned with how he looks that he says in verse number twenty-four, he says, I'm going to curse anybody that partakes of food until I am avenged of my enemies. Everybody needed food to sustain themselves. They had burned all of their energy. And Saul, in an unreasonable request, says, Nobody can touch food until I have avenged of all my enemies, until this victory is completely won. It was foolish for him to say this, and it was unreasonable for him to say this. Saul, uh blinded by his ambition, uh makes this irrational request or demand upon his men. Saul once again offers sacrifice in chapter in verse 34 of chapter 14. He offers sacrifice, which he is not supposed to do. You know, sin often begets sin. Many times If you take that first step towards sin or say, well, I'm gonna just do this little bit, it's like eating one potato chip. You can't eat one potato chip, right? You gotta it's just like, oh, I'm just gonna have one And then you have two and then you have four and then you have sixteen and then pretty soon you're looking at the bag and you're like Wait, who ate all the chips? Ah It was you, you ate 'em all. And that's the problem with sin is when you take that first step towards standard, you say, Well, I'm just gonna I'm just gonna do this little bit Well, this d Satan has a way of deceiving you and thinking, Well, it's okay, it's not that bad. It's just a little bit and you do a little bit and you do a little bit more and you do a little bit more and you think, Well, nothing happened last time, God didn't strike me dead, I wasn't hit with lightning, I think I'm okay, I'm gonna do it again. And Saul he he he says, hey, uh I've already done it once. Uh let's go ahead and I'm going to offer sacrifice again. So he offered sacrifice again when he did not have the authority to do so. Now, he's inquiring of the Lord whether he should go into battle, and he does not hear from God. He's looking, he says, man, I need God's help. I'm going to offer the sacrifice, and God doesn't answer him. Nothing comes there. He thinks, Man, this must be because my son ate of the honey. Surely it's not because uh Saul had offered sacrifice twice. Surely it's not because Saul had disobeyed God. The reason that God wasn't speaking to him, I mean surely it's not because he was the one in sin. You understand many times when people have put themselves into a bad place, they are going to blame the people around them. They're going to blame others and say, oh, it's his fault that I'm here. It's this happened because of what he did. This happened because of what she did, instead of looking at themselves in the mirror and seeing who they are and what they did. Saul was the one in sin here. Saul was the one that did wrong, but Saul says, man, it must be because my sin had eaten this honey, and he declares that he's going to kill his own son. He's going to kill his own son for what happened here. And look down in verse number 45 of chapter 14. The people persuade him not to be so foolish. He says, and the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid. As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan that he died not Saul was ready to kill his own son in a false thinking that it was his it was judgment on his son instead of judgment on himself You see, he's lost all rationality. He's consumed with his own pride and ambition, with his own desires and what he wants to accomplish. We see his ill rational behavior here all through this chapter. And so because of this, Saul was abandoned as king. Chapter number 15, we see Saul is abandoned as king. Samuel in chapter 15 and verse number 1, Samuel reminds him, hey, you're here because of God. Do you understand anything that we have or that we are or that we've accomplished is because God has allowed it? God has blessed you and made it possible. There is nobody that has pulled themselves up by their own boot traps. I know they may want to think that, they may want to say that, but the fact of the matter is, is if wherever you are in life, whatever you've been able to accomplish is because God allowed you to get there. Saul was king because God had put him there, and Saul reminds him of that in chapter 15 and verse number one. Samuel reminds him of that Also said un Samuel also said unto Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore, hearken unto the voice of the words of the Lord. He says, Hey, God put you here. Would you please stop and listen to what God is saying? God is the one that gave you everything you have, that put you where you are, that allowed you to accomplish everything you've accomplished. Would you please pause and listen? Come on, Saul. And Saul just blatantly continues to go against what God wants him to do. God said in verse number three, they're going up against the Amalekites, and God said to destroy them. Um verse just read verse 2 and 3. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I remember that which the Amalekites did unto Israel, how he laid in wait for him in the way when they came up out of Egypt So when the children of Israel came up out of Egypt, the Amalekites were there, they lied in the wait, and because of that God pronounced judgment on them. Let me read this for you, Exodus seventeen and verse number fourteen And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of the Amalekite. From under heaven. This is all the way back in the book of Exodus because of what they did to God's people. He says, hey, the Amalekites are going to pay. They are going to be utterly destroyed. They're going to be put out from remembrance. Now God has his king, God has his people here, and he says, Hey, the Malachites are coming against you. I remember what they did way back here. It's time to punish them for this sin. Now wipe them out, utterly destroy them. The problem is, in verse number 3, he says, Now go and smite Malachite, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not. But slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep and camel and ass. He said, everything that the Amalekites own want you to utterly destroy it. But Saul once again disobeys God's directive. He begins to think, well, there's probably a better way to do this. I think this would be more profitable if we handled it this way. Boy, I think I would be better off If I didn't do what I was supposed to do here, you know uh We of course know that it's wrong to steal, uh and we understand that sometimes people in a work scenario try and blend the lines a little blur the lines a little bit, you know, oh well it's not really stealing, it's it's acquisitioning, it's borrowing, uh it's payment for my services that I didn't get that I should have got. Uh and they they know it's not right to do, but because of profit or gain, they think, you know what, uh I'm gonna go ahead and do this. And they do that and don't realize that they are under God's judgment for that, like Saul is here. We see that Saul spared King Agag. He was not supposed to. He was supposed to kill him, but he spared him. They spared the best oxen, the sheep, the fatlings, the lambs, all that was good. He spared. He said, all that was good. So he said, boy, I obeyed God. I killed everything that was half dead already. I killed everything that I didn't want. We got rid of all the junk. But I mean, come on, if it was valuable, why destroy it? Let's bring it back. Let's put it to some use. You know, sometimes God wants you to get rid of some things in your life. And you are looking at the monetary value of it instead of the right or wrong of it? And you don't do it? For instance, many times young people that are battling with the wrong kind of music in their life God is saying, you know, you need to get that out of your life, and they're like, yeah, but I've spent all this money on this music. And I and I can't just get rid of it, I'll lose all that money that I spent. I've got this thing that God is telling me to get rid of, but but the value of it is too much. I can't just throw it out. No, you just need to get rid of it. Stop looking at the monetary value or the physical profit of it and look at the spiritual damage it's causing Saul tries to say that what he did uh God wanted. Look at chapter fifteen and verse number uh thirteen He knows he did wrong, but he tells the prophet here. He says, and Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. He said, boy, I did it. Now when you're looking at it, you know, through colored glasses, you can say, yeah, he did it, partially. He did a sort of what he was supposed to do. He did kill a lot of things. He did put to death and utterly destroy many persons, but not all. We see he tries to do that again in verse number 20. He says, and Saul said unto Samuel, Yea. I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have brought Agag, the king of the Malachites, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. Okay, he has the king standing right there. He says, I brought the king and I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. I did what God said. So delusional in his own mind, God had told him to utterly destroy, to kill everything. The king is standing next to him, and he's saying, I did what God said to do. I utterly destroyed all of them. What about the one that's standing right next to you? What about their leader? The one that you are looking for gain or profit from? And so he is trying to declare his own innocence here. Saul tries to spiritualize what he did Look at verse number fifteen. He knows he didn't kill everything, he didn't destroy everything, but look at verse number fifteen. He tries to spiritualize it. He says, And Saul said They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of oxen to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God. And the rest we have utterly destroyed. So he tries to spiritualize it. He says, oh look, look at I stole all this stuff so I could give it to the church. Wait a minute, that doesn't make it right. That doesn't make it right that you you stole all this stuff from work so that you could give it No, we've got to uh honor God and do what's right in each step of the way and you can't spiritualize your sin although humanly speaking we try and do that Samuel had a message for Saul beginning in verse number 17. He says, God made you king when you were nothing. God commanded you to utterly destroy. And uh you didn't do it. Then in verse number 22, he says that to obey is better than sacrifice. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than a fat of rams. He's saying, listen, God, you think God is pleased in your disobedience because you offered a sacrifice with it? No, obedience would have been have been far better than to offer a bunch of sacrifices. And Christian, to put it down to where we are today, I want you to understand that many people think because they came to church they have a license to sin. But God says to obey is better than sacrifice, or because I give to missions, or because I uh am faithful to God's house, or because I was a soul winner and I I went I won somebody to Jesus Well, God's so pleased with my sacrifice that I get to go over here and sin, but I want you to know that's not the case. To obey is better than sacrifice. God is much happier when you just do what he says to do than he is with with your uh sacrifices of monetary gifts or sacrifices of time or sacrifices of energy for him. And uh, you know, we ought to just be obeying God. Amen? Just to obey. Obey is better than sacrifice. You know, with kids, uh uh s sometimes training this into them is is takes time and energy because you know you may leave and you say, okay, well I'm gone, I want you to get the kitchen all cleaned up. And then you come home and the kitchen's not cleaned up and the child says, But I cleaned my room. I I I c look look at what I did, Dad. Look, I cleaned my room all up. I got my room all clean. I did all this. Look at aren't you happy? No, because you didn't do what I told you to do. You were supposed to clean the kitchen. We've got guests coming over tonight, and we're going to feed them dinner. Now there's no clean dishes for that. You were supposed to get the kitchen clean. You could have and should have cleaned your room on your own time. You didn't do what I told you to do. And going over here and cleaning your room doesn't make up for that. Obey is better than sacrifice. And many times Christians want to come and offer our sacrifice to God in place of just being obedient. Beloved, that's like a a hit man saying, but I'm nice to my mom I'm good to my mom. I love her and I ca I take care of her. Yeah, but you're over here killing people. This is this is not an acceptable trade. Okay, there's no there's no way, nothing that you're doing over here that makes that okay. You're not supposed to be doing that, and Christian, we need to understand that to be true. God ultimately rejects him as king in verse number 15 and verse number 23. He says, for rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. He rejected him from being king. Not only that, we see that Samuel has to do what Saul didn't. He kills King Agag in verse 32 and 33. And Samuel separates himself from King Saul in verse number 35. He says, and Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. And Samuel mourned for Saul. He was not pleased with Saul's failure. He was not happy that Saul did not succeed. over and over again said, Would you please listen to the word of the Lord? Would you please heed and obey what God says? Obedience is better than sacrifice, but Saul continually chose to not do what God said, and therefore God judged him for it. And ultimately Saul was afflicted as king. Saul knows he's been rejected, but he's yet to Abdicate his kingdom over to the anointed boy David. He's holding on for all that he's worth, but the Spirit of the Lord has left him. And not only that, the Spirit of God begins to trouble him. He is afflicted in his spirit. This inner conflict is evident in the king's actions for the next 15 years. Do you have that timeline that I gave you last week, Gus, of uh Saul's life? Um So just to show you this here, put this in perspective, I need to move these a little bit. I'll do it before next week. because I laid this out as five-year increments. So Saul range for 40 years. So the first 10 years here actually goes to chapter 13, should be about right there uh where he offers a sacrifice. And then you have 15 years between these two, where all this stuff we just happened about, in chapter 16, the spirit of departs from Saul. So right here, the spirit departs from Saul, and if we were looking at David's life, you would see that right there, the spirit goes and rests on David. Now we're going to come back to chapter 16 when we start looking at David and pick up David's life and watch it from here. But you have another 15 years here, five, ten, fifteen years before Saul's death. And during these 15 years, you also have David's life that's taking place and all of the transition and all of what happens right here because of God's the spirit had departed from him. So we see several things. We're going to bring this to a conclusion here. Saul's depression. Saul is depressed in his spirit. He's afflicted in his spirit because David is anointed king. And chapter 16, verses 1 through 13, the Spirit of the Lord departs from Saul. And Saul's spirit is troubled. Look at verse number 14. Chapter 16 and verse number 14. We see that uh But the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. So he the spirit of God that brought peace and soundness of mind. And God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of power and of sound mind. That comfort that comes from the Spirit of the Lord departed from him, and the Spirit of God troubled him because of his sin. We saw in the last chapter there we read about the that his rebellion was as the sin of witchcraft, and so now his spirit is continually troubled. David is called to serve in Saul's house as his armor bearer. In verse number 21, we know the story here, what takes place, but in 21, and David came to Saul and stood before him, and he loved him greatly. and he became his armor bearer. So he's called to be his armor bearer. He says, hey, I want you to come and be an armor bearer. Then David is called to defeat Goliath in chapter number 17, and we'll look at that more in uh When we look at David's life specifically, and then in chapter 18, we see the envy that grips the heart of Saul. Looking in verse number 8 and 9 of chapter 18. We see here he says, And Saul was very wroth and saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom? He's saying, boy, everybody loves him. Nobody loves me. They're saying he's done everything and I've done nothing. And the what more could he take except the kingdom? Now I don't know how much Saul actually one hundred percent knew if he knew if Samuel communicated somehow to him. We know Samuel didn't go see Saul anymore. After that, the last chapter we read tells us that. But did Saul know that the Spirit of the Lord had anointed David, that David was going to be the next king? Or did he not know, I'm not positive on that, but he obviously saw the writing on the wall. He says, what more could he have but the kingdom And Saul's eyed David from that day forward. He began watching David, he began envying David, he began living in the spirit of jealousy against David, and uh he's determined to kill him. So we see Saul's determination. He's overcome with this anger and bitterness that drives him to an incomprehensible action over and over again. He does crazy things. He's given to outburst. Violent outburst and he's determined to kill David. He tries several times to stick him to the wall with a javelin. In verse number 11, chapter 18, and verse number 11, he says, And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice. So two times there, David was there to play his harp or called before him, and Saul violent outbursts, and he throws a javelin and tries to kill him. And uh David uh avoids the javelin, get flees from his presence, and is saved, of course, by the direction and power of the Holy Spirit, by the Lord's will. But he tries to kill him. He tries to have his uh him killed by the Philistines in chapter eighteen and verse number twenty-five. Look at that. He says And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. Now you remember Saul had promised his daughter to the man who killed Goliath So David did so. So Saul was supposed to give him uh, you know, Saul David had already earned his daughter's hand. He was supposed to give him his hand, but Saul says, you know what, you don't have to give me a dowry. But what I would like is I would like to be avenged for my enemies. I want you to go kill a hundred Philistines. And David said, okay, and he goes and does it. But Saul thought that David is going to get into battle with a hundred Philistines and going to get killed, and it would fix his problem for him. So he thought, well I'll ask this of David. David will go and the Philistines will kill him and it'll all be done. Uh I mean very clearly there he says, Hey, uh Saul thought that he would be killed by the Philistines, but that didn't happen God gives David the victory. He gives the kills a hundred Philistines and uh comes back and gets Saul's daughter's hand. Uh he tries to have Jonathan, his son, kill him. You know there's a great friendship between David and Jonathan. He tries to utilize that and see that Jonathan kills his son in 19. 1. And Saul spake to Jonathan's son and to all his servants that they should kill David. Says, hey guys, next time David comes around, he's a little leery around me. He's gotten pretty good at avoiding javelins. I haven't been able to get him yet. So next time he'll be more comfortable by you guys. When he's comfortable sitting around here, I want you to kill him He tries to get them to kill him, but of course they ha will have nothing to do with that. In verse number 11, 1911, he tries to have some messengers kill him. in 1911. He says Saul sent also messengers unto David's house to watch him and to slay him in the morning. He says, hey guys, go out, watch the house. As soon as he comes out, kill him. Over and over again, Saul, driven by this envy and jealousy, determines to kill David, but it doesn't happen because God is protecting David. And uh so for the next 12 years, they play a dangerous game of cat and mouse in the hills uh and uh the caves around Jerusalem It was one of the neat things that we got to see is some of the caves uh in Israel where David hid uh from Saul and where they played some of this cat and mouse where they saw each other across the valleys and And they called unto each other and and uh they they David hid and Saul came running after him and David was gone. And that was really uh neat to see in person. So we see ultimately Saul's desperation in chapter twenty-eight, verses three through twenty-five. He's facing another enemy coming in, the Philistine army is coming, and ready to attack. Once again he resorts to his own thinking. Uh you of course know that Samuel is not responding to him. Samuel's not uh able to communicate with him, but that's who he used to go to when he really needed to get a hold of God, you know He kept him over here like a little genie and said, Hey, can you come and tell me what God wants me to do? Uh not that he was going to do it, but that's what he looked for. And well Uh Samuel's not going to do that. Actually, Samuel's died at this point. But he says, Well, I need Samuel. Samuel's not around. Well, I'm going to do is I'm going to go get the witch of Endor. And I'm going to have her raise him up from the dead and ask him a question for me so that Samuel can tell me what God wants me to do. So he's going to go to the devil's embassy and ask him to get a hold of God for him. The thinking of some people in their twisted way somehow rationalize actions like this. He goes and he seeks the wish of Endor. Saul uh had rightly driven from the land all those that deal with familiar spirits in verse number twenty in chapter twenty-eight and verse number three. And we're just about done here, 28 verse number 3. He says, Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city, and Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. So all those that dealt with these types of things, Saul said, Hey, we're not having that here. He had rightly got rid of it, except now that he wanted it, he went to go seek it out So they knew where they could find this witch of indoor, and they went to go seek her out. Saul disguises himself and seeks out the witch in verse number eight. And Saul disguised himself and And he went to with two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirits, and bring him up, whom I shall name unto thee And uh him and the woman have a discussion, she says, like, I can't do that, Saul's gonna kill me. He's like, No, don't worry about it, Saul's not gonna do that. Uh why don't you go ahead and tell me uh I need to see Samuel. You know, most of these people that do this type of thing are are con artists. But I want you to understand the devil has power. The devil does have uh the ability to do many things, but most of these people that want to, you know, pronounce your horoscope and give you insight into the future and all that. You know, most of them are just stealing people's money. And obviously you should avoid that type of stuff anyway. But it's pretty amazing that this woman who was there divining these spirits Look at verse number uh 12. Um she goes through her little seance. She calls up Samuel. And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice. She was shocked to see Samuel. She was like, oh my goodness, what what is this? She did not even realize that it was actually going to happen. She was going through her little seance, her little at her little routine, and she's going to call something up and Maybe speak in a deeper voice and Samuel says to go do it, you know, or whatever. But then actual Samuel appears and she was shocked. She's pulled back and and she's oh she screams with a loud voice Samuel says t says it straight, communicates to him what he should do in verses 16 through 19. Ultimately we get to the place where Saul's death is seen in chapter 31. Just as God said that it was going to happen, Saul goes to war. Him and his sons are all killed on the same day. Saul is struck with what would be a random arrow. God in his design that says the archers shot an arrow up into the sky. And the arrow structs all. I want you to know God knows where you're at. And uh you can look to try and be as safe or as protected as you want to be, but uh that arrow from God's gonna come and get us wherever. We are. However you want to try and avoid God. God knows exactly where you are. Saul was there and God's arrow came and struck him. It didn't kill him though. Saul tells his armor bearer, hey Uh I don't want the enemy to come and abuse me. I don't want them to come and make fun of me. I don't want them to have the credit for killing me. So why don't you kill me? And his armor bearer says, I ain't doing that. Nope. I ain't doing it I'm not killing you. And Saul says, okay, so Saul takes his own sword and he falls on his own sword to take his own life. His armor bearer I don't have any idea why, but his armor bearer said, Oh, Saul killed himself here. I'm I'm gonna kill myself. Saul his armor bearer falls on his sword and dies as well. And uh that brings Saul's life to a close. And then next week we're going to back up and we're going to pick up David, who goes along with Saul for 15 years, and then get to this point where David continues on and ultimately becomes king. All right. Let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for your word. I pray that you would be with the morning service. May you speak to our hearts. Uh give me clarity of thought. Allow me to present uh the message uh in the way and in the spirit in which you would have. God, I pray you'd speak to your people. People in Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you, you're dismissed.