We'll let the instrumentalist find their place, get their instruments kind of uh stored a little bit. You can turn your Bibles this evening to 1 Corinthians chapter number 3. I did not it's good to see the hauling sheds. Come in the back there, snuck snuck in after we got rolling. Good to see you, Eric. Welcome to Hunt Valley. Um I did not know what Officer You go by Officer John or Officer Olson. What are they what are they either or I didn't know what he was going to be speaking on this morning. He got going at one point and I thought he's going to preach my message. But either way, I I prepared and studied uh for this evening's message uh and you know, had planned to speak on this and I really did it from the perspective of that we had officers here today and they of course have chosen their line of work and what they're going to give their lives to and They interact with people who have chosen another line of work. Today uh I I it slipped my mind, but I asked the retired officers to stand and we honored them and then I was going to ask uh if there are any retired criminals here. Would you stand? But uh you know there's there's The people that they deal with many times are uh pe they see the people at their worst and uh when they have done the most foolish of things, you know, there's the dumb things that people do sometimes Uh really because of sin, sin is what uh causes the heart of man to be deceitful and desperately wicked, and uh that's what causes them to do that. I really was drawn to this thought tonight because of that. And then tonight we began the our song service and we sing it will be worth it all. I love that song, and uh many times that song is ministered to my heart in the midst of battle because there's times that it's hard and you're you're wore out. And uh the car breaks down, you don't have any money. Amen, Connor. There's struggles, and you know what? You look at it and say, you know what? It'll be worth it all. Uh and uh I just We're going to begin reading and I'll introduce further the topic and things tonight as we get into this, but I want you to just we're just going to start at the beginning, 1 Corinthians chapter number 3. We're going to read on down through verse number fifteen and uh take our text and thought from here. But if you'll follow along with me, the Bible says, And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual But as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. Paul, of course, talking to these saints. We know he's talking to believers, but he's talking to those believers who were still babes in Christ. They were people that should have known better, but didn't. They hadn't grown. They were still living carnally. And then he goes on to maybe describe and give some characteristics. Of a carnal individual, and I would have you look at those as we're reading. We're not going to preach on that or talk about it, but look at verse number two. He says, I fed you with milk and not with meat, for hereunto you were not able to bear it. Neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal, for as that whereas there is among you in being, Strife, divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as men? For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another I am of Apollos Are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul? And who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted, Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. Beloved, it is God that does the work. We are all just planters. We're all just waterers We have nothing in and of ourselves to brag about or pat ourselves on the back or somehow think that we are something special. Uh you know, Paul says here that we're we're all just planters, we're all just waterers, but it's God that does brings the increase. He goes on to point out how we should think about ourselves in regard to this. Look what he says in verse number 7. He says, so then, neither is he that planteth anything. Neither is he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one And every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. I would remind you tonight that there is great reward. And there is also great regret tied into your choice of labor. What you invest your time and energy and effort in, what you give yourself to in labor, there is great reward available, but there is also great regret as a possibility. We see in verse number 9, he says, For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. He's dealing with husbandry here in verses 5 through 8. We read that. He talks about the fact that some had planted, some watered God gives the increase. He's dealing with that aspect of husbandry, the a cultivating of the ground, the the the watering, the fertilizing, the the harvesting. That's what he's dealing with there. But then he begins to talk about building. In verses 10 through 17, we see in verse number 10, he says, according to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise master builder. I have laid the foundation, another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble He says here, beloved, under the direction and the power of the Holy Spirit and through the pen of Paul, he tells us that it is possible any man If any man, any one of us, can build on the foundation that is Jesus Christ, gold, silver, precious stones, or wood, hay Or stubble. I would like to preach to you this evening for a few minutes on the topic of lasting labor or worthless work. Lasting labor or worthless work. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you right now, and I submit myself humbly before you as an unworthy vessel to preach the word of God. Lord, we know that it is your word, and we know that your word is all worthy, that God, you are. And we pray tonight that you would do the work that only you can do in the hearts of each and every individual present. Lord, I ask you to give me liberty to preach, give me the words to say Guide us through this service this evening, the time that remains. Draw us into your presence and speak to us from heaven. And we'll praise you for the work that you do in Jesus' name. Amen. We see here, beloved, first of all. A sure foundation. We see that the foundation is necessary and that it must be sure. Beginning back in verse number 10, he says, According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon, but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Beloved, the importance of a sure foundation cannot be overstated. It doesn't matter how beautiful the Ephesus is that is constructed on top of the foundation. If the foundation is flawed, the building's gonna fall. There is a beautiful house right over here that just when you as soon as you turn left on Cuba at the bottom of Worthington's there. That uh was an old run-down house, and the person that bought it, they just tore the house down and they extended the foundation and constructed it back up, and it it came out very, very beautiful But you see the foundation was solid. The foundation was sound. They took that which was builded upon it, and they just removed it because it was worn out, it was tore down, it was fallen apart, and they destroyed all that But they took the foundation and they built upon it. Beloved, the the foundation must be sure. And can I tell you that the foundation is Jesus Christ? That foundation must be sure. Christ makes that very clear to us. Over there in Luke, where he gives us the contrast between the the wise and the foolish builder. It takes two men who have been given the same instructions, who've heard the same teaching, who've gone through the same classes, and and yet one chose to build his house on the rock, and the other chose to build his house on the sand. Once they were constructed, they may have looked very similar, they may have looked very good. But the house on the rock is going to stand, the house on the sand is going to fall. Jason, I hope the house that you bought is on a good foundation. The emphasis, the the structure upon the foundation may not be that pretty, but you can fix that. But what you do You really don't want to have to deal with foundation problems. And beloved, in your Christian life, there are many people who are dealing with foundation problems because their Christianity is built on something besides Jesus. You need to have Jesus Christ as the foundation of your life. Jesus is the rock He is the chief cornerstone. He is the master builder, and our lives must be built upon him, the sure foundation. Isaiah 28, verse number 16 says, Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation, a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. He is that cornerstone, he is that precious stone, he is the sure foundation, and you can be assured tonight that it will be worth it all if your life is built on Jesus Christ. If you have that foundation, no matter how much falls apart in this old wretched world that we're living in, one day we're going to be taken out of here. We're going to go on to glory and we're going to be standing in the presence of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And it will be worth it all. If your life is built on Jesus Christ, you won't be shocked at the day of judgment when some will, when he says, Depart from me, I never knew you Because your life is built on Jesus Christ. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ the solid rock I stand. Beloved, it is imperative, and I believe here, we're preaching to our Sunday night crowd that This is uh something that is not uh this morning's message was maybe to reach a loss tonight. It's just to remind you and and encourage you that your life is built on Jesus Christ and you have a sure foundation. Amen. He is God and he changes not. He's not going to move. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And no matter how unstable this world gets, we've got a foundation we can stand on, and that is Jesus Christ. Beloved, can I tell you that your home needs to be built on Jesus Christ? I'm not going to take time to chase that rabbit very far, but I want you to know, except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain to build it. Your home, your family, your marriage, your relationships, these must be built and centered around Jesus Christ You can try and make it work with the world's philosophies and ideas, but beloved, we know that God's way works. God designed the home. He he Planned for marriage, one man, one woman for life, and that is God's plan. They shall become one flesh. And we need a home, we need homes built and centered around Jesus Christ. And I tell you that the church needs to be built on Jesus Christ. He is the foundation of the church, and he's the head of the church And churches that that begin to be built around other things that that are not Jesus Christ is when you get into the place where these carnal Christians were in the book of Corinthians and they were saying, Oh, I'm of Paul, I'm of Apollos. And beloved, we don't we're not looking to be of a particular person. We're followers of Jesus Christ. There's people today, well, I follow this school, or I follow this college, or I read after this person, or I'm a follower of this person. This YouTube personality, boy, you're in trouble if you're following somebody on YouTube. You need to be a follower of Jesus Christ, a follower of the Word of God. The church needs to be built on Him and Him alone We need a sure foundation. I'm going to show you three things tonight with regards to our work. And I'm going to ask you to contemplate and think about yourself. Are you investing in lasting labor? For worthless work. We see first of all, beloved, that in verse number 13, there's going to be a sworn feature. There is something that's featured, is something that is highlighted, something that is made known, something that the Bible uses the term manifest. We see the first thing regarding our work. He says, every man's work shall be, what is it, made manifest. It's going to be revealed. It's going to be highlighted. It's going to be put on the screen. The fact is, beloved, every work that you and I do is going to be made manifest. Can I ask you tonight, are you excited about that? Again, I had no idea what he was going to be preaching on this morning, but you consider and think about the aspect of the body cams that officers wear. And how every work is made manifest. And how that impacts and affects their behavior Unless you be too hard on Officer John and his honesty today, beloved, every one of us would act different when the camera's on than when it's off. You can you y you ask Nate who runs around here with a camera and uh you know w as soon as people see the camera all of a sudden their their behavior changes. I mean he can be videoing of him. They're having fun and laughing and that's what you want to catch, the candid, the the fun, the smiles. But as soon as they notice the camera, it's like, oh uh You know, straighten the tie and I'm gonna uh uh all of a sudden you're like, no, just act natural. Just keep on going like the camera's not even here, but people they change. The camera's uh camera's rolling. Can I tell you, beloved, one day it's all gonna be made manifest? There is a camera rolling and one day, let me ask you, beloved, if everything that you did over the last week was put on to a uh uh camera and we've just rolled the screens down here today and we put it up here and played it for the whole congregation of the church to view and for God to view. I wonder how excited would you and I be about that Well there's a day, beloved, when every work the Bible says is going to be made manifest. It's going to be exposed, it's going to be highlighted. People are going to see it. And right now God sees it, and what we need to do is live in light of the fact that God sees it, and not just that God sees it, but the fact is that one day the work is going to be made manifest. What would you do if the entirety of this last week was recorded and we played it up here for you? How ashamed would you be But beloved, there's another aspect to that as well, because the fact of the matter is is every work is going to be made manifest, every work is going to be revealed, and the fact of the matter is that I think one day when we standing in heaven and we're there at that judgment seat of Christ. And every work is being judged. Can I tell you, beloved, that we're going to be sitting there and there's going to be some old saint come up before the throne and God's going to look down at them and God's going to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant And God's going to begin to reveal the fact that this individual had a walk with God, and of the morning they would get on their knees and pray for the needs of the church And they had a earnest desire to understand and study the scriptures and to know Jesus Christ and the power of his resurrection And they long to be what God wanted them to be, and it's going to be made manifest, and everybody's going to see it. Oh, down here on earth there was nobody clapping them On the back there was nobody singing their praises. Nobody understood that they spent all Sunday afternoon cleaning the church, getting it ready for Sunday night. Nobody said thank you for taking the trash out. Nobody recognized the fact that they spent all day down in the kitchen cleaning up from Faith and Blue Sunday. Nobody knows that they made all this food for a particular day at church Nobody ever said thank you, but beloved, God sees it. And God says it's going to be made manifest one day. God knows the labor of love that you do for the cause of Jesus Christ And one day that labor of love, that work that you do, that nobody recognizes, that nobody sees, is going to be made manifest. It is going to be shown. The time that you spend in quiet contemplation and earnestly seeking God It'll be made manifest. I want you to see also that there's going to be a sorting fire. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it. Because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work, what sort it is. Beloved, our work's going to be sorted out. Whether you have invested your days in lasting labor or worthless work, It's going to be sorted out. Every second of the day it's going to be sorted. There's only two kinds of work here Lasting labor or worthless work. Think about your life. Think about today or the last week or the last month. What have you given yourself to? What have you invested your time and energy and effort in? Beloved, I'm not even talking about wickedness. I'm not talking about sin and ungodly things that we shouldn't have any part in. Beloved, there's certainly that, but there's also things that are just worthless. They're just worthless. They're just not meant of any value. They are what the Bible calls wood, hay, and stubble. They're worthless things. Beloved, the day is going to come when our work is sorted out, when we thought we were digging for gold, we'll find we were digging for garbage. Nobody's collecting garbage today. But I wonder if that's the result of much of our work We'll think that we were investing in silver and we find out all we've got is a bunch of scrap. Doug's the only guy that collects scrap. It's a blessing for him. If you got some, let him know. He'll come by and pick it up and go get something out of it. He'll change that scrap for gold, amen. He'll get it exchange. You get something worth something out of it. Think you were having some precious stones and you find out it was just pointless stuff. What I'm saying is our work's gonna be sorted. We see that. Think about it with me. The work that you did, the work that you do. If you took your day-to-day and just sorted it out and said, okay, this is something, this is gold, silver, and precious stones, this is wood, hay, and stubble. Well, praise the Lord. We we're in church. There's good there's there's got some gold over here. Good gold, silver, precious stones. In church. You read your Bible today? Amen. Well there's some gold, silver, precious stones. You spent some time doing that. You maybe maybe you spend some time in prayer for the family and for the faith in blue Sunday and oh there's some gold, precious stones, and and and and silver, praise the Lord for that How long of a nap did we take? There's some wood ace double. How much time did you spend watching football today? Brother Crane said none. Dumb game, who watches that stubborn? How much time did you spend uh you know investing in whatever? Uh you tell me, let's get some audience participation, beloved. What is some things that would be good gold silver and precious stones that we could invest our time in so that when it's sorted out in the end we have something out of it. You tell me what's something you can just tell me, Miss Ken? Witnessing, giving out gospel tracts, telling others, you know, even just a kind word, just a word of encouragement. Go into a prison ministry. Taking your Friday night. Prayer time. Investing in the next generation. Discipleship, discipling uh uh lost sinners not no you know, d you win sinners to Christ, you disciple the saints, sorry. Yes. Going out on visitation. Passing John and Romans out. Eric. Working at the church. Anything you do for the cause of Christ is not in vain. It's labor for the Lord. It lasts for eternity. You know, you're all here on a Sunday night, praise God, but let me ask you this. There are a lot of people. This auditorium is about half as full as it was this morning. Can I ask you, what are people doing on Sunday night? Wood, hey stubble. They might not be out in sin, they might not be doing anything wrong, but they've got an opportunity to uh get some gold, silver, and precious stone that's going to be carried on into eternity, and instead They're over here maybe just enjoying a nice meal or maybe getting some yard work done or or maybe they're at home uh you know getting s cleaning the house or whatever, but what I'm saying is that it's it's wood haste double It's useless. It's worthless work. It's going to be sorted out one day. And beloved, as we consider our days and think about our time and what we're going to be doing, I'm saying, would you Look at what you're doing and say, okay, this is gold, silver, precious stone, and this is wood, hay, stubble, this is lasting labor, and this is worthless work. What am I going to give my time to? There's nothing wrong with hobbies. You gotta have a hobby. You gotta have something you enjoy doing a little bit. Took the boys one night this week and we went and hit 360 golf balls. Hallelujah. That was fun. Took an hour. Wood haste double And it was fun. But I think I would be doing wrong if I did that for four or five hours a day, or even four or five nights a week. Why? Because there's more important things that need to be done in this world than hitting a bucket of balls. When I was a child I had an appendage. It was stuck to my l my my body. It was called a skateboard. I literally woke up in the morning, got dressed, and grabbed my skateboard, and I I had my skateboard until I went to bed at night. I literally spent thousands and thousands of hours riding around that dumpstick. Wood haste double. Wasted time. Meaningless. Nothing, I don't have anything to show for it today. I'm just telling you, beloved, that our life, the Bible tells us it's going to be sorted. What we do with our work, the labor, it's going to be made manifest. It's going to be exposed. And then it's going to be sorted out. Okay, that's gold, silver, precious stones. This would haste double. Lastly, tonight we see that there's going to be a suffering of forfeit. He says, if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, He shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet through his fire. That last phrase there, beloved, there are many people who got saved that never in their entirety of their life did they do anything meaningful for God. The Bible describes those people as people that'll be s they're saved yet so as by fire. That is that they're they're they didn't lose their salvation because they never did anything meaningful, anything for eternity. But they're going to suffer loss. They have forfeited the rewards they have forfeited and and and lost what could have been Because their work did not abide. Your work, beloved, is either going to abide or it's going to burn. It's going to abide or it's going to burn, and there are those that are going to suffer loss because it burned up. The Bible says that God is a consuming fire. Deuteronomy 4. 24 says, For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. Hebrews 12, 29 says, For God is a consuming fire. And beloved, at that judgment seat of Christ, there is going to be a trial, a trial of your works, the things done in your body, whether they be good or bad, and you are going to be, as was described or mentioned this morning, the fact of the matter is is all of your work is going to be made manifest, it is going to be sorted, and then it's either going to burn up or it's going to abide. I wonder, are you investing your life in lasting labor or worthless work? My prayer for you tonight is that you would just ask God to make you conscious of that fact that as you go through your days in the coming weeks and months, That you ask God, Lord, would you through the power of the Holy Spirit impress upon my mind this is worthless work, this is lasting labor. May I see it and value it. May I recognize it and reject it There's nothing wrong with sitting down. There's nothing wrong with taking a nap. There's nothing wrong with having a hobby. Everybody needs a break. But I think we all know whether we've spent way too much time over here on worthless work, meaningless stuff. And need to be spending some time on lasting labor, things that will last for eternity. Would you purpose in your heart this week To do lasting labor, to forego the worthless work. Turn your Bibles to 1 Peter, and we'll bring this to a close. 1 Peter. This is a familiar verse. But here's what I want to do. I want to make it real clear to us. What is lasting labor? We've talked about many different ideas tonight. Oh, we could be a witness, we can write a note of encouragement, we can be in church, we can read our Bible, we can pray. But there are many other things that we can do. You know, beloved, that even your work at the job, which many of you feel is completely worthless. It's just work. It's just a job. It's just a means to pay the bill. But you know what, beloved? It can be lasting labor. Let's look at it here. In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse number 12. The Bible says, have in your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works Which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Beloved, when we do what we do, For the honor and glory of God, it's lasting labor. Even things that in our mind we think, well, this is really worthless. But if we would do it with the intent to bring glory to God, you can find purpose and meaning even in things that we look at and say that doesn't really mean anything. But you can find meaning in it realizing that what it's doing is bringing glory to God. I'm going to do this in such a way that it points people to Christ, that it honors God. That it glorifies God. And thereby I take what in this world seems to be worthless and meaningless, and I give it meaning. And I make it lasting labor. I take it from this place of wood, hay, and stubble, which has no value, and move it over here to gold, silver, and precious stones. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?