See and experience the power of God and Jesus Christ when He was here and manifest in in flesh for us. Of those di many different miracles, we're going to look at one of them that took place Here uh in our story in Luke chapter number five, we're going to just follow along with me as I read the first eleven verses here. He says, And it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him To hear the words of God he stood by the lake of Genezaret and saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them and were washing their nets And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust a little out from the land. And he sat down and he taught the people out of the ship. And when they had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a draw it. And Simon, answering, said to him, Master, we have toiled all night and have taken nothing Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. And when they had thus done, they enclosed a great multitude of fish, and their net broke And they beckoned unto their partners which were in the other ship, and they should come and help them. And they came and filled both of the ships so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he was astonished, and all that were with him at the draught of the fishes was which they had taken. And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simeon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not. For henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. I want to speak to you this evening for a few minutes on the idea of launching out, of pushing out into Maybe uncomfortable territory. The Bible describes it here, or he's told to launch out into the deep, launching out into the place of of risk or uh of possible failure. That we might experience and see God do great things. The focus and the emphasis of this particular story is, without a question, on the idea of evangelizing. He summarizes it there in verse number 10, and Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. You were a gifted and a skilled fisher of fish. But now you're gonna be a fisher of men. You're gonna hang up your nets and pick up the gospel and go after souls. And they did so as they were bid by Christ. As I preached to you this evening, I would like you to make application to this text and these thoughts to your own lives. Also, maybe to the idea of our church and what we're doing right now is this coming week we're embarking on The idea of missions and the missions conference. And the the heart of missions is evangelizing the lost, reaching them with the gospel, launching out into the deep. And I hope that this week is a tremendous blessing and our hearts are stirred and challenged as we Think about these things. I would like you to see first of all the heart that they had for preaching. There was a desire to see the preaching, to hear the preaching of the Word of God. In chapter 5, verse number 1, there it says, and it came to pass as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God. to hear the word of God. He, of course, entered into a ship and he pushed away from the shore that he might address and speak to them as a whole. There was a people there that were hungry for the word of God. They were hungry to hear the word of God preached. Instead of wondering about when they would get out of church, they were looking for a way to get more from church. They weren't watching their clocks, they were watching Christ. They were looking and wanting to hear the word of God preached. They were desirous. to to hear the word preached. You know, they didn't and weren't really interested in hearing about the the latest political issues going on in the country. They wanted to hear the word of God They weren't that interested in discussing the the issues on woke culture. They wanted to hear the Word of God They weren't that they weren't seeking after or wanting to know about the current social justice movement. They wanted to hear the Word of God preached There's too many churches today that are getting involved in a lot of things that we're not called to. We're called to preach the Word of God There's a desire to preach the Word of God. And I think there should be a desire in our hearts of God's people to hear the Word of God preached. I know that the modern method of of meeting has come to the place where churches are canceling Sunday night and removing Thursday night church or midweek services and having one uh pumped up uh energetic service on Sunday morning and calling it good. And hey, I mean I understand. Why why not? I think I mean if if you're gonna do that, the thing is if if the church you're going to, the Bible says as oft as you meet, right? And so, hey, you don't have there's not a biblical commandment towards it. And after all, if my church doesn't have services on Sunday night or Thursday night, then I don't have to feel bad for not going. Right? That's why the people would be for it, sure. And I mean hey, why wouldn't the pastor be for it? For me, that would mean at least fifteen to twenty hours less study in a week if we canceled Sunday night and Thursday night services But there needs to be a hunger and a desire to hear the Word of God preached. That's what we should have a passion for, and we should pray that God would empower the message from the pulpit. That lives would be changed, that hearts would be challenged, and the lost would be drawn to him. We need preaching, old-fashioned Bible preaching today We don't we don't need more stories, we need more of the Savior. That's what we need. We need people to see Jesus Christ and Him crucified. We need to be broken over our sin and drawn into the presence of God. Be faced with the reality of where we are and who we are, that we say as the prophet did, oh wretched man that I am. But we don't, by and large, in society today, men don't want that. And the gospels told us that men would come to the place that they had itching ears. They didn't want to hear it anymore. But I'm just old-fashioned enough to think, beloved, that if we lift high the cross of Christ and preach the word of God in God's power, people will come to hear it. And the pattern for evangelical churches today is the 7-Eleven praise and worship services. the dark auditoriums and light shows, but beloved, I would rather hear from the Lord than Lutron. This is one of the things as a pastor that I struggle with because as a church, there are some things you look at it and you say, well, isn't that pragmatism? I mean, churches are driven by pragmatism today. That is, you do what works. I mean, hey, if people want a light show and that'll draw the crowd, let's put a light show on. If people want this, then let's do this because that's what brings the crowd in. And that's our objective. Then we can we can give them the gospel. And I a as a pastor, that's something that I struggle with because in in some level, you know, you you want to like I mean if there's no if nothing really matters then why do we turn the heat on for you? Right. Because if it's cold in here, there's a lot of you would stay home. Why do we have padded pews? Because if it was uncomfortable, a lot of you wouldn't stay. So we do things to try and make the message palatable, you might say And sometimes, I mean especially when we have missions conference and I watch these missionaries and they're out in a foreign field and their church is meeting in a in a concrete hut with dirt floors and the church families walking miles to get to church and they're sitting down on a on a wooden bench made out of a log and no back on it and they're sitting there and they're praising God and singing and lifting up their voice and having a time at church And I think, man, and we can't make it to church and we've got padded pews and air conditioning and and and heat and if it's a little warm where we get to fan ourselves and oh we got running water and restrooms right here and If we want to go walk around the foyer, we can do that, you know. I mean we've got every modern convenience, but we don't have powerful preaching today The preaching of the Word of God is what's going to change lives. Jesus Christ and His Word We want to put an emphasis at Hunt Valley Baptist Church on the Word of God. There's things that need to be dealt with and addressed as we face those in society. The challenges as the the society runs contrary to the word so many times. It seems as though We're running at an exponential rate towards the end times. I mean if if y if there was ever a day that you look at it and say, Man, the Lord's gotta be coming soon. It's it's now. You look at it and say, Man, I mean how much longer can he tarry? The the the vulgar, filthy society in which we live in, where sin is exalted and promoted and righteousness is thwarted and squashed at every turn. The beloved Hosea 4 6 says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Now there's some there, he says, because they hast, thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee. And it's one thing, beloved, if they reject the knowledge. But it's another thing, and woe unto the preacher if he preached not the gospel of Jesus Christ. Woe unto the man of God who stands behind the pulpit And the people perish for lack of knowledge because he didn't have the guts to preach it. He didn't have the guts to say it. People need to hear the truth. The truth of the Word of God and the fact that God expects and requires holiness of his people We're not gonna laugh at sin. We're not gonna say it's acceptable and okay and you're just fine the way you are Every one of us is a sinner before Almighty God and have areas in our lives that could be cleaned up for Him Needs to be. There has to be a desire for the preaching. People were hungry to see it, to hear it. As a church, we need to be hungry for it. Then once you see the propelling He says, and when, in verse number four, he says, and when they had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep. He had finished preaching, he had finished his message and he said, Okay, I've I've instructed you, I've given you what you need. Now go do something with it, essentially. Launch out, take what you've heard, take what you hear, and launch out into the deep, go out and accomplish something for God. Christ commanded them to go. We talked this morning. About the need to simply obey. To simply obey God's commands and do what He tells us to do. He said, here to launch out. You know, more often than not, God's commands are inconvenient. God's commands are are not very pleasant, maybe To our flesh. I mean, just think about the condition of these men. We read the story, you heard it here Jesus came up upon these men who had just finished you know Simon Peter says we toiled all night He didn't say we were fishing all night. You might have seen under that circumstance that they were enjoying it. He said we toiled all night. This was labor. This was work. We were out all night long and we just came in. They just got to the store. They were just finishing up. And you'll see they're sitting there cleaning their nuts They're cleaning things up, preparing for the day, and getting ready probably to go home and go to bed. They're worn out. They're tired. And here comes this man walks up, steps onto the ship and says, hey, push out away from the store, uh, the shore. I got this whole crowd here I need to address. He pushes away from the shore. And then they sit and they listen to a message. Now, again, they retired. They had been up all night fishing. They were wore out. They they they were sitting in the boats there and the sun sun sun's coming up. The heat of the day starting to hit them. I imagine they were ready to go to sleep. Finally, Jesus stops and I can see them thinking, oh, finally he's done. Let's go to the shore. And then he says, hey, launch out into the deep. What? Listen, we were out there all night. He says, Yeah, no, no, go out there and cast your net. And he said, We we did it. We did it all night. Beloved, sometimes obedience is quite literally just an act of faith. Because it didn't make any sense for them to be throwing out nets at that time of day. The time to be catching fish was past. They had come in and decided that, well, we're done for today The sun's up, the heat of the day is pushing down on the water. The fish are done done coming into the net. They're done biting. We're done for today. But hey, he said, cast out the nets. And sometimes Obedience is really just an act of faith. Launching out, beloved, is stepping away from our comfort zone It's leaving the security and the safety of the shore. Only when we launch out are we in a position to experience the miracles of God. Beloved, they don't happen on the shore. Peter walked on the water when they were out in the deep. Jesus calmed the storm when they were out in the deep. He allowed them to catch this great catch of fish when they were out in the deep. What I'm saying is as long as we maintain our position on the shore. in the place of comfort, in our place of security, in the place where we don't really want to step out or put any risk or or have to really have much faith in God. We're not going to get to see the miracles. You know it would have been a lot easier for Pastor Derrick to stay right here. He had a paid position. He had an office. He had a place to live. We just gave him a good raise. It would have been a lot easier for him to stay here instead of launching out. Launching out to go Do what he knew God called him to do to see if he's gonna see some miracles, some great things happen at that church, he had to take that step of faith and go do it He had to launch out, and I don't know what God is talking to you about, in what area he's motivating you to launch out, to experience a miracle, but as long as you're on the shore, you're not going to see it There's a propelling away from the shore of stepping out of our comfort zones, of getting out to where God has to do it if anything's going to happen. You know, back in 2006, my wife and I, with three little kids, loaded up All of our worldly possessions into a 14-foot U-Haul truck and a six-foot trailer Everything we owned was piled up in there. I bought the truck because I didn't know where we were going. I didn't rent it, I just bought it. So I'll just buy the whole thing. Loaded it up in there and we hit the road We launched out and said, I don't know what God has. We traveled on the road for about six months. I candidated at a few churches and They took one look at me and said, nope, not interested. I don't know what God was doing in my mind. I thought, man, look at this We're like Abraham. We're going. We know not which where we should go. And I'm just, I'm just, let's go see God do great things. And six months later I was like, Lord, what in the world are we doing? We're living on the road, living out of suitcases. I mean you know what it's like when you've been on the road for two and a half or three months and you realize something you need is halfway buried in that truck that you pack so tight And you're gotta find a parking lot and unload the truck to get to the thing that you need and then load the truck back up. After about the third time you've done that, you're done with unloading the truck. You know, you're like, this is ridiculous Lord help me. What do you need me to do? And I tried to find someplace that we could go. And really it was just something that I was trying to find some stability for my wife and kids so that they could She could do homeschooling and take care of the family. And I didn't know what it was going to be, but God said, Well, why don't you go down there and uh spend a little time and be an encouragement to your brother and get involved in that church plant and just serve there for about a year And then I'll show you where you're gonna go after that. And I said, okay, and we moved down here and moved into a house. I bought a year I bought a house on a two-year fixed and then adjustable mortgage, because I was only planning to keep it for one year. I was gonna sell it anyway. So We still own the house. Uh we just went and and and stepped out. But listen, we wouldn't be here today if we hadn't done that. You gotta launch out. You gotta leave your comfort zone. I I don't mean uh how old was Timothy when we hit the rodent? Well we hit the rodent four children. Oh Melissa when we left. So sorry. Ten was two. Melissa was three weeks. Three weeks. You know what it's like for her to hit the road with a three week old baby? Six months living on the road basically, going between people's houses. You know, stopping and seeing grandma, can we bum off you for a little bit? Grandma loved it for a week or two. And then they're like then they're like, okay, where are you guys going now? We'll see you next time. Okay, we'll be back Didn't know what God was doing. I could tell you right now I wouldn't trade it for anything. I wouldn't trade it for anything. What God's done in our family and what God's done here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and I just get the joy and the privilege of being here and being a part of it. I'm overjoyed, but you might have to step out from the shore. Might have to leave the security of the shore to see God do something. He calls us to launch out. We see his calculation here. He says to let down your nets. For a draw, he says, hey, let down your nets. I want you to know that God has already calculated the measure of your blessing. When he gives you the command. When he tells you to go, he knows where you're going to go. He knows what you're going to receive. He knows the magnitude of the blessing that you're going to get, but you just got to do it. He's already calculated out. He says, hey, do that. And there was a great catch that God had for them How many of you want to see uh great revival here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? How many would love to see Ten, twenty, a hundred people come to Jesus Christ to see a great catch of the souls of men. But we're gonna have to let down our nets. Do you know what that means? We're gonna have to be willing to work. Letting down the net sounds real good and it's exciting in here until we say, okay, that means you're gonna have to go out on Saturday and pass out John of Romans or knock on doors. You're going to have to go to nursing home and and and be a witness. You're going to start a prison ministry and and uh you're going to have to go on on Tuesday nights or or on Friday nights to the prison ministry and oh that that's not no, I wanted to see a great catch, but I didn't want to do anything else for it. No the idea of letting down your nets is meant that you're increasing your workload. But that's the only way you're going to bring in a great catch is if you let down the nets. Which means you're committing to drawing them back up. Committing to the extra effort and sacrifice and work that it takes to see those nets drawn back We've got to let it let down the nets if we want to see a great catch. There was a preaching, there was a propelling, and we won't be here long, but I want you to see the partial obedience that's very evident here. In verse number four we see that he left off his speaking. He said, Simon, launch out into the deep and let down your, what's that word right there? Net Then we see in verse number five, and Simon answering said unto him, Master, we've toiled all the night and have taken down nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the nets. There's a partial obedience there. Christ has said, hey, let down your nets. Cast them all out there. You got a whole stack of them there, and I'm sure Simon Peter and the other guys they looked at that and said we just cleaned all them. You know what this one right here we didn't get this one all the way cleaned yet? We'll we'll you we'll use this one I mean he okay master we'll we'll throw this one in. We'll just we'll do it we'll show you that we've been fishing all night. We didn't catch anything, but for you we're gonna show you. And they throw in the one net And of course you know God performs a an amazing miracle with one death. But can you imagine what it would have been if they would have been completely obedient? We see the product that was produced. Verse number six he says, and when they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fish. A great multitude was harvested. Can I tell you you'll never be disappointed with the results of being obedient to God? You'll never be disappointed with the results of obedience to God. God is omniscient. He's omnipotent. He knows where the fish are. And he knows when they're ready to bite. Matter of fact, he could tell them to bite. It's time. We gotta let down our nets, God. Knows. And beloved, this is how revival is going to come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church when we obey and put ourselves in a position to see God send a revival. to send a great gathering of souls for him. You know, I want to see Hunt Valley Baptist Church grow But you know, really, that's not what I'm commanded to do. I'm commanded to go and tell. God said, I will build my church. God builds the church. We're just commanded to go. We're commanded to tell. We're commanded to give the gospel, preach and teach the truth, and then God builds the church as he sees fit. And that's what we need him to do. I want you to note, beloved, that when you do this, that inevitably there's going to be what we view as problems. We see here in verse number six that they caught this great multitude of fishes, and what happened? The net broke. Oh man. I knew we shouldn't have put that net out there. Now the net's broken. I knew we shouldn't have been running that bus route. Needs tires. I knew we shouldn't have had that class downstairs. Somebody put a hole in the wall I knew we shouldn't have done that ministry. Look at what happened. Look at this. I want you to understand that that's the nature, the fact of ministering to people is sometimes there's problems. Matter of fact, the more a church grows, the more problems you're going to have. Because people equal problems. That's just the way it is. And if you say, Well, I don't know anybody that's a problem, well you know what that means, right? Yeah, people equal problems, that's just the nature of it. Everybody the more people we have, the more issues, the more problems, the more relationship things, the more uh conflict that's gonna have to be dealt with, the more adjustments we're gonna have to make for Sunday school classes, moving here and moving there, and changing this and changing that and boy we sure don't like change The only person that likes change is a baby with a dirty diaper. The rest of us don't like change. We don't want any part of it. We like things the way we like things. I was talking to uh Brandon today about the fact that we changed our service to a little bit earlier. And he says, yeah, that would be nice. Uh but sometimes people don't like change. And I said, Oh, I know. Yeah, I know. Nobody likes change. But you know, as your church is growing, that's what you have to be flexible. Growth demands flexibility. You might have to not get your favorite seat. You know, somebody might come and sit in that spot. It wouldn't hurt you to get a new perspective on the service anyway. It really does o c although sometimes I think that you're not here when you sit somewhere else because I'm used to used to being in your spot and you you know Lee and Leanne sit somewhere else one day and I'll be like, Man, we Lee and Leanne skipped church today and they might be they might be over there, but I didn't even see them over there because they're not in their spot, you know. But uh we get used to seeing it how we like And uh, you know, which just as the church grows, there's gonna need to be some growing pains. That's natural, it's normal. When I was a boy, there was a couple years that I went through Terrible, terrible growing pains. I mean, every night I was awake literally bawling. Just my legs hurt so bad. And you know what I think? I think I must have begged God to stop it because I quit growing and my brothers kept growing. I don't know. I just hit me hit me the other day. Maybe that's what happened because everybody told me I was gonna be taller than my brothers. But maybe I just uh begged God for it to quit because I w I remember just like it was yesterday, night after night, in so much pain from growing. You just want to say, man, would this quit? My legs hurt so bad. They were in so much pain And I would get up and go down the hallway and bang on mom and dad's door and wake my mom up because I just couldn't sleep. Growing pains hurt sometimes. As we see the church growing New people coming in, adjustments have to be made. There's an excitement there, but there's also some challenges there. And we've got to be prepared and ready for it. But I want you to see the promise. We're going to go down to verse number 11. There's many more things that I could give you here in this text. There's some partners and there's the plea that is seen and other things. But we're going to finish here with the promise. If you go down to verse number 11, this morning we talked about The fact that we need to believe and trust the promises that God gives us. But here we see a promise that we need to give Him. He says here in verse number 11, he says, And when they had brought their ship to land, they forsook all And followed him. They forsook all and followed him. You know, I wonder if we're willing to do that. I mean, if we're really willing to forsake all and just follow God. Forsake our desires, our ambitions, our goals, and just follow The Lord. Where He leads, I'll follow. Is that really true? God calling you to the mission field? God calling you to step out of your comfort zone and do something? Are you willing and ready to forsake all this world's desires or worldly ambitions and just follow God? Say, Lord, whatever you want. You see, really, beloved, what what is it about? Is it about you? Is it about what you want? Or do you look at it ultimately and say, God, I know that it's about what you want? That's the spirit that Christ had He said, Not my will, but thine be done. And that's what these men said. They forsook all and followed him. They said, okay, it's not about us. It's not about what we want. It's not about the direction we were headed or the past plans that we had. We understand, God. This is what you want. We're going to load up and hit the road. Are you willing to do that? Just do what God wants? Whatever it is? That's how we're going to see great and mighty things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Would you say