Tonight's gonna be a little bit uh we're gonna kinda stay on the same line of thought as far as the fact that, you know, we've really been considering the young today. And we're going to do so again, but from a slightly different aspect. I believe that the message this evening will be a uh Uh a blessing to you, turn to Genesis chapter 33. Genesis chapter 33. In our text here, as you're turning there, uh just to give you the background, it's familiar if we took some time to read the whole of the story, but you know, the contention that lied between Esau and Jacob. Uh well we get to chapter 33 and this long held tension uh comes to a close. They have been reunited. Uh they've been brought back together in a glorious fashion and they're excited and thrilled about the future together as they've been reunited and harmonious relationship there and We see in chapter 33 and verse number four that the Bible says, and Esau ran to meet him and embraced him and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept. They were you reunited. If you remember the story, Jacob was kind of hesitant. He was hanging back and he was sending embassaries and he was sending gifts on a head and You know, he's probably sending some chocolate. Because uh after all Esau was the tough one. Esau was the one that was probably packing And uh he he was like, I don't wanna I don't wanna walk up on him if he's not ready to meet me. But obviously uh Esau was ready. As soon as Jacob was in sight, he ran to him, threw his arms around him, and they wept. They were gloriously reunited, healing, uh for their long held tension had started, and they're letting go of all of the fear and the anger and that built up uh frustration that they had held for so many years What a joy it is to experience that level of grace. When you get to experience that in your life, we see in verse number 10. Jacob talking about that and says, And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight. Then receive my presence at my hand, for therefore I have seen thy face, and as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. He experience the grace there as they came back together and both of them having handled things incorrectly, both of them having done things wrong over the years and yet they came back together and they were reunited and that grace was extended and they felt it. And Jacob is moved and Esau is stirred and they weep together as they begin to walk and they Esau puts a proposal and says, Let's let's go down the trail together and and everybody else can come at their own pace. Notice in verse number twelve, he he asked him, he says, and he said, Let us take our journey and let us go on, and I will go before thee. He says, Let's go, and w everybody else can just come along. But Jacob is sensitive to the needs of others. Instead, he chooses to hang back with the stragglers. Beloved, this was not out of deception. As you know, Jacob was a deceiver. His go-to pattern, his habit was to be deceitful. Yeah, this was not out of deception, this was out of real discernment. You see, he had an understanding of who was with them and where they were at. And this is what I want to speak to you tonight about, and it is leading with grace. Leading with grace. I want you to look at verse number 13 and 14, our text this evening. You know, we just read 12 where he says, hey, let's go together, let's take our journey, let us let us go, and they will come after us. But Jacob replies, and he says, and he said unto him, My Lord, know that the children are tender. And the flocks and the herds with young are with me. And if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die. Let my Lord, I pray thee, pass over before thy servant, and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me, and the children be able to endure. Until I come to my Lord unto sir. He says, Hey, no, I'm gonna I'm gonna hang back if it's okay. And we see several truths shared with us here. The idea of leading with grace. And whether that's leading your home. As a father or a mother, leading ministries here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, leading the church as The pastoral staff or pastoral leadership of the church or the head pastor of the church. We need to lead with grace. We need to have some discernment like Jacob had here. And understand and recognize a few things. First of all, he recognized the tenderness that was present. He had a recognition of the tenderness. He says, and in verse number 13, and he said unto him, My Lord, know that the children are tender. You know, children are tender. The young, they're tender, they're soft-hearted. We should be thrilled At the aspect and the privilege of influencing the heart and mind of such a tender young person Every Sunday school class that you get to teach and every junior church that you get to uh teach and invest in the lives of these young people, I hope you Take it as a privilege and realize what an amazing thing to be able to influence the mind of somebody so tender, so willing to be taught, so ready to hear. Years ago I heard somebody giving an illustration speaking of they went out soul winning on a Saturday and the group that went out came back to the church and The pastor asked him, well, how did it go? And an older gentleman there replied and said, Well, we have two and a half people saved. And the pastor said, well, you had two and a half people, you had two adults and one kid? And he says, No, two kids and one adult. The adult's life is half over. Two children have their whole life to live for God The fact of the matter is what a privilege to be able to influence these young with tender minds and tender hearts that are sensitive to the things of God. And to be able to influence them and share with them the truths. Children are eagles eager to learn and they desire to please. I think like King Josiah who took the throne as a young man, and there he the the the scripture says that when the law was read he rent his clothes. Just a boy and took on the leadership of a country and yet what broke him was the truth of the word of God being read to him and shared with him, and it impacted his heart in such a great way That he rent his clothes. Boy, we have such a great impact on the world when we influence the young. I mean you think about where Matthew's gonna be in twenty years His mother's like, oh Lord. Help us Jesus. Amen. You think about what's gonna happen. All of the young people are going to carry with them all their days for the rest of their life. They're tender, they're eager to learn, they desire to please. The fact of the matter is, beloved, that the exciting thing is that they haven't messed their life up yet. They don't bear scars in their body. From a life of sin. That they're gonna have to have, I know God's grace is sufficient and I know God can forgive and I I know God can restore and all these things are are blessed, but boy, isn't it so much greater that they never went out and did those things. And they never walk down that road. That by God's grace we were able to influence them and keep them from that They don't bear, beloved, the guilt. And I know that God forgives us. And the fact of the matter is, is once it's under the blood, we're supposed to let go of it. We're not supposed to be pulling it back up. But you and I know that Satan loves to do that to us. Satan loves to bring that back and say, oh, look at this and look at that, and boy, you messed up here, and boy, you're no good because of this or because of that. And Satan loves to do that. Beloved, they don't have to bear that guilt. What a privilege to influence these young and their tender years and the impact we can have on the world. I know not every one of them will follow God all of their days. But a lot will. And we've been able to have a part in that. Listen, Spurgeon was saved as a child. Well, teen. He was a teenager. You know, think about the impact that he has had on the world. When you come to Christ as a teenager, Matthew Henry came to Christ at 11 years old Jonathan Edwards came to Christ at seven years old. You know what I venture to say? We just had missions conference and we had these flags all up. I venture to say that the majority Of those people ministering around the world that we support, the majority of them came to Christ at a young age. They had a Sunday school teacher and a mom and a dad and they had people influencing them and pointing them to the Lord and now they're on the mission field doing a work for God. Yes, I know there are some who come to the Lord later in life, but the majority come to Christ when they're young, when they're tender. They're like, literally like little Timothy. The Bible says that From a child, thou hast known the holy scriptures. They learned the scripture as a child and they carried it with them for the rest of their life. Don't take lightly. Church, the responsibility to influence these gifts, to impact them, the difference that we could make. And I know not every one of them is going to stay straight and true. But if they don't, I pray it's not because we weren't doing our job. We need to realize how important it is. Every class period, every time we share the Word of God, every session. And I know if you've been doing it a while, especially with kids, boy, you can just get by. You can just, well let's sing a song and we're gonna play a little game and you know here here's a little ditty, but have you really put thought into that? Have you put preparation into that? Have you realized the importance of influencing those kids during that time and how the impact of what you do during that class could be something they carry with them for the rest of their life? The influence that they're going to have as they leave that classroom and go on, what a privilege to influence the tender hearts and minds of these kids. Jesus wants us to reach them when they're tender. He said, suffer the little children to come into me and forbid them not, for such is the kingdom of God. Beloved children are tender and they're ready to come to the Lord. Spurgeon said, a child of five, properly instructed, can truly believe and be regenerated as well as an adult. R. A. Tori said it is almost the easiest thing in the world to lead a child from five to ten years of age to a definitive acceptance of Christ. Leading them, pointing them towards Jesus. Don't be fooled. We are in a battle for the hearts and minds of these tender young people. And if we're not influencing them, if we're not putting in 110% and guiding them like we should in the classrooms and Sunday school and and master clubs on Thursday nights, let me tell you something, the world is going to do it. The world is gonna do it, the world's gonna grab their grab a hold of their attention and and pull them away If we aren't fervent and passionate about this responsibility to influence the tender, well they're young, beloved, tenderness fades over time. The ability for us to influence them lessens the older they get. When they're so young, they're easily influenced. The older they get, the less likely they are to be influenced, the less likely they are to come to Christ. I don't have the exact statistics, but it's proven through many, many years that the older it directly correlates to the age of the individual, the older they are, the less likely they are to come to Christ. I mean I I don't remember the exact numbers, but like under the age of thirteen is the is drastically the the percentage of people that come to Christ and and you it it gets less and less as the older you get to the point where if you're over fifty it it's it's almost never that somebody over the age of fifty comes to Christ. Not that it can't happen, but it's a lot less likely. Why? Because we're not as tender as we once were. We're not as sensitive as we once were. Jacob had a recognition of the tenderness of those who were with him. I want you to know the young are tender. I believe also that we need to be mindful of the fact that new believers are tender to the things of God. We need to seize upon that as a church. These new believers God forgive us for where we've dropped the ball on new believers and allowed them to slip away and fall by fall by the wayside instead of grabbing a hold of them. and leading them and helping them because they're tender, they're eager, they want to learn, they desire to know. And beloved, we need to be patient with these tender new believers. We need to stop demanding of them and start discipling them. We need to realize that yes, they're not all where we are or where you are because You've been saved for 10, 15, 20, or 30 years or longer. They're a new believer and they need time to grow. They need patience. They need instruction. They need a helping hand, but they're tender and they're willing. The Bible calls them newborn babes that desire the sincere milk of the word. They long for it. They're like little babes. They're young, they're tender, and they can be cared for, but they also can be hurt. And so we must be cautious. I think of Apollos, if you remember, we're going through the Old Testament or the New Testament survey there talking about Apollos this. He he only knew of the baptism of John, but Boy, he was fervent about it. He was doing all he could with just the knowledge of the baptism of John, and this is what he's going around and preaching. Not realizing that He he should be preaching about Jesus. But you remember Aquila and Priscilla said, oh, you know what, we're gonna take him under our wing. We're gonna help him so that he could understand because he right now he's fervent, he's passionate, boy, he loves God, wants to see God do something, but he doesn't know yet. And so we need to disciple and bring along the new believers who are tender. We need to seize on that and encourage and exhort them to come and participate. Get in the discipleship program. Get them here for Sunday school. Get them here for Sunday night. Yeah I think this is one area y uh that we're I I don't understand it, I don't know why, but uh how do we get them to to take the step and come Sunday night? Of course you can't tell them to come Sunday night if you're not coming Sunday night. But I think sometimes new believers they come in here Sunday night and they're like, where is everybody? Oh, maybe I don't need to go to church Sunday night. Maybe this is not really necessary. Just so many other of the church that have been saved for a long time and they're they're not doing it. We need to take them under our wing and help them and encourage them to get in here, be here for church, help them to grow and to learn. And don't allow Satan to put out that fire that's been started in their soul. We see not only did he have a recognition of the tenderness, but he understood the responsibility of a leader. He says, My Lord, know that the children are tender, and the flocks and the herds with the young are with me. You see, it's a leader's responsibility to be aware of where the young are. To know them, to understand. We we talked about this with a parent teaching the the heart of a child, being able to look into his life and and see the heart of the matter. But really as leaders, whether that's a parent and you're leading your home or a leader of a ministry, uh you know Serving the Lord here at the church, we need to have spiritual discernment that we can kind of see where people are and and encourage and exhort them to take the next step and to help them to grow and do Be mindful of where they're at and don't don't be expecting things out of a new believer that you would out of somebody else. It's just being wise and understanding where they are, realizing that they are young and that they need time to grow and that they need help to grow and instruction to grow. Beloved, he didn't attack the young for being weak or falling behind. He adjusted his pace. We don't need to attack new believers because they don't fit into our mold. We need to adjust our expectation. It takes so much work to get somebody through the doors of the church. I can tell you that it's very frustrating when I hear that Somebody pulled them aside and said, Why are you dressed like that in church? You don't know the first thing about that person. That is not the time to be talking about the way that they're dressed. They need Jesus. Listen in Lawrence, Kansas, we had a we had a cross dresser come into church one day They need Jesus too. Pastor Hank said wisely, pulled two of the deacons aside, and he says, you guys keep an eye on whatever. As long as is she or he is not gonna disrupt the service, they can be here. But They're not gonna go into the bathroom. So you watch 'em. Well they sat through Sunday school and didn't have uh They didn't disrupt anything at all, no problem at all, but in between Sunday school and church, she he wanted to go into the ladies' restroom. And obviously the deacons are like, that ain't happening Well, it threw a fit. Talked about how they were gonna sue the church and that they worked for the county and we were gonna be in so much trouble, it's gonna be the last thing we ever did and all of this and and left very upset. Uh we never heard anything after that. But listen, uh we didn't kick them out because they didn't fit in our mold. They didn't come and say you can't be here, you don't dress like us. They need Jesus too. Wherever they are and whatever background they're coming from. And we have to have some expectation, some level of we're not we're not going to let a guy go in the ladies' restroom. We have a responsibility to protect the young of the church. So there has to be some lines that you you have to draw, but what I'm saying is we need to let them come wherever they are and let them grow. Let them hear the word that the word of God might bring fruit in their life. Now, beloved, I'm not a very pushy leader, to be honest. Those of you that know Mary and I pretty well, you understand that I'm mercy. I mean I know like when I was preaching this morning some people thought man he is uh he's lost his mind. What in the world? Why would he do that to his kids? Well I really am the mercy, she's the truth. She's the truth. Like you've crossed the line, we're just gonna shoot you. I mean, w whatever. She she's ready to drop the hammer. And and I tend to be much more merciful, you know. Uh now I have some expectations and I think that as we grow we should be growing and there's some expectations in the church and church family, you know you've been here for a long time. You know, if you're letting your kids leave the church and you've been in been in church, you've been here a long time and your kids are getting up and going out, I you know, I may say, hey, that's not expected. That's not what we want. The kids need to be able to sit and stay here. Uh I'll I'll address that, but overall I I tend and I'm probably too merciful. Sometimes Mary gets frustrated with me because I don't call people on the carpet or or deal with stuff that You know, in her mind she was like, they need to be f fixed. You know. So I'm saying, Well, we need to have grace. We need to have some patience. We need to see if God will bring them along. And maybe maybe I'm too too patient in that regard, but what I've learned, beloved, is that leadership is not pushing people to do what you want them to do It's being an example and allowing God to bring them along to where God wants them. It's it's very it's it's possible through demanding leadership to get conformity. But I don't want conformity. I want transformation. I want God to do the work of the hearts and the hearts of his people as he sees fit. And so I really strive not to be that demanding and try and lead and let the Holy Spirit direct people so that people fall in line with Him, not with me. We want to point people to Christ, not to the pastor. The it's a recognition. Of the responsibility of a leader. Lastly, we see that he restrains himself for the sake of others. He restrains himself for the sake of others. He said, if men should overdrive them, one day all the flock will die. You see, a good leader understands the the danger of overdriving. Now I I like the first book I ever read for pleasure. My dad was shocked because I'm not a reader. And uh I read a book And it was the title of it was The Last of the Breed by Louis Lemour. And uh that was not actually a Western, but that got me into reading Louis Lemour books. And uh I liked those old westerns. And uh that that those old cattle drives. And you know how the guy cowboys are up on their horses and I don't know if it's 'cause I was living in El Paso at the time or what, but I just really enjoyed that and and hearing those stories and reading those books and And that you know, those guys on the cattle drives, they would be driving those, you know, cattle fifteen hundred miles, getting them to the railhead so that they could be shipped off to auction. But the big thing is is they couldn't just drive them twenty-five miles a day because they would be withered down to nothing. The no, the goal is is as they're crossing the prairies they would all be getting fat. You know, they would all be putting on weight 'cause they get paid by the pound once they get wherever they're going. So they understood that listen, we don't want to overdrive 'em. This is a casual pace. We're going to kind of just work our way through the frontier. We're going to get there as we can. And so a a good leader restrains himself for the sake of others. There's danger, beloved. First of all, there's a danger of burnout One of these days I've got a message I've been working on for probably 15 years. I just kind of plugging little things in as I think about it. But uh the title of the message is How to Burn and Not Be Consumed. How to burn and not be consumed. Because the fact of the matter is, is God wants us to burn and we ought to have a fire inside of us and we ought to be driven to accomplish something for God. But a lot of people they get what they call burnout They get burnt out on the work. They get burnt out because they they're doing two hundred things and and they're going from here to there and up and down and back and forth and and uh there's a danger, beloved, when we drive too hard that people get burnt out. I canceled work party for this Friday because it's been busy. There's been a lot going on with the special days that we've had and we've got Mother's Day and all all of these things. And I say, you know what, we're just not gonna have we're not gonna have the work party because it's there's been too much going on. People need a break. Understanding that, oh, there's a lot of things we could have accomplished, there's a lot that we would like to get done, but no, we need to be cautious and realize that we don't want to overdrive. There's a possibility for burnouts. You know, there's also a danger of discouragement. People can get discouraged. When you have a driven leader, and my children are going to understand where all this comes from. Sometimes a driven leader can leave the impression that he's not satisfied or thankful for what was done yesterday. A driven leader says that was done yesterday. We've got this to do today. We we are not, you know, just taking it easy the rest of our legs because we got one cord stack. We got seven more to go What a driven leader says there's a lot to accomplish and there's more to do, but the the problem is if you aren't careful, you'll discourage those that are following you and you'll they'll think you don't value what they already did That you don't appreciate it, that nothing they'll actually think that there's nothing they do is good enough. And you guys know how driven of a man that I am, and I'm that way whether I'm leading or not. My wife will tell you when I was an assistant pastor, and it was my job to work around the church or do whatever, uh, project-wise, that I I worked until the project was done. I I was driven to get one job done and then the next job done and and the amount of hours that I would put in and and work until all ends of the all hours of the night to get something done, but the fact of the matter is is I've I have labored under a driven leader who left the impression, I don't believe it's so because I understand that now, but I left the impression that he didn't value what was already accomplished. And that can be very discouraging. Where people are like, man, why why bother? He doesn't appreciate anything that we've done. And as a laborer, when we realize we're doing it for the Lord, that helps a lot. We need to remember we're doing it for God. But as a leader, we need to remember uh To be sure we're not overdriving so that people aren't getting discouraged. And that we can apply to the home as well. It's very, very important for mom and dad. You know, it's uh I do appreciate it. I mean my kids know it. I'm not as the the best at expressing it. We've had some pretty frank conversation in recent days as the kids are getting older. You know, they've kind of let me know that You know, well dad, it's like, you know, it was never enough. Like this because there's always something else to do. Like, you know, it's not it it doesn't just stop because we got something done and you know, we've kinda talked through those things and I see where I wasn't, you know, as good at that as I should have been, to really uh help them know that I valued what they accomplished. But as a leader, we've got to be aware of that. Understand that. You know, it means a whole lot more to people than you think it does that you acknowledge and appreciate what was accomplished. That's something I'm learning. It's taken me a long time, but I'm learning. If you're not careful, it's possible for a driven leader to tear down what God is trying to do. You can undo the work that God is trying to do in the hearts of people and in the ministry, because for you it's just about accomplishing this and this and this and knocking off the list instead of what God's trying to do in the hearts of people. We need to let growth happen in God's time. So we need to restrain our own drive. And maybe this message is just for me. We need to restrain our own drive. For accomplishment for the sake of those that are following us. Notice what Jacob says in verse number 14. He says, Let my Lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant, and I will lead on. What does it say? Softly. And I will lead on softly. You go ahead, go ahead, pass over before me. I'm going to lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me, and as the children be able to endure. So he restrained himself and said, you know what? I'm gonna change my pace. I'm gonna slow down. So that I can stay with this group that I'm in charge of, that I'm with, that's with me. And I'm gonna I'm just gonna go on with them. That's what a wise leader does. You know On Friday, we were at Ledue Gardens. We're all walking around the gardens. And it's time to go to the car because we're leaving. Get up and let's go. Okay, we're gone. We got things to do this afternoon. And I'm chomping at the bit like, okay, let's go. Okay, yep. Yep, let's get up. Yep, but I I think yeah, we're all ready. Is everybody ready? Okay, we're ready. Alright, let's go. All right. Amen. It's been fun. Yep. Good. Then we start going to the car. And you understand I'm with the seniors. And we can't move that fast. I mean, we're walking uphill. This is arduous. And for me, I want to go. But a leader recognizes who he's with and says it's not about just getting out of here. It's about being with the family. You know what some of you young people would be wise to listen to that and sometimes it's not about getting where you want to go, it's about being with the family. With your mom and dad. I know they don't move as fast as they used to, but you know what, you might ought to just hang back. Just be with them. Because they aren't always gonna be there. So while you can, hang with them. This is just a practical illustration, but the fact of the matter is I I had to slow myself down and say, listen, I ain't I ain't in a hurry. This is about being with the seniors of our church. And this is what I'm here for And so I'm gonna go at what pace they need to go. And if we need to stop and take a break on the way to the car, we'll do that. That's okay. Because that's what we're here for. Leader recognizes that And is willing to adjust his pace for accomplishment for the sake of others. You know, slow and steady wins the race. Let me give you this. This is good. This is worth writing down. Consistency beats intensity every time Consistency beats intensity every time. And that's Well we need to remember, sometimes you'll have people that are all on fire and ready to storm the gates of hell today and next week they're not even in church. Consistency. Slow and steady. He said, I'm just gonna lead softly. I'm gonna lead softly So that those that are with me aren't asked to do more than they can endure. But they'll be coming along. Now we need to be moving forward. This is our goal. This is the direction we're headed, and that's what we want to accomplish. We don't want to stop. We don't want to be going backwards. But we need to lead softly, steadily, forward, intentional, purposeful movement in the right direction. Let me ask you tonight, are you maybe personally overdriving your life? Maybe not taking time to. God said, be still and know that I am God. Maybe the drive for accomplishment has caused you not to take the time that you need. Are you really intense at times and less consistent than you should be? I encourage people that haven't had a walk with God, listen, don't don't say you're going to read three chapters a day. That's not that much, but if you start picking up right there, it won't be two or three weeks and you're gonna hit a long chapter and you'll be like, oh my goodness, I can't read you know just say I'm gonna read ten verses a day It would be far better for you to read five verses every single day than to read 300 verses today and not touch it again for three months. Consistency is more important than intensity. Are you leading your home with grace, mom and dad? Leading with grace. Are you at church here leading your ministry and your area of service? Are you leading it with grace? Maybe you've been out running ahead of God. And we need to move in his space. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Leading with grace. I believe God would use it if we would do it. We would seize the opportunity with these young while they're tender. That's why ministries like the bus ministry and vacation Bible school and the Sunday School program, why these are so important. Because these young are so tender We have an opportunity to impact them for God. Have you been demanding of your kids instead of developing them? The pianist plays