Well for the morning session. I know you're here because you don't have any room in the other building. That's okay. I was tempted to go to the anger management class myself. So the topic started out as parenting adult children. But if you have an adult children, they you are not their parent anymore. So let's just uh put that to rest. Uh leading adult children, I think, is what is in the book. I appreciate uh brother Hanks. Uh he made me feel a whole lot better about myself. You turn to the phone. Just a quick push on the power. How's that? I probably pushed and held on it too long or turned it off. He said, push on it one time, uh real real lightly, and I pushed in hell and I probably turned it off. I said it was preaching proof, obviously it's not Um so a brother uh Bob Carroll called me, I don't know, second week of December and said, Can you send me your outline? And I said, No, I can't send you an outline. I may be able to send you an outline twenty-four hours before and thought that was a little late. I said, can you just put me a blank sheet of And then I find out Brother Hanks just sends out lines that he's not even going to do. So that's what I'm going to do next time. So let's start out with prayer. Father, I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing to the folks here today. Happy time well spent, uh at least give them something to talk about and uh consider. And thanks for your word. And pray that you would minister to our hearts. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Also, law enforcement, we've got to start out with a legal disclaimer. If I say something that disagrees with your pastor, your pastor is right. They can just dismiss it. And this is not an all-encompassing thing. So uh this is for I don't know ninety five percent of you, but there is a certain percentage of people out there, you've got a child uh that is uh special needs are there in the home and they're gonna be with you for life. And uh this this would that would be uh exception to what I'll call the Bible rule. So it's interesting to watch children grow up. Now Mrs. Bishop and I have three and our first one was getting married And Mrs. Bishop came to me and said, You you need to tell him he's too young to get married. And so I looked at her and I said, How old were you when you got married? I happen to know that. And she jumped. She's doing the calculations in her brain and then she looked at me and she said, that's different. That's different. And then our kids are all married, all three of them, and she said to me, uh, that kid's doing something really dumb. You need it's always me. You need to sit down and you need to tell them. And I looked at her and I said, Did we ever do dumb things? She's calculating. No, I don't think so. I said, how about the time we? And I'm not gonna tell you what it is. And she said, yeah, that was pretty dumb. Yeah. And so we're gonna do young people are gonna do dumb things, that's what we do. And we're gonna learn from that. Now we're gonna learn from that. Take your Bible's turn to Genesis chapter two Uh we're going to find out what is the home. Let's just start out in God's Word right from the very beginning. And there is in the second chapter of Genesis Uh the fifteenth verse, uh God's taking man, and the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to do two things. Uh the guy in the home. That's what he's supposed to do, to dress it and to keep it. To provide for it and protect it. And consider, by the time you get to Genesis chapter 3, Adam and Eve are in the garden, and Adam allowed Satan into the garden, I'm going to guess because he didn't see him as a threat. So uh part of my job as a parent, uh as a man in the home, in in our home today, is to recognize threats. And I do that. I come home, I still check the doors, I check Mrs. Bishop's van to make sure she's locked it. Sometimes she has and sometimes she does not. But I do that because that's my job. I think sometimes she leaves it unlocked just so I feel like I have a purpose in life. Dress it and to keep it. I'm to provide for it and I'm to protect it. That's what I'm supposed to do. God gave Adam, that mandate. Here's what my dad says about parenting. My dad is 96 years of age. My dad says this: it is a shame. That once you get good and experienced at raising children, that God gives it over to the young and inexperienced. But notice who gave that to the young and inexperienced. God did. Maybe you're smarter than God. Adam was given that mandate. What you will find in Genesis chapter 2, you'll find Adam, a man, you'll find Eve, a wife, and you'll find children, but you do not find grandparents. I don't understand grandparents come along the way. But it's uh kind of exciting. We are empty nesters now. And I said uh But first thing we were gonna do was we were gonna turn our phones off, change our numbers, change our address, and get hit the road and not tell them where we were. As a pastor, my job is to dress and to keep the the garden. I I am supposed to provide and protect the church ministry and identified threats. Uh we are in uh Northern Virginia, uh Washington, just some just a little bit south of Washington DC, uh maybe I don't know, maybe a mile and a half from the DC line, uh from the southernmost boundary. And so we have some military bases nearby. So we have Fort Belvoir to the south, we have the Pentagon to the north, we have Uh J Bad, uh Joint Base Andrews, uh Anacostia Bowling to the east, uh Andrews just about fifteen minutes away, uh Fort Meyer and then all kinds of other military installations of it Now one year at church we got a group of young uh Navy guys. They were right they were fresh out of uh Great Lakes Naval Academy. They were probably 18, 19 years of age, and they showed up at church on a Sunday evening. And uh these eighteen, nineteen year old guys were going after our fifteen year old girls. And so I let them out run after church. And I said, hey fellas, come over here. He said, I don't know much about my role as a pastor, but one thing I know I'm supposed to do is I'm supposed to protect the flock And you're going after our fifteen year old girls. I have just identified you as a threat. I said, No, you're coming here to learn about God, you're coming here to learn about The Word of God, you're coming here because you want to grow in grace, I'll be your best friend. But you're coming here to hit on our 14, 15-year-old girls. We have a problem. We have a problem. Say why why are you sharing that with us? Because my my job is to protect, dress, and keep the family. So if if a grandparent is saying to me, those are my grandkids, I have a right to them, then I'm probably going to identify you as a threat to my home. And the last thing we want to do is be identified as a threat. Now, a grandparent can be a great thing. But if you if you've got children and they're on their own, they've got Adam's job is that son of yours, his job is to dress and to keep his garden. And again, from a law enforcement standpoint, if I showed up and you were a grandparent and you were trying to get access to the kids The law sides with mom and dad. The law does. But uh God established that a long time a long time ago. What is the source of conflict? Source of conflict is not your knuckle-headed kids. Doing dumb things. Source of conflict is pride. James chapter four, from when to come to Wars and fightings among you come they not hence even of your lusts that warn your members. And that comes from us, comes from that is the source of The pride kicks in. What is that? My way is best. I'm always right. And we are the source. of conflict. For the last thirty years I've been pastor at uh at our church. Uh the twenty some years uh full time And then but total time some some of it I worked uh uh on the police department and was pastoring church at the same time that I've been there there now for thirty years total And during those 30 years, I ever I take a class. I just go take a class a couple of times a year, sit down under a teacher. Now you get to be my age. Most of the time you're older than the teachers teaching the class. Well I just think young people have something to teach me. And I sit there and I take notes and I take tests and I write papers and I complain. Now, most of the teachers are younger than me because most of the teachers that are older than me are dead. Just for life. Uh but I want to stay fresh. I want to stay uh I want to stay on top of I want to feel like there's something more for me to learn. So I'll sit and I'll sit in a class where the teacher is 30 years younger than me And then listen though and listen to what he has to say. I think that's just important to understand that They have become your peers. They are an expert in something that you are not an expert in. And your children will do that. They'll become experts in things that you are not. For technology is one of those things. I have a phone. I'm sure you're able to turn it on silent. It's just easier to turn it off. So I look at my kids and I give them a three by five card and say, hey, with this technology thing, reduce it to three easy steps, put it on the card and give it back to me. What are they? They're experts in things that I am not, and they help me. And I and I ask them uh for help. If you would see your adult children as peers It would be helpful to you, and probably helpful to them. But if you've got a conflict, I'll guarantee you you're going to find pride in the equation. So what do we say? I'm going to give them a piece of my mind. I'm going to give them a piece of my mind. I said, you know, you really should stop giving away pieces because you don't have many left. And I could tell when I said that that it kind of tipped him just a little bit. And so I looked at him and I said Do I need to put on my bulletproof vest? I chaplained with the police department and uh they give me a bulletproof vest, and so I ha I actually have one. And and he looked at me and he said You don't need a bath because I'm going for a headshot. I said, that's what I was hopeful that you would do. I was hopeful that you would go for a non-vital area. And he laughed. He said, that's the first time you and I have agreed on anything. As a non-bible error. But where's that? Where does conflict come from? It comes from pride. So beware of conflict. Had a had a gal uh she uh gave gave somebody a hard time that probably twenty-five years ago, just just in church, just just On purpose, with malice of forethought, give you some great legal terms there, went after a new Christian in the church and just derated her. Called her hella villain and said, hey, your your wife just was brutal towards this lady. She needs to go over and apologize. And you're the husband, it's your job, you go to your wife and tell her, she needs to go apologize. He said, no, no, Pastor, she's uh she has biblical mandate to do this. Because she's uh she's the older woman and the aged women teach younger women to be discreet chasekeepers at home, you know, such a different thing? I said, I yeah, yeah, I get all that that Bible stuff. But she's supposed to do it with meekness. With a desire to restore. So let me ask you a question. Did your wife approach her in meekness? And he looked at me and he just said, No, no, no, that wouldn't be my wife. I said, yeah. So we've got a conflict and where that conflict comes from, it comes from pride. But the same with our kids. And we go after them. And we're not going in neatness to help them recover themselves from a fall. We're going. Because I'm your dad, and you're gonna do what I say, even though you're forty-eight years age of age And that just doesn't just is it just doesn't trans translate well in any in anything. So God's word gives us a great Supply of wisdom when it comes to parenting. We taught our children from a very young age that they should seek godly counsel. I'll just tell you that counsel didn't necessarily need to come from me. My best counselor growing up was not my dad My best counselor growing up was Robert Demory. That name doesn't mean anything to you, but he had a daughter, and her name was Carol Demory. And uh I changed it to Bishop for uh he was my counselor, he's the guy I went to and picked his brain, he's the guy that helped me. I want my children as they're growing up to go to people who are going to help them Now they're adults, they're growing, uh, they're in pasture, they're running little organizations. Uh they don't have to call me uh for advice. They don't have to do that. But they should be seeking somebody. And so you should be able to look at your adult children and say, hey, uh you got some issues going on like you have somebody you can talk to. You talk to your pastor There's another businessman in the church, another godly man that you can seek counsel. Encourage them to seek counsel. It does not have to be from you. It does not have to be. Your children are adults. Don't treat them like children. Don't do that. My oldest, when he was in his early 20s, was interested in a gal for marriage, and he did not talk to me. He didn't ask me. Not to tell you she was nuts. She was certifiably wacko. She was. And her parents were absolutely devoid of common sense. And uh and something happened, we ended up in the same uh same city. They we were holding hosting a service at church And her parents brought her uh to chase after my son. The parents, I say again, the parents were devoid of Bible common sense. It wasn't their job. Anyways, so I treated the group with great respect, took them out for ice cream after church Three months later, her wackless uh became evident and she had hacked into my son's uh mail, U. S. mail, I think that's criminal, hacked into his social media. She had called his boss at work. And said, uh we have uh dating activity coming up and you need to give him the day off uh so that they can is that is that a problem? Is that a problem? I thought it was a problem. And so he said he called me on the phone, he's telling me all this. He said, this girl isn't nuts. And I said, yeah, yeah, yeah. He said, I I figured that out the first time I saw her. And he said to me, he's 22 years later He said, why didn't you tell me? Goodbye said, You didn't ask. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, and a man of understanding will draw it out. Sometimes in trying to help our children make the right decisions, we fail to teach them Lessons for life that will help them. And so he uh survived that event and was interested in a girl. He called me up and said, hey Dad, I'm interested in a girl. I said, oh that's nice. He said, would you check her out for me? I said, I would be honored. A law enforcement guy, right? So I believe every Listen, you're young people dating somebody, uh young people should do three checks. They should do criminal, financial, and medical background checks. On everybody. Not just just me. You'll find out. Listen, a lot of predators high. And so I called her, called, uh did some checks uh look through some databases, called her pastor on the phone and chat with him and then called them up. And now they're married. They have several kids. He's pastoring a church today. Beautiful gal, just doing great, great work for the Lord. Sometimes we have to learn the hard way. Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, and a man of understanding will draw it out. When's the last time that you went to somebody and said, Hey, I need help? I have a list of guys that when I have a decision to make and I'm just not sure which direction to go, I pick them phone. Hey preacher, brother Bishop, brother here in Alexandria, I have a problem. Hey, can I run that by you? Somewhere where I can go. Why? Because I don't have all the answers. Said to somebody this week, I spent my lifetime studying God's Word, and the more I the older I get, the dummer I feel. There's just a lot there. And if you're expecting your one little brain to hold all of that information and you're not seeking out your your pastor or another counselor or another another man, another woman in the church to help you afford. You're short-sighted. Just like your kids. And but just because they're not coming to you doesn't mean they're not going to anybody. So I like Brother Hank. I don't know what this means, but I hear you're supposed to have a spirit animal. If I was going to have a spirit animal, I'd be Brother Hank, because he brought an object lesson. And I love object lessons. So I brought an object. I was feeling bad until he brought the basket for the morning session. Well we got a lady carpenter in the room. You know what this is? Really? What is this? It's a threshold, sure it is, it's a threshold. I want to leave you with an illustration that will help you in your life. This is a threshold, you go, it goes under your front door. Right Got a little strip there, keeps the bugs out, pests out, supposed to meet nicely, sits there. When you walk into somebody's home, Your kids home and you step over that threshold, you are stepping into somebody else's responsibility, somebody's area of expertise. Expertise, somebody else's world, somebody, a a world that somebody else is responsible for that you are not. This is really the threshold has really helped me. And because I'm a pastor. And regularly I'll go to a home and I step over this threshold. I just step into somebody else's area of responsibility. And I know that I've got to behave myself and be careful. We had a lady several years ago, she walked into our home and she went up to use the restroom. She's in heaven now She came back downstairs and uh as she turned the corner uh from from going down the stairs she was able to look across the living room and she saw dust on the top of our channel cabin And in my home, she went to my wife and she said, You are bare testimony for the call of Christ because you have dust on your And you know what? I'm supposed to dress them to keep my garden. You've just come into my home, into my area of authority, and you have chastised my life, and I want you to know that's my dust. And I don't care if it's on top of the China cabinet. And if you've got a problem with it, you best clean it. And if that dust bothers you, don't come back. It's probably why she had a heart attack in my head. I say pastor, I just say what I think, what comes to my mind. That is not a good quality. My words are feed with grace, seasoned with salt. And that's so when I step into a home, I'm stepping into your area of responsibility, I'm I'm very careful how I can how I deport myself. When I step into my children's home across their threshold of responsibility, I'm very careful how I deport myself. Because that doesn't belong to me. That belongs to them. You understand that. That'll help you. A Sunday school teacher went into a home Steps across the threshold of authority. Parent told the child to do something. The Sunday school teacher said, You don't listen to your dad, you listen to me. No. Dad might have been wrong in what he was saying. Doesn't matter. It's his home. Right, right, right. I said to her. If you'd done that in my home, I would have thrown you out and my children would have never been back in your Sunday school class again. Ever. Just be careful. Just be careful. You step over that threshold. That doesn't belong to you. That belongs to somebody else. Mind mind your deport yourselves wisely. Deport yourselves wisely we expect the preacher to do that. That's none of your business. Wouldn't you say that to the preacher? Well maybe you wouldn't. My dad would. You know, very type A, strong uh Trump Trump type of personality, as you know my dad. And uh he he tight He has said this to the preacher, Bob is a preacher in 96. Still drives, still goes out for coffee in the morning, lives in Michigan, shovels of snow. I don't need your help. I don't want your help. And there's the door. And uh That's probably why he's 96 and still driving out to get coffee. So, uh preacher, I've got a couple of verses. What about uh Ephesians 6. 1? Children, obey your parents in the Lord. Your 65-year-old is no longer a child. He's that's no longer a child. At some point you Well you gotta affect them to grow up. I had a guy in my office uh a number of years ago and he said, Pastor, I am in such a desperate state because my parents didn't get good drive. They didn't bring me to church, they didn't read my Bible to me, they didn't Teach me the new right thing. I just looked at the guy and I said, how old are you? And he said, I'm 72! I said, I'm not quite sure when you get to that point of responsibility where you have to take responsibility for your own actions. But I think 72 you're over that. It's just time to grow up Right. Right? It's time to take responsibility. That that seventy-two-year-old is gone. Even if his parents are living, he is no longer a child. And I expect them to be an adult, and God does. God expects him to be an adult. Colossians 3 20 is the same. Children will be your parents and your 35-year-old may be your child, but they are no longer a child. They may be one of your children. And I understand there's a lot of wisdom That you have. Proverbs 16, 31, the Hory Head has a crown of glory. Understand this Titus chapter 2, but speak thou the things which become sound doctrine, the age of what men, the grave. Temperate, sound as they charity and patience, the aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers not given the much wine teachers of good things that they may teach the younger women to be sober, to love their husbands, love their children, to be discreet, chaste. Keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, and yeah, and and that's a wonderful thing. You have a lot of wisdom to offer. And just be careful when you step over somebody else's area of responsibility. Just be careful. Because God recognizes us. Whether you do or not. And the last thing we want to do is to be recognized. I do not want to be identified by my children as a threat. To their authority. I don't want to be identified. I don't think you do either. So just be careful how you deport yourself and show that honor and respect to them. I'll give you a little bit of my background. I'm uh just outside of Washington, DC, a major uh police agency, one of the uh second uh might be the first largest in Virginia now. Two times each year I travel to Michigan and visit my parents. My dad is still alive. Carol's mom is still alive. And again, my dad is a Super type A personality. He's a take control. And so as uh the children are growing up twice a year, uh we would travel in Michigan and be with him, and this is what uh my dad would say to me. You sit there, you've been quiet. And you listen to me because I have things to say. Say, when's the last time you said that to you? I don't know, maybe three months ago. So, I love my dad. And uh he is a strong Christian man, he loves the Lord, he's in his Bible, you go in the you go in his house, his Bible's gonna be there as war. Uh uh my it I'll tell you who it bothers, it bothers my children. His grands. So when my children were growing up and we'd leave the house and they would say to me, I just want you to know what your grandchildren are saying about you if you're that super type A personality that says to your kids You'll be quiet and you listen to me, because I'm your dad. I brought you into this world and I can take you out. If you're one of those kinds of people, this is what your grandchildren are saying about you So we would leave the home and my children would say to me, Why is granddad so disrespectful to you? Because my children would have never done that. And this is what I said to my kids. I said, I love my dad. My dad only sees me as a 16-year-old knucklehead And I'm sure none of the rest of you were, but when I was 16, I was a knucklehead. Right? And that's all my dad sees here. Every once in a while he'll say to the kids Did your dad tell you what he did when he was 16 years of age? And I'll go, Dad, don't go there. And he said, I'm not gonna tell you. But it was really dumb. And my my middle kid is getting out money. Grandpa, we'll pay you for the information. And uh grandpa hasn't hurt me. My dad hasn't hurt me. I sit there, I listen to him, still not. We'll go there. I walk in the house, I'm very quiet. I'm very respectful, I listen, he has a lot to say Call him on or talk to him on the phone every week. He's got a lot to say. He's not interested in anything I have to say. And that's and I'm fine with that Because he'll never see me, except for that 16-year-old knucklehead. But here's what you lose. And here's what he's lost. He's lost the ability to influence the next generation. He's lost the respect of his grandkids. Is that what you want? That's not what I want. So here's what Mrs. Bishop and I do. Here's something positive that you can do with your kids. And with this we're gonna we're gonna finish up When we're around grandkids, uh let's say uh mom and dad are going out in the date or they're in town and they go out and do something and we watch them Or we go to their home, we've stepped over that threshold, we've been inside. I say to my children, thank you for allowing us to be a part of your life. If we are allowed to watch them, I say thank you for trusting us enough. To be with your children. Why? What does that say? That says to them that I recognize their authority, and I know at any time that they could say Dad, you are no longer welcome in our home. They could do that. They could do that legally. They could do that biblically. I do not want to be perceived as a threat to their home. If you do cross that threshold inappropriately, don't be surprised if you get perceived to be that threat. And suffer the consequences. Let your children make mistakes. Don't come crying to me. Oh, they won't let me have any access to the kids. I'm gonna guess he came across an area of responsibility inappropriately. Now do I need to go out and get my bulletproof vest to go for a headshot? At least it's a non-vital area, right? That we both agree on. If you've got a question, you should sit down and talk to your pastor. You really should. We get into a lot of trouble, and it all comes right down to pride It all comes down to pride. You can have a great relationship. I have a great relationship with my children. They love us. We love them. They call uh almost daily and talk to us We call them regularly. They ask me for advice and counsel, and sometimes they don't. My son in ministry called a preacher just recently that uh regularly calls me and said, hey, I got a problem in the church. This is what I'm facing. What do you think? And the preacher said to my son Uh this is what I would do? Uh he said, and I only know to do that is because I called your dad. You should call your dad. He's got some great advice And he called me and told me that he called the preacher and the preacher told him and told him to call me, but he didn't he didn't ask me, so I didn't tell him. I'm okay with that. I'm just glad he's talking to somebody. That's going to give him good godly Bible counsel. And I'm thankful to be a grandparent. Love love love the grandkids. And I and I love it when they go home at night. I'll leave you with what my mom says when we would leave the house. Mom is in heaven. She went to heaven last year. Breached her funeral. Great opportunity. All the busyness would come over, all the noise, all the all the toys, everything out of whack, and it was time to leave. And my mother, my sweet sweet mom, she's a sweet gal, she would say, thank you for coming. Come back again. When you go, make sure you count Don't leave anybody behind. And we wave as they go down the road, and I say to Mrs. Bishop, isn't the quiet wonderful? Father, thank you for the privilege you've given us of having gray hair. I pray that you'd help us to continue to use that wisdom consistently in accordance with your word. And we'll thank you for your grace. In Jesus Christ's name, Amen.