Uh hope God speaks to your heart this morning. I hope that you're challenged, blessed for having been in God's house today or taking the time to sit and watch the stream. I know there's a number of Hunt Valley Baptist Church family that are very faithful, consistently watch the service. Online and uh they are here with us in spirit and wish they could be here. And I can't wait until we get through this and things can get back to where we can be together and not be But this is a time of concern. Everybody has different burdens and levels of concern with regards to this. Some people are nonchalant, they don't care. They say you know, give me a glass of COVID and I'll drink it. And then there's other people that they won't leave their house and everybody in between, right? I mean that's the way it is. when you deal with situations in life. And I don't know where you're at, and I'm not here to mock or make fun of you, whichever spectrum you're in. That's not the point. The point I want to get to you today is that in rat regardless of where you're at, you can trust Jesus. Look at 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 7. This very familiar verse, as I preached this morning, leaning on the Lord. Leaning on the Lord. He says here in 1 Peter 5 verse number 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Dear Lord, we come to you this morning. I'm grateful for the privilege it's mine to preach the Word of God today. I ask you that you'd give me liberty of preach, clarity of thought, that the thoughts that are organized here on this paper and this page would come through in In a meaningful way, Lord, that my heart would be seen, that your message would be heard, my personality wouldn't get in the way, and Lord, that uh people would hear from heaven not Not from Pastor Caleb. I ask you, God, that you would strengthen and lift those who are carrying heavy burdens, that Lord, you would give us strength to cast them onto you, to allow you to help us in our hour of need. And Lord, we pray that if there's one here today that doesn't know for sure that they're on their way to heaven, they don't know you as Lord and Savior, I ask you to give them the faith. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God, and I pray, God, that this today. Your word would reach into their heart, and that seed of faith would grow, and they could put their faith and trust in you and in you alone. We ask these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, I want to remind you of this very simple truth today: that in the midst of the pandemic, in the midst of whatever problem that you're facing, whatever challenge that you have, You can lean on the Lord. You can lean on the Lord. Our text today says it very straightforward, says it very simply, and couldn't be put any more clearer, casting all your care upon him. For he careth for you. The fact of the matter is the Lord Jesus Christ cares for you. He loves you, he cares for you, and he's waiting and ready for you to cast your care upon him. There's been times in our life as we were growing up with our children that they have had a burden. They've had something that was heavy on their heart. And When they get that way, occasionally they they they want to come and talk to mom and dad. They just want to talk to one of us and they they come and say, can I can I talk to you for a few minutes? And they begin to share and unload their heart, their burden. They're just looking for somebody to help carry that burden or to help give them understanding or to teach them or show them what to do in a particular situation. Beloved, your heavenly father is waiting for you to come to him. Waiting for you to cast all your care upon him. Somebody wrote, as a child bringeth their broken toys with tears for us to mend. I brought my broken dreams to God because he is my friend. But then instead of leaving him in his place peace to work, Pleased to work alone, I hung around and tried to help in ways that weren't my own. Finally I took them back and I said, Dear God, why are you so slow? He looked at me and said, My child, what could I do? You never let go. Many times, beloved, we bring those burdens to God, and yet we still hold on to them, we nurture them, we we we we are still analyzing them, and you're saying, God, why don't you do something with this? And he's saying, I want to, but you haven't let go yet. You haven't cast that burden on me. This morning I want to give you three things here that we need to learn to lean on the Lord. Places where we need to learn to lean on the Lord. Beloved, first of all, we need to learn to lean on the Lord for salvation We need to learn to lean on the Lord for salvation. John 1028 says, And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them. Out of my hand. The fact of the matter is, is that Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost It was God's plan. It was God's design to send his son into the world, not to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth on him It's whosoever. Whosoever believeth. Jesus gave himself because of his love for the world. To save sinners. First Timothy 1 verse 15 says this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all expectation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 2 Peter 2 3:9 says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to us. We're not willing that any should perish, but that all Should come to repentance. God loved the world so much that He gave His only begotten Son. And Jesus was obedient to death so that he could save sinners. Beloved, casting your care upon him starts With trusting him for salvation. We need to lean on the Lord for salvation. You understand there are some in the world that don't know That this is real. They don't know that Jesus Christ came and that He died for them and that He was buried and He rose again and He did this to pay the penalty for their sin so they could know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. They they don't know about it. That's why we give out gospel tracts. That's why we tell people about the love of Jesus Christ. That's why we have church service and we have a missions program where we send missionaries around the world and we support people like Brother Sharp, who has a radio station. and builds radio stations all around the world that can reach and preach and teach theology with technology. And that's just why we do it. Because there's a lot of people in the world that don't know about Jesus and that he was real and that he did this for them. The very sad truth of the matter is, is there's people all over the world that bow and pray. And seek for salvation in something that is carved out of wood, that is shaped out of metal. They don't know. The fact is, they are very sincere in their belief. And they're very faithful. In their seeking for salvation from something that has no more power to save than this pulpit does, than this metal mic stand does. The truth of the matter is, as many times those people's sincerity in their looking to a piece of wood or to a uh uh piece of clay and it's shaped in the shape of what they believe their God looks like, their sincerity is far greater than the sincerity Of people who know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. They've been saved by the blood of the Lamb. They're on their way to the heaven and they know it. And they want to talk about the grace that they have in Jesus Christ, and that they don't have to do this, and have to do that, and they don't have to do this. God loves them anyway. Yet somebody whose faith is in a piece of wood that has arms but they cannot help. They have ears but they cannot hear. They have eyes but they cannot see. Their sincerity is greater than ours. Do you understand that all their sincerity does not make them right? It's still just a piece of wood. Doesn't matter what shape it's been cut into. It's still just a peak of a piece of oak or poplar or cherry. It's just a piece of wood. And it's sad that they don't know the truth. When they know the truth, the truth shall set you free. The truth is that Jesus Christ came and he died to save sinners. And we put our faith and trust in the sacrifice that He paid for our sin so we can be forgiven of our sin. The Bible says it would be taken to heaven When we die, there's some that don't know it's real. You know, there's some that know it, but they reject it. They know it, but they reject it. Like Agrippa told Paul, almost thou persuadest me. There are many, especially in a country like ours, where the Word of God is so readily available, and the truth of the Word of God has been presented so many times that people have grown callous and cold to it. They know about Jesus' birth. They celebrate it at Christmas. They know that that's what Christmas is all about, even though they choose to take Christ out of Christmas. They want to call it Exmas, but they know that's what Christmas is for. There are many that celebrate Easter every year. It's such a big holiday in our country. It's mind-boggling that people could think that a country that has these observances of these Christian holidays is somehow founded on paganism That is not true. The reason we observe these Christian holidays is because I'm not saying all of our forefathers and founding uh you know government officials were all all Baptist. I'm not saying they all knew the Lord Jesus as their Savior. We won't know that until we get to heaven, but I'm saying they had a belief in the Word of God, a belief in the God of heaven. and understood the importance of this. They did a uh research on I I I don't remember the numbers, like fifteen thousand documents, fifteen thousand government documents. Between fifty years of the beginning of our nation and the number one quoted source. was the word of God. Out of all those government documents, the number one quoted source was the Word of God. They had a belief in that. What I'm saying is there's a lot of people that are in our country that know about God. They know Jesus came and he died, but they choose not to accept him. They choose to reject it. And that's sad. There's some that know about it and they've accepted him, but they've yet They've yet to learn how to really trust, and what I'm talking here about is that the ability assurance the assurance the no-so salvation I know beyond a shadow of a doubt if I was involved in a car accident today and went on to to pass past Away that I would be in heaven. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have Eternal life. You can know that you have eternal life. Jesus came and he died for you and wanted to provide for you salvation. And if you've put your faith and trust in him, I want you to understand it's Satan that wants to come and tell you you can't know. Satan comes and tells you, oh, it's it's that was too easy. There has to be more to it than that. Well that that no, you've got to do this or you've got to do that, or Satan comes and tells you, well, you have sinned here and you've done this wrong and this wrong, so surely you can't still be saved. Satan is the accuser of the brethren, and he would want you to doubt your salvation. But God wants you to know that you're saved. Pastor, how can I know? How can I have the assurance of my salvation? You can learn how to lean on Jesus Learn how to lean on the Lord. Learn how to take the truths of the Word of God and put your faith and trust in them. If I asked any of you this morning to walk up on this platform and get those pieces of paper for me. There none of you would come to the platform and be like I'm not sure. I don't know if it's gonna hold me You wouldn't do that. You would you would walk right up here. You've learned By evidence by your life that this is solid and it's going to hold you, none of you would question it at all. You would walk right up here. And in your life When you, through faith and practice of following the Lord and obeying his precepts, you learn how to lean on Jesus. You learn how to put your faith and trust in Him and have that confidence, that assurance that you are on your way to heaven. And I hope that everyone here this morning has that confidence you have that assurance that there's no doubt in your mind you don't want to wake up when it's too late You see, it's appointed unto man wants to die, and after this the judgment. After this you don't get to decide. After this you don't get to make a You don't get to change your mind and say, Oh yeah, no, I meant it. No, it's too late. Sometimes when For those of you with young parents, young kids, I'll I'll tell you, you you need to teach your children how to make a decision. Teach them how to be decisive. And so you go to McDonald's and you don't say what do you want? You say, do you want a McChicken or double cheeseburger? And they're like, um, um, and you go, okay, three Two, one. Okay, you're getting chicken. And they say, oh no, no, I wanted a double cheeseburger. Too late. You didn't decide, so I decided for you. You have to decide. I gave you a choice. When you did not make the choice, I decided for you. That's free. Okay? It's teaching your kids kids how to be decisive. Make if make them make a decision. Don't let them sit there, oh I don't know, I don't know which one I want. Uh no, they need to determine. So what I'm saying is that the the option to make the choice was gone. They had three seconds to decide. If they didn't decide, then too late. God has presented you A choice. You can choose salvation. If you don't choose it, then by default you have made the choice not to accept Jesus Christ. Do it before it's too late. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. You say, I'm not sure I have enough faith yet. You need to read the Word of God. I would encourage you to get in the book of John and read the book of John. Read it over and over again. Talks about the love of God and what God has did by sending his son. And allow God to grow that faith in your heart, that faith that you can trust Him. Not only do we need to learn to lean on the Lord for salvation, but we need to lean on the Lord for supervision. For supervision. Proverbs three, verses five through six says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. What I'm saying is, you need to learn how to let the Lord lead in your life. You need to let the Lord direct your steps. The Bible says the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. When we learn to let the Lord lead, We allow Him to direct our steps. We're in the center of God's will for our life. We need to learn how to do that. It's a process. It's probably one of the conversations I've had with God's people more than anything else. How do I know God's directing me? How do I know God's leading me this way? How do I follow the Lord? It's a process of having a relationship with Him and knowing what His will is and doing His will. And the Holy Spirit speaking to you when you disobey His will. And You get convicted of the sin that's in your heart, and you come back and say, Lord, forgive me, I'm sorry, and you get back in his will. And it's it's learning to lean, to allow the Lord to lead in your life. Now, how many of you understand that God gets blamed for a lot of stuff that he did not do? Alright? I'll tell you what, Christians sure enjoy spiritualizing our carnal decisions. We like to talk about how God led me down this path. God led me to do this. I was telling somebody just this week who was talking to me about a decision they were making. I said, listen, one time when I was newly married, here's a good tidbit of wisdom for you, brother. Don't do this. One time when I was newly married, I got in touch with somebody that had a sure thing. They said if you invest in this, in less than a year, your investment, regardless of the size, is going to double. And if you, you know, whatever you can put into it, you're gonna it'll double, give it another year, it'll double again. And they went through all the documentation, they showed me all the stuff, and You of course know, being the spiritual young man I was, that I didn't pray about it. I saw an opportunity to make a bunch of money And I I took money we did not have as a young married couple. Now, let me say I did not do it without my wife's knowledge. We talked about it. But my wife trusted me. She trusted me. She said, okay, if you think we should do it That's fine. So we took money we did not have. We we could not afford. If I told you how tight things were, you you'd be shocked. We took three thousand dollars and invested it. And we lost it all. But you see, I wasn't so foolish. to say, well, God led me to invest that money, and now I lost it. See, too many times we want to blame God. For things that we did without asking him, without talking to him, without looking for him to lead. We went down some path all on our own. Because that's what we want to do. Sometimes this happens with relationships. I try and tell young people, you have got to know God's will before the heart gets involved Because once the heart's involved, God's will doesn't matter. You say, don't tell me that, I'm telling you the truth. Once you're in love with this person, you think God has put a halo over their head and God is directing you to marry them regardless. Listen, if they're not saved and on their way to heaven, if they're not a Christian Christian, God is not leading you to marry them. That's right. Okay? Bible tells us not to be unequally yoked. You're not to marry somebody who doesn't believe in God. The further the difference, the harder it is going to be for your relationship to be Sound and and correct. The further the difference, somebody that's a Satanist would be very hard for your lives to go together, right? Well the the the more extreme the difference, the harder it is going to be for you to be dwell together in one flesh. You become one flesh. How can you be one flesh? Can two walk together except they be agreed? The answer is no. You guys are looking at me like a calf at a new gate, like I'm teaching things here you've never heard before. It shouldn't be the case. If you've been in church at all, you should have heard these things. What I'm saying is a lot of times we do what we want to do and then we blame God for it. What we need to do is learn to lean on the Lord and trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own what? Understanding. Our own understanding, the way we think it ought to be, what our mind has analyzed and put together and established as the direction for us. I'll tell you what, so many times, especially in today's world, we do not have a biblical worldview. We have a media-driven worldview. Because that is the number one source where we are getting our training, our thought processes from. From the media. And how we're thinking about and evaluating the situations comes from that instead of the Bible. And if you wonder if that's the case, let me just ask. What is the comparison? How much time you spend listening to the news? And reading the book. Yeah. I venture to say it's probably not one tenth. I imagine you listen to the news ten times, probably twenty times more than we spend in the Word of God. You tell me what's going to be shaping our thinking. If we're going to trust in the Lord, the Bible says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abraeteth not, and it shall be given him. Beloved, God cares about your daily life. He didn't save you just to save you and let you run through life all on your own without any direction. He cares about what you're doing. He cares about your life, about the direction you're headed, about what where you're going to end up. We need to learn to lean and let him direct our steps. God has a positioning system for us that we need to learn how to follow. We've all gotten very comfortable with the GPS. And for the most part the GPS, I mean the technology today that can even route you around traffic jams save seven minutes if you take this route to disregard plus no. You know, GPS is is gotten very trustworthy and you know, but initially when the GPS came out I had one years and years ago on a on a PDA, an old Dell PDA, you know, and had to plug it in and had to call in to make the thing work and I'll tell you what, whenever I had that, I still had a map. Because I didn't trust this thing. Quite often, you know, I'm thinking, where is this thing routing me? And my goodness, and I look at the map and see a much shorter, much more direct route. Like this thing is messed up. Something's not right. But we've gotten to the place where we can trust the GPS. Now I love it. I don't even think about it. They're like, well, what if it takes you an extra ten minutes? I don't care because I'm able to get something. else done while I'm driving opposed to having to concentrate on where I'm going. Now now I don't know where anything is. I just pull it up on the phone and go. You know, but then I can talk on the phone, I can I can be, you know, accomplishing or thinking about something else or listening to a message and and not have to be concentrating on where I'm going and say, turn right. We need to learn how to lean on God like that. God has a God's positioning system for your life. And He wants to direct your steps. But initially we don't trust Him so much. We're not sure. God, is that really what you want me to do? I don't know. Listen, the GPS messes up sometimes. There's been times it's routed you down through downtown. When it could have taken you around and it would have saved a lot of time, it messed up. God's never gonna mess up. God's never gonna mess up. We need to learn how to lean on him. to direct our steps. Lean not on our own understanding. When we lean on our own understanding, we messed up every time You know, sometimes we're like the preacher who was on a diet and uh he was trying to lose weight. He's on his way to the office in the morning and He used to stop at the donut shop every morning on his way to the office and thought, well, if I'm on a diet, I can't really do that. So he did the old Gideon thing, you know, lay out the fleet. And he said, God, if you don't want me to have a donut this morning, then would you make it so there's no parking spaces in front of the donut shop? So he drove by the donut shop when he got to the office he was carrying donuts and his church secretary asked, you know He was explaining what he did and that it was only his fourth time around the block that there was two spots right in front of the donut shop See that's what we do. We try and get God to to open the door for us to go that way. Instead of just letting God lead and doing what God wants us to do. Pastor, how do I get guidance for my life? You need to learn how to lean on the Lord. Learn to lean on the Lord. Trust not in thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Then you need to learn to lean on the Lord for the strength, the strength that you need. He's just casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. God cares for you. He wants to help you. He wants to meet the need in your life. Every burden you have, and some burdens are great, and Some aren't so great, but he says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Listen, he may have allowed a burden in your life for a reason. When the astronauts initially went to space, when they came back from space after a period of time, uh two hundred and eleven days in Face, their muscles had begun to atrophy. Their heart was weak. They had to actually go into the hospital and had to go through weeks and weeks of therapy. Because without any resistance in zero gravity for that extended length of time, their body began to deteriorate. So they designed suits that when they were in space, the suits provided resistance that they had to exercise muscle to move everything they're doing is pushed against. It's resistance. And now astronauts that go to space have strict exercise regimes that they must follow to keep their strength up. God may very well have brought some resistance into your life for the purpose of building some strength that you need. In order to go on and do what God wants you to do. And I know many times we look at that resistance and we think it's bad, but understand that God's using it to build us, to give us the strength that we need. But the joy, beloved, is God has never asked you to carry or to work through that problem alone. God is with you. I can do all things. What is the rest of that verse? Through Christ, which strengthens I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And God may have provided some resistance in your life. There may be a struggle or a challenge you're facing. that's hard, and he says, Cast all your care upon me, for he careth for you. He wants to carry your burden. He's provided strength, but he also provides strength to go through the resistance God will do that for you if you cast your care upon Him, if you look to Him and allow Him to give you the strength that you need. He's ready to help you carry your load. If you just ask him for the help that you need, to carry the worry and the burden that you're carrying, the trouble that you're enduring, the whatever that is that's causing you to fear. Know that God wants to help you. He promises to hear and to answer your prayer. I want you to know that the problems, the struggles, the resistance, The burden, whatever it is that you're facing, I want you to know that it's not permanent. It's not permanent. There's a story of a Sunday school class that was meeting and talking about the Lord's strength and the Lord's help, and the teacher asked of the class, could you tell me what is your favorite verse in time What's your favorite verse? And one young man stood and he said, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. And there was a lady who was in the class, and she stood up and she said, God is my refuge, a very present help in time of need. Then Mr. John, who was in his 80s, he stood up and with his little bit of strength that he he had, he said, and it came to me. Some of the class began to chuckle, thinking that maybe Mr. John had uh, you know, his memory is not what it was, and maybe he forgot the verse he was Planning to say, but then Mr. John went on and he said, at age 30, I lost my job and I had six hungry mouths to feed. I didn't know if I was going to make it. At age 40, I received the news that my eldest son was killed overseas in the war, and this knocked me down, and I didn't know if I'd be able to stand again. Again. At age fifty, my house burned to the ground, and all was lost, save the life of my family. At age sixty, my wife of forty years contracted Cancer. This cancer slowly ate away at her body. We cried together. We prayed together. And at 65 she died, and today I see her. Still miss her. The agony that I went through on each of these days was unbelievable At times I wondered where was God, but each time I looked into the scriptures and I saw one of the 85 places in the Word of God where it says, and it came to pass. And I felt God was telling me that the pain that I had, the suffering that I was enduring, the circumstance that I was going through would pass God would lead me through it. What he was saying is with each situation God was teaching me To lean on him. He was learning to lean through his life. This morning, my admonition to you, my encouragement to you is to learn to lean on Jesus. There is that very familiar song. Learning to lean, learning to lean, I'm learning. To lean on Jesus. Finding more power than I'd ever dreamed, I'm learning to lean on Jesus. Beloved, when you learn to lean on the Lord, you find strength that you didn't know you had. You find wisdom that you didn't know was available. You find direction that you didn't think was possible when we learn to lean on God. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Leaning on Jesus is simply taking God at his word. Believing what God said and doing it. George Mueller said this: the beginning of anxiety is the end of faith. And the beginning of faith. Is the end of anxiety. Do you need to learn to lean on the Lord today? Casting all your care upon Him, for He careth for you