After hearing all those wonderful things, I'm excited about what I'm gonna say. You know uh A lot of things in life whenever things like this happened. Uh I remember in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, where I first started pastoring in nineteen sixty-nine. My total salary was ten dollars a week. That's how I started out. And uh full time and had to pray in our food and everything and pray in everything Anyway, uh I had led this Catholic man to the Lord and he came to church and and he had been sitting in the same area just over on my right, about three rows back from the front And he'd been coming to church now every Sunday for about two or three months. And I thought, well, it's about time for this Catholic guy to start Taking part in our church, so I thought, well, during offering time I'll ask him to lead the Lord lead the prayer for the offering And so ushers were there and I said, So and so would you lead us in prayer for the offering? And I bowed my head and everybody else did. He didn't say a word. I waited a few seconds and I looked up. I was gonna say that's all right, I'll pray. But I looked looked up and he was looking down. And so I thought, well, I'll just uh interrupt him and go ahead and go ahead and pray. And I start just about started, and then all of a sudden, now remember he was Roman Catholic, and he's standing there and he says, Oh Father. And I thought, uh uh. He's reverted back to his Catholic days and he's calling me father and he's saying, Help me out of this mess you got me in. I thought that's what he was going to say Then after he said that, he prayed the sweetest prayer that you'd ever hear. And once in a while In the middle of the night, I'll wake up and I'll see that guy standing there and I'll sing and I'll just start laughing. God's so good. God's so wonderful. And man, uh you cannot put a price on the joy that you'll have as a family when everybody's saved and everybody loves God. Folks, God's been better to me than I deserve, and God's given us a great family. And now all over America I have other people that like Valerie I'm her grandpa. And what gets discouraging is even her mother calls me grandpa. And uh I thought, you know, I may look old, but I'm not that old. Anyway, it is fun living for God It really is, and it's just a joy to be here, have the honor of speaking to you all. And uh want you to know that my wife and I and my daughter Melissa who lives with us and we take care of her all the time Uh we have prayed many times together for this meeting. Many times. Oh God. Help us to be a blessing to them. Lord, we sure don't want to go up there and mess it up. May your Holy Spirit By the time it comes out of my mouth or my wife's mouth, by the time it gets to your heart, Lord, would you change it to what it ought to be? And uh God is so good Have you heard about the wife that she said, sweetheart, how would you describe me? And he says, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K. And she said, What in the world does that all mean? And he said, adorable, beautiful, delightful, elegant, fashionable, glorious, and hot. And the wife says, What about IJK? Oh, that stands for I'm just kidding. You know I want to speak for on the subject of consistency and that's one of the biggest problems in families that they're not the same every day Now one day something's against the rules and you get it spanking forward, and the next day they don't get in trouble for it. You know, and those kids don't know what's going on. It's k it's very important to be consistent. I um Had a young boy in my church, he was just a little tyke, in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, way back years ago. In nineteen seventy-two is when I went there. And the mother, she was having trouble with her little boy. He was only like four, something like that. And uh I told her, I said, I said, ma'am, if you don't get control of this little fella, he's gonna be in jail before he's out of school And I could tell it because the way he was acting and she didn't have control over him at all. And today he's in the WauPont State Prison in Wisconsin. It breaks my heart because but she didn't take me seriously. Anyway, if you have the Word of God, you have the guidance there you need. Yes, it wasn't because I was so smart. It's just that we have a great God. And we just follow his direction. You know, to to raise children that love God, you have to be consistent. It'll not work unless you're consistent. And uh it's probably one of the most important things that you could do. It must be a pattern for your life to be consistent in your life Judges chapter two, if you would turn there, please. I want you to see in Judges chapter two. And I want to try to help you with something that'll help you not only for your family But your children and your children's family and your children's children's family. In Judges chapter 2, it says Verse number six. And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel were uh were every man unto his inheritance to possess the land And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders that survived Joshua. who had been who had seen all the great works of the Lord and he did that he did for Israel. And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant servant of the Lord, died, being a hundred and ten years old. And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath in the Mount of Ephraim on the north side of the hill And also all the generation were gathered unto their fathers, and there arose another generation after them. which knew not the Lord, neither yet the words which he had done for Israel. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam And they forsook the Lord of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger. Verse 13, and they forsook the Lord and served Baal and Ashtareth. Lord Jesus, I pray that you would help me as I preach. I pray that you would bless the message and speak to our hearts. Pray that we would look beyond the speaker and look to you. And Lord, help me to say what you want me to say, but to leave out anything you don't want me to say And I'd surely grateful for your help in that, Lord. And please speak to our hearts now. In Jesus' name. Amen. When you see a pattern in a person's life Soon you can predict the outcome. Any of you preachers that have been preachers very long, you can see families in your church and you you have a broken heart for some of them, you say, Oh man, if they keep going this way, they're going to lose their kids I mean you can just tell. And if you need help, listen to your preacher. But once the downward slope has started The outcome can be predicted and it's just almost never changed once you start on that downward path Um the people here in this chapter, it was a spiritual degeneration that they were going through. And um the what the first generation believed with convictions The second generation, they believed it, but they didn't have the convictions that mom and dad had about it And then the the next generation that but they did compromise some as in their life, and the third generation, they didn't believe it at all and probably weren't even saved It goes on a downhill like that. And the principle sets in naturally because of our sinful nature. And you'll find that Israel did that over and over and over and over again in the Bible. If you've read the Bible, you'll see that when Israel would get right with God, then just for one or two generations or so it'd be okay, and then they'd all go to the devil again. Over and over again. And if you raise your family for God, you need to understand that if you don't do a good job, they're all going to go to the devil. And if you do a good job with your kids then their children are going to go to the devil unless you teach them to teach their kids like you taught their kids. And uh but it won't be very long and none of them will be living for the Lord The principle sets in like that. It has to be constant. And we need to be consistent day in and day out and day in and day out and day in. And you'll wear yourself out being consistent Uh it has to be a deliberate, dedicated effort all the time, over and over and over and you'll be uh but uh uh here in Judges the first generation had convictions. The second generation, they had some some uh the same beliefs, but they didn't have the convictions. And compromise. And then they raised their children and they didn't teach them the th the the character things and the scripture things that their parents had taught them and so on. And th so their k kids were carnal And it happens in churches and it happens in Christian colleges. And you'll find in about thirty or forty years you you uh you know there's not very many Christian colleges last over forty years being good fundamental Bible believing Christian colleges. What happens is they start compromising and start backsliding and get away with from it. And then they go to the devil. And that's what'll happen to your family. If you don't raise a good godly family, your kids will go to the devil. But if you do raise a godly family and have good kids, then their kids will go to the devil if they don't teach them. And it won't be before you pass away, your great grandkids won't even won't even be saved. They won't even love the Lord at all. So what we sow sparingly now, we will reap bountifully in future generations. And they'll be able to see it. Now, um what we do in inconsistency now, with lack of enthusiasm, our ganchildren will do in abundance You sin just allow just a little bit of sin in your family, your kids are going to multiply that in their family. What happens is the first generation They see the miracles of God. You see the children of Israel. They saw the they saw all the plagues come upon Egypt. And they saw the firstborn die of all the Egyptians. And they then they went down to the Red Sea. And they saw the Egyptian army coming after them and God put a cloud between them so they couldn't see it. And then parted the Red Sea and they went and they saw all of those miracles that God did They saw God give them water out of the rocks and they saw God give them manna from heaven and they saw these miracles and now uh and the children that came along after that they heard about them God said, Hey, you need to have memorials so you can remember these things. And so they brought rocks and they piled them up and and tried to explain it to some of the kids, but meant a generation or two and they all went to the devil Need to have some miracles in our life that we can share with our families. Now if God's not real, don't worry about it. You don't have to do nothing. But if God is real, then you need to pray down some miracles in your own life. Well I I mentioned uh uh uh i i uh just a minute ago that do you know that when we went to Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, I was very green in the ministry. It really was. I didn't know what I was doing. And but I went there and I started pastoring this church and uh ten dollars a week. Nobody told me that you couldn't live on ten dollars a week But uh I thought, well, God knows I'm only getting ten dollars a week. He can take care of us, he always has, and and so I'm gonna put five dollars a week back in the offering. Can't live on ten, can't live on five either, so what's the difference? And so so I uh uh put the five dollars back in the offering and uh and uh one day I come home from soul running And uh my wife meets me at the door. She says, Sweetheart, we don't have any food in the house, and the kids are hungry. And I says, um, okay, honey, I'll take care of it But I didn't have any money. I didn't I mean I didn't have a nickel. I didn't have a penny. Didn't have nothing. And but you know how ladies exaggerate. So I went in the kitchen to check and see if we were out of food. Listen, I searched the kid uh every cupboard in the kitchen, I would search under the sink, every place We didn't have a potato laying around anywhere. A carrot, no carrot, and a what wasn't any wasn't a can of vegetables in the in the cupboard. The only thing in the whole kitchen that I found was a Quaker Oaks uh mealbox that had about that much oatmeal in it A salt shaker that had a little bit of salt in it and a pepper shaker had a little bit of pepper in it. That was it. The water faucet worked. That was it in the kitchen. I went out of the kitchen and. Told my wife, I said, uh, okay, I'll take care of it. And I went in my little room that are the use for an office and got on my knees and laid my Bible down and said, oh God. We're out of food. And my kids are hungry. And I wept and wet that chair with my tears and prayed until God gave me peace in my heart. that it was all gonna be okay. And I got up off my knees, came back into the kitchen living room, gave my wife a hug and said, Honey, I don't know what God's gonna do, but it's gonna be all right. And folks, in less than two hours, a pickup truck pulled in our driveway. And the whole back end of that pickup truck was filled full of food. And they filled our kitchen full of food. Folks, I'm not exaggerating. This is exactly what happened. Caleb is i if he was born, he was through he was born in Sheboygan. Weren't you? Yeah, so he didn't You know, being seventy-seven you can't remember where they were born. You know, but it's lucky I got seven things right on that list while ago. He wasn't born yet. But I tell you what My kids that were born, they saw what God did. What a miracle. Went to Sheboygan and God gave us great victories there. And we live for God and we always seem like we're always sacrificing for the Lord, but but you you you don't sacrifice for God, you just do what He tells you to do and then God just makes up the difference And and I can tell you a bunch of bunch of miracles that God did in our life. Our children saw those. Um we went to Texas and we started that church that he was talking about where we tore down that building and and got that. Uh And uh we were only about six months old. And we decided to have a big day in the church And we were meeting in a garage, the garage that was attached to our house. And it would only hold if we packed people in there wall to wall, seventy people. That's chairs all uh everywhere, you know, and everybody comes in and and I'm not sure everybody could sit down, but that was how big it I mean that seventy it was it. Now we were gonna have a big day and we were already running about fifty And I thought, man, what do we what do you and so we had Marine Calendar Sunday. It was cold that morning. I don't know you how much you remember, but it was cold. And the men that came to the church early, they were gonna set the chairs up in a parking lot. And it was cold and I said, fellas, it's cold outside and we probably won't have more than this will fit in this little garage anyway. Maybe we ought to not set the chairs up outside. They said, Preacher, where in the world is your faith? I said, All right, set them up. Set them up. Go ahead. And so they set the chairs out in the parking lot And it got time for services and people started coming. And more people started coming. And more people started coming. We were only running about 50 and we got done counting over 242 people showed up And I preached that thirty-nine people got saved that day. And eight people got baptized. And I said that Man, we can't we can't even sit in this little thing behind us here. We have to build a building. All in favor of building a building, say amen. And everybody said amen. All the ministers too. And I said, All right, we'll have groundbreaking next week. That was our business meeting. That's that's a lesson for you preachers. Just just do it, you know. And and so we uh we broke ground for the new building and build a brand new building there in El Paso, Texas and debt free. We didn't borrow a nickel for it. We built it debt free. And and uh My kids saw thirty-nine people get saved on Sunday. They thought saw God build a building there in the middle of nowhere out in the desert there in El Paso, Texas God uh they saw miracle after miracle through their lifetime and saw what God did when we were in trouble, saw him provide food when we needed it. I was in in Sheboygan, Wisconsin and my car was uh And so we had just had a revival with Joe Boyd. Had fifty people saved in the revival. What a great thing. And the kids saw that And I took this car up to a to a car dealer. I thought I'm gonna have to trade cars and and so I borrowed the money and bought this car and brought it home and got under conviction because it was Too expensive and I couldn't afford the payments and I told my wife, I said, I'm gonna take that car back tomorrow, honey. We can't afford it And it was a used car anyway, but and uh one of the men that got saved in the revival came to church that day and he said, Hey, I see you got a car. And I says, Yeah, it's too expensive. I don't think I'm gonna keep it. And he goes home. Sunday night he comes to church and he says, Here preacher, God told me to give this to you. As a check for five thousand dollars. He said, go pay for that car, buy a year's insurance, and if there's any left, put it in the offering. My kids saw things like that happen. Folks, you can have miracles in your lives. And exalt the Lord Jesus Christ whenever He's the one that did it. You know, I always believed in giving, always believed in tithing, and giving above your tithe and so on to the Lord. And so so I uh uh wanted to teach my kids to give And so I uh uh sometimes would fill my offering out and lay it on the dining room table, and they saw that dad was a giver. Let me say that You'd any of you churches would love to have my children in your church, because they all give very heavily to the Lord And um they learned that. I know uh one time uh we went to a youth conference On the way but on the way to the youth conference I had given my son David, that's the oldest one, a twenty dollar bill. And I gave my daughter Stasia, my oldest daughter. They were the only ones that were teenagers at the time a twenty dollar bill. And that was a sacrifice for me. But I said this is for candy and soda pop and stuff after the services. And so we get to the youth conference, and after the first night, I went back to the back and I was talking to a couple of preachers in the back. Upwalk Station, my uh oldest daughter. I said, just a minute, fellas. I said, Yeah, sweetheart, what can I do for you? And she says, Daddy, uh could I um Could I have a couple of dollars for the snack shop? And I said, honey, I gave you a $20 bill on the bus What in the world did he do with that twenty dollar bill? She says, Well daddy, uh the preacher was taking an offering tonight and he said that they had a whole lot of expenses for the youth conference and they needed to pay those bills and and uh Uh Danny I put the twenty dollar bill in the offering. And so I so okay. And so I pull out a couple of dollars and give her a couple of dollars. So she walked away. And then Started talking to those preachers again and about five minutes later up walks my son David. And I say, oh David, hi, how can I help you? And he said, told the same story. He put the twenty dollars that I gave him in the offering. Now my flesh wanted to take him out back and give him a whooping. When my spirit wanted to take off my shoes and run around the church and clap them together and say, They got it Oh boy, they got it. It's real to 'em. It's not a it's not a joke to 'em. It's real. Christ is it's real everybody. And folks, there's so much rejoicing to do. Wouldn't you try to put God first in your life? Our children, they have about the same beliefs that you and I have But they may not have the convictions on them. And so when they get married and they leave your home, then they'll drop their standards and then the they'll have children and their children won't even believe the Bible Probably won't even get saved. After just one generation of cohabiting with the heathen, the Israelites became carnal. You know Abraham, when he went to a new place, you know what he did? The first thing Abraham would do would build an altar. It's the first thing he did. After he built the altar, then he dug a well. Well, Jacob came along, or Isaac came along, excuse me. And the first thing he did, he's dug a well. Then he built the altar. Abraham he lied once. Uh Isaac came along and he lied twice and then Jacob came along and he uh he was a liar. Um your first generation they come along and you're saved and you're living for God and you raise your kids for God and they're living for God. Then the second generation will live for God. And you'll read it through that the children of Israel, when they went into the promised land, everybody stayed faithful to God till Joshua died, and then the old men that were alive when Joshua died As soon as they died, everybody went to the devil. Because they did not drill it into their families. The first generation is a faithful to the local church. The second generation doesn't say think church is quite that important. The third generation drinks, smokes and cusses and they're not even saved. Our job as parents is to not only believe, but to pass on our beliefs and our convictions and the consistency in our lives. uh uh to our children. That they need to see what's in your what what's real in your life and and that God is real so that you can pass it on to him. The the the first generation they had standards and knew why they had them. Second generation they believed but they were inconsistent and didn't know why they had the standards. And the next generation they disbelieved and didn't even get saved. Back years ago You've heard of a guy named Billy Sunday, who's a great preacher, used the King James Version of the Bible, and uh Billy Sunday used the King James Version and was fundamental. Billy Graham used the King James Version but mixed it with whatever uh version happened to be popular at the time. And Robert Schuler then came along after him. He didn't even bother with the Bible. Holiness, mediocrity, and then apostasy. Hot, lukewarm, and then cold. The first generation sees what God did. So many wonderful works. God gave them great faith and so on. The second generation, they heard what God did, but they didn't see much that God did. And then their children, they didn't hear or see what God did. And they went to the devil. Our job as parents is not only to just believe, but to pass on to our children. And do you know if you as a husband and wife If you're not very happy together, you're going to have a real hard time presenting Christianity in a positive light to your children. We'll be talking tomorrow about how to have a happy home and some different things like that. But you know, we need to pass it on to our children so they'll carry it on to the next generation So we'll have something to look forward to. Do we have every head bowed, please, and every eye closed? Heavenly Father, I ask you, please, to take these few things that I've said Lord I hope that and the things that have been taught with the videos and the things that have been taught with by the other speakers. Lord, I pray that you would use them to thy honor and glory. Lord, I pray that you would give every one of us what we need in order to be what we ought to be for you Lord, help me to be what I ought to be. Lord, if you allow me to live through tomorrow, help me, Lord, tomorrow to bring something to be helpful to these dear people tomorrow.