Back in awe at uh what God does, and certainly uh unworthy to be a part of it is just amazing. We we we we sang that first song and uh you know it's That song is in my introduction. I almost after we sang that first song, I almost thought that's my introduction right there. That's I must tell Jesus. I I uh I almost said, Well I think it's time we're just gonna we're just gonna have the sir we're just gonna have the message and we'll you know forego the rest. But I I mean it wrestled in my spirit. I said no I don't I don't I was ready to but I said no we're gonna go and and and then just one song after the next in in this song that we sang you you are gonna believe it Did you think to pray? This is my outline. Now I don't set the music schedule. I don't have any any idea, but this verses two, three, and four are points one, two, and three in my all-line. I just I was motivated to preach this because of the Recent calamity that's uh struck near to our church was the loss of another life. And the title of the message this evening is Learning He Cares. Learning he cares. And I know, beloved, that in our heart and mind that as we become a Christian, we know theologically the answer We know that it's given to us on the pages of Scripture the fact that He cares. But it is only through the progression of life and through the times of trials and through the storms that we learn he cares. It's something you might know in your heart, but When you find yourself in the storm and then you see Jesus there with you, you learn He cares. When you find yourself walking there on the sand In that most powerful of pictures of the footprints in the sand, that poem that you look and you find one set of footprints and you realize that you thought you were walking alone except you found out that it was Christ that was carrying you. And it's through those times that you learn that he cares for you. Our text this evening is 1 Peter 5 and verse number 7. Familiar verse: casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. I have often had discussions with people where they come to a place in their life and they feel like everything is going wrong. It's not just one problem. It's it's man the car broke down and that was hard enough, except at the same time uh you know the furnace in the house broke and then at the same time the roof needs replaced, you know. And uh Oh, at the same time I lost my job or I've got to get a new position or I got a a deduction in my pay and it just seems like one thing after the next and and people I I've had conversations many, many times where people just feel like it's It it seems like life's coming undone, like it's unraveling, like there's what am I gonna do? There's no one here this evening that has not lived through and endured great hardship and trial in life. We all have burdens to bear But as Christians, we have a place to take our burdens. We can and have the privilege to cast all our care upon him, for he careth for you. This life is full of trouble. We know that. It's but a few days and full of trouble We live the Christian life, and we of course know the Christian life is not any promise of freedom from trouble. We will have battles, we will endure trials, we will have some tests, maybe even that God brings into our life. But in the midst of these problems and family issues and vehicle struggles and housing conflicts and financial struggles in the midst of all these things, God is with you. Even Paul, you wouldn't find a more committed or passionate saint of God anywhere. And yet you look at the life of Paul and you see he was beaten. And you think, well, that was from the outside. I mean that was like that somebody came and attacked him and but you know what he was shipwrecked. And and you think, well Lord, why would you allow Paul to be shipwrecked? You're in control of the storms. Like why would you let this happen to your to your man of God? These things happen, but in them Christ is with us. And tonight I praise God for the saints who have learned how to stay by the stuff. I praise God for the saints who have learned how to cast their care upon him. Because really it is only through learning that lesson in Coming to the place where we can cast our care upon him, are we able to continue to be faithful? Because the burdens of life are too great. We were in grief share a little over a week ago and brother Schrock was with us. He wanted to see what this program was and what we were doing and He he he shared, he said, you know, there is the thought or the ideas given that we say it a lot, that God will never give you more than you can bear. And he said, in that statement by itself, is not really true. For often we have more in life than we can bear. But with Christ, you'll never have more that you can bear with Christ. Whatever struggle or burden you're going through, if you learn how to cast your care upon him, for he careth for you, then yes. There'll never be a burden too great because you have a loving Heavenly Father who's carrying that burden with you. Boy, I just praise God for the saints that have remained faithful here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We as a church have carried some burdens. We as a church have seen Satan attack and for some the burden was too great and they said, you know what, I I don't want to deal with it. Quite literally, that was their response. I don't want to deal with that struggle. I don't want to fight that battle, so I'm just going to leave. But I praise God for people who've learned how to cast their burden on the Lord and they've stayed faithful. When things go wrong, we need to learn how to cast our burden upon Him Truly, I must tell Jesus all of my trials. I cannot bear these burdens alone. In my distress, he kindly will help me. He ever loves and cares for his own. Have you learned how to tell Jesus? I'm not sure why. I believe that it's It's Christians that haven't learned the lesson of how to cast their care upon him that throw in the towel. They quit. They walk away. Because the burden is too great It seems as though oftentimes when things get tough, one of the first things that your immature Christians do is they give up God. You know, when when the burdens are heavy and life's life's hard, they stop coming to church. Oh, I I know I should be in church, but I'm just not where I should be right now. I'm just things are just too much of a struggle. And when life gets back simpler, I'll I'll I'll find time to get back to the church. Well that's the exact opposite of what you need. That's somebody that hasn't learned the lesson of how to cast their care upon God, for he careth for you There's different times in our life when we need to cast our care upon him. And these verses, did you think to pray? That is quite literally. Casting your care upon him. When verse number three says, When your heart is filled with anger, did you think to pray? Did you plead for grace, my brother, that you might forgive another who has crossed your way? The first time that we need to learn how to cast all our care that I want to deal with tonight is that when offenses come. When offenses come. We know the Bible is very clear. The Bible tells us that the offenses will come. There's going to be things that happen. Somebody is going to cross you. Somebody is going to offend you. That is a fact of life. But we know, beloved, from Psalms 119, 165, great peace have they which love thy law. And nothing shall offend them. When you love the law of God, and that is the overriding principle and guiding truth for your life, you're able to cast your care upon God. And let it go. You know, you could respond like the world. Like those who don't have the Holy Spirit, and you can demand your right for vengeance, you can demand your right to get even, you can you know, you want them to pay and they did this and it wasn't right and that wasn't that wasn't fair or that wasn't just or whatever it is. Or you can respond like Jesus Christ, whom there was never more, a greater injustice done to anyone. And what does the Bible say about him that he answered not a word? You can cast your burden upon the Lord. There are many reasons that people get offended. Many things. I mean if I listed for you tonight the different reasons people have got upset at me. Some of them you would you would laugh at. But whatever that situation was, it was important to them. To that person. What I'm saying is offenses come, whether they come from up here or they come from a brother or sister in Christ or from a family member, we all are going to have opportunities. that an offense is there and we have to decide how are we going to respond. We can demand our right, we can try and get vengeance, we can hope and, you know, try and get even or or kind of Do do something nice for them in the hopes that we're heaping coals of fire on their head, you know. We can we can do or we can respond like Christ. And we can just cast that off on the Lord and say, Lord, you know the heartbreak I feel, you know the burden I feel, you know the situation, and I'm just going to give it to you. I'm going to let it go, God. I'm going to turn it over to you. Casting your care upon him. Man, don't let the devil get you been out of shape and hurt yourself and others around you Be a godly, a godly individual who loves the Lord and is led by the Holy Spirit, and you'll get over it. You'll get past it. If you wallow in your offense instead of casting it upon the Lord It's clear you don't love the law. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. If you have that love for the law of God and want to please God most of all, you'll learn how to cast your care on Him and let things go. You need to go to God. Ask Him. Cast it upon Him. You know, when you hold on to your hurt, you're hurting yourself. And oftentimes you end up hurting those around you. I recall the story of a rancher. Got bit by a snake and died. And uh obviously a venomous snake And he passed away and they had no need for all of his gear. Good pair of cowboy boots are very expensive. They passed the cowboy boots on. to another cowboy. Some weeks later, this cowboy got very, very sick. And died. They weren't sure what it was until they did an autopsy and found that he died from the poison from a venomous snake. But he had never been bit. When they inspected the boot, they found that the snake had bitten the first cowboy through the top edge of the boot and the tooth broke off in the boot. And that tooth with enough venom just kind of setting in there was rubbing on the leg of the new cowboy. And over a few weeks of that rubbing there it it wore into his skin and it planted a little bit of that venom and he didn't know that it was there. He just, you know, had a little scratch here and and and that venom got into his bloodstream and killed him. You know, by you hanging on to that hurt, you're hurting yourself and you're hurting those around you. It'd be so much wiser to just cast your care upon him. For he careth for you. We see uh secondly to show you the outline here, he says, um When some verse number four he says, When some trials come upon you, did you think to pray? When your soul was born in sorrow, the balm of Gilead did you borrow at the gates. You need to learn how to cast your care when suffering comes. When suffering comes. Philippians 1. 29 says, For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. We know, beloved, that suffering's going to come. But when suffering comes, we know that God, our Father, is one who is acquainted with our grief. He is one who is aware of our sorrow. He knows what burdens that we carry. And we recently have experienced in our church family the extended family of the Wilsons, the death of Penny. God knows the sorrow, the heartache of the death of a loved one. The only place in the Word of God where we see Jesus Christ, he's weeping. Jesus wept. Because of the passing of his dear friend. Because of the heartache that those loved ones were experiencing. Because of the loss that was there Even though Jesus knew that he was going to raise him again. Even though he knew that Lazarus was not dead forever, that Lazarus was going to come forth, he still sorrowed. And beloved, we sorrow, even though we know our loved one is going to one day come forth. Even though our loved one is not dead forever, that one day we'll see them again in heaven, we still sorrow. And Jesus did as well. He's acquainted with our grief. He knows our sorrow He wants to carry your burden. Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Amen, Anesh. Amen. He can bring rest. Remember, beloved, when suffering comes, that it's for your good and for his glory. Whatever it is in your life, whatever struggle, sometimes we don't understand it, and we can't see, or we don't know the reason why. And it's okay to ask why Jesus on the cross asked why. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It's okay to ask why, but maybe God, this side of glory, doesn't give you an answer. Maybe He doesn't explain it to you, but you can trust that it's for your good or for his glory. Without question. And either reason is a worthwhile reason for me to suffer. My kids have started getting to the age where at least some of them have begun to appreciate the suffering I put them through. They're just getting to that age where You know, they they they've started to realize all of that pain was for a reason. All of that suffering, all of that labor and that toil and the jobs and and the instruction and and the hours. uh of of doing things they they are starting to appreciate it. They're starting to say, hey, thank you. For work on me so hard. Thank you for teaching me these things. Thank you for putting me through that. Oh at the time they didn't like it. And sometimes we don't like what our Heavenly Father's putting us through. But the day will come when we'll be able to look back and we'll say, Oh, now I see what he was doing. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for what you've taught me. Times like these are hard, but you learn how to cast your burden upon him, for he careth for you. The fact of the matter is, is you and I need the thorn That thorn in the flesh. The apostle prayed that it would be removed, and God says, No, I can't remove it, but my grace is sufficient for thee. That thorn or that burden or that struggle that you're dealing with that in your hearts or mind, you would say, Boy, it'd be a lot easier if that was just gone, if I just didn't have that, and God said there's a reason for it That thorn is to keep you humble. That thorn is to keep you prayerful. That thorn is to keep you powerful That thorn is there for a reason, and although we could remove it and not have it, we would not be the better for it There is a poem I was reminded of this last week, the title of which is The Weaver. He says in this poem, my life is but a weaving between my Lord and me. I cannot choose the colors. He works steadily. Oftentimes he weaveth sorrow, and I, in foolish pride, forget he sees the upper, and I only the underside Not till the loom is silent and the shuttle ceases to fly, shall God unveil the canvas and explain the reason why. The dark threads are as needful in the weaver's skillful hand as the threads of gold and silver in that pattern he has planned. You see, God has a pattern. He has a masterpiece that he's making out of you a vessel, a vessel of honor And the fact is, is there's a need for some dark thread. We don't like it. But it's there for a purpose. And when we're going through it, if we can learn to cast our care upon him, we'll be able to make it to the other side. Lastly this morning this evening, sorry, were you guys listening? I don't know what I'm saying. It's amazing here, verse number two, he says, when you meet with great temptation, Did you think to pray? By his dying love and merit, did you claim the Holy Spirit as your guide and stay? The third place that I have in my outline is that when temptation comes, You need to learn to cast your care upon him. When temptation comes. We know that There hath no temptation taken you, but it's such as common to man that God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that which you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it Temptation's gonna come. But wouldn't it be nice if we could live without temptation? Wouldn't that be just such a Such a joy to declare victory in your life and say, okay, I've made this decision for Christ and now there's no more temptation. That's gone. Oh wow. Hallelujah. That would be, yeah, when we get to heaven. When we get to glory, that that'll be that way. But until then, we're gonna have old Slowfoot. We're gonna have this old flesh. We're gonna continue to be tempted But we're supposed to pray that we don't give in to temptation. We're to pray that God would keep us from temptation. In Matthew 6, verses 13, he says, and lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil. God, protect me from temptation. Boy, put a guard around me. Keep Satan away from me. Stop that temptation because, Lord, this old flesh is weak. And and I might give in to that. And I don't want to give in to it. I want to stand against it. Lord, if you could just help me not to have temptation, boy, that would be that would be a help. And I th God will help keep you from temptation. We're to pray for it. But you know what? You're also supposed to use some practical wisdom to try and avoid temptation. You know, if you were on a diet Trying to lose some weight. You wouldn't go to the store and buy some coconut cream pie. You you wouldn't you wouldn't buy uh some cookies and cream ice cream and some little Debbie cakes. And and Mountain Dew you wouldn't go to the store and pick all that up if you were on a diet Not if you were serious about your diet. Don't tell me you're serious about a diet and you're coming out of the store with all this what yeah, we oh Reminds me of a guy in high school his name is Frank Escobar. I've told you stories about him before, but man, he he was he was always eating stuff. He was always eating something. And uh at fourteen years old he could bench press over three hundred pounds. Big guy, but he uh he would he would steal your food, any it didn't matter what you were eating, he would steal it. And he would just grab it and he you you would have a a quarter pounder. You took one bite out of it. And he would grab it and about three quarters you would have one bite left. He would give he would give you back one bite. I mean you were around him, you had to guard your food, because he would just grab it. It was so frustrating. You know, but he would eat anything and then he would be talking about man I need to lose weight. If you'd stop eating other people's food, you could lose weight. Just quit eating other people's food. Just eat your own food, you know. We used to give him such a hard time as a kid. You know, beloved, when you're trying to avoid when you really want victory over a sin, you can't make provision for the flesh. You've got to use some practical wisdom. And if there's an area of temptation, if there's a struggle, someplace that you're dealing with, yes, you can pray and ask God to keep you from temptation, but uh you know what? You might need to get it out of your house. You might need to to uh disconnect it. You might need to stop your subscription. You might need to stop going that way to work. And there might be some practical things that you can do to help avoid that temptation. You might need to think about yourself and think, okay, when do I fall into this temptation? What is it that brings me to this place? Maybe it's late at night when you're alone. You see, that's the time I always fall. I don't struggle when there's other people around. Okay, then you know, okay, I've got to avoid being alone. I've got to try and find a way to be around other people. I've got to stay with until it's time just to go to bed or whatever it is. Practically think about it and say, how can I avoid that? But when temptation comes and it's there and Satan's going to attack and he knows when you're weakest, and he knows where to hit you, and he's going to come. And at that moment We need to call on God. We need to cast our burden, that struggle, that trial with temptation. We need to cast it on God. Temptation is going to come. James 1, verse number 12 says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Man, enduring the temptation in and through the power of God, if we can just learn to cast it on Him, and possibly you'll be tempted to quit. Be tempted to throw in the towel, stop fighting altogether and say, you know what, it's not worth it. I've struggled enough. I've tried enough. restarted my Bible reading program so many times. I've restarted my devotions. I've recommitted to this so many times and it's it's it's not worth it. I'm just going to give up That's a temptation. That's Satan coming and trying to call you to quit Beloved, that old poem, When things go wrong as they sometimes will When the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and when you want to smile but you have to sigh. When your care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but do not quit. Life is queer with its twists and turns, As every one of us sometimes learns, As many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he sucked it out Don't give up, though the pace may seem slow. You may succeed with just one more blow. Often the goal is nearer Then it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup. He learned too late when the night came down, how close he was to that golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out, the silver tint in the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It may be near when it seems so far, so stick to the fight, when your heart is hit, and when things seems worse. Just do not quit. Listen, Satan would have you just give up. He would have you say it's not worth it. He's coming to you and he's hitting you with that temptation. He's saying, man, the burdens are too str too much. The cares that I have are too heavy. The struggles that I'm facing are too too hard. And it just This Christian life, the temptation, the offenses, the trials, whatever. These things is too much. Suffering is too much. I'm just going to give in as a temptation. And you need to cast all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Find hope and help at the foot of the cross with your Savior. Let him carry that burden, for he's there with you.