I'd like to remind you of the old hymn. It says, What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and grief to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. What a privilege it is of ours to bring our request unto God, to bring every prayer unto Him. The song goes on and says, Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear. All because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. Beloved, one of the most powerful endeavors of the Christian life is often left undone. And that is what is available to us through prayer. I believe what it boils down to is that We aren't fully convinced or don't really believe that prayer works. Because if we did believe it, we would use it. We would be people of prayer. We need to endeavor and strive to learn all we can about prayer and be participants in prayer on a regular basis. It is a sad commentary on Christianity that somebody who has been saved, that is, they know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, they know if they died today that they would go to heaven Not because of anything they've done, but because Christ did for them. They know that and maybe have known that for many years, and yet still are not sure how to pray. How do you pray? What do you pray for? What are you supposed to say? What are you not supposed to say? How do you pray? The fact is, beloved, is we should be people of prayer. I would like to speak to you for just a few minutes on learning to pray. And we won't be long, but in James chapter number five, looking down in verse number thirteen through verse number eighteen, we have a passage here given to us by James. on prayer, the power of prayer, and what it is for us. He says, is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. As any marry, let him sing songs. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Elias was a man of man subject to like passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth fruit. We see here in these short verses. the motive of prayer, the the the motives of prayer, the method of prayer, and the model of prayer. And we're going to talk about those briefly this morning. First of all, the motive What is our motive for praying? Why do we want to endeavor to pray? What is our desire to pray? Sometimes it might be that we just lack motivation. There was a little boy, the pastor looked at him and said, Young man, do you say your prayers every night? And he says, you yes, sir. And he says, and do you say your prayers every morning? He says, no. And he says, why not? He says, I ain't as scared in the mornings. Sometimes it's motivation. The boy said, Yeah, I got no reason to pray in the morning because I I ain't as scared But at night I'm scared. And that motivated him to be a person of prayer. At night when the lights went off and he didn't know what was under the bed or in the cupboard He said, boy, I'm going to pray that God would keep me safe. And sometimes, beloved, maybe what we need is a bigger or a stronger motive. We need to remember, beloved, that there is power in prayer. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, Ephesians 3. 20 Beloved, nothing is impossible with God. We sang about it this morning. God has all power. All power has been given unto Him, and it's a power that worketh within us. And each and every one of you here have that available to you if you are or would be a person of prayer. I know sometimes we have the perception Uh many I I I'll tell you this, I noticed many times, especially in foreign countries, when I'm on a missions trip, it it's almost as if There's an idea that somehow me as the pastor has a much closer connection with God And somehow I'm able to reach the throne room of heaven in a more effective way, and therefore people are desirous for me, and even on the street. They'll find out I'm a preacher of the gospel and they'll come up and they'll say, Will you will you pray for me? Will you lay your hands on me and pray? Will you pray for this or pray for that? They're desirous that I would get a hold of heaven, but beloved, I have no corner on the throne room of God. I've got no better access to God than any of you here have. Each and every one of us can go directly to God and be a person of prayer. And that power is available to you just as much as it's available to me or to the person next to you. We can all go there. Some of us say Amen. I think we can all go, and there's nobody that has a corner on God or a corner on God's power. There's nobody else that has the ability or the access that that is not available to you as well. That's available to you. Beloved, he says here, what is the motive of prayer? He says, Is there any among you afflicted? That is a motive for prayer. When there is somebody that's sick among you, when there's somebody that is carrying a burden, beloved, this question that he asked is kind of like me asking you this morning, do you got any problems? I mean, he says, is there any afflicted? He knew that the church was under persecution. He knew that they were afflicted. This is almost a rhetorical question. He says, hey, is there anybody going through anything? Well then there's a motive for prayer right there because there's a problem. There ought to be some prayer, amen. These saints were being persecuted. They had lost their homes. They had lost their businesses. Some of them had lost their family members because they became followers of Christ. Their family rejected them. They had lost their friends They were going through some tremendous persecution. And James tells them, hey, there's a motivation for you to be a person of prayer because you have been afflicted, because there is burdens. It ought to drive you to Jesus. David understood this in Psalms 86, verses 5 and 7. He says, For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive. And plentious in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. He says, Give ear, O Lord, unto my prayer, and attend unto the voice of my supplications In the day of my trouble, I will call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Call unto me. Jeremiah 33:3. Beloved, every one of us can call on God. You can call on him in your day of trouble, just like David, and you can be assured, beloved, that he's going to answer. There is a motivation for prayer because of problems, because you've been afflicted. Another motivation that he gives us here is not just because of pain, but because of praise. He says, is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms in verse number 13 there. There's motivation for praise. If has God ever answered a prayer for you? Has God come through and delivered you? Has there been something in your life that would be something that you would have cause to praise God for? That's what he says. He says not only that at times in your life there's pain and that causes you or motivates you to be a person of prayer, but sometimes there's great things that ought to be a point of praise for us. We ought to praise God. Amen. There was a pastor who had a parrot, and this parrot was very spiritual. This parrot, all this parrot would say is, let us pray. Let us pray. And he could not get that parrot to say anything else. Let us pray. That's all they would say. Well then he he was talking about this parrot that he had and one of his men in his church said, Oh, I have a parrot. And my my parrot says says, let us kiss. Let us kiss. And I can't get that parrot to say anything else. And they say, well, let's let's you come over to our house. We'll put the parrots together. Maybe they could teach each other to say something else. So they bring the parrot over to the pastor's house. They put the parrot in the cage. They're standing there. And uh church member's parrot says, Let us kiss. And the other parent says, My prayers have been answered. God answers prayer, and there that ought to be a reason for us to praise When something God comes through and delivers or answers prayer, we've got cause to praise him. He says, let us sing psalms, let us praise when God does something good. We've got to remember to be a person of praise. To thank the Lord for his blessings, to remember to praise him for his goodness in our lives. Has he lifted a burden? Has he restored hope when hope was gone? Then let us praise him. Psalms 145, verses 1 through 3 says, I will extol thee, my God, O King, and I will bless thy name forever. Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name forever and ever. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. He's worthy of praise, amen. So beloved, our our prayer, our our motivation to pray, to talk to the Lord is is yes There's times in our life when there's pain and there's problems. Is there any afflicted? But there's also times that there's motivation for praise that we've got to praise Him for what He has done for us. For the goodness. Another motivation for prayer is found in verse number sixteen, where he says, pray one for another. I think sometimes we certainly are aware of and we feel our own pain, and so we are driven to prayer or motivated to pray because of what we're going through. But beloved, another motivation for prayer, another reason, maybe you're like, well, uh right now everything's okay. Right now I ain't as scared. So I don't need to pray. But you know what, there's other people that are going through it right now. That's one of the blessed things about a church family. I would just like to exhort you and encourage you to be a part of the family of God, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Because we have here a family that comes together and we pray for one another. On Thursday nights we have a prayer time and the prayer list is given out and We spend some time bringing the burdens and the concerns and the cares of our brothers and sisters in Christ to the throne room of God, and we have seen many prayers answered as a result of God's people praying one for another. That's a motivation for prayer that we pray for one another. Intercession should be part of our prayer time. Are you a person of prayer? We see, secondly, here the method of prayer. Now, not that there's a specific uh thing given here, but he tells us three things that are necessary for effective prayer. He gives them to us here very clearly. He says, first of all, that faith is necessary. Faith is necessary. Let me back here to this passage. He says, and the prayer of faith, verse number 15, shall save the sick. And the prayer of faith. We need to have faith, brother. Faith that God can and is able to do what he says he can do. Now we know the biblical definition of faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. That's the biblical definition of faith, just believing. Even though you can't see it, even though you don't know the solution, but believing that God can. Faith really is confidence in God. I know sometimes we question, do I have enough faith? Well let me ask you this, do you have enough faith to at least pray? If we would have enough faith to at least pray, beloved, that is faith in action. That is faith on display. And you might and I might oftentimes find ourselves like the disciples where we say, Lord, I believe. But help my unbelief. Basically saying, well, Lord, I believe, but there is a measure of doubt in my heart. There is a question of whether you would do this for me or or whether this is something that's possible, I'm not really sure, but Lord, I believe and I believe enough to pray. So that's what I want to exhort and encourage you today to To be a person of prayer, to realize that faith is necessary and don't question or wonder, do I have enough faith? Have I worked up enough faith? Do I believe strong enough to bring this to pass? Do you believe enough to pray? And if you do, that is faith on display that God can. If you are taking the time to stop and ask, you're showing God, I believe, enough to come to you with this need, with this concern. John 5, 1 John 5. 14 says, and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. So I guess do you believe that God can? And do you believe what you're asking is in His will? You know, confidence is found in knowing that what we're asking is part of God's will. Part of what God would want. For me to ask for a million dollars might be on my wish list, but probably not necessarily in God's will. Now me to ask for money to and I don't I don't have this need, so please don't uh God's been very good to me. But uh if I was in a situation where I didn't have food to put on the table to feed my family For me to say, God, you say in your word, a man that doesn't take care of his own is worse than an infidel, worse than an unbeliever. God, I just want to provide for my family. Lord, would you help me? to be able to provide for my family. Okay, now you know you're asking something that is in line with God's will. You know, there's been times when my kids were growing up uh that they would not come to me and ask for something. Do you know why? Because they knew That the answer was no. They they in their minds they knew this the answer was no, and they're like, there's no use asking. Okay, that's a very similar thing. Confidence in our heart and mind when we come to God is rooted in the fact that we know that what we're asking is in the will of God. If I'm asking for a Mercedes because I just happen to like those, that might not necessarily be in the will of God for me. But if I'm asking that my neighbor would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ because right now he's lost and on his way to hell, I can come in confidence knowing that that prayer is in line with the will of God, because he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so when we're praying, we need to pray in the will of God, and that is what will motivate or bring about faith, confidence. You'll know what you're praying is in the will of God. Sometimes, and I will pray this as well, I will say sometimes, Lord, I'm not even sure exactly what to pray in this situation. Lord, I'm not positive what to ask for. I know what my desire is. You say in your word, you have not because you ask not. So I'm going to ask my desire, Lord. I ask of you that you would heal this person and give them many more years of life. That's our desire, Lord. I pray that you would do that. And God hears those prayers. He hears your heart's cry. And there's sometimes you don't necessarily know what the will of God is in it In a situation, but we can pray and you can ask for what your desire is, and God says He'll give you the desires of your heart. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing sinful in that. You ought to be a person of prayer. Not only is faith necessary for prayer, but we see fervency. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Amen? That word fervency literally means energy. To be effective in prayer, we've got to give it a little bit of energy. We've got to endeavor to put some effort forth. It requires some time, it requires some interest, it requires some organization, it requires some thought. If our prayer life consists of a casual, Lord, be with everybody at church, That is not fervent prayer. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. That is a prayer that has been given some energy, it's been given some thought, it's been given some time and some effort. Is your prayer life a faith a life of faith? Is it a life of fervency? We see also that it requires fidelity. He says the prayer of a righteous man. This is where it gets sticky. Yeah. This is where we're. . Could we leave that one off? Let's let's let's I I enjoyed this so far, preacher. Are you talking about God answering prayer and leading knees and being powerful and it's been good so far? Why do we got to go down this road? Because he says the effectual, fervent prayer of a Righteous man, that means fidelity means purity. Fidelity means clean and right. We need to be pure when we come to God. Beloved, it is your iniquities that have separated you between you and your God. It is sin that causes. Sometimes you pray and you say, Man, I don't feel like my prayers are getting past the ceiling. That I'm just talking to myself. Well, I wonder. Should our prayer first be a confession? Maybe we need to come to God and say, Lord, forgive me. I have sinned. I know that I've done wrong. And God says that He will forgive you. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So, beloved, if we want to have uh uh effective prayer life, we need to pray in faith. Just the act of praying is faith on display. But we need to pray in fervency. We need to have a little bit of effort. We need to put forth some fervency in our prayer time. But we also need to be pure. We need to be righteous. And that might be the hardest one. To live pure, to live clean, to be a righteous individual before God. But beloved, we have available to us the greatest power in the universe, the one who holds the heavens in his hand, who sets the the clock of time and and controls the magnitude of the universe, the creator of all things. Is listening to your prayer and has all power to do mighty things for you If we would come to him as a righteous man. Not just an imputed righteousness, but you get at salvation. Jesus Christ's righteousness is imputed unto you. But living righteous, continuing to be clean. I think that is understandable, and we see why it is necessary. For effective prayers require righteousness. We see lastly here this morning the model of prayer. He gives us an example. He looks at this man named Elias in the scriptures, Elijah in the Old Testament. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. You see, he was praying in the will of God. God wanted to judge the people. So he knew he was praying in the will of God. He prayed that it wouldn't rain, and it didn't rain for three years. That's power in prayer. That's what God can do. God can do the miraculous for you. Is anything too hard for God? No He gives us this example, but he's very careful to point out to us that Elias was just a plain man. He was just like you and I. He was not anything special. He didn't have a corner on God. He didn't have some capacity that's unavailable to us today. We say, well, that was Elijah. I know Elijah could do that, but I can't do that. Why? Why can't you? You can. If you'll pray in faith, if you'll pray fervently, if you'll pray righteously, if you have those things, God wants to and desires to answer your prayer and mine. There's no reason everyone here can't have the kind of power that Elijah did in his prayer life. He was persuaded. Elijah was persuaded that God could. In Romans chapter 4, verse number 21, it says, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able to perform. Are you persuaded that God can do it? You see, Elias knew that God could and that God would. He was persuaded. In 1 Kings, this story in 1 Kings chapter 17, verse number 1, Elisha, Elijah, sorry, the Titishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth before whom I stand, there shall not be one, shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. He was so fully persuaded that God was going to do it, he looked at the king and says, listen, it's not going to rain, and there's not even going to be any dew on the ground until I say. He was persuaded But he was just a plain man like you and I. He was subject to like passions that we have. But he's saying, what? He was tempted like you're tempted. But he still lived righteously, which gave him power with God. Power with God He had a place to pray, a time to pray. He was serious about his prayer life. And that's what gave him such amazing performance It was not him specifically. It was God that did the work. But he was fervent in it. He was faithful to it. And God answered his prayer. How long has it been since you had an answer to prayer? How long has it been since God has done something miraculous in your life? Directly because you prayed that God would do it. Beloved, every one of us ought to see God answering prayers for us. James gives us an example here of how to do it. Maybe you've just been saved a short while, maybe you've been saved a long time, but I want you to know that God loves you. And God wants to answer your prayers. God is even concerned about the little things in your life. If we would be a people of prayer, he would answer those. A few years ago, I think it was in 2022, Mary and I, at that point, had been married twenty-six years. But it was for our 25th wedding anniversary that we went to St. Thomas. And uh we got to go to St. Thomas for a week and it was an awesome trip. We enjoyed it. It was a lot of fun. one of the things we went we went out into uh Mary got a good laugh out of it, but we went out into the ocean. And uh in the ocean we found this coral reef that was kinda like coming up out of the water and so we went out to it and were on the reef and Um we're we're standing there. You know, it's getting later in the day, the sun is starting to set over the horizon, kind of going down a little bit, and These waves are coming in and they're crashing over the front of this coral reef we're kind of standing on. And it's just it's really beautiful. These waves coming in and they're kind of And I thought, you know what, I'm going to video this. We've been there 15-20 minutes already. These waves have been coming in, nice waves crashing over the front of this. And so I get my phone out and I get right down. And I put it on slow motion. I'm gonna get it in slow mo I'm gonna get this wave that goes shh. It hits the you know hits the coral reef and then all of the water runs down off the reef. It's so beautiful. So I get right down like this. And the next wave decides to be a three-footer. It hits the front of that, and it's on video. I'm videoing in slow motion all the way down here, and the wave goes up over my head And I jump back and I'm holding onto the phone and I get completely soaked and Mary starts laughing. She can hear her on the video laughing at me. I'm completely soaked. There's water dripping everywhere. I was so frustrated. So uh ruined my beautiful walk on the beach, you know. But we were we we grabbed our stuff and made our way back to shore and it was getting late so we said well let's go walk down here to this restaurant and let's eat some dinner So we walk down to the restaurant and of course it's evening now and uh we we eat dinner and we're we get out of the restaurant and at that point it's dark And we're walking home from the restaurant. It was only about a block and a half or something. And so we're walking. And uh I realized I didn't have my sunglasses. I said to Mary, I left my sunglasses in the restaurant. And uh, man, let's go back. So I went back, asked the Matre D. She's like, Well, I don't know anything about it. Let's find your waiter. She finds the waiter. The waiter takes us to the table. She's like, I didn't see any sunglasses. And you know, in my mind, I'm thinking, Yeah, they're lying They just found some nice sunglasses. That's what they found. And they didn't I'm like, man. So I'm thinking, well, maybe not. Maybe I left him in the room. Maybe I didn't take him to the restaurant So we go back home to our to our room where we were staying and we search the room and I I mean I look all over, I can't find them. Now, I'm really frustrated because these glasses were a gift from Hunt Valley Baptist Church. The church gave them to me in 2016 when the church officially voted to make me a pastor. They gave me these pair of sunglasses and some other things. And I didn't want to lose them. I was like, man, they had some sentimental values. So I'm looking. I couldn't find them. The next day we get up and I'm like, well, I guess I'll just buy some replacements. So we're in St. Thomas. They got sunglass shops all over the place, right? So I go to a sunglass shop and I look up the glasses that you guys bought me. And they were Maui Gems. Now those of you that know sunglasses know that's a nice brand. I look it up and these glasses are $180. I've never paid over twenty bucks for a pair of glasses in my in my life. And a hundred and I'm like, I am not spending a hundred and now I'm really upset because I lost uh glasses that the church gave me and they were worth $180. So I'm like, man, we need to go back to the room and I tell Mary, I says, I need you to look for my sunglasses in the room because she always hides my stuff I don't know what she says she doesn't hide it, but every time I ask her where it is, she finds it. That's a miracle. She must be hiding it. I don't know. I say where's so she searched the whole room. She couldn't find him either I wanted these glasses so bad I went back to the restaurant and I'm like, listen, here's what happened. I want to talk to a manager. So they call a manager. I talk to the manager, say, I want these glasses. So he says, come into my office. So we went to the back back there and he pulls out this uh galvanized bucket and hands it to me and there's like twenty twenty-five pair of sunglasses in there. He said this is all the glasses that have been left here. Uh he's like, if there's any there that look like yours, you're welcome to them. So I'm looking, my glasses aren't in there, but in my mind I think he probably told the last guy that. And they looked in there and said, those Maui Jims look like my glasses. I'm gonna take those. And I'm like, man, now now my glasses are gone. So for Two and a half days, the rest of our trip, I'm a little bit frustrated because I've lost these glasses, which are $180, which is a lot of money, but more importantly, they were a gift from the church. And during this time, I'm like, Lord, these glasses are important to me. I know it's a small thing, but Lord, would you help me find these glasses? And we're looking all over for these glasses. We're going back, we're retracing our steps. We stood at the park for a while. I thought maybe I set them down at the park. We were going everywhere we possibly could go, thinking everything like there's no no there it couldn't be anywhere else. Our final night We pack all of our luggage. We gotta get up in the morning, go directly to the airport, and we're flying home. Everything's packed. We get in bed, we go to sleep. God wakes me up at five in the morning and says, Go out in the ocean, on that coral reef. That is the last place that you know for sure that you had them. I'm like, it's been two and a half days since we were on that reef. I know I had my glasses there, but I'm pretty sure I took them to that restaurant But okay, so I get up and I get out some watershoes and I get out some shorts and I get out a t-shirt and I I hike out into the ocean to this coral reef. And 20 feet from where that wave crashed over me, two days later, my glasses were caught in a coral reef. And I have them right here. These are the Maui gems that the church gave me in twenty sixteen. Aren't those cool? I mean those are awesome glasses I mean I just transformed into the coolest dude, right? All I did was put these glass What I'm saying is God cares about the little things. And God wants to answer our prayers. The question is, is are we willing to pray? A lot of times we'll do everything else but pray. When what we ought to do first is pray. Learning to be a people of prayer. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. When I ask you this morning to Endeavor to pray. Are you praying like you should? How long has it been since God answered a prayer for you? Are you passionate in your prayer? Do you have fervency