Either. So I sat down and said, Okay, Lord, so I put the message together. And I got finished and I said, Well, it's not what I had in mind, it's not what I wanted to present. Right. So then I s got up this morning in six thirty, a lot before the alarm went off and said, got up, went into the den, sat down, pulled my notes up and said, It's interesting. Read 'em Light bulb went off. All the pieces came back together. So another comment all I would ha here. Uh Pastor Tony Years mentioned a number of people that have said, uh, well, how does the Spirit talk to you? And the Spirit talks to you through the Word of God. And if you don't get into the Word of God, you're not going to hear from him So it's not something complicated. You just have to study God's word. Look at me from a golfer standpoint. I like to play golf. I used to be fair. Now I'm not that good at all. But I have read twenty books on golf I also do some woodlurking. Again, not very good, but I like to do it. I have about twenty books on woodworking So how do I well if I want to get better at golf, I study. If I want to get better at woodworking, I study. Or ask somebody else how to do it and how do I get better? So if you want to get better if you want to get closer to God, if you want to know him better We need to study. It's that simple. Come down to that. Turn it you turn in your Bible to Jeremiah chapter fifteen, verse one. And if you see me sweating, that's just me. I sweat all the time. Told past I was playing golf with uh Jordan Hillagas and his dad said um told him he w he had to switch because his uncle was playing with His dad Tom and he said he sweats too much and he said, Let Morgan come over here. I said, I sweat more than he does, so it's the Jeremiah chapter 15 verse 1 says, For thou hast made all things. Then said the Lord unto me, Though Moses and Samuel should stand before me, yet my mind could not be toward this people. Cast them out of my sight. and let them go forth. God was ready to judge his people. And he says in his word here, though Moses and Samuel stood before me. What'd that say? When you think about the um all the men in the Bible and you look at David and you look at Abraham and you say David was a friend of was a uh man after God's own heart. Abraham was a friend of God's. In Exodus, we hear that um Moses talked to God face to face, or at least face to burning bush, and talked to him in a as a friend would talk to a friend. Wouldn't it be nice to know God that way? So why are these men in the Bible any different? Now turn b back to books Lamentations, Ezekiel. Ezekiel fourteen, fourteen Same situation. God prepared to judge the Israel and he says Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, are in it, they should be be delivered, but their own souls, but not by their righteousness and the Lord God. What's he saying here in both passages? He said, I don't care if these if these five men, these five godly men, were here. I would still destroy Israel. I'd save them, but I'd destroy Israel. What's that saying about these men? They must have had something special. That God would take the time to even hear them and he said I'd destroy all of Israel. I'd save them, but not anyone else. So what did they have that we don't have? So I sat down when I Well when I um had to redo my message and said, let's look at those th three men, Noah uh and uh Job and Daniel. I wondered this though, does God have any favorites? I don't think so. But I think he has people that he's more intimate with. The Bible says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. So if you want to get close to God, then you gotta clean up your life. And when you read the li what we're about to see in the lives of these three men, it was unbelievable how close to God they were. And we'll see this as we go on. The uh I broke this down by the different traits that they have. They had an unwavering faith, trust in God. Noah was building an ark for 120 years. Now picture this, it never rained before. And you had to tell these people that said, What are you building? He said, I'm building a boat. He said, What for? Well it's it's going to what? Did they even know the word rain? Back then the the m we were told the moisture came out of the as a mist up from the earth, like the dew we're used to seeing. And so they'd never seen rain So do did they even have a word for it? What about flood? Why would they have a flood? They didn't have rain, so you wouldn't have any extra woop water. So did they even know what he meant? So think of the faith that Noah had. For 120 years he built this thing and he didn't even know what rain was. He didn't know what. A flood was he was told he was we were gonna fill the earth with water and cover the earth and uh what faith he didn't question, he just did it. Yeah When you think of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar, who's about to kill Daniel and his three friends because no one could interpret the dream. Daniel did and Daniel just waited. On the Lord. Again, when he continued to pray, knowing that he it would be thrown in the lions den, he just waited. He said, I'm gonna keep praying. That's m that's what I do. Uh you're not gonna stop me from praying to God. And he's gonna be thrown in the lion's den. And he was, and the Lord saved him from it. What about Job? Job is unbelievable. Interesting though, when you think about it, we'd never heard from Job before. And all of a sudden we we're we're giving this example of Job in the Bible. Wonder why. I think we'll find out later on. Job lost everything, his money, his friends, his family, his b body was in constant pain And here's what he said. I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will take his stand on earth. Even after my skin is destroyed, and yet when my flesh I shall see God. Unbelievable. I mean When I go through a trial, I don't know about you, I must be the weakest Christian there is when I go through a trial. I can't help but saying, Why me, Lord? You know, I mean I'm doing everything I'm supposed to, Lord, so why me? Job didn't say why me. He said God's in control and if I die he's gonna take I'll still see him again. What what powerful faith Another trait these gentlemen had was obedience. Blind obedience was that matter. All the traits that they had, this seemed to be their strongest one. When Daniel was in one scrape after another, he never asked God, why me And Job, what can you say about Job? He didn't understand what why God was treating him in this manner. He admitted it. He had intense frustration. He said, I don't understand it. I again what would you say? What would I say? We'd say, this doesn't make sense. I haven't done anything. Are we guilty of following God only in good times? I look at it and say, it's easy to stand up here and say, God is good. It's easy to say, you know, life is good. But when the times turn bad you know, when Jan had w took her to the hospital because she was having trouble breathing. Different scenario, you know. All of a sudden it's like, whoa, Lord, I need you. Where are we when we don't need you? When he you know on a daily basis. These three men Live godly lives, unbelievable godly lives. James chapter one says, My brethren count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, the trying of your pati fa faith worketh patience. You know, I mean I like that verse, but every time you have a trial, you know, it's a little hard to say, thank you, Lord. Thank you. It was easy saying, Lord, thank you for giving Chan back her health, for finding out the problem. But it's a little difficult when you face the trial. I'm saying, why look? We have Bible references references attesting to know and Joe's blameless nature. But both c God said of uh Job, he's a righteous and blameless man. What does it mean to be blameless? It would mean it says that both those two were blameless. And then Daniel th we don't have the same quote. But if you remember when Daniel was uh praying three times a day and his enemies were looking for some fault in him So they could take him before Nebuchadnezzar and say, Look, he's not serving you, he's serving him himself. They couldn't find a fault. Uh all three of 'em were blameless. Think about this. I mean, is there anybody in this room where no one has something they could say bad about you? No one could say anything bad about these three gentlemen. God said they were blameless. Do you understand why they had a uh such a good walk with God They were blameless before men, but also before God. Since God knew their thoughts, they could would have to ask forgiveness almost immediately. And when we're told to keep a short commentary on our sins and to ask forgiveness after we sinned, there was one of the athletes in the Olympics and he was a swimmer. Uh his first name is Caleb. He must have been a good guy, right? Anyhow he uh He was being interviewed and the guy said was talking to him about his normal routines and he said, at the end of each day I sit down and write down all the good things and all the bad things. He said, you write down all the good things and all the bad things? What do you do with them? He said, then I throw them away. He said, why? He said, 'Cause in the past. And then I look at trying to do better the next day. I'm like, I don't know if he's a Christian, but it's sure a good way to live. In a good way we're told, you know, to to confess your faults. I mean these men, I mean think about it, even a bad thought And God knows what we're thinking, He knows everything that we do. Unbelievable that they could be found blameless in God's sight. I just want to change that 'cause uh the way the God changed the my s message today. But Uh well I'll use it in here. Philippians, which is what I was going to talk on uh originally, because that's um what pastor was talking on and then on the thirteenth and then Jackson got up and and stole my message. So then I so then I'm like, okay I gotta go a different direction as I was looking at it. But God says in in in uh Philippians, let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. You know, when you look at these three men, that's what they had. They had the mind of Christ. Why did God feel comfortable with them? Because they were holy men. No one could blame them for anything. God couldn't blame them for anything. As soon as they sinned, as soon as they had a bad thought, like why am I building this ark? You know, they asked forgiveness. Unbelievable people. I'm like could is it possible for anyone to m to live like that? I couldn't uh I guess the um transition here trying to figure that out. The best way I can describe it is that all these men were uh Godly men. And all of them put God first. So we should do the same thing. Turn to Isaiah chapter 40, verse 31. This is when we get into the message that I intended to to give you. But they that will wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. And they shall walk and not be faint. Yeah. You look at the word renew in this verse And it means change in the Hebrew language. And you ask me how I know Hebrew? Well I have a study bible and it says that in the bottom of it. So so now let's read that verse again. But they shall wait upon they that wait upon the Lord shall renew, no shall exchange their strength. Our weakness for his strength. Now turn to Second Corinthians, chapter five. Verse 21 For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that he might be made the righteousness of God in him. You see the difference? For he had made him to know sin. He took our sin and exchanged it for his righteousness. One of the traits of these three men were the fact that they had righteousness. They had there are two types of righteousness in the Bible. righteousness that it speaks about in this verse it's imputed unto us. Interesting thought. In all the different books on um Bible subjects, Pastor, have you got a book on righteousness? I'm sure I do, but I'd have to look. Think about it. Because we can't we can't really be righteous. There's no book you can study that says tells you how to be righteous. There what does God say about our righteousness? That this is filthy rags. And what's he saying 2 Timothy? Not by works of righteousness, lest any man should go boast. So we're told you're not going to get to heaven by works of righteousness, but righteousness is what gets us to heaven. So what is that? It's imputed righteousness, which means we get it from God. By faith. We trust God to give us that righteousness So if we trust God to give us that righteousness and take and take us to heaven, shouldn't we trust God for everything in our lives, just as these three men did? They said, okay, if he's going to take me to heaven, then I guess I can trust him. And they walked with him because of that. The uh turn to Colossians 3 Verse 10, and have put on and have put on the new man which is changed in knowledge after the image of him. Who created him. That created him. Or it could read. Having put on the new man, which is exchanged in knowledge, when we're saved We're supposed to put on the new the new knowledge. We're supposed to put on the new mind of Christ. Jackson when he was talking about uh that verse he said Let this mind let this mine be in you as as was as as was in Christ Jesus and he said it's a command, but it's not a command it's a passive command because it's not like thou shalt have no other God before me It's a passive command, which means what? When God kicked uh Adam and Eve out of the garden, it was because of their sin. When they left They took their sin with them and they also took their will. Somebody once asked, why did God create Adam and Eve if he knew they were going to sin? He knows everything. Because he wanted think about it, he created us in his own image. And before sin, he fellowshipped with Adam and Eve. He wanted them if you read the Bible and read in Revelation and Genesis, he wanted them them for his to m uh for his own pleasure, that they would love him and they would worship him. And they had a perfect you know a perfect life when you look back on it. They were in the garden. They didn't have to worry about rain. The water, the grass wasn't watered by the mist. Everything was perfect. They had perfect communion with God. And they left. Why? Because God knew that was going to happen. Think about it. When we get to heaven, it will be filled with believers that want him, that wanted him. When we when you get saved it's because what are you doing? You're rejecting your old sin, your old man, and you're saying, I want the new man, I want no sin in my life, I'm I'm accepting Christ as my Lord and Savior So we say that. He said I was reading a book by Tozer that uh Pastor Derek lent me and it said he said he doesn't like the term accepted Jesus. He says it sounds like everything in in this modern world that we want we want instant satisfaction, we want instant food. He died in ninety nineteen sixty three. I wonder what he'd think now for You know, as far as society. But he said to say I accepted Jesus it makes Jesus sound like he's standing there saying, Please take me And God's not willing that any should perish, but uh he's he doesn't run after us. Think of the uh rich man who came to him and said, Lord, what do I uh uh do to get to heaven? And he said, Sell everything you have and follow me. And he turned and walked away. He didn't see Christ follow Ephraim or send a disciple after him. God says, You make your own decision. It's your will. You decide whether you want to follow me or you want to reject me. These three men followed him. And the rest is written down for them. So when it says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, it's talking about you making a choice. It's saying, It's up to you to let that mind you can either accept it or you can reject it. But if you read that whole chapter turn to Philippians chapter two. When I told Jan about when we after Jackson got up in Sunday school and we have been hearing from the pastor on Philippians. She said to me, I think we're just about Philippians out, aren't we? All this Philippians. And now she didn't I didn't tell her I was going to go to Philippians. You look at Philippians chapter two, and it says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, which being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal to God with God. Basically said, I am God And he was, but made himself of no reputation. What does that mean? It means he had no ego. He had no No reason to get upset. Think about it. How many times did the pastor say something on the pulpit and you say, Is he talking to me? Or somebody in church offends you. If we truly had the mind of Christ, we would never get offended. Why? Because you you take look at what Christ did for me. We're supposed to have his mind. We're supposed to think like he thinks. The Bible tells us the process of sanctification. The Bible tells us it's not going to happen overnight. It's a journey. But what do we say? Let's take an example of men. Uh Aaron gets up and um tells me some tells me to put this mic on and and I push him away and say, I'll put the mic on myself. What's his reaction? No normal reaction. Uh is he punches me, I'm gonna punch him back. I'm gonna pound him pound him good. Right? I said turn the other cheek. Return good for evil. That's the mind of Jesus. So am I in Christ or am I in my own flesh? And I don't think we as Christians realize that we control our a lot of our destiny here and we say, Lord, help me to be a better Christian. Uh help yourself. You have a will pa will to do things. Uh you can pick up the Bible and study it. Um pastor asked how many people have finished reading the the uh book on prayer. How many books have you bought this year's return? that pertain to the Bible. How much studying have you done? On your own? How much have you tried to draw? Bible sellers study to show you thyself approved under God, a workman that needs not to be ashamed. It says, draw nigh unto me and I'll draw nigh unto you. It doesn't say draw nigh unto Sunday school, although we should all be here. Right? It says drive draw nigh unto me. We look at it and say, Well, I I come to church all three times. I told pastors this years ago that uh I grew up in a church and have done a number of things and and am comfortable with them And but I wanna know God. You can get so wrapped up in what we're doing that we don't take time out to actually spend time with God. And meditate and say, What's in his word? Keep reading. It's more interesting, I think. The uh and being in the form of Oh, and made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. Man. Think about that. He was made in our likeness, which is one step lower than the angels Right. And he devoided himself of of his godhood at that point. He couldn't really, but he said he I was n of no reputation. Go go on to say and being found in fashion of a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death. He humbled himself, and we say The God of the universe humbled himself for one one reason, because he loved us so much. And then that he sent his son to die for us. And his son said, Not thy will, but mine. In the Garden of Gethsemane, he said, Lord, if it's possible for this cup to pass from me, let it be. When the soldiers came and the his disciples cut off the ear of the one soldier, you know, he's put that away. Why? Because he knew it was time. And he said, It's my responsibility. and I need to do this. He did that for us. So when Aaron stands up and sa and punches me or somebody says something to me, I can't take that I can't take that punch. They spit on my savior. I can't take a little abuse. Something wrong with that picture. Shouldn't we all be closer than that? We all like guns. We all like to shoot 'em. We all like to think, oh, when the end time comes we're gonna fight. Daniel and Job. Noah. They didn't. They said, God will take care of me. They said, we're going to throw you in a lion's den. Daniel said, so be it. Like as Paul said, if lying kills me, I know where I'm gonna be. If he doesn't, then it'll be Must be for God's good. Job went through all that and he said, must be for God's good. Keep going Wherefore God has highly exalted him, up obedient unto the death. Are we that obedient? Unto death? I mean, think about it. If you really want to live the Christian life, it's Two words in that song, trust and obey. We're gonna trust God that He knows better than we do, and that whatever happens to us When we wake up and we put a message together and there's not no content in it and God says, you have no message. And then he gives you another one. And then you wake up again and he said, now you can add that to it. Put the two together The one I really love though is that God has given a name that is above every name. You think about our reward if we do if we live as Christ lived. What our reward would be would be just let me get to this verse that I think we all really need. Go down to verse 12. Wherefore, my brethren You have always obeyed, not in my as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. I love this verse. People will always ministers always get to it and say, Well, you know, the fear and trembling this is what it means. And I'm like, picture this. We have to give an account for everything we do in the body when we get to heaven. Once w from the time we were saved. And you ever have somebody who can look right through you? And you can't stand to look at him, particularly if you're guilty. When you he stand before God and he's gonna say, Why didn't you draw nigh unto me? He won't have to say a word. He'll just look at you. That's there. It's gonna say it all. Are you ready for it? But the part I bought like is work out your own salvation. He said, not only in my absence when I'm absence, but or when I'm present, but also in my absence. What does that mean? You know, and people say, well Um it doesn't mean your your salvation. No, it doesn't. Doesn't m he didn't say work out your uh remission of sins. Work out your forgiveness. In Galatians 2, he's talking to save people. He's saying, work out your salvation. He's saying, look at what you're doing. How well are you living like this? These men live like this. They were blameless. No one could say a bad thing about them. Not a man. Got God. He said they're righteous and blameless. Can they say that about us? Let's go on a little further. For if God which worketh in you, both to do with To will and to do his good pleasure. Do all things without murmuring and disputing, that ye may be blameless and harmless as sons of God. Blameless and harmless. There it is. He told, those these three men in the Bible were blameless before men, before God, and God says to us, that's what we're supposed to be. Paul's writing to him said, be blameless. Without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. Among whom ye shine in lights of the world, holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have run not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Yea, and if we offered up the sacrifice in the service of our faith, I joy and rejoice with all of you. By the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. You one of the th problems I have with um the way we deal with salvation is this. We um give people a plan of salvation. And we go through the verses when we say, say this prayer, and you're saved. And I'm making light of it at this point, which isn't good, but the um is that all there is to it? And do we really take time to disciple people after they're saved and say, here's what's expected of you. You read this chapter, second chapter It tells each one of us what we're supposed what Christ expects us to do. Each day, you're not going to do it from day one, but each day we're supposed to grow closer to Him. Pastor said it time and time again, have you changed from this time last year to this year? Have you grown? All right, how do you grow? By getting closer to God. The uh word grow is interesting. The word grow means to change. Right? Or exchange. You see the picture? One beautiful thing about the Bible is I don't care whether you start in Genesis or actually it all you know or Revelation, it all points to Christ, no matter how we look at it But when we do uh salvation I've w went been to a number of funerals lately. I went to one funeral and um they got up and uh two funerals at one church. And Pastor was there for one of 'em. And they give up and they talk about the person and what a good Christian he was and he did all these things or she did all these things. And then at the end of the service. And they actually have the plan of salvation presented sometimes. But then at the end they say, Thank you for coming or if you want to talk to me about anything, come up. And I'm like, where's the plan of salvation? I also was a funeral recently for a friend and and a um pastor They never really presented the plan of salvation. They talked about how good the person was, etc. , etc. And then when the pastor said, Bow with me in prayer, he went through he said, If you want to be saved, say this prayer. And when it got finished, he said, You're saved And if you want to come up and we'll shake your hand and walk you in into the family of God. And w sometimes I think we take too lightly what salvation means. I mean when you think about it, you know, I I accepted Christ. Tozier says he doesn't like that. Why? Because it sounds I accepted Christ like I did him a favor. You know, no. He accepted me. When you think about how we live day to day, how we uh labor and and how we how many people we come in contact with. Do they see blameless people in front of them? Think about this. Pastor, would you like to have a family a whole church full of people without egos? He didn't say anything, but inside he was going, Amen. Right? Why? Because if we didn't have our ego, if we didn't have our pride, what does the Bible say about pride? Pride goeth before fall. But there's not a one of us that ha doesn't have an ounce of pride. We all have it. But God says, Do you think Noah had it? Do you think Daniel had it? Do you think Job had it. No. They all rested in God's arms. They had peace with him. It's all right there for us to reach out, but we have to accept it. And we have to control it. And we have to do it on a daily basis so that we grow closer and closer to him. You know, I think that the um We have the opportunity so many times. I have a neighbor that I've been praying for and that uh the opportunity, you know, a asking him for the opportunity. recently came down to borrow a socket and I gave him the socket and it was right at the church and he said you're all dressed up and I said yeah and there was a moment pause and he didn't say anything I didn't say anything and then He changed his he he started talking again and I keep thinking about that pause and said it was your opportunity and you missed it. We should be thinking that way. We should be thinking about the opportunities. We should be thinking about him, not us. I I think the we the reason that uh I'm hesitating is the um how to say this, when we get saved and we tell people you need to come to church, you do. You need to come as much as you can. You need to be filled with God's Word. But you also need to do it on your own. You need to get in God's Word and let Him fill your heart, fill your spirit. How do you get closer to him? Drawing eye to him. The only way to do that is through his word. When you do that, you'll change your personality. It'll change the people around you. They'll see the difference in you. And that's the part that I think is missing. We when we we don't tell people, we don't have the the discipleship classes that we should. I mean Jim Burke has a c uh class called In His Image. Great book. Get it. Again, if you got the book, would you read it? And prayer. The uh messages on prayer this year. Um Praying Hyde, one last example. Praying Hyde was um Derek Pastor Derek had lent me a book about him and it's in the book that um about prayer that pastor's been recommending. Praying John Hodd was a missionary to India. And uh he when you read the his biography, he wasn't to gr that great of a missionary Well as we would think of, meaning he didn't get out and win all uh didn't go out and set up a church and and set up a mission thing. But he found his niche and that was that he found talking to God. His prayer life was unbelievable and that When he started praying, he asked for God for one soul to be saved at a c at a uh convention they had, and that one soul was saved that night. So he asked him for another one the next night and the next night and the next night. Finally he asked him for two. Then he started asking for more, and thousands and thousands came. John Hyde's prayer life was so strong that people, ministers and missionaries that would be in the same room with him. One missionary said I was afraid to open my eyes for fear God would be in the room. He was that close. Do we have that kind of relationship? Do we have the mind of Christ? Do we even try? Do we have don't when somebody comes to Christ, do we help them to find that. If they as Christians and I'm saying the same th pointing the finger a bit myself too because I I started this thing out saying that my desire was to cut get to know Christ better. As Christians Shouldn't you see something in me that says, I want what he has I've never had anybody ask me that. Shouldn't we they see it in all of us? Mm-hmm. But they don't? Why? Because we're not drawing nigh to God, because we're not living the w life. Think of it blameless. Every thought, every action. Confess it to God. I mean I thought about that and thought I'd be on my knees all day. I mean when you think about that, every thought. I don't want to read the Bible today. Forgive me, Lord. You know. Your wife says something and you t you say it in something back in a terse manner. Forgive me, Lord. I mean on and on and on. Blameless. Not one person could say anything. Close it with this. We're supposed to be blameless like the fine vest lamb of God