You can turn your Bibles to the book of Job, Job chapter number 32. It seems like a long while since we've uh been here. Uh in the book of Job, although it's we just missed one week, but a lot of stuff happened during that week, uh with missions conference and all that Don't forget if you've been praying about uh you know what your part would be for Missions Conference to get that card turned in so we can get a total for the church. We are we we've traveled some you know 31 chapters through this book and there's been very few characters, very few participants You know, a pretty limited number for uh how many chapters we've covered, but here in chapter number thirty-two we're introduced to a young uh na man named Elihu. Now the tone of the conversation would imply that he has been present for a lot of the conversation. at least the last round of debates he sat and listened to because he kind of gets frustrated at the direction the conversation has gone and the lack of an answer that has been uh reached between Job and his three friends who have continued to attack him and by and large accuse him of just being a hypocrite and that's why he's going through all that he's going through Uh we he hadn't said anything thus far, even though he had been there. And possibly because he was a very young individual, actually, he of his own words kind of says that. You know, I held my tongue really because the young are supposed to listen to the old and we're gonna dig into that just a little bit as we get further along here, but We're gonna he he he starts talking and he doesn't want to shut up. There's six chapters that he he he lets Job have it. So he's been hanging on for a while, ready to unload and just give Job all that all that he thinks and We're going to dig into it. We're actually going to try and cover these six chapters tonight. Just give you kind of some of the highlights and the direction of what he says here. So we're going to begin first of all. As we see Elihu's anger in chapter number 32, in uh several places, we see right off the bat he talks about how his wrath is kindled. He said, Then was kindled the wrath of Elohu. I'm not even going to pronounce that name, the Buzzite, the kindred of Ram against Job. was his wrath kindled because he justified himself rather than God. Also against verse number three, also against his three friends was his wrath kindled because They had found no answer, and yet he condemns Job. Look down in verse number five. In verse number five, he says, When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men Then his wrath was kindled. Beloved, he kind of got his dandruff up as it were. He's sitting there you know, like a pot ready to boil. He's listening to the conversation over and over, the the the the back and the forth that's been going on and no solution has been reached and Uh the accusations are made, except Job responds and says that's n that's not true and this young man gets really frustrated and he allows his anger to take over his better judgment. You know that's what happens when you give your anger control. When the anger takes control, it takes over your better judgment. You were, you know, you did have some reservation. You did have some control. You were very careful uh about what you were doing. I the the road race today is just it it blows my mind how mad somebody can get because somebody was going slow in front of them Or because somebody merged into traffic and they weren't ready for it and it kind of shocked them a little bit and then they they get so mad and You see people that they take their car and ram it into people and they jump out and and and smash the car behind them, uh jump on the windshield and destroy it and then get in their car and drive away. The problem is for them most people today have some type of a camera uh and even if it's just their cell phone they can pull out their cell phone and they video it and then they video the license plate and then who that You know, Yardbird gets arrested thirty minutes later when the police catch up to him down the road. And uh boy, that felt really good for just a moment to let his anger take control, uh, but then what Now he's got a lot to pay for. And this is what Elihu did. We see several things as he comments here in chapter number 32. Look at verses number six and seven. Again, uh they threw this name in here again. I'll just let you try. I always tell you my secret. I I listen to a Bible app and I listen to these names ahead of time so that I can pronounce them when I'm reading it. But it was about five hours ago that I did that, and I can't remember. So anyways, uh Elihu uh the Buzzite he answered and he said, I am young and ye are very old Wherefore I was afraid and dost not show you my opinion. So he did have some reservation. He was going to hold his tongue. He said, boy, I understand. I'm young and I really shouldn't be talking. I wasn't going to tell you what I think. Verse number seven, I said, days should speak and multitude of years should teach wisdom. So he understands uh that you know these older people should be the ones teaching wisdom. But in that last verse we read there, there is the implication. He says days should speak and multitude of years should Teach wisdom. He's kind of like saying, listen, you guys have been talking for a long time and you haven't said anything. I'm the young guy here and I don't know nothing But I know enough to know you guys haven't solved the problem. I mean he kind of lets loose on them because his anger took control and he wasn't watching his tongue. He was just gonna let them have it In verse number nine, he says, Great men are not always wise, neither do aged understand judgment. He says, You know what? Sometimes just because you happen to be great doesn't make you wise. Just because you happen to have a lot of years on you, just because you happen to have gray hair, uh doesn't necessarily mean you have the wisdom that's supposed to go with it. Now that's a true statement But Job's just uh I mean not Job Elihu here is kind of attacking these guys, letting them have it by implication, saying, just because you have a gray hair doesn't mean you have wisdom, obviously, or else you would have solved this problem already He's let his frustration come out of his mouth, and he attacks these older gentlemen instead of using some self-control here. Now it is a true statement that sometimes Just a a number of years doesn't mean you have a lot of wisdom. Uh you guys uh my dad was blessed, especially as a young man. I don't know if it was the stress of pastoring or what it was, but before he was thirty, maybe it was Six kids. Because they had six kids before he was thirty. Um but my dad before he was thirty had a full head of gr just silver hair. I mean it was just majestic. And my my hair went away. And I asked him what happened. I'm the most like you in every other characteristic. How couldn't I couldn't I mean I remember even, you know, as a young guy hearing people talk about my dad and like, man, you know, he's just so regal and just look like he's got so much wisdom, you know, with that head of gr grey or silver, it was very silver looking hair and uh but mine didn't do that. It just went away. And uh that that's sad. But it's true that just because you've got some age doesn't mean you have wisdom, although Elohou was attacking them. He offered his opinion. Look at verse number six. We read this already, but he says, Wherefore I was afraid and durst not show you my opinion. Look at verse number 10. Therefore I said, Hearken to me, I also will show you my opinion. Look at verse number seventeen. I said, I will answer also my part, I also will show you my opinion. He was basically just going to let them know what he thought. Now we're going to get to this at the end of the lesson here as I draw this to a conclusion, but I want you to know that direction for life should not come from our opinion We've got to be careful that our direction we give, the advice we give, the conversations that we have, and the decisions that we make come from this book right here. the word of God. This is what he should have been pointing to, to God and to God's will or God's word, instead of especially a young man. He doesn't know enough to have an opinion. And he he he he's gonna have one, but you know, young men, you need to really Ask God to put a watch before your mouth, and that old saying, you know, children are to be seen and not heard is not just for little little five or six year olds. It's for thirteen, fourteen, fifteen-year-olds. One of the problems with the advent of social media and all of these little kids getting platforms, they think what they have to say is important. Okay? But that's because people have stood there and listened to them spout their foolishness and patted them on the back and said, Oh wow, that's wonderful. You're amazing. And uh really what they need to do is they need to be quiet and listen. When you listen, you get wisdom. And uh the time will come, if you listen long enough, you'll have enough wisdom to share and to give to somebody else. Dr. Lee Robertson He used to tell his preacher boys in Tennessee Temple, he said, when you get up to preach, you cannot preach any longer than one minute for every year old you are. So a 20-year-old, he says, you don't have enough to say to be preaching for an hour. You've got 20 minutes and you need to shut up and get to sit down. And 25 minutes you can preach for 25 minutes. So I'm fifty now, so uh and I have found that I've been pushing that number more and more. Uh uh I don't know I I need to work on that because I try and go in the other way. But that was just one little guide he would give to young men just to, hey, you don't have all the wisdom in the world. It's okay if you just preach twenty minutes, if you just preach twenty-five. Don't don't think you need to preach for forty-five or fifty minutes, you need to learn more. And it would do us well as young men, I can't say it about myself anymore, but for you guys that are young. Still uh, you know, let's let's try and and listen more than you than you speak. It would be it would help you, it really would. And then uh we see in chapter 33 uh Elohue's arrogance is arrogance. It is a phenomenal when you when you see this in this text. It's amazing. Arrogance is an outward display of inner pride. Arrogance is when that pride that you have inside comes out and people see it. It comes out in your conversation, in what you say, it comes out in how you behave. Beloved, we all have a measure of pride. When that pride begins to take over, that's when it becomes arrogance. That's when we are arrogant with other people. During the days when Muhammad Ali was the greatest boxer, uh you know t held his t his title. Of course, he used to go around a lot saying about how he was the greatest and and he was the humility was not in his vocabulary I mean he he was all that in a bag of chips and everybody knew it. Well one day he was on a airplane and the stewardess came up to him and said, Sir, you you know, Mr. Ali, you you need to put your seatbelt on. And he just ignored her, you know, and he's doing what he wants to do and, you know, after a couple of minutes she came back and said, Mm, Mr. Ali, you need you need to put your seatbelt on. He says, Man, uh, ma'am, I I'm Superman and Superman don't need a seatbelt. And she said, Superman don't need a plane. Put your seatbelt on. Sometimes that arrogance comes out, and you know we think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. And uh that's something that's very prevalent in our society today, and we see it in Eliu's comments here. Uh first of all, he believed he had the answer to everything. Look in chapter 33, verses 1 through 3 He says, Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speech, and hearken to all my words. Behold, now I have opened my mouth My tongue has spoken in my mouth. My words shall be the uprightness of my heart, and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly. He was pretty impressed with himself, wasn't he? He's like, just listen to what I have to say because everything he wanted to know is about to come out my mouth. He was pretty excited about what he had to say. He believed that he had the answer. He believed that Job couldn't even stand before him. Look at verses 4 and 5. He says, the Spirit of God hath made me And the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand up. By implication here, Kanye's saying, if you if you can even give me an answer for the wisdom that I'm sharing right now, go ahead and stand up, Job. Go ahead. Yeah, see I didn't think so. I mean that kind of idea, he was arrogant in his conversation and his speaking with these men. Henry Morris uh assessment of him regarding this chapter here. He says, a learned young man interested in the the theological and the philosophical He was also impressed with his own spiritual insight, and he was looking for the opportunity to demonstrate that to these older men. better known eldermen and better-known scholars. His sixth chapter monologue is the longest in the entire book And a great portion is taken up with his own commendation of his forthcoming counsel He says, boy, Elohou, a large part of his six chapters, which ends up being longer than anybody else's conversation. He took up six chapters, and a large part of those six chapters was him talking about how good what he was gonna say was Doesn't that bother you when a preacher gets up and talks about what he's gonna talk about? And you're kind of like, why don't you just say what you're gonna what you're gonna say and then we can all go home, amen? You know, you're talking about what you're gonna talk about and you could have done talked about it and we could be home already. Uh but maybe you guys are more spiritual than me. I d I don't know. But he believed uh that uh Job He believed that Job said he was without sin. Look in verses 8 and 9. Job did not say this. Job knew he was a sinner. We're going to look at that in a second. But he says, surely thou hast spoken in my hearing And I have heard the voice of thy word saying, I am clean without transgression. I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me. Now, Job did not say that. The Sorison in his book, uh his commentary on this chapter, he says Elihu has uh just crossed over And he was careful how he worded it, but basically saying now he's approaching a point of sinning himself because he's making false accusations about Job, because Job never said that Job understands and understood that he was a sinner. Let me just give you a couple of passages in Job 7, verse number 20. He said, I have sinned, what shall I do unto thee? In Job 9, verse number 20, he says, If I justify myself, my own mouth shall condemn me. If I say I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. He said, Even if I say I I have no sin That's just gonna prove that I have sin. It's like the guy that said, you know, uh I I'm humble, let me tell you how how I got that way You know, obviously in that statement itself he is expressing pride. And that's what Job says. He says, if I say that I haven't sinned even my words are going to prove me wrong. Um he said in Job thirteen, twenty-three, How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sins. Job knew that he was a sinner. Now in his argument with His three friends, Bill Dad, Zophar and uh what's the other one? Huh? When he's debating with his three friends, what Job continued to let these men know, not that he was without sin, but that he was not the hypocrite they were saying he was. He was not saying he never had sin, but that he was not living in open blatant sin or in what you would call a Presumptuous sin, sin that he knew about. We all know we're sinners. We have sinned. We've got to confess sin that we don't even know we committed. uh at times, but so we know he knows he was a sinner, but he obviously defended the fact that he was not a hypocrite, which is what their accusation was And so he he understood that. He believed that he was going to teach Job. Look at verses 31 and 33. Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me, hold thy peace, and I will speak. If thou hast Anything to say, answer me, speak, for I desire to justify thee. If not, hearken unto me, hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom. We see the arrogance of this young man. Speaking to Job, who was a perfect in an upright man who eschewed evil, who You remember earlier in the chapters, Job talking about how even the princes would stand in his presence, how the respect that he had in the community, how people knew him to be a godly man, and then all of a sudden here is this young man coming up and gonna tell Joe what for. The arrogance of this young man is very bad. We we need to be very careful, young people. Uh to guard against that, to guard against pride. When you have the privilege, I remember as a young man, obviously I started uh my work ethic I got from dad, no question He worked me like a slave and some of it stuck. Okay, so work ethic I got from dad. A lot of my skill, what I say dad gave us is the ability to tackle any project It really we don't have the I mean uh I ordered a steel building in in Kansas, 90 by 125 steel structure and Talking to the the the I mean I just met a builder on a job site and said hey where did you get your building? I got the number from him and I called and ordered the building and uh he's like well who's gonna put it up for you? I said oh we're gonna put it up We're going to get a crane and we're going to put it up. So we got our own crane. We put the steel building up, walking on these beams 35 feet in the air. It was so much fun. But What I'm saying is dad just we just whatever you could gotta do you figure it out. Figure out how to do it and get it done. And that's what he gave us. But I remember when I reached the point probably in college where really my skill with construction and building surpassed my father's. I knew significantly more about how to do things overall th than he did. And uh I mean everything I ever learned from was from him foundationally and it felt kind of funny that transition, you know, that change that takes place. But you know, wisdom says I can still learn from him. Wisdom says you need to learn how to keep this shut even though you think you know more than dad. You think you know more than mom. You think you know more than one of the older men in the church. Because there's a lot of other things maybe you can work your phone better than them. Okay. Maybe you can you understand the technology behind it better than them or whatever, but there's a lot of things that they know. Wisdom goes far beyond the simple application or the practical aspect of of doing it. And so learning how to Respectfully communicate with an adult that has that your knowledge maybe has surpassed them You've got to be very careful about that and keep that. Uh the the problem is that we think too highly of ourselves. The results of this are evident in an exam taken at a college recently. They took an entrance exam for the college. Here's some of the stats from the entrance exam. 70% of the students rated themselves as above average in leadership. Only 2% thought themselves to be below average. Okay. Sixty percent rated themselves as above average athletes. Only six percent said they were below average athletes. 25% said they were in the top 1% of people who were easy to get along with. Sixty percent said they were in the top ten percent of people easy to get along with. Zero people said they were below average. person to get along with. What I'm saying is everybody thinks a little more highly of themselves, right? Basically across the board. There's no there's very few people that think they're average. Uh even in things that they know they're not very good at, they're gonna, well I probably rate, you know, a little bit above that. We need to be conscious of the fact That that is human nature and it's our tendency and be careful with that. Otherwise we'll be in Elihu's shoes and be arrogant. Okay? So we see his accusations in chapter number 34. Just a few of these, you can read through these chapters and you probably could draw out some more accusations that he made, some more statements that he made, but Just trying to give you some highlights and to get the context or the idea of his communication with these men. In in chapter 34, verse number five, he says, For Job hath said, I am righteous, and God hath taken away my judgment. He accuses Job of thinking or believing himself to be righteous. The accusation there. He accuses Job of enjoying the scorning in verse number 7, Job 34, 7, he said, What man is like Job who drinketh of scorning like water? Okay, you apply this here. There is a aspect or idea today that people enjoy being the victim. When I read this verse, I kind of thought of that aspect. Now, not that they enjoy actually going through the problem, which is what Elohou's accusation here is. He said, who is there that's like Job that loves, that just enjoys, that just drinks this up like water? Just drink up the suffering that he's been going through. Um not that they enjoy that, but even if they haven't been through something, people try and, oh, woe is me. Oh, I am a victim. Oh, I have a problem. Oh, and and they enjoy the attention that it gets. They enjoy the uh, you know Uh what would you say, just the the pat on the back or the the you know people saying that that you you'll be okay and uh whatever else all comes with it, but it's very popular today to play the victim card. and want to use that uh to try and get recognition or acceptance in some group. And uh Elihu accuses Job of that here. He says, Man, who is it that is like Job that drinketh up scorning like water? He accuses Job of walking with evil men in verse number eight. He says, Which goeth in company and with the workers of iniquity and walketh with with wicked men. I thought that was pretty funny because uh the only people that Job's been with since the beginning of the book is his three friends in Elihu. I don't know who else he's been with. I don't know who his friends are, but Elihu's there with him and he says, Well you like hanging out with wicked men. Uh and Joe's probably like, Well, I'm hanging out with you Uh I don't I don't know, but uh he just accuses him of, you know, you g y you want to be around wicked people and uh just throwing out these accusations, I think again because of his wrath he allowed his uncontrolled tongue to just kinda run. And uh then the arrogance that he displayed in the previous chapter allowed him to be boisterous and and say a bunch of things that he really had no business saying. He accuses Job of adding the sin of rebellion to his list of sins. Look at verse number 37, chapter 34, verse number 37. For he adddeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against sin God. So it just decl just declares him to have b have added rebellion of continuing to stand against God and say these multiple words, you know, as as Job defended himself. He was saying, boy, you're you're just multiplying sin upon sin here. You're making it worse and worse, Job. You you better stop. And so we see here his Accusations that he gave in chapter 34, and you probably could find some others as you read through this verse by verse. Just wanted to give you some some of the highlights. But we beloved, we need to be careful and guard against being quick to judge others, quick to throw out accusations. Elohue here just kind of throwing out accusation after accusation, some of them blatantly false, no question about their validity. But the fact of the matter is Ninety-nine percent of the time, we don't know the whole situation. And when we are quick to accuse We don't know the whole situation. Somebody recently called me about a problem that they were going through and was talking to me about this problem, and they were telling me about the individual they were dealing with. I said, well, I just want you to know that I'm still for that person. I said, because I am conscious of the fact, and I love you, I appreciate you, but I'm conscious of the fact that I'm only hearing one side of the story And I know that even if you told me everything, and then I got on the phone and I talked to them and they told me everything, I still won't know everything. Because I wasn't there, I did not live through it, I did not experience it, so I cannot know I cannot know the situation. And if you want me to draw a line in the sand and say, boy, I'm not gonna have anything to do with that person or whatever, that's not gonna happen. Because I understand the fact that there's no way to know unless you lived it. And we gotta be careful to not accuse people because the reality is most of the time we don't know. I'm very concerned about people that say, well, I know what she meant. How do you know what she meant? I mean, I know in your mind what you think she meant, but how do you know what she meant? I know what happened here. How do you know No, you really don't know. You just think you know. You have allowed your mind to fabricate or to uh extrapolate There's a great joke about deductive reasoning that I'm not going to tell you right now. But the deductive reasoning, coming to a conclusion through deductive reasoning, that's what you've done. You've just, through deduction, determined you you know the answer. What I'm saying is you're going to be like Elohou, you're going to make some false accusations, you're going to hurt some people, uh, unless you guard yourself and you you're careful not to quick to accuse. You've got to be very cautious about that because we really don't know the truth of all of what happened in any given situation unless it it was you that experienced, okay? Then we see Elihu's application, and this is 35 to 37. We're going to uh cover this, you know, kind of jump through these chapters, but dealing with the application of these thoughts. But Elihu tells Job that uh Man is able to call upon God who gives a song in the night. Look at chapter 35 and verse number ten. A powerful verse, a familiar verse if you've been in church for for any length of time. He says, But none saith, Where is God my maker who giveth songs in the night? You know, beloved, the night is real. The night is long. The nighttime, the the night of life, that that challenging day, sometimes that those are hard times. And what Elohim is saying, he says, listen, you can call on God during the night There's a lot of people that don't, is what Elohim is saying, but the possibility is there. God will give you a song in the night, in that hard time, in the darkness. When it looks like there's no light at the end of the tunnel, God will give you a song. If you'll call on Him and allow Him to put a song in your heart, He'll do that for you. Boy, we need to look to God in the darkness, in the night, when things are rough, when things are hard, when we're going through it. We need to look to God because He has a song for us. He'll give you a song. And it'll lift your heart and spirit in a way that nothing else can. No no good news or uh no phone call from an individual uh just tonight we were singing the last song we sang, I can't remember the words, but We were in my mind I was thinking about how that he he's he said in the the song that he he hides himself in the cleft of the rock. That being there and having that comfort when you're in the darkness If you'll call on God, we can have that if we would seek it out and look for God is there and He wants to give you a song. He told them that what you need to do is you need to trust God in the night. Look at verse number 14, Job 35, 14. Although thou sayest, thou shalt not see him Yet judgment is before him, therefore trust thou in him. He is referring back to the time, and you remember from previous lessons that Job talked about how he looked to the right and he couldn't see God and he looked to the left and he couldn't see God and he looked behind him and he couldn't see God. Everywhere he looked he just saw his trouble. He saw his heartache. He saw his pain. He didn't see any hope anywhere. And Elohue says, when you can't see him, you can still trust him. You need to be able to trust him, even though things look so hard, and even though the night is so dark, and even though it looks like there is no hope. When you can't see him, can you still trust him? That's what Elohim was saying. You need to trust him. Trust him, even though you cannot see him. He proclaimed God's goodness. In chapter 36, in 36, verse number 5, he said, Behold, God is mighty and despiseth not any. He is mighty in strength and wisdom. You can read this chapter and just over and over again describing the power and the might and the strength and the wisdom of God. But in the midst of all that, God does not despise any. Even the weakest among us. God doesn't despise you. Even the the The one who would look at his life and say, Boy, I continue to fail the Lord. I continue to fall short of his expectations. Beloved, all have sinned. And come short of the glory of God. Every one of us falls short of his expectations. Don't let Satan get in your heart and mind and and tell you that God despised you or that God is against you, God is for you, and He wants you to be and experience the victorious Christian life. He doesn't despise any, he says. Well he contrasts that life of the wicked man with the righteous man in the in the following verses we Jump down to verse number 11, 1236, verse number 11, he says, if they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity and their years in pleasure. Describing the the blessing and the benefit of serving and following God. He talks about and describes, we're not going to read every verse and talk about each thing, but you know, the idea of the wicked and the hardship uh Listen, the way of the transgressor is hard. But he says, listen, if you'll follow God, if you obey God and do what God wants you to do He says, man, you you you have days in prosperity and years in pleasure. He tells them that you and I have the privilege to magnify or minimize the work that God is doing in this world. You know, beloved, God is always working. He is working in the lives of men, he is working in in our church, he is working in the hearts of sinners that need to come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. God is always working. The question is whether you and I want to be a part of it. Or we want to just observe it, or we want to ignore it. We are admonished in the book of Psalms to behold the work of the Lord, to see it. But he tells in verse number 24, chapter 36, verse number 24, he says, Remember thou, remember that thou magnify his works, which men behold. You and I, we can magnify or minimize the work that God is doing. How we respond, what we do with the work that God is doing. You can magnify that, bring great honor and glory to God, or you can minimize it. You can hide it, not let anybody know about it. You can take the steps that God wants you to take in your life and allow great change to come. And people will stand back in awe of what God is doing in your life. Not of you, but of what God is doing through you, in you. God's goodness. We can magnify his work. What a privilege it is to be able to magnify the work that God is doing. He proclaims God's goodness in chapter 36. He goes on in the balance of chapter 36 on through chapter 37. He proclaims God's greatness. Look at 3626. He says, Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. E in that short sentence is just describes the idea of how great God is that we can't determined in his number of years. We can't define his greatness as I have been speaking on the names of God I feel so insufficient or inadequate to try and adequately paint a picture of these names to really give us in our heart and minds a a scope of what it is and uh a picture of who God is. But you know, he gives us a glimpse by a letting us see his name, but he is a great God. In verses 27 to 33 he describes his greatness in the heavens. You can read those. He talks about the heavens and the stars and the light and the clouds and the sky. He describes that, what God is doing. He beholds his greatness, the greatness, the power of his voice in chapter 37, 1 through 14. Look in chapter 37, verse number 5. Now I know we're we're moving quick, but just trying to give you kind of the heart of what he's communicating. So he talks about his greatness of his voice in 37. 5 he says, God thundereth marvelously with his voice. Great things doeth he which we cannot comprehend. Well you think about the power of the voice of God, I mean he spoke the world into existence And he thundereth marvelously with his voice. He's doing great things with the voice of God. And he wants to do great things. Things that we cannot understand. I'm not going to re-preach it a year ago, January, something. I preached a message on things we cannot comprehend and use this text. Things we cannot comprehend. And understanding that God is doing great things in this world, and He does them for a purpose, a purpose for which we cannot comprehend them. If you remember, look down at verse number 13. He gives us a three-point outline why he does some of these things we can't comprehend. He says he causeth it to come, whether for correction, For his land or for mercy? The great things that God is doing in in and around us, uh things that maybe we can't comprehend. Why is this happening? I can't explain this. I don't understand this problem. I heard a on a little short today was you know it was meant to be cute and it was very cute because it was like a three year old a four year old kid saying uh When when I pray and uh God answers, that's God's provision. But when I pray And God says no, that's God's protection. And A lot of times there's things we don't understand, like why didn't this happen? Why didn't God answer this prayer? Why, you know what? It's possibly was his mercy It was his protection that you didn't get that answered prayer. It was possibly for correction. It's possibly for the land that what God wants to perform here. So we consider the wondrous works of God in 37, verse number 14. He says, Hearken unto this, O Job, stand still and consider the wondrous works of God. He goes on to describe these great works of God, the marvelous things that he does. Many don't ever even see what God is doing, but Job was looking He was looking for God. He wanted to see God. You don't have to turn there, but just in the conclusion of Job's last response to Bildad. In chapter 31, he says, Oh, that one would hear me. Behold, my desire is that the Almighty would answer me. So beloved, he was looking for God. He was looking for an answer from God. And I just want to go back to the beginning, where we mentioned Elihu's. Desire to express his opinion. And I'm going to give you my opinion. Here's my opinion. This is what my opinion is. And I want to point you back to like Job said, boy, oh that I could hear from God. Oh, that God would speak to me. Can I tell you that this book is how God speaks to us. This is his word. This is his completed revelation for man. This is where he's going to communicate with us. This is where he's going to give us direction. In the Word of God I just put down a brief list of things that are given to us from the Word of God. We have comfort when you're in trouble in John 14. We have the cure for worry in Matthew 6. We have strength for our faith in Hebrews 11. We have directions on how to get along with people in Romans 12. We've got rest for the weary in Matthew 11. We've got secret for happiness in Colossians chapter 3. We've got inspiring words for those that are Dealing with grief in 1 Corinthians 15. We've got how to respond in a crisis in Romans chapter 8. Help for those that are discouraged in Hebrews 13. Aid for when we're discontent in Philippians 4. 11. How to forgive people in Matthew 6 and Ephesians 4. Hope for the hopeless in Hebrews 6. How to have joy in our service for God in James chapter 4, how to deal with those who are unkind in Luke chapter 10. How to deal with temptation in 1 Corinthians 10, how to overcome the feelings of inferiority in 1 Corinthians 15, 10, and Luke 12, 6 and 7. Beloved, we need to let go of our opinions and look to the Word of God. Look to the Word of God. This is just a brief, quick smattering of just some of the things that people deal with, that the Word of God has the answer for. I was just talking to uh Brother Visser about the ladies' conference and the weekend we're going to have some extra training sessions. on how to counsel for biblical life change. And we're going to have those sessions. And, you know, really, he said, I take a large part of it just to really talk about the sufficiency of the Word of God. And we need to get back to knowing that this is God's Word. And the sufficiency is in the Word of God, the power is in the Word of God to bring change in the lives of people and our own life. Not opinion, but what God's Word says. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed