So in the Old Testament survey class, we pretty much committed to memory the books of the Old Testament. So That helps you to find those smaller, what are called minor prophets, there towards the end of the Old Testament. We're going to begin reading in verse number one. This is a chapter one, verse number one, a familiar story to anybody that's been uh in church for very long, certainly a story that we love to uh share with children and uh this is not just a picture, this is not just a parable. Uh this actually happened. I don't know how many of you ha have seen that in the last it was very recently in the last maybe last within the last year, uh the modern Jonah story. It was a man s literally swallowed by a whale and then he was vomited up uh and he was fine Uh this just happened within the last year uh and of course it was uh most of the event was recorded because everybody has phones and and recording devices around. You can look it up and see it on the internet. But for many years, you know, of course the doubters of the scriptures said, Oh, this could never happen, uh, you know, but we know it's recorded for us in the Word of God and this story did happen. So we're going to look here. Just be follow with me. We're going to read the first just say the first ten verses. There's a lot of the story we're going to draw grab from even more beyond chapter two and three and so on through the lesson today. Beginning here says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amaptide, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshus from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshus. So he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it to go with them into Tarshish for he from the presence of the Lord. But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken. Then the mariners were afraid, and they cried every man to his God, and they cast forth the wares that were in the ship. Unto the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship, and he lay and was fast asleep So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that we that God will think upon us that we perish not And he said every one to his fellow, Come and let us cast lots that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah. Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us, what is thine occupation, and whence comest thou? What is thy country, and of what people art thou? And he said unto them, I am a Hebrew. and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land. Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him, Why hast thou done this For the men knew that he had fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Lord, we come to you now, and I by humble hum bow, Lord, here before you today, and ask you to give me clarity of thought and liberty to preach. that we would be able to go through these lessons learned from Jonah at this school of hard knocks in such a way that we would sit at the feet of Jonah and learn it from him so that we do not have to go through it. Lord, I pray that you would bless this time in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We're going to give you this morning lessons learned the hard way. Some lessons that Jonah learned the hard way. You know, in life we have the ability to learn one of two ways We can learn at the feet of others that have been through the School of Hard Knocks. We can learn from those in the life lessons they've learned. allow them to teach and instruct us and that way we can avoid much of the pain and misery and heartache that others have gone through. Or we can be hardheaded like many of us are and determine we're going to do what we're going to do and we can go and uh say, I'm gonna I think it'll be okay. I'm gonna be the exception to the rule. I'm going to do it my way. And of course we end up spending some time at the School of Hard Knocks. and we begin to learn ourselves. I read on a website this week about the School of Hard Knocks and I grabbed this quote from there. The School of Hard Knocks is where each setback is a lecture, where every failure is a pop quiz, and success is measured not by grades, but by the strength of the character forged in the crucible of real-world challenges. The curriculum is unpredictable. The graduation is a continuous process of learning and adaptation. Well, other universities pride themselves on the academic excellence. This institution specializes in turning raw life experience into hard-earned wisdom. So you can learn at the School of Hard Knox at that raw life experience which gives to us hard-earned wisdom. You know it is those lessons that are written indelibly upon our mind and those lessons we don't forget. And that's why we many people are passionate about trying to share them with others and encourage them not to go down that because of what you experienced. And Jonah learned some lessons the hard way that I hope that we can sit at the feet of Jonah today and learn from. Now, you all know the story. God called Jonah to preach the gospel, his message of grace to the wicked city of Nineveh. And we don't know all of Jonah's motivations, but we know that he decided not to go. He didn't want to go. And certainly culturally there was a lot of motivation to not want to see Nineveh forgiven, he more likely wanted to see Nineveh judged. And uh, you know, I don't know, maybe you have some neighbors like that that you would rather them see them judged than forgiven. You've got some friends or people that, you know, from your perspective, boy, they deserve it. And and that's human nature. Sometimes life circumstances happen and they get us to a place where We're not really interested in that person experiencing the mercy of God. We would rather them experience the judgment of God. Now come on, am I the only one here that that is like that? We're like God rained fire down on I mean your favorite favorite verse is heaping coals of fire down on their head. You know, I'm going to be kind to them because I want God to just Get him, you know. Uh and you you that that's human nature and Jonah kinda he whatever his motivation, he says, I ain't going there. I'm not gonna preach the the message of God's mercy and grace He knew God was going to forgive them guys, and he said, I don't want to go do that. So he the Bible says he ran. He tried to run from the presence of the Lord, which we know is a futile endeavor. You can't run from the presence of the Lord In the presence of God. God knows right where you are on the run from God. He goes down into the belly of the ship and falls fast asleep. But God knew right where he was and God sent a storm, a tempest into his life. And uh, you know, he still was unaware of it. You know, sometimes uh other people can see that you're in a storm Other people can see that you are in a battle and you are completely ignorant of it. He was he didn't even realize. He's like laying down there, didn't even know that his life was in danger, that the whole ship was about to come apart. The Ameriners are like, What in the world are you doing? How is it you're sleeping down here? And they gather together upstairs. Jonah knew in his heart what was going on. They got on the deck of the ship and in the midst of that tempest they draw lots to find out who the guilty party was and Jonah's probably like, mm-oh, I hope I don't get the short one. Oh no. I hope I uh there everybody's gonna know that it's me as soon as I get the short straw. No, surely not. And but he gets the short straw and all of a sudden uh you know it just hits him Like yeah, I'm the one. I'm the guilty one. And he says to him, I want you guys to just throw me overboard. And they of course were hesitant to do that. We didn't read on through the rest of that, but he you know they didn't want to throw him overboard. They're casting the the weires of the ship over, they're trying to lighten a load, they're doing what they can. He says, Nope, you guys gotta throw me over. I've often wondered why Jonah didn't just jump. Why why did he make those guys do it? You know, maybe he was chicken, uh but He's like I I can't and I can't do it myself. I'm not gonna jump over, but if you guys throw me over then you'll be fine. Y the ship will be saved and everything will be all right. God's the creator of the sea and the land and and he's in control and this tempest is here because of me. I know what I've done. And he says, just throw me over. I'm sure Jonah standing there on the deck of the ship is thinking about his life and he thought, man, I've done it now. I I've done it now. I should have just gone to Nineveh. I should have just done it. I mean that would have been better than this But he figures it's all over. It's all done. He's standing there and they ultimately, they reluctantly do it, but they cast him over. I can imagine in Jo Jonah's mind, like, this is it. It's over. Life is done. I mean, literally his life flashing before his eyes. Him pondering the things that he wished he would have done, or the things he wished he would have said. thinking that life is done right now and he begins to sink down there in into the deep and I don't know maybe he was struggling to try and stay on top of this water that was tempestuous and fighting for his life for a little bit. I often wonder did he see the fish coming? Did he like, oh boy I mean or did it just happen? Did it just like just all of a sudden he's in the ship inside this whale and didn't realize what was going on. I I don't know, but I can imagine in his mind thinking, you know, oh now now I'm dead. It's over now And a few moments later he's he's still alive. He said he's in the belly of this fish and he's thinking, okay, I I I No, I'm still living. Yeah. I'm still here. Five minutes later, ten minutes later Using the belly of that fish for three days, I'm not sure it would have taken me three days to repent and to call on God. God kept him alive there in the belly of that fish. He repented of his sin. And all that time Jonah was in there, he's like, well, any minute now, I'm just gonna perish. It's gonna be over. It's done. But you know what? We serve a God of second chances. Thank you, God. God had a plan for him. He just had to get it get his attention. Three days later, Jonah gets barfed up onto the beach and uh he heads off to preach. They smelled them coming, amen. My mom told me a story this just this weekend when we were there. She said one time somebody gave them a whole bunch of smelt. And they had a whole freezer full of it. And when we were gone, the freezer quit working and thawed out. They came home and the whole house stunk like smell. To make matters worse, instead of putting it in a trash can and sending it to the dump, Dad thought, let's just bury it. We'll just bury it out back. So he went in his backyard and buried the smelt. She said for years, every spring, the entire backyard stunk like you were Like like that dead fish smell, just terrible smell. Every time it rained it would come back. And that smelt in the ground over there, you know Uh just terrible uh stench. And I can imagine he smelled quite bad, but he went to preach the gospel of Christ and you know the miracle of what God did. But Jonah learned some things through this lesson this time this school of hard knocks that he had to go through. And uh I want to share them with you this morning that we might learn at the feet of Jonah. First of all, I want you to know he learned that salvation is from the Lord. We see in chapter 2 in verse number 9. Chapter 2 and verse number 9, he says, But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving, I will pay That that I have vowed, salvation is of the Lord. He learned and knew that salvation was from God. I want to ask you this morning to remember I don't know what you need to be delivered from if it's a storm, if it's a tempestuous sea, if it is Indeed a trial or or a struggle in your life or if you have some burden you're carrying. But all salvation is from God What I do know without a question, without a doubt, is that we all, the greatest thing that we need delivered from is from the penalty of sin. The penalty of sin sends men to a Christless eternity in a place called hell. And there is no question that as we sang of the cross today and all that Jesus has done for us on that old rugged cross and we anticipate and look towards Easter and the resurrection of our Lord and Savior. That we know that he gave himself, that he might seek and to save that which was lost, and the greatest thing that we need delivered from is from the penalty of sin. We know, beloved, that salvation is of the Lord, but salvation comes By grace through faith. Ephesians two five says, even when we were dead in sin. Hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, for by grace are ye saved, through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. And I tell you, beloved, the mercy is God not giving me what I do deserve. It was many times growing up that I was thankful that my dad had some mercy, that he didn't give me what I deserved. Now there were many times that he gave me a lot more than I felt I deserved. But uh you know there was many times there was times I knew I was guilty as a day as long, and dad uh for whatever reason he had mercy on me, he didn't give me what I deserved, and I'm thankful for that God, beloved, uh did not give us what we deserve. Instead, he gave us grace And Dad is God giving me that which I do not deserve. Going above and beyond, not only do I get the am I able to avoid the penalty and the punishment of sin Because of the sin that certainly is mine, and I have no way to pay for it myself, but God extends unto me his grace, his unmerited favor, and forgives me of that sin. Beloved, it's a debt that I could not pay. You know, there's a lot of things in this life that given enough time and energy, you could earn the money to pay for. I mean, regardless of what it is, at some point, given enough time and energy, you could pay for it. I mean, Elon Musk as of this week was worth $335 billion. You know, beloved, even if you had that much money, you can't pay for the grace of God. It is a free gift. That God gives. And there's no way that you can pay for that grace of God, that unmerited favor, the forgiveness of your sin. There's no way we could pay our sin that But Jesus it is God's grace. I read one time about John R. Rice who was riding in a car with another preacher friend of his. John R. Rice traveled a lot, preached all over the world, really, but John Rice was a very tender-hearted man. Him and this preacher were riding down a road in a city, and they looked out and they saw on the side of the road a dog. This dog was as mangy and as ratty looking of a dog you've ever seen in your life. It was withered down and rib cages showing. He had mange and his hair was coming off in places and just was a gnarled mess, just terribly looking dog. And and that preacher looked over that dog on the side of the road and he says, man, somebody would do that dog a favor if he went out and just shot him. And they're riding along and a few minutes later John Arise is sitting there and he pulls out his handkerchief and he pulls his eyes, his glasses off. He's wiping tears out of his eyes. Preacher driving the car looked over Brother Rice. He said, Dr. Rice, are are you okay? He says, Yeah. Yeah. Everything's fine. He said, I just I just got a picture from God of His grace. Because can I tell you that I was that dog? I was a wicked, hell-bound sinner. I didn't deserve anything, and boy, it would have been a mercy just to take me out. I didn't earn anything. There was nothing that in and of myself I could have done. I stood on the brink of eternity. and a Christeless living in a Christeless hell, but God grace I was a useless and worthless, worthless dog, but God loved me. He said, I'm so thankful for the grace of God. You thankful this morning for the grace of God? I want just to remind you today that salvation is of the Lord. That salvation is from Him. It's through faith. Believing on God. Beloved, by grace, but through faith. Faith is just taking God at His Word. You know, there's been many times in the car where we pull up to the corner and y'all have been there when the corner is angled like let's say this is where the road goes, right? And I'm turning onto it, but the street that intersects it is angled like this. And so to see back down that is kind of awkward for the driver. There's been many times we're in that situation, and Mary says to me, It's all clear, go ahead. Faith is taking God at his word. No, really. Mary's actually a better driver than me. And you know, I don't she says it's all clear, go ahead. I don't hesitate. Like, okay, she said it's clear, I pull out. I take her at her word. But you know there's been many times we've been in the car and my kids have seen her do that, and now they're older, but I'm saying, especially when they're younger, they filled mom shoes and they would say, It's all clear, go ahead. I don't pull out Nope. I pull up a little bit and wait until I can see around their head or whatever to make sure, you know. Uh you see I didn't take them at their word. Now they're older now and I might could do that. But when they were younger they were they're like they're gonna take them on the spot. Okay, it's all clear. Go ahead. Yeah no. Uh listen, faith is just taking God at his word. No doubt, just trusting what he says to be true, God's word, beloved, is more trustworthy and more faithful than any one of us have ever been. Every person that ever put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ did so by faith in his word. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And he tells us, beloved, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That's what faith is. Just take him at his word. Salvation, beloved, is of the Lord. I want you to see the second lesson he learned is that storms come to the disobedient. Storms come to the disobedient. We see in Jonah chapter 1 and verse number 4 there he says, But the Lord sent a great wind unto the sea, that there was a mighty tempest in the sea. So that the ship was like to be broken. You know, I'm sure that you're like me, and I have enough trouble in my life without stirring up some extra storms. Without creating my own my own messes, without going out and and bringing it on upon bringing God's judgment on me and seeking for him to try and get get my attention. No Jonah realized that storms come to the disobedience. He realized that when you try and run from God, when you're disobedient to God, that God loves you too much to allow you to continue in that path. That God is going to come after you. Like the prodigal of old. He's not going to leave you in the pig style. He's going to call your name. He's going to send a storm to try and get your attention. Hebrews twelve six says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. He's going to come after you Boy, if we would learn that lesson and not have to end up in the belly of a ship somewhere in the middle of a storm where we're looking up and saying, Okay, God, you've got my attention Okay, God, I'm sorry for running from you. I'm sorry for not doing what you told me to do. Lord, I'll go do it now, finally. If you've lived very long in this Christian life, I can dare to say that most all of us have been there at some point where we were hesitant or we were resistant or we were rebellious And didn't do what God wanted us to do, and the storm came, and we had to pause and say, okay, God, I'm sorry. You have my attention. Would you please stop the storm? Give me a reprieve. I read many years ago about a young man early in his life. Brown's college years really felt the call to preach. He knew that what God wanted him to do was go into the ministry However, from his perspective, he didn't want to be a poor old preacher, you know, living off of the gifts of others and begging for people to provide and not having much in this life. in in that glass house where everybody's viewing him. He says, I don't want any part of that. I want to have something in this world. I don't need to, you know, have a yacht out in the Caribbean, but I I want to have something in this world. I want to have something enjoy this life. And So he determined not to follow God and be a preacher. He decided to be an electrician instead. He went and got his license and became an electrician. Then he growing through the years and became pretty successful as an electrician. Got married and had some children and the children began to grow and uh he he he started taking some side work and and picking up these jobs that he would do on nights and weekends and he was training his boys on how to be an electrician and his boys were were growing and and helping and uh this particular house that they went in to work on was just a uh a smaller home but it was built on a small crawl space tight and oftentimes these boys being you know they're they're they're scramblers and skinny and they would crawl into the tight spaces and he he would have them go in there and grab the wire and pull it down and bring it over to the other side and push it up and So like they had done many times before, he sent one of his boys down into the crawl space and said, go over to the other side of the house, grab your flashlight, go to the other side of the house and pull the wire down and Bring it around to the other side. I'll be over here. You'll see my light shining through this hole. I want you to push the wire up there. He sent his boy down into the crawl space and it wasn't just a minute or so. The boy didn't even have time to get over to the to the spot where he's supposed to pull on the wire and he hears his sunscream. He heard the scream and he immediately dropped his own light and he he ran to the opening for the crawl space and he looked down there and there was his body his son's body laying still in the crawl space there and the flashlight laying in the dirt was shining across his son but it also illuminated the space enough for him to see that his son had crawled into a den of rattlesnakes. He reached there and he grabbed the ankle of his son and pulled him out of there. Didn't know how many bites were on him, but he grabbed him and he ran to his truck and he opened his door and he he he put his son in the truck, he jumped in and he puts his truck into reverse and began to back out. And he heard the noise. He felt the bump. He didn't know that his other son was getting something out of the back of the truck And he backed over the body of his other son. He stopped and reached out into the trunk and pulled the body of his other son out from under the trunk and he picked it up and he laid it in the truck in the bed of the trunk. And then he drove to the hospital as quick as he could. He got there and they pulled the vague the the the his boy out of the back of the truck and he was pronounced dead on arrival His other son who had been bitten numerous times with the these rattlesnake bites, they didn't know how many, but they immediately injected him with antibentum as much as they could, and they began to try to slow the pace of his heart so that it would not spread through his body as quickly as it did, but there was too much Venom in his system. They couldn't overcome it. A few hours later, his other son died. At the end of that week, he was sitting in the funeral home with two caskets in front of him. His pastor was sitting next to him. And he looked at his pastor and he said, Preacher, if I would have been in the ministry, I would have never been in that house. Many years ago I would have just followed God and done what God wanted me to do. If I wasn't running from the will of God, my boy wouldn't have been crawling in those rattlesnakes. He said, preacher, I'm sitting here looking at the lifeless bodies of my boys because I didn't do what God wanted me to do. I wonder, Christian, does God have to take us there? Before we learn the lesson? God has already shown us. He's already called us. He know you know what God is asking of you or what God would want for you to do. I just wonder. Are you willing or are you running? Lastly, this morning, he learned that to sync with God Is better than to sail without him. You see he's sailing in that ship. Human nature is gonna be to hang on to that ship for all you can. Human nature is gonna be this, listen, we're gonna save the ship, let's throw everything overboard. I mean let's let's throw anybody else overboard, but I'm gonna prove self-preservation is the number one character trait. I mean we're going to do all we can to save ourselves, but he realized, listen, to sink with God is going to be better than to sail without him. And he was sailing without God and he says, you know what, it's just time I why don't you guys just throw me over? You know what, I don't know where you're at, but can I tell you something this morning? That you are right now either a blessing or a curse to those that are around you. You see, those mariners were going through the storm because of Jonah. They were enduring this battle because of Jonah, what Jonah was doing. Your family. Some has to go through some pretty rough things because of what you're doing. I wonder if we would turn back to God. A lot of people around us could experience the blessings of God instead of the curse. Instead of the hardship, instead of the storm. None of us are an island unto ourselves. We affect everybody around us. We encourage and help those around us or we bring God's storm to those around us In Jonah chapter 1, verse number 12, and he said unto them, Take me up and cast me forth into the sea, so shall the sea be calm unto you. For I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you. It's a hard lesson he had to learn. He thought everything was fine when he was down in the belly of that ship. Resting, trying to run from the presence of God. You know what In verse number 3 he says, But Jonah rose up to flee into Tarshus from the presence of the Lord and went down to Joppa and found the ship going to Tarshus. If you have a pen and it's not done already, I want you to underline that he paid the fare thereof. Can I tell you that it cost a lot to run from God? He paid the fare. You're gonna pay the fare to run from God. You're gonna pay the fare. It'd be far better for us to learn That to think with God is better than to sail without Him. Whatever it is that you're going through, you think, well, if things are going to be better if I do this, no, it's going to be better if we just follow God. I don't know that Jonah had read any of Solomon's writings. If he knew the proverb that the way of the transgressor is hard. But can I tell you we know it. And we know it to be true. The way of the transgressor is hard. There's a fare to be paid Ed Belou, the founder of Rock of Ages Prism Ministry that we support. Many years ago I heard him tell this story. As the worker in the prison, they were in the prison on a regular basis, and they you they would unlike us, we go for our prison ministry, we go into one room and the inmates are brought to us. But if you've been in a prison a long time, you have the relationship with them, he was allowed to walk the tiers. He would go down from cell to cell and he could talk to inmates and He'd just go through each of the tiers. He'd walk down through death row and those men whose lives are there on death row and give them the gospel. And he would go from tier to tier. And he's walking and He had with him a backpack with some Bibles in it and uh and he would ask if they would like a Bible and he went up to this one cell and he said, hello, ma'am, would would you like a Bible? Free of charge. We just want to give you the Word of God. And she was facing away from him and she said, Boy, do I need it. And he said, well, I'd be glad to give you one. And she turned around. She says, You got a minute? Could I talk to you for just a minute? He said, that's what I'm here for. I'm here to talk to people, trying to tell them about Jesus. She says, man, I need it. She says, you know what? She said, I was a beauty queen. She said, I'm not I'm not just saying that I was pretty. I won Miss Texas. I was, according to all of these articles and professional people, the most pretty girl in the entire state of Texas. He said, but I was dating a young man who was not any good. But I loved him. And we were together one night. The night was kind of winding down, and we were kind of bored riding around in his truck, and he said to me, He's like, Let's go get some booze. I'm not much of a drinker, never was, never have been, but I mean I was up for some fun. I wanted to have some fun and why wouldn't we get and so he drives to the liquor store, he pulled up in front of the liquor store and shuts the truck off and he he he He's getting ready to go in, but before he goes into the store, he reaches down into the glove box and he pulls out a gun. And I told him, what are you doing with that? Put that away. And he's like, no, no, there's an old man in here. He's been robbed three times already And you know what? He's so old and frail, he doesn't do anything. We'll be able to get the booze for nothing. Not only that, we're going to get some cash out of the register. So we'll be set. We'll be in good shape. So we went into the store. He said we she said we grabbed the booze we wanted and we're walking up to the register and he hands me the gun. He says, I'm going to do everything. I'll do all the talking. All I want you to do is just point the gun at him. Just raise it up. Just let him see it. You just stand there still and I'm going to talk to him. I'm going to go around the counter and get all the cash he has in the register and then we're going to leave. Don't worry about it. This guy's been robbed three times. Nothing's ever happened. She said, we went to the register and he starts yelling and he tells me to put the gun up and she says, I'm standing there with the gun. She said, but I'm scared. I'm nervous. I I was standing there just nervous and scared and I didn't know what was gonna happen. But what we didn't realize is the man was scared too. And the stress of this happening now for the fourth time was too much and the man experienced a heart attack. And when he experienced a heart attack, he reached up for his heart, but I didn't know what he was doing, and I was just scared, and I kind of I kind of jumped and turned away. And when I did, I pulled the trigger. I didn't know what I was doing, and I just pulled the trigger and I pulled the trigger and I my eyes were closed and I was just pulling the trigger and the man fell to the ground and I kept pulling the trigger until my boyfriend grabbed the gun and pushed it to the ground. She said he grabbed my hand and said, we gotta get out of here, we gotta get out of here, let's go! And she said he we ran outside and he we got in his truck and the thing is is So stupid he he backed out of there so fast he put it in reverse and peeled out and he drove down the road and he went around the first corners Mr. Peel it out and he gummed it as quick as he could. What we didn't realize is that on that next corner there was a police officer sitting there And the way he was driving, the officer knew something was wrong. And he chased us down and got us stopped. He said, Mr. Blue, I have a hundred and forty years. All my all my beauty is gonna fade. I'll never see outside the walls of this prison. My hair is gonna turn gray and begin to turn loose. It cost to run The way of the transgressor is hard. But what are we going to do? Beloved, it's better to sink with the Lord than to try and run without Him. Whatever it is. Whatever God wants you to do, whatever decision that you need to make, it's better to go God's way, whatever He's asking. Because the way of the transgressor is hard God wants to give you life and give it to you more abundantly. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?