We have been reading the last few weeks, uh well few days, uh about a man in the scriptures who has an amazing level of character. He uh his character is on display throughout the pages of scripture. He's got a powerful display of forgiveness. As we think about what he endured and how he was able to forgive, he's got a stringently consistent spirit I love that. To me, this is something so vitally important for the Christian, is to be in control of our spirit. And we see that in the life of Joseph. I think if you think about Joseph and his the stories that we read about him and uh the the messages that have been preached about him, I think he would probably be right up there with David. And the number of messages that have been preached. I think he might be right there with Daniel, Daniel in the lion's den, and maybe only surpassed by Jesus Christ himself. Certainly, there's a lot of lessons that we can learn from the life of Joseph. The message this evening I've entitled Lessons from a Leader. lessons from a leader. Not necessarily because tonight's message is about leadership, but uh I think that if anybody was going to be a leader, whether that's in our home or a leader in the workplace or at church or wherever, it doesn't matter where that might We be we be we may be called upon to lead. I think that these lessons that are learned here that we can learn from Joseph would be certainly applicable to any Anybody that was leading. These would be part of our life. But it's not just those that would call themselves or consider themselves leaders. These are lessons we learn from a leader that are applicable to every one of our lives. These are lessons that we need as we go through our life I would like to back up into chapter 40 and just read the last couple of verses. If you've been reading along with us, you're familiar with this, and certainly if you've been reading the devotionals, you've Heard and read through some of the thoughts that God has given the Staph and I about these different passages. But in chapter 41, we see in the story, you know, he I'm sorry, in chapter number 40, he Joseph's in prison. And after all this time, he's given an opportunity to interpret a dream for Two friends. And he interprets the dream for them, and one is going to be restored, and the other is going to lose his head. He faithfully gives them the truth of the message that he is to share with them, and then we pick up the story here in chapter number, I mean chapter 40, verse number 21. Verse number 21, he says, And he restored the chief butler into his butlership again, and he gave the cup unto Pharaoh's hand, but he hanged the chief baker As Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. He forgot him The lessons that I want to give you tonight, just a few thoughts. First thing, the lesson that that uh Joseph learned and is applicable to our life that we need to keep in mind and remember is that God is in control. The providence of God. He learned to trust the providential hand of God, the leading of God. Throughout Joseph's life and those most familiar words that are familiar to all of us, where ultimately he's restored with his brothers in this great sin that was done against him, and he's able to look at them and say, Hey, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good And it's something that's a lesson that Joseph learned over and over again in his life. As we see here, he had an opportunity to hopefully, maybe, get out of this Prison in which he was unjustly stuck in. But the butler forgot him. He just forgot. Oh man. Well, Joseph suffers continually in prison. I want you to, we're going to read the first few verses here of chapter 41. And I don't know the we're going to cover the story through chapter forty one. I don't know how much of it we'll actually get to read. I hope that you've had the opportunity to read it already. But he says here in verse number four verse number one, in chapter forty one, and it came to pass At the end of two full years. Two more years, Joseph was in prison, waiting. Came to pass that after two full years the Pharaoh dreamed, behold, he stood by the river. And behold, there came up out of the river seven well-favored kind. Flat flashed and they fed in the meadow, and behold, seven other kind a came up after them out of the river. Favored and lean fleshed, and stood by the other kind upon the brink of the river. And the ill favored and lean flesh kind did eat up the seven well favored and fat kind. So Pharaoh woke. And he slept and he dreamed a second time, and behold, seven years of corn came up upon one stalk and rank and good. That rank means full, full and good, nice, big, thick corn. And behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east winds sprang up after them, and the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank ears. Rank in full ears, and Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled. And he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all the wise men thereof. And Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that could interpret Them unto Pharaoh. Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day. Oh that reminds me two two years ago I was supposed to tell you this. Well, I'm not sure if uh the butler here was motivated by wanting to help Pharaoh. Or if he was motivated by all of a sudden remembering that he left his friend Joseph in prison, or if he was motivated by wanting to help himself. Hey. I can look good in Pharaoh's eyes right now. I know somebody that could give him an answer. I don't know what his motivation was, but now he remembers. Now he calls and says, Hey, I know a guy. I got a guy for that. All through Joseph's life, adversity led him to advancement. Now, I'm gonna steal from Pastor Derek's devotional this morning, although I did think about this. Do you know that President Trump doesn't write his speeches? Actually he might write his, but most presidents most presidents don't write their speeches. Uh well you know, somebody some speech w writer, some Harvard grad, some Oxford grad sits down and writes his speeches and hands it to him. They put it on the teleprompter, he delivers it and through all of history President Trump or whoever whatever the president was is the one that said that. So I just decided that the staff were gonna write my messages from now on. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna deliver them, amen. Now I'm not going to preach his outline, but I'm just going to give it to you. Did you how many of you read his devotional today? Alright, so you know where this came from. I'm giving him credit because this is his. But we see the adversity in his life that leads to advancement over and over again. We see him go from a son to a slave. We see him go from the slave to being raised to second in the house. He was raised up to that position, and then all of a sudden he goes from a slave to a scapegoat Because of the admiration or desire of a perverse woman He ultimately becomes a scapegoat for her sin. You know why this is this is something, let me just throw this out. This is why we have to protect ourselves today. Joseph was not guilty in any means for what he had done, but he was accused. And he went to prison for it. I want you to understand that in today's day and world age All it takes is an accusation. I mean you could be in jail. So what I'm saying is you need to protect yourself. That's why we go visiting two by two. That's why we go with somebody, so we're not in a in a position that we have no defense at all for the actions that took place. Let me just throw this out. Sunday school teachers shouldn't be in a classroom, boy or girl, uh lady or man, with one child alone under any circumstances. That protects you and it protects the church. Do you understand that children today are approached by counselors and teachers at their schools and they're asked leading questions They're asked questions to dig into situations and they try and find out and I'm not saying we we don't want to cover up or hide anything. Definitely not but what I'm saying is that if you put yourself in that place the child could just say anything. And there's nobody there to say, No, that did not happen. So you need to protect the church and don't be alone with a child. Unless they're your child. If you're in a classroom and you find yourself by yourself, whether lady or a man, with a little girl or with a little boy, it doesn't matter. You just step out to the hallway and you can keep an eye on them and you're in the hallway where there's other people to protect yourself. We we're dealing with uh a perverse world. And we've got to guard against that. We've got to be wise. So we've got to be careful. So he becomes a scapegoat for this woman Then he in prison, uh he goes from being second in the house to being thrown in prison. But in prison he goes from being a scapegoat to a soothsayer, to an interpreter of dreams He went from being shackled to serving. He went from a prisoner to a physician. Continually we see the adversity in Joseph's life bring him. To the place where God wants him. He was in prison and he was forgotten. You know the fact of the matter is, is he may have been forgotten by his brothers. Who sold him into slavery? He may have been forgotten by uh Potiphar and Potiphar's wife, those that committed this great sin against him and cast him into prison unjustly. He may have been forgotten by the butler who should have remembered his name when he went up before Pharaoh, but he was never forgotten by God. God knew right where he was. God has a plan. God has a plan to move Joseph into a place of power and prestige that it was going to take some time. in the prison to prepare him for. God knew what his future was. God knew where he was going to be and God knew That Joseph needed to go through some things to be prepared, to have the wisdom, to be ready to lead a country in humility and to follow the Lord through it So God in his providential hand led him step by step. From soothsayer he's raised to a sovereign. Second in the land. Someone said it like this. God moves in a mysterious way. His wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea and rides upon the storm, deep and unfathomable minds over never-failing skill. He treasures up his bright designs and works his sovereign will. Hey, God is in control. God is in control. If we learn anything by reading and following the life of Joseph, we see that God is in control. At this point, the king dreams a dream. He dreams a dream and he finds himself in distress. He he's looking for an answer. He calls all the wise men and All of those uh people that it typically he would call upon. Do you know the world would like to provide a solution? The world wants to come on the scene. They want to bring a solution. They came and they worked hard to give a solution, but they couldn't give him the interpretation of the dream. The world is always going to have a An attempt, a counterfeit. The Bible says in verse number eight, but there was none that could interpret them unto him. There was none that could interpret the dreams to Pharaoh. The world's going to try, but they couldn't do it. And in verse number 9, finally the butler says, Oh, now I remember my faults. I remember what happened. You know, a lot of times it's when we are in the midst of blessing, it's easy to forget those that got us there. Those that helped us, that we didn't really do it all on our own But let me remind you of a couple things. Whether you're in the prison or you're in the palace, God's in control. Don't get puffed up if you're in the palace. Because God puts you there. God has a plan and He has something He wants you to do. God said, I need you here for such a time as this. Like Esther was placed there in a palace. Joseph placed here in a place of leadership, all by the direction of God's hand. And who are we to get fucked up and think, oh, I'm in the palace right now, I'm on top right now, I've achieved this right now. Understand that God is in control. And don't get discouraged if you're in a prison. Because in this story they were both ordained by God. God had a plan. God had a plan. And whether you're here tonight and maybe you're experiencing a palace, the mountaintop of an experience in your life, or maybe you're in a prison. You're in about the lowest that you've been. I want you to understand, trust God. Trust God. Because God has a plan. And God can and will work through your life. God is controlled. All this was part of God's plan. Had Joseph been lifted up two years ago? Turn back to chapter number 40 and look at verse number 15. Well, let's look at fourteen. He says, But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house. I want you to see the desire in Joseph's heart here in verse number 15. He says, For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews, and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. I think had Joseph been raised up two years earlier without the timing of God to put him where he needed to be, Joseph would have been back with his people. You see, God, things weren't right. The timing wasn't right. Things weren't aligned. They weren't at the place yet where God needed him to be, so Joseph had to spend a little more time in the prison. It's Wersby said this about this passage. All of this was but part of a greater plan. A plan to preserve Israel And prepare the way for the birth of Christ. Think about that Him being here in prison for two more years. We look at our lives in the situation and we say, man, this isn't fair, this isn't just, why do I have to go through this? This is too hard. We don't know how far reaching. That is going to be. Him being here in prison was part of a plan that ultimately led all the way to the birth of Jesus Christ. If you follow the plan, what God was doing down through the ages, you can come back to this, hear this situation, and see God working this out according to His will. What an amazing story we heard this morning. I told Brother Taylor if there's a time that we don't have a missionary story from something from our current missionaries that that's going on in their lives, that feel free to tell us about any any missionary. Tell us about something that God's doing on the field. Let us let us encourage us with some missionary story. And y I I can't tell it again, but I'll tell you what, if it's right here, I could plug it into my notes, an amazing story about this dear lady that had gave up her life. And you look at that and you say, man, she went there and it was for nothing. She lost her life and it was for nothing. It was such a hard time that her husband gave up on God and ran away from God and their little child was raised by another missionary. But ultimately, years and years and years later, coming back and seeing how that one lady who gave up her life was used to see How many was it, brother? 110,000 people come to Jesus Christ over the years in between. People that said they could trace their salvation from somebody to somebody that ultimately was because of this lady that gave up her life. And we look at that one moment in the prison and we say this isn't fair. You gotta trust God. You gotta trust God because God knows. Everston said this as part Of God's word to us, this true story reminds us of what we call chance happenings, are all in God's plan. We can become very discouraged when we look at life's trials from a purely human angle. The life of Joseph encourages us to look higher and farther. Joseph did not understand at that time what God was doing, but he continued to trust God and to believe that the promises made unto him would be fulfilled in two chorus. God was never far from his thoughts, as was evident by the way he spoke to the prisoners and how he responded to Pharaoh himself. God was training him, preparing him for a position which his own now distant dreams suggested he would have. Did that sink in? His own dreams told him of what would be. But he had to go through some things first. You see, the lesson Joseph learned is to trust the providential hand of God, that God is in control I want you to see here the presentation that Joseph gives. We know that Joseph is brought before Pharaoh. Pharaoh is the king He's the ruler. You know, he's really more than that for them. They believed Pharaoh to actually be the incarnation, the the uh life form of Ra, the sun god. So he stood as both a religious head and a political head. Joseph comes to him and Tries to give him an answer. Look down in verse number 14 of chapter 41. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph. And they brought him hastily out of the dungeon, and shaved him, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have a dream, a dream, and there is none that can interpret it. And I have heard say of thee that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it. Notice Joseph's response here. I want you to see that Joseph learned That it was God, and that he points to God. He said, And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. You know a lesser man would have been looking for self-promotion at this point. He didn't know what was going to happen. I mean they came and they grabbed him out of the dungeon. They said, get shaved, take a shower, put these clean clothes on. Come here, Pharaoh wants to see you. So he's standing before Pharaoh. Pharaoh says, I had a dream. A lesser man right away would be like, oh, this is right up my alley. I've been here. Let's hear it. Yeah, I can interpret this for you. What kind of guarantee do I have that I'm not going to be put back in the dungeon? I'll give you the answer, but first let me. That's not what he did, did he? He pointed to God and says, God will do it. It's not in me. We need to point to God We need to look to God. We need to turn to God. As people, we need God comes first and should be first and should be lifted up first in our lives. He says, I'll hear it, but God will give you the answer. Pharaoh begins his explanation of his dreams in verses 17 through 24. Joseph begins to give the interpretation of the dreams in verses 25 to 32. He tells them in verse number 32 that this is established by God. Look down to verse number 32. He says. And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. He said, God gave you this this vi dream, this vision, not once, but twice, and he gave it to you twice because this is something that is gonna happen. This is not a maybe. You just didn't you didn't just accidentally dream this one dream. Maybe you ate your own kind of food and so you dreamed this dream. No. You had the same dream with different things. It means the same thing. God gave it you twice. This is going to happen. God's going to do this. Just as God gave Joseph the interpretation for the dream, God gave him wisdom for what should be done. Do you know if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Joseph realized that wisdom comes from God. You're in your life and you're facing a situation that you don't know how to fix. You're facing a problem that you don't know what to do. You've got a solution that you need. Let him ask of God. Seek wisdom. Get wisdom from God because God will provide the answer. He may choose to use, as he did here in Pharaoh for Pharaoh, a godly man. He may choose to use a godly man to give you. You can seek counsel because there's safety in a multitude of counselors. Seek some godly counsel if you need some counsel about a decision in your life. But seek some wisdom, get some wisdom from God to know what to do, how to solve that problem, or to get through to that solution. He understood his wisdom, came from God, and he presents a plan. In verse number 33, look at it. He says, Now therefore, let Pharaoh look out a man Again, Joseph, I don't believe Joseph has any intent right here that it should be him. I don't think he's saying Look for a man that could uh that could do this. I don't think he believes it's to him. I think he's just giving him good advice. He's saying, here's what you need to do, Pharaoh. He says, now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man, discreet and wise. And set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plentious years So, Joseph says, you need to find a man, and you need to give him some men that support him, that help him, that follow him. To during these seven plentious years. And immediately Joseph is promoted. You're the man. God put him there for such a time as this. At that point, God knew that Pharaoh would see in Joseph exactly what was needed, and here was a young man who was wise beyond his years, who had uh character, who had discretion, who was discreet, and who could lead this project. And Joseph, we see his promotion in verse 33 to 44. Joseph names his price as it were. He describes what needs to happen, what we need to do. We need to go through the land. We need to collect these things. We need to take these seven plentious years and and gather in. He tells them exactly what should help what should happen. Joseph is promoted to only, the scripture says, only in the throne will I be greater than thou. He is given second place. In the kingdom. Can you imagine the conversation that night in Potiphar's house? Honey I hope Joseph is not real bitter about what we you know. I mean we uh after all, honey, we we had to do that, right? We had to put him in jail. I mean after what he did to you, right? We had to do that. Because I mean he's second in the land now. I gotta report to him tomorrow morning. Can you imagine that conversation? Can you imagine Potiver's wife? Well actually, honey, um Do you think she owned up to it? Do you think she think she told him? You better be careful because he might be upset But we don't see any of that in Joseph's response or life, at least not given to us in the Word of God, and I think about how how he handled his brothers That's not what he would have done. Joseph's made the essentially the prime minister of Egypt. Then I want you to see the protection of Egypt. By implementing God's given plan, Egypt is protected, but not only the nation of Egypt. We know from the story that this famine extended out across into many lands, and ultimately God's people were preserved Ultimately, the children of Israel were come to a place where they would receive provision and receive protection for a time while they would grow as a nation. In in any other circumstances, this small band of people being raised up out here would have been swallowed up by some other tribe or some other group of people may have wiped them out and took all of their possessions But they were brought into a place and they were protected and sheltered and given provision because of the position that God gave Joseph, where God's people could grow and become a nation. Several million strong before God would call them out. He followed the plan faithfully You can read the pages and see that he said, here's what we need to do, and then he did it. He followed the plan. Listen, if you have a plan, you need to follow it. We got some good ideas about how to have a good marriage at the retreat. But it does no good if it's just written down on the little piece of paper. and gets stuck in the back of your Bible or gets left on a shelf somewhere and you don't think about it again. You've been given a plan, even some very practical and simple helps about how to build your relationship. with your wife and set forth some times where you can communicate. He even told you what to communicate about. He even said what it is you're supposed to be discussing. And you you got a plan there and you say, well, that's what he does Well, it's a lot better than what you're doing right now. Might as well start there, and maybe you can modify it, maybe you can grow it, maybe it'll be a little bit fit just for you guys, but you ought to start somewhere And begin to work the plan. You want to pay off your debt. Hallelujah. Galena, I'm glad you got your debt paid off. You know a lot of people have ambitions and goals and they go through uh FTU and they want to get their debt paid off and for the first few weeks or few months maybe they do real good. Then it gets to be a little too hard. And oh uh uh well I'm gonna I'm just gonna buy this thing. I'm just gonna go get this. We're gonna we're gonna put the budget on the side for right now and go after this You're throwing the plan out the window. If you want to be a success, you've got to follow the plan to pay off your car or to get out of debt or to build your relationship To do more for God. We have a desire to do more for God. You gotta have a plan. It can't be just, oh, I would like to do more for God. Okay, how are you gonna do that? Let's get a plan and put it in place and then follow it. Then we see that he diligently laid up during the years of Plentius. That's not what we do. Dearing the years of Plenty, man, we're living high on the hog. Dearing the years of Plenty, it is steak dinners and vacation. Now they knew famine was coming, and you say, well, I don't know that famine's coming, but you know something's coming. You know somebody's gonna broadside your car. You weren't planning on it. You know something the car's gonna break down when you're on your way to a retreat. You know something's gonna come up. Listen, here in the years of plenty, we're we are just Some of you probably just a few weeks away from getting your tax return. Listen, if you don't have an emergency fund set up somewhere You shouldn't be taking that tax return and and buying a car or you know going out and buying a new furniture for the house or new toys for you or even new toys for the kids. This is a time of plenty. That doesn't mean we just have more to spend. That means during the time of plenty, we plan for the time of famine. He says, hey, winter's coming I'm gonna do some work right now. I'm gonna save some food up right now so when I don't have any food, I won't starve to death and I won't have to go over to Brother Taylor's and ask him for food Now listen, if you get hungry, I think you probably could go to Brother Taylor's and ask for food. I think he would help you. But you ought to feel real guilty and real bad if your reason you're in the position you're in is because you didn't plan. You took the money that you had in surplus and wasted it. And now you're in a position where you I don't know what we're gonna do. I don't know how God's got so rough and hard. God says, I gave you that money six months ago. I gave it to you six months before you needed it. But you took it and spent it on whatever. During the years of plenty we've got to save up. We've got to plan for the time of famine. That's what he did. These are lessons that a leader learned. Lessons that we could use in our life. There's something as as People living in today's society we need because we don't do that much. We just think MasterCard will get us out of the next fix until we get to a place where MasterCard won't even fund our problems. That's what happens. Can't even take can't even get a credit card. During the years of plenty, you need to lay up. He that gathereth in summer is wise, the scripture says. The storm is coming and you know it. Some of you, your relationship with your mate right now is really good Let me encourage you while it's good to invest and to lay up for the storm. Spend some time. Don't say, oh, things are fine right now. We love each other. Things are good, so we don't have to spend any time together. I know you don't say it, but that's what happens. Because we feel like things are good. I don't need to invest any time. I don't need to work at it. I mean we're in love. And so we can just keep going our separate ways and living our separate lives and I'll tell you what, but then when the storm comes, you're you haven't hid anything away. You haven't invested anything in that relationship that's going to get you through the storm. Does it make sense? You need that during the times of Plentius, seasons where the relationship is thriving. Spend some time together. Listen, every relationship goes through storms. Just ask my wife. No, don't ask her. I'm just kidding. But she'll weather the storms, okay? If you've taken some time in the sunshine to prepare for it, to invest in your relationship. That's why the marriage retreat, that kind of thing is good. You're taking time. You say, oh we don't need a marriage retreat, we're happy. Today. What about next week or next month? You know, sometimes you don't need what God gives you in a service today. Sometimes God has you here in a service and He's going to give you what you need a month or two from now. That's why you've got to be here in church. That's why you've got to be faithful in church. You don't know what it is that got how God's going to feed you and prepare you for the future. He fairly distributed the income of the goods when the time came. He was not overly burdensome, but he didn't just give it away. Now I'm not gonna take any time here, but I want you to understand he didn't just give it away. It was okay that they had barns full of food and nobody else did. It's all right. You see they planned for it. And if somebody wants to take their their earnings and invest them and not spend them and waste them. If they want to use them for good and for God, they can do that. And you can't hold that against them. This world uh I'm telling you what, they're they're thinking's getting upside down. If brother Matt it's not fair if Brother Matt's able to Now last time everybody asked him, Did you get a new car, brother? He didn't get a new car and he doesn't have two hundred thousand dollars in the bank. But let's say he you know this world would say it's not fair that Brother Matt has two hundred thousand dollars in the bank and I don't. Sure it is. If he worked hard and invested and saved his funds, that said it's perfectly fair. I don't care if he inherited it from a great aunt and he got it and didn't have to work for it. It's his and there's nothing wrong with him having it. This world wants to take it away from him and give it to all the lazy bums that aren't working. And that's not right. It's not biblical. We see here in the story that he didn't just give the cornerway. They came and they exchanged it and he paid and it was a fair transaction. And God used that. This was God's plan. That they set up and God used it to save them, to save a nation, and to help multitudes. You know how many people would have died during that famine had they not done this? But this allowed a way for them. We took a long walk through this chapter. We stirred the pot with several different thoughts this evening. I don't know how God spoke to you. Do you need to trust God's providence in your life? Are you maybe puffed up in the position that you're in right now or discouraged in the prison you're in right now? Are you pointing to yourself instead of God for what's going on in your life? Do you need to pray for wisdom to seek God's wisdom or counsel on a situation? Do you need to stick to your guns and follow the plan that God has given you or that's been laid out for you? Do you need to be more diligent in that plan? I don't know how God spoke to you, but let us stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. And you do what God says for you to do. Dear Lord Jesus, we pray that you would be with this moment of invitation, that God, you would stir Every heart to yield to you to do exactly that which you would have them do. Lord, I pray that these lessons that were evident in the life of Joseph that we need to apply and to be part of ours, I pray God that you would Give us the strength in our spirit to do it. May every person yield to you and follow your will. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.