Well uh this is our Thanksgiving service. Uh I have been planning for probably six weeks to preach this message tonight for this service. Actually, this is a text that I found that pointed me or started me on dealing with the bewares that I found in the scripture. because it started with this thought. And I began studying it and I thought, well, uh I th the Lord really didn't give me peace to preach it that first week and I I s thought that the Lord wanted me to preach it for this service. And so we're going to be in the book of Deuteronomy, turn to start with Deuteronomy chapter six. We are going to be looking at a few different passages of scripture this evening. but all in the beginning chapters or portions of the book of Deuteronomy. But this is a verse that I read that kind of woke me up to the thought and I began looking into the scriptures at the other places that we see beware and uh I have a couple others that I may get liberty to preach at some point But in Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse number 12, he says, Then beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt. From the house of bondage. Beware lest thou forget the Lord. We have got to beware. He gives us this warning, this caution, this uh alarm bell that goes off that says, You gotta be careful or you're gonna forget the Lord that brought thee up out of the land of Egypt from the house of of bondage. There is no question that this is a real concern. This was a problem. It was something that God saw as a need for his people. The Lord, beloved, knows the human heart better than we know ourselves. And he knows that it is a tendency of our heart to forget. The beginning chapters of the book of Deuteronomy, God's continually calling the children of Israel to remember, to not forget to beware lest they forget God. Look in Deuteronomy chapter number four if you would. Deuteronomy chapter number four. Now you could Read the first ten verses here. Don't do it right now, but just what it talks about in the message of those ten verses are powerful. But just look at verse number nine. He says, only take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen. unless they depart from thine heart all the days of thy life, but teach them, thy sons and thy son sons. Beloved, the fact of the matter is it is entirely a human character trait that we are given to forgetfulness. We're given to forgetting the things which we should remember and remembering the things which we should be forgetting. Amen. Doesn't that happen to you? Do you tell me, is it easy to commit to memory passages of Scripture? Yet we are able to hold into our minds some stupid jingle from a commercial that we heard six years ago, or even longer. Some of you can sing commercial jingles from when you were kids And that was quite a while ago. But you remember them. Because they're just stuck in your mind. See, we remember these frivolous Many times useless and maybe even sometimes sinful things that we wish we could forget, and yet hard to keep in our mind and heart the things which we know that we should be remembering. I mean how often do we forget some goals that we set for ourselves? You ever set some New Year's resolutions? Then after about three months You actually wake up one day and remember, oh, yeah, I was gonna. This was what I was supposed to do. And and you see you You started off the year fervently giving yourself towards accomplishing this goal and somehow you know little things happen whether you go on vacation or maybe you get sick and you missed a week or whatever, something happens And all of a sudden that that goal is gone and you forgot it and you didn't even think about it for the last month. It's a goal you set for yourself and you forgot that you were going to do that We forget often the kindnesses that are showed to us. We forget the expressions of love and the compassion that has been extended to us in our hour of need. One of the reasons that there's a guest book at the funeral is because many times family members can't even remember who was there. It's a trying time. It's a time where everything's a whirlwind. And I can tell you more than once where I've gone to a funeral that wasn't just here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, but I actually drove like halfway across the country or got in a plane and flew to be at a funeral of somebody I cared about and then months later they're talking to me and they're like, you weren't there I said, yes, I was there. What do you mean I wasn't there? They're like, I don't remember seeing you. I said, How can I was there? Look at the guest book. We signed the guest book and and they just don't remember because of the trying things that come up in life sometimes. Beloved, I've been shocked at how families over the years here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church have forgotten about how this church has helped them. It's amazed me how easily or how quickly the sacrifice of God's people is just forgotten. I can think of one particular family that we helped move not once, not twice, but three times. Our church family got together and labored to help them move and We helped them move, but in in not just help them move, but we helped get their old house ready to sell and we helped get their new house ready to move into and invested weeks of labor and time and people over there doing things for them and sacrificing for them. And we did that three times. Not only that, this church, you, the church family of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, gave to the tune of $8,500. So that their back mortgage payments could be made, so that they wouldn't lose their house. We helped them more than once. And yet when they left Hunt Valley Baptist Church, they're talked about how the people at Hunt Valley Baptist Church aren't considerate of them. The people at the church don't think about them or don't remember them or they're not important enough to us for them to keep coming here. It's mind-boggling how quickly we forget what's been done for us. What God has done in and through God's people. But, beloved, the greatest tragedy, the greatest travesty is not that we would forget what a brother or sister in Christ has done The greatest travesty is that we forget what our Heavenly Father has done. We forget what our Lord and Savior has done for us. How God has richly blessed us, given us so much that it really defies expression There's almost no way for us to even really truly describe what it is that God has done for us. And yet when it comes to testimony time, we sit and we think Is there anything that I can say? Is there anything that I could say that would be meaningful that God has done for me? Do I have any testimony tonight about the goodness of God? And we've become so full that we've forgotten all that God has done. God's bountiful blessings upon us are so rich and full we can't even see them anymore. And yet we forget. This evening, I beg of you to let the message burn into your heart that you and I would beware Lest we forget the Lord. Turn to Deuteronomy chapter number eight. First of all, beloved, I would encourage you, and Exhort you to beware lest we forget the promises that we made to God. Lest we forget the promises we made to God often times, beloved, it takes a tremendous amount of work for you and I to actually come to the place where God is able to work on our heart enough that we make a decision for him. I mean you know what your heart is like, you know what your life is like and you come to church week after week and you go through the services and many times it might be out of a measure of duty, it might be out of a measure of this is where I'm supposed to be and So I'm going to do what I'm supposed to do and praise God because sometimes when you don't feel like it, duty keeps you doing what you're supposed to do, and we should do that. But week after week we go and then God gets a hold of the man of God and he prepares a message and A lot of prayer goes into it and you're at a point in your life and God brings some challenge into your life and orchestrates some events to bring you to a place where your heart might be a little more tender and you come to God's house And then God stirs your heart in that service. And he speaks to you and he challenges you and you're restored in your fellowship to him. And you come down and you make a decision for God. You promise him you're going to do something You promise him you'll make a change. But then you forget. How quickly we forget the promises that we've made. We forget that we said we would start reading the Bible. We forget that we promised we would begin to be a witness and pass out tracts. We forget that we promised God we weren't going to miss a service, we're going to be faithful to God's house. We forget we promised God we were going to get involved, we were going to do more for the Lord, we were going to be more active in church. But what change has been made since that promise was made, except that we forget. God tells us to remember because of the work that He's done in our hearts. In Deuteronomy 8, chapter 8, verse number 1 and 2, he says, All the commandments which I commanded thee this day shall ye observe to do. That ye may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swear unto you, your fathers. And thou shalt remember All the ways in which the Lord thy God led thee these 40 years in the wilderness. Beloved, what a privilege it is to have God lead you. To have God speak to your heart and stir you and challenge you to accomplish or to do something for Him And finally, he brings us to the place where we make a decision for him. And God says, You need to remember how I directed you, you need to remember how I led you. Remember how you promised you were going to do this. Remember means to keep in mind, to recall, or to recollect. I suppose it's pretty much the same thing as don't forget. God doesn't want you to forget the promises that you've made to him, Christian. God has done some pretty amazing things in your life. Just as he did in the life of the children of Israel, and he did it for a reason. He led them in a wilderness, in the wilderness there for a reason, he says here in verse number 2. And thou shalt remember all the ways which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou would escape. commandments or no. You see, God led them in the wilderness and he brought things into their life, and that time in the wilderness was a time of testing and it was a time of teaching where God was Bringing his people to a point of decision to test their heart, to find out how committed they were, and whether they were ready to keep the promises that they had made and to follow all the commandments that he had given them He's saying, are you gonna cut are you gonna keep it? Are you gonna do it? You see, they're about to move into the promised land, that land of milk and honey, that land of great blessings. God was saying to them, you're taking the next step in your life. But don't forget. Don't forget how I've led you. Don't forget the decisions that you've made, the relationship that we established while you were in the wilderness. In the wilderness they learned how to trust. They learned how to follow. They learned that they shouldn't forget. And beloved, they learned how valuable The word of God was. You see, the manna of God was going to end. They're going to go into the promised land. They're not going to need that manna every morning. That was going to end, but they needed to remember that man does not live by bread alone. In verse number three, he says, and he humbled thee. And he suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know. that he might make thee know that man doth not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord. God, he's saying, don't forget. Don't forget how I led you, how I worked in your heart and the promises that you've made. Young people, the promises you made, the decisions you made. God works on your heart, you go to empowered youth, or you go to youth camp, or you go to summer camp, and you make a decision for him. How soon do you forget those? How solidified are they in your heart? And are you still maintaining those promises? Beloved, we forget because of carelessness. Because of carelessness. Just think about a child who's been given a job, a responsibility, you know, like go out and feed the dog. And they go outside and they come back fifteen minutes later and you say, Did you feed the dog? And they're like, Oh no, I forgot. What were you doing? Well I went outside and and I I saw the the bat and the the ball there and I was just hitting the ball around the yard and I forgot all about the dog because of carelessness. Because really what it boils down to is feeding the dog wasn't that important. And you understand as a parent what you're teaching your child is not about what they think is important, it's about obedience. But I wonder how important are the decisions that we make for Christ? How valuable is that promise, that that stirring of your heart that God did that motivated you to say, okay, God, I'm going to yield to you. Okay, God, I'm going to do what you want. Yes, Lord, I understand, and I'm committing to this, but have you forgotten it? Not only do we got to be aware lest we forget the promises that we made to God, but we gotta beware lest we forget the provision that we get from God. You see, God has provided for you and I over and over and over. The children of Israel were entering the land of blessing. Look back at Deuteronomy chapter 8. Look at verse number 7. Just see how he describes this land of blessing. It's amazing. For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land. A land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of the valleys and hills, a land of wheat and of barley, and of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of oil and olive and honey. A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, and thou shalt not lack anything in it. A land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass. Beloved, God describes for them his bountiful and rich blessing. He lists for them the means of provision that are there, the wheat and the barley and the vines and the figs and the pomegranates and the olive and the honey, just over and over again. The land that's full and rich, bountiful with blessing. They would eat without scarceness. They wouldn't lack anything. Oh. But look what happens in verse number 10. He says, When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which He hath given thee When they're eaten and full, he expects them to bless him. But what does verse number 11 say? Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God in not keeping his commandments and his judgments and his statutes which I command thee to stay You see, beloved, many times when we are so richly blessed, we forget the provision that God gives us. Over and over and over again, we're blessed with a measure beyond a bounty beyond measure. If we really sat down and thought about it and really tried to describe it, how blessed we are is just unbelievable. Oh, I know we could look at our lives and talk about, well, I don't have as new a car as I would like. Or I I I I can't have a steak dinner every night. Or, oh, I can't have have this, but listen, beloved, we are blessed so much. It's just amazing. And that fullness has led to forgetfulness because we're selfish at heart and we're ungrateful It's amazing how much we have and yet we still feel that we deserve more. How good things are and yet we believe that we deserve better. It's amazing how ungrateful the human heart can become. We forget because of our prosperity He tells them there, beginning in verse number twelve, he says, Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses and dwelt therein And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied, then thy heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God. You see, first of all, we forget because our hearts are lifted up in pride. He says, Forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage, who led thee. Through the great and terrible wilderness, wherein fiery serpents and scorpions and drought, which there was no water, who brought thee forth water out of a rock? Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee And that he might prove thee to do thee good at thy latter end. Beloved, this land was a land of picture of prosperity and plenty, a land of provision, a land of pleasure. But God gave them so much they forgot God. Aren't you glad tonight that God never forgot a promise he made to you? You see, God's promises will be fulfilled. Not one of them is going to fail. The promised land that God sent them to was a fertile land. You see, it wasn't watered like in Egypt if you know that the water in Egypt came from the Nile. And the Nile would flood and and And provide sustenance in the lower part of the valley there once a year, and and that's what they relied upon. But you see, they were going into a promised land that was going to be Sustained by the rain that would be sent from God. They had to maintain their relationship with God and maintain their right heart with God for God to send the first in the latter reign. We're not going to teach on that tonight, but I want you to understand, beloved, that it rests in a heart of gratitude for the rain, for the provision that God continues to bring. We've got to be careful lest we forget him because of pride. He says, when thou art eaten and art full. When you built your houses and you dwelt therein, when your herds and flocks are multiplied, when all thy soul, silver and gold is multiplied, then your heart is lifted up. Beloved, we're in a real problem when we get to the place where we think we've done this. God is the one that did it. You see in verse number 17 there, and thou say in thine heart, my power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth. If the children of Israel were going to say that, I think we're in danger of saying that too. Beware lest thou forget God. Listen, we've forgotten today to how how to have real gratitude. I'm not talking about just saying thank you. We've got that ingrained in us pretty good, you know. Hey, thank you. But I'm talking about a lasting part of gratitude. I can tell you that it was gratitude that caused Eddie Reckenbacher to visit the pier off the coast of Florida every Friday night until his death You would see him walking to the edge of the pier, slightly stooped and carrying a large bucket of shrimp, to feed the seagulls. Eddie was a decorated World War I fighter pilot who had been given the Medal of Honor. He was an established proponent of all things with regards to aviation and strove to forward as much as he could the field of aviation. When World War II broke out some months after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Secretary of War asked him to fly to the Pacific Theater to provide an evaluation of the status of the Air Force combat units there. He and six others climbed aboard a B-17 for the 1,800-mile flight to their island destination. You see, they believed that their equipment was damaged during a subsequent takeoff where they had a hydraulic failure and had to land. Nevertheless, they found themselves over a vast ocean. Without a clue where land was and not enough fuel to turn around. They knew that they would have to ditch their plane, so they threw out everything of any weight to get the plane as light as they could. They prepared as much as they could and got water bottles together and food and rations and whatever they could. They put them together and they had three rafts too which were deployed from the cockpit area of the plane and One makeshift emergency raft raft, which is just essentially a two-person raft, uh, they described about the size of a bathtub. They had those three rafts. And seven people. They landed in a rough ocean with swells over six feet high. This quickly pulled the plane under the waves and In an effort to get out of the plane and to get into the rafts, they were unable to save the food they had planned to keep. Not only that, after a few minutes they realized they had not somehow they lost the water bottles. That they had planned to have. The only sustenance that they had on them between seven men was four oranges Which one of the men had put into a jacket pocket before the crash. The next two days of freezing temperatures and the evenings and nights and scorching sun during the Days would take their toll on the men, and they would eat one orange slice each. During the taste daytime, the men looked forward to the coolness of the night. During the night, they craved the heat of the day. The second orange was divided and distributed among the men on the fourth morning. The salt was destroying not only their skin, it was drying it out and blistering it, but they found it was destroying the last two remaining oranges. Realizing they would not be able to keep them much longer, they decided to eat the oranges, so they ate and divided the orange up one slice each on day five and day six. With all the food gone and therewith really most of their hope, they held some prayer meetings and sang some hymns to keep their spirits up Eddie said it was going to take a miracle to stain to sustain them, and a miracle occurred Cherry, the captain of that ill-flated flight, red Some passages from the scriptures as they sang some songs that afternoon. When they finished with prayer for deliverance and a hymn of praise They talked for a little while and the talk tapered off under the oppressive heat. Eddie Rickenbacher says, with my hat pulled down over my eyes to keep out some of the glare. I had dozed off when I felt something on my head. I knew it was a seagull. I don't know how I knew, I just knew, and everyone else knew too. Everybody was afraid to move. Nobody said a word. But peering out from under my hat without moving my head, I could see the expression on their faces, for before them they could say soft food, if I could but catch it Rickenbacher slowly reached up, clamps his fingers around the seagull's legs, and held on with all of his might. He was able to wring his neck, strip his feather. They carved up the bird, dividing the meat equally among the men. And keeping the intestines for bait. It did not matter to the men that the meat was raw or tasted of salt, or that it was tough. They ate it all, including the bones. You see, for twenty-one days they fought for their life on their open seas. That food And the fish they were able to catch with the intestines that they used for bait kept them alive for 21 days. The survivors were sustained and their hopes renewed because of this one seagull, who uncharacteristically found himself hundreds of miles from land. And offered himself as a sacrifice. Saved. And he never forgot. For thirty-one years, every Friday evening Eddie would be seen walking to the edge of the eastern Florida Seacoast, white-haired, slightly bent, and his bucket filled with shrimp To feed the seagulls. To remember the one, the one that gave his life as a sacrifice for him so that he could live Beloved, there's one that gave his life as a sacrifice for you and I. But how soon we forget. I'm not saying we should just say thank you, but I'm talking about a lasting gratitude that affects our heart and life week after week after week after week. For 31 years he was his heart was moved with gratitude that he would go and thank the seagulls. on the shore. And God's people can't even get to God's house to thank God for offering Himself as a sacrifice for us so that we can have a home in heaven And God provides for us week after week in bountiful ways. And we can't find it in our hearts to say thank you more than once or twice Beware lest thou forget God. We sing the old song Lead Me to Calvary. Lest I forget Gethsemane. Lest I forget thine agony. Lest I forget thy love for me Beloved maybe we just need to get back to seeing Calvary.