Now uh I believe I've shared some of this with you in the past, but uh some things that housewives are most thankful for. Things that they're most thankful for. One is automatic dishwashers because they make it possible for the lady to get out of the kitchen before people come back in to eat again. So they're thankful for dishwashers, thankful for husbands who attack small repair jobs around the house because it usually makes them big enough that they can call it professional. So Uh they're thankful for children who put away their things and clean up after themselves. They're just sad when they have to send them home to their own parents So they're thankful for teenagers because they give a parent the opportunity to learn a second language. They're thankful for smoke alarms because that is the telltale sign that the turkey's done. So Things ladies are thankful for. Oh, tell you what, I really enjoy this time of year between now and Christmas It's probably my favorite time of year. Now you all know that I am not like Miss Martha. I do not necessarily like the cold weather. But this time of year, just this between now and Christmas, there's excitement in the air. There's an anticipation of the new year coming. There's this period of thanksgiving and just time spent with family and where we pause and consider and think about how much people mean to us and how precious those relationships are. Uh it's just such a fun time and it kind of kicks off here right with Thanksgiving and to me it just keeps rolling all the way through into the new year where you have Christmas and then New Year's Day and all of that, just the time of celebrating Christ's birth and This is a very busy time of year usually for the church. Between now and Christmas, there's a lot happening, and this year is no different from any other, except as far as how busy it's going to be. It might even be busier with all of the uh different Christmas parties we're having, although it might lighten the load a little bit. I don't know. We'll see how it goes and see if we want to do this again in future years. But just it's It's funny to me how the Lord works things out because that was the plan uh before we ever knew COVID was coming. It was on the calendar, this is what we're gonna do this year, it's gonna be different. It was announced at this Vision Sunday at the beginning of the year we're gonna have Christmas parties and kinda make smaller groups. How amazing that we did not even realize that we would be at a place where we needed to have smaller groups and that packing a hundred or a hundred and fifty people down into the gym like we have in the past would be extremely hard right now with COVID and and And of course, wearing masks and all of that. And so praise God for working that out. And I hope that you'll avail yourself of the different Christmas parties that are available through the month of of December and join and be a part of that, just fellowship with your church family. But we know that this time of year, although it's a time for gratitude, it's a time for thanksgiving. Everybody listening tonight knows that for the Christian, it's really a reminder of what we're supposed to be all the time. It's a reminder of the heart that a Christian is supposed to have because the attitude of gratitude that's expected of us is not just a good suggestion, it's a command for the Christian In everything, give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Beloved, it is God's will that you and I, as His children Have a heart of gratitude. That which got the children of Israel in more trouble than anything is when they stopped seeing the benefits of God in their life. And began to grumble and complain and look at all of the burdens. And that always led to hardship. That always led down the wrong path. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. There's a song that goes with that, I'm sure many of you know. In everything give thanks for this is the will of God. In everything give thanks for this is the will of God, in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God Christ Jesus concerning you. Ought to memorize it. Ought to be able to sing it. Remember it. Something happens at work and you throw your pencil down and you get frustrated and the Lord will bring that in everything give thanks. And you'll say, not right now, Lord. Holy Spirit, please. You know, it's amazing how the Holy Spirit and God does that for us. But we know it's not just this season, but every season we're supposed to be thankful. So tonight, as we are challenged with the idea of come before his presence, with thanksgiving. And I want you to consider what is the season of thankfulness that we're supposed to have. Ephesians 5 verse number 20 says, give thanks always. For all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're supposed to give thanks always. In every season. Not just in the Thanksgiving season or not just in the Christmas season or sometimes with the kids it's just about their birthday. It's just about the the day that they're going to receive the big gifts or something, but we're supposed to be thankful in every season. We're to be thankful when the sun is shining. Now, beloved, these are the days it's easy to be thankful Uh easy to recognize when that sun is shining, the warmth of a spring sun is shining on your back and The day is going good and the birds are singing and you just got some good news and the sun is up for you. Hey, those are days that are easy to be grateful. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, the psalmist said. D. Al-Mudi said when reading this text. One night. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. He said, You can't remember all his blessings. And forget them as well. You can't remember all his blessings and forget them as well. Day by day we are loaded with benefits from God. Day by day we behold the miraculous things that God gives to us and how He loves us. We sit or should sit in wonder at God's goodness to us. Beloved, it shouldn't be so, but it often is. That during the days of sunshine we forget. We forget how good God has been After all, everything is good right now. Everything is pleasant right now. Why do I need God? Isn't that where the children of Israel were, time and time again? God was providing for them, sending them manna from heaven, providing exactly what they needed. And they just forgot about from whence it all came. Boy, I'm truly grateful for the times of sun. Someone once said that if the stars only came out once a year We would stand out all night to watch them. But because they're there every evening. We've grown so accustomed to them we hardly see them there. That's That's how it is with the blessings of God. They're so prevalent in our lives. They're so uh abundant in our life, they're they're everywhere that we look, that we are so accustomed to it, we're so used to the sun shining, God's blessing on us, that we Many times forget to be thankful when the sun's shining, when things are going good, when it should be easy for us to be thankful, when it should be so so just natural for us, and we forget To thank him when the sun's shining. If we're not careful, we'll grow accustomed to the blessings of God and forget to thank him even when the sun's shining. But the season of thankfulness is not just when the sun's shining, it's supposed to be when the storm is stirring as well. When things aren't as pleasant as you would like them to be. Beloved, those who don't remember to thank him when the sun is shining will refuse to thank him when the storm is stirring. Can I remind you, beloved, that the storm in your life is for one of two purposes, and often both, God's glory and your good It's always one of these. These times are times of building faith These times are times of learning lessons that God has for us. They're challenges that we must face in order to grow and be all that God wants us to be. God has brought these into our lives for a purpose and for a plan, and by faith we accept them and realize and recognize His hand, even in the storm. For in the storm our faith is tested. Can you still give him thanks? In everything, give thanks. Right, right. There's always something we can praise God for even in the worst of circumstances or situations. Why? Because of the source of our thankfulness. Because of the source of our thankfulness, we can praise God even in the middle of a storm, even in a hard time, even when things look bleak. We can praise God because, beloved, the source of our thankfulness is not the sunshine. The source of our thankfulness is not the fact that things are going good at work right now. That the source of why we have gratitude is not just because The flowers are blooming. Well, beloved, they're because of God. Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving. Beloved, there is so much to be thankful for. All we've got to do is look for it. Sometimes it may be difficult to see. Sometimes the trials may be hard and the burdens may be heavy. But there are blessings. Thank and think come from the same root words. Often we fail to thank because we have failed to think about all that God has done. We failed to think about who he is. Could I challenge you to this evening to ponder during this time of thanksgiving the source of your thankfulness? Think about your Savior, beloved. The Savior who sought you when you were lost and undone. The Savior who sought after you when you didn't have any hope Think about this world. Think, beloved, about the except for the grace of God, you would be on Skidrow. Except for the grace of God when He reached down into this world and picked you up out of the miry clay and set your feet on a solid rock. Think about your Savior that sought after you. Beloved, think about your Savior right now that according to 1 John is praying for you. He's praying for you. That your faith fail not. He's carrying and petitioning the Father on your behalf. You know One thing that I noticed when we were in India made me quite uncomfortable to be honest, but there were many people that would come up to me And desire for me to pause and stop and pray for them They would come up and say, I'm dealing with this right now, or my husband's doing this right now, or my wife is doing this, and we're we're dealing with this and my child's in the hospital or I I've just been diagnosed with cancer or different things. I mean abundance of things. People came up and they just stopped and sometimes through an interpreter. They would have to ask and they just they looked at me with longing eyes and said, you know, Pastor Caleb Batrao, would you pray for me? And I was so humbled by that and I thought, what why? Who am I? But by their view, by their perception, here was a man of God, here was somebody who could reach heaven for them, somebody that could get a hold of the Father for them and and and get an answer and they they long to have me pray for them. But beloved, we have an intercessor We have the Son of God who the Bible tells us is praying for us. What an amazing thing. To know that when you have a burden and you don't even know how to utter, you're not even sure what to pray yourself, you just get down and you just say, Jesus And Jesus takes over and goes to the Father on your behalf and requests that which you have need of. Praise God for our Savior tonight. Beloved, think about the salvation that He's given you. Regardless of what's going on in this life, one day, beloved, we're going to be taken out of here. One day we're going to a home on heaven. It's going to be glory. It's going to be amazing when we get there. We're going to be gone from all this burden and all this care. Think about the new life that we have in Jesus Christ. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. Beloved, you don't just have a new duty. But think about the fact that God has given you a new desire. A new desire. It's not that you don't have to sin. It's not that you don't want us anymore, but you don't have to sin. It's not that there's a law or a rule that's restricting you and you can't go do what you want to do. No, you don't want to do those things anymore because God has put a new desire in your heart. This is a magnificent, uh, miraculous thing that takes place at salvation, where the old man is is Gone. I know we still have the flesh, but I'm saying we have the Spirit in us now, giving us a new life in Jesus Christ. We don't just have an obligation to do right, but we have the opportunity to do right because what Jesus has done for us. Man. If all you do is just stop and think about the lost world that does not have salvation, about those that have no hope. The difference between the This world suicides are at an all-time high. counselors and and psychiatrists and all of these people, they're they're they're booked up. Because people, regardless of how many things they have, regardless of what kind of car they have in the driveway, regardless of what they do for a job, They're miserable. They don't have Jesus. They don't have salvation. There was an experiment done in New York City, Central Park, by an advertising agency. They dressed a man up. They gave him glasses so people couldn't see his eyes. They gave him a red and white cane so the perception would be that he was blind. They set out a cup there to collect money, and he sat there an entire day in Central Park. At the conclusion of the day, they, well, they had hung a sign around his neck that said, I'm blind On that day they collected four dollars. He went through an entire day sitting in Central Park with a white cane in his hand and a sign around his neck that said, I'm blind with a cup in front of him. Waiting for people to give. And he made four dollars. The next day they dressed him in the exact same clothes. They set him down in the exact same place. with the same glasses and the same cane. The only difference was as they hung a sign around his neck that said, it's springtime, and I'm blind. On that day, he made over forty dollars. What was the difference? People walking by him faced with that sign had to be faced with the fact to think. About the fact that they could see the flowers, that they could see the sun, that they could see the beauty of spring. And when they thought about that, they were so moved to do something for him. Beloved, when we stop and think about what God has done. Think about your supply. Beloved, the King of Kings is our supplier. The Lord, the creator of the universe. He owns it all. And he has said that he would supply all your needs according to his riches I know that there are some in our church that are struggling. I know there are some who have faced some burdens, and there's some that that are dealing with different things in their life. Challenges, especially with COVID, with lost hours or lost job or lost pay, and there's these burdens, but beloved, we have a supplier. That he'll supply every need that you have. And I have seen it over and over and over again in my life. Those that believe him and trust him and follow him, they do not beg bread. God blesses them miraculously. As we sang tonight, count your blessings, name them one by one. Sometimes, beloved, we just need to stop, pause, and spend a little time counting the blessings. Thinking about and expressing that which we're thankful for. Spend some time and think about it There's been more than once when I noticed there's an attitude problem in my children I've just said, listen, I want you to go in your room and sit down. And I want you to write out fifty things that you're thankful for. I want you to write out 20 things you're thankful for, whatever it is, just causing them to stop, pause, and think about what God has done. Beloved, the source of our thankfulness is not the situation. It's not what's going on around us. It's not the challenges That we face, our grateful heart comes from our God. And if we ponder that, we would do well. We could be thankful in every season. season when we have the source correct. And beloved, when we do that, we experience a success of thankfulness that's life altering. We have a success of thankfulness that's life altering Faltering. Successful thankfulness changes you from the inside out. It changes you and makes your life so much better. It didn't change the situation, but it changed you. It didn't solve the problem, but it changed you. It made you what you needed to be. But we have that true heart of thankfulness. Psalms 116 in verse number 12 says, What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits towards me? What shall I render unto the Lord? The Christian who has that heart of gratitude comes back to God with, what could I possibly do? For all that God has done for me. I mean, how could I be grumbling and complaining about this manna when I realize that God is the one that freed me from Egypt? When I realize that God is the one that carried me across the Red Sea when I realized God is the one that's met my every need. What's wrong with me? We have success in this Christian life. Thankfulness, beloved, it provokes generosity in us. What shall I render unto God? Unto the Lord for all his benefits. Man, you get that kind of a spirit, man, God's been so good to me. You just wonder, what could I possibly do? Lord, what can I do for you? How can I serve you? What can I give to you? What can I do, Lord? And nothing is too great. Everything is insufficient. And you love doing it because of how much he's done for you. Thankfulness provokes generosity in your heart. When we're reminded of that everything that we have comes from God. Every single thing that we have comes from God. We get so full of ourselves. We get so self-sufficient and all I am is because of what I am and I've done this and I've pulled myself up by my own bootstraps and that kind of a spirit And if we would just stop and think about the fact, the very reason that we can breathe is because God gives us the strength to. The reason that we can lift or or go to work or or stand or even think or process enough brain power to do the job we've got to do is because God has blessed us with that. John, you know, God has given him a job, and John's a good worker You know, next week he could be in a car wreck and suffer some small, just small, minute little brain damage that would make it so he could not do that job. He may still have all of his physical prowess, but his brain no longer functions the way it used to. So how do I know that could happen? What happened to Joe's brother? He's at work one day, everything is fine, the next day, his entire life is changed. Listen, everything we have comes from God. Every strength we have, every ability we have, every blessing we have, it comes from God. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving-kindness and tender mercies. Who satisfy thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles I read that, and when I was much younger, that verse didn't mean so much. But I'm reading that with a whole new level of appreciation. That thy youth is renewed. Man. To have that energy in the strength of the youth. Everything comes from God. Can I remind you of the words of Lincoln? Lincoln said, We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace. And multiplied and strengthened us, and have vainly imagined all these blessings were produced by some superior virtue or wisdom of our own Intoxicated by unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity for redeeming and preserving grace Too proud to pray to the God that made us. Beloved When we get like that, all thankfulness goes out the window. You see, a thankful heart produces gratitude. It produces generosity in us. It is the proud who never say thank you. Their pride won't let them Romans 1. 21, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. When men refuse to see God as their creator, to recognize Him as their Savior, they become full of themselves and all thankfulness goes out. out the window. And sadly today the majority of society and sadder still, many Christians. Are like the nine lepers whom we talked about on Sunday morning. Who felt they deserved God's healing. Who felt it was entitlement. That they should get that, and there was no recognition of God's gracious, loving kindness to heal them of that leprosy. They walked away without returning and expressing any gratitude because they thought they deserved it. But when men see God for who He is, they are overwhelmed that such a holy, powerful God, the creator of the universe, would be mindful. of them. Just amaz just amazed and so grateful that God would do so much. Thankfulness, beloved. It provokes generosity. It provokes gratification. If you ever hope to in your life experience any level of contentment, it starts with the discipline of thankfulness. Starting to really be thankful for that which you have. You see, too many of us have the the the the but uh we're thankful but we're thankful but it's like the little kid who Grandpa handed him an orange and mom trying to teach him how to be thankful. She says, What do you say? The kid paused for a minute, handed it back to grandpa and said, Feel it. That's how many of us are. God blesses us and we're like, wait, wait, this is not sufficient. This is not enough. If we're ever going to know contentment, we've got to have a heart of thankfulness. As Thanksgiving Day rolls around, it brings up some facts quite profound. We may think that we are poor, feel like bums and insecure, but in truth, our riches astound. We have friends and family we love. We have guidance from the heavens above. We have so much more than they sell at any store. We're wealthy when push comes to show. So add up your blessings, I say. Make thanksgiving last more than a day Enjoy what you've got, realizing it is a lot, and you'll make all your cares go away. You see, beloved, when we see that, when we have that heart of thankfulness, it makes the burden we're carrying lighter It makes the trial we're facing easier. It makes us successful as a Christian. We need to have a heart This is so critical for the Christian. Our season of thankful Thankfulness is all the time. Our source of thankfulness is God above. And success of thankfulness When we learn how to be thankful, it brings success in our Christian life, in our giving. In our relationships. And I I don't have time to go into it tonight. I have a whole nother thing on just the idea of how thankfulness impacts your relationship. How just having that heart of gratitude towards somebody that you love and appreciate. Let me give you a little story and I'm gonna I'm gonna close. Last week. Last week. What day did I take for the garland somewhere? Was it last week? Last week I took Brother Garland to run an errand. We're riding around. We're just talking about things. It was kind of a chilly day and I told him, I says, hey, look at this. I said, I got up this morning and I started a fire in the fireplace and got the wood stove going and before I left the house because it was kind of chilly and house and got it got it s smoking hot and pushing out heat and then I left. Got in a cold car and drove away. Came to a cold office, but I turned the heat around in my office. But I showed her the garment. I said, hey, hey, look at this. And I read for him a text that I got from my wife, who said I was an amazing man. That she thanks God so much for me that I would take time in the morning to start a fire and get the house warm for her. I read that to him and Brother Garden looks at me and he says, Man, you feel ten feet tall, don't you? I said, Well I can tell you this, it makes me want to light the fire the next time we have a cold morning. You see, that's what thankfulness does. And beloved, it is reciprocal and it is it is compounding When you live the way God wants you to, and with that heart of gratitude, do you believe that you reap what you sow? That's what the Bible says. And when you live that way, it it just it snowballs. You express gratitude, and there are those in your life express gratitude, and you encourage each other that way, and it's just it's just a snowball effect in the right direction. And sometimes people look at you and say, well how do you have such an amazing family? Not doing anything We're just trying to follow God's Word. Live the way God wants you to. You can experience and know success. If you do it God's way. Lord, we thank you for tonight. We're grateful, God, that our source of gratitude is not just because things might be going well. But it's from you. You put into us a heart of gratitude because we realize how everything we have comes from you, every blessing we've been blessed with. Lord, if you never gave us a thing You've done more for us than we could possibly possibly ever earn with just salvation Salvation. Lord, if we never experienced one other blessing from you, that was more than we deserve. But God, your blessings are just bountiful. I pray you would help us. us as your people to be people with grateful hearts, that we would come before your presence with thanksgiving. Not just there's day. But as the service was opened this evening with thanks living as part of our everyday life, we'll thank you in Jesus' presence. Amen. Thank you so much for being with us, for tuning in for our annual Thanksgiving service, and I do hope that you were blessed. And uh we will be back together again on Sunday. We will send out an email to confirm with everybody about that. Uh but uh back together again Sunday in a you know social distance