Turn to First Timothy chapter number six, first Timothy chapter number six. As I looked at and pondered uh this passage of scripture that is part of the lettuce series uh that I'm uh writing. Uh I don't know if you all know, but I'm gonna take this and put it into a Sunday school curriculum, uh make it available for other churches. I think this is the 33rd lesson that I've taught on the Let Us series, and uh I don't know how many we will get through, but I started the series back in 2016. And we haven't been doing it every Thursday night since 2016, obviously. But we have You know, I did a few and then we went on with something else, and then I did a few more. Gentlemen, this just shut off, so these batteries are dead. Um it turned on for a second and then shut off. So anyways, uh I looked at this topic for this evening and I thought, well, uh I'm gonna skip this one because I feel like I've just talked about on this. And then I looked it up and it was about a year ago that I taught on this topic and I thought, well, nobody's going to remember what I taught a year ago. They might remember one or one or two of the illustrations, but they won't remember anything else from it. And so I decided to go ahead and teach it to keep the consistency Thank you. Consistency with the series and uh it helps me to be able to to teach it to know that it's gonna work, that it's gonna flow for when I put it into Print for other people. So without further ado, at 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse number 8, we see the admonition we're looking at this evening. He says, And having food and raiment, let us be Therewith content. And having food and raiment, let us be content. So this evening we are going to look at that idea, that uh admonition, that encouragement from the Apostle Paul to be content. There is no question that today, by and large, we are living in a discontent society. We as Christians even find our own hearts discontent with where God has us. We as a people have more today than we've ever had, than any generation before us has ever had. And yet we are less satisfied than any generation before us has been. Paul implores us through this letter to Timothy here to be content Christians. It is only through contentment that our sighs are turned to smiles. This is something that we all must deal with. And I think it's something that is is consistently part of our lives as is surrender or confession of sin. Uh because in the society that we live in, in the time that we live in Then we are driven towards discontentment. We face it in every area of our lives. The very digital age that we live in is designed To make you discontent. I mean if you happen to stop at a website and look at a new drill, you will be getting emails for the next couple weeks about Look at this drill we thought you might be interested in. Uh you your ads will be coming up on the page. You might be studying for a sermon and there's an ad on the side. New Milwaukee drill. Look at this. Don't you want this? And that targeted marketing, if you pause for anything and look at anything or open a page for something, if there's something to sell or buy there, that targeted marketing is going to start pushing it. Towards you. You're going to see more of that thing. You know, we look at it and think about the idea of being discontented with regards to possessions. But really, if you get down to the real heart of it, all of us deal with the idea of discontentment in a much greater scope. than just with possessions. We find that we're discontent with our job. All of a sudden the job that we have is is not good enough. It's not paying enough. Amen. It it's not paying enough. It it it's too many hours or it's not enough hours or the boss is not nice enough or maybe he's too nice. Uh there's uh there's a problem with the the job that we're in and We we we're dealing with that discontentment in our heart, and then we find there's a problem with the church that we're in because the pastor talks too long or he talks too fast or the ACs Too cold or or not cold enough or you know, there's just a whole list of things in our consumer based society that we're in, we get to the place where we're uh got the Burger King mentality with with every part of our life and that Have it your way. You know, you can get it however you want it. And uh, you know, that idea we end up getting discontent with the church that we're in, or you know, sadly it's a fact of life, there are many that are discontent with their mate They they for for whether it's their husband or whether it it's uh hi his wife, I mean they're they're discontent with their mate. The mate that they have somehow the devil puts it in your mind that well if he only acted like this then I would be happy with him. If he said these things, it would be good enough. If he made this much money, I could l I could live with that. Or if she expressed herself like this, or if she took care of this one thing, then then I would be happy, but she just doesn't do that. And that just grates on you and you're you're so discontent with the mate that you chose That you stood at the altar and said, Till death do his part, that you stood and said, I love you more than anybody else in the world, now somehow their discontentment has set in. I'm saying this is something that we deal with. We d we we have situations in our life we get discontent with. Situations that we face, we get discontent with the home that we have. It's not big enough or or it's It's too big and now we gotta clean all this big house and I don't know why I have all these rooms anyway. I've heard I've heard people say those exact things. I've got to clean all this house. You know, I don't know why we have so much house and and then boy it's too small. We're all crammed into the This one little room or or whatever, there's always something you know, the roof's leaking or the garage needs fixed, or there's something always wrong, and we're always discontent with maybe the home that we have and even the weather we get discontent with just the weather we have outside of a couple days out of the year that are nice, the rest of the time it's too hot or it's too cold or it's raining or it's snowing. You know, we're just discontent. That's human nature. Maybe I'm the only one. But it's human nature to be discontent with what we have, with where we're at in life, with our situation. And you can apply that to every part of our life. That's a fact. We get a new car and it's it's all that in a bag of chips for a few months. Maybe even a year or two, but then we start thinking, boy, I'm hearing this little rattle and oh look at that car and and wow that's that's nice and and uh you know we start to our start looking and saying, well what what about this different one or what about that one? It's just human nature. We get discontent. Webster says contentment is a state of being satisfied. Can I ask you? Are you a satisfied Christian? Are you a content Christian? The Apostle Paul says, let us be content Content. We're going to look at this passage of Scripture. I'm going to give you a few points. First of all, I want you to see the profit that there is in contentment. The profit there is in contentment. In 1 Timothy chapter 6, starting in verse number 3, he says, if any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. and to the doctrine which is according to godliness. He is proud and knoweth nothing, but doting about questions and strife of words, whereupon cometh in being strife, railings, and evil surmisings Perverse disputings of men to corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. From such assault, withdraw thyself, but godliness with contentment is Great game. There is profit in contentment. There's profit in contentment with where you are. And I want you to understand that this is an experience that is available to everyone This experience is available to anyone. There's no restriction on who can enjoy this. And we're not going to take time tonight to teach on the aspect or the idea of godliness. But it's acting godly. And anybody can do that. It does not matter what your background is or where you're from or what you're your past is or or or uh your your economic status or your heritage, none of this matters. Any one of us can from where we're at right now do what God wants us to do and be godly. We can be godly. And godliness with contentment is a great gain. The greatest asset that you can acquire is godliness. I know we don't think about it that way. But you understand with every godly act, you are laying up treasure. in heaven. You are sending on ahead. You are investing in eternity. Matthew 6, 19 and 20, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, but where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven, where there neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and neither f where thieves do not break through and steal. With every godly act you are investing in eternity Everybody knows that your greatest wealth-building tool is your income, the money you have. That's your greatest wealth-building tool And the way to make your wealth b make the way to make your income bring you wealth is to invest it You take a little bit of what you have, and the greatest way to make your investments grow is to add a little bit to it every month. Just take ten dollars a month. If you just take ten dollars a month from the time you're ten years old and stick it into a retirement plan? Just about anybody could do that. We don't, but you would have a massive retirement Because you just take a little bit and keep adding to it. Keep adding to it. Just add a little bit of a time. And that's what we're doing. Godliness with contentment is great gain. When you're godly, you are investing in eternity. Every act of godliness is sending it on ahead. You're just putting it on ahead. You're just investing a little bit more, a little bit more, a little bit more. If godliness means that you've got to let go of some friends, it's worth it. Choose godliness. If godliness means that you can't be as popular at work, it's worth it. Choose godliness. If godliness means that you can't uh advance at work because you've got to go to the Christmas parties or you've got to be a part of this inner group or you've got to go do this and in order to be in that group that's going to be recognized and promoted, choose godliness. Choose godliness because with that is great gain. I believe one of the greatest measures of gain that we have is true satisfaction in our soul. Godliness with contentment, I think one of the biggest measures of that gain is satisfaction. Just being satisfied. I don't know who said it, but I've given it to you before. Mm money, of course, will buy a bed but not sleep. Money will buy books but not brains. It'll buy food but no appetite. It'll buy finery but not beauty. It'll buy a house but not a home. It can provide amusement, but never happiness. It can provide a past to just about anywhere But not heaven. Money. Just being satisfied with where you're at, living satisfied, not having that drive, that ambition, that that that I've gotta get, I've gotta get, I've gotta have, I've gotta have that newer car, that that bigger tool, that nicer thing, I've gotta just being content And we have to, as God's people, especially in the society in which we live, often pull ourselves back. Bring ourselves into check. Otherwise, we will be just like the world and consumer-based. We've just completed reading uh the life story of Fanny Crosby as a family. And uh Fanny Crosby was known for her jubilance, her happy spirit, obviously. She's known for writing a lot of songs. some eight thousand, I think, songs, more than eight thousand songs she she penned. But uh Fanny Crosby, one of the things that really stuck out to me as we read her life Story is over and over again her satisfaction with the simple Her satisfaction with what God provided. Wherever she was, whatever she was doing, she was just satisfied. She didn't need anything else. In 1867, Fanny and Van were living in Van Rick Street in the lower west side in a half of a third floor Tenement building where 33 people were crowded into an unbelievably small space. She said this was far from the worst of New York slums There was no outside ventilation, no running water. Fanny and Van could have lived in much better circumstances, but Fanny insisted on giving away all that she received. Except for that which was required for their most basic needs. They could have lived in a much better place. But she at one point somebody saw the condition of their home And felt so bad for them that it was Ira Irisanke is who it was. Irisanke began sending money to pay her rent. But he had to send the money to her sister because he knew that if she if he sent the money to Fanny, she would give it away. She was just content. Many people were upset because she lived such a simple life that they looked and they said the publishers where she she wrote song after song after song after song. And they said the publishers were taking advantage of her. And she got very irritated then. And she said, if I have ever been poor It was because of my choice, not because of somebody took advantage. She said she wanted to live with the poor as one of the poor, for she believed her part, her mission in life was to minister to them. These poor who saw the good things of life pass them by. It was to them that she wrote the hymns like, Pass me not, O gentle Savior Hear my humble cry, while on others thou art calling, do not pass me by I could not help but be impressed with how she was just satisfied. She didn't need anything else. And yet when you hear about what she was living in. You think, wow. I'm not I wouldn't be satisfied with that. Most of the time we're not satisfied with what we have today. Satisfied contentment is just accepting whatever God brings into your life or whatever God withholds from your life Accepting whatever God brings into your life or whatever God withholds from your life. It's trusting God, saying, God, I know that you know best, and I'm trusting you. If you have a big house, okay. If you don't, that's okay. If you're married, okay. If you're not Okay. I trust God. Whether you have a lot or whether you have a little, it's okay. Do you find enough in Jesus? We see that error that's promoted here In this passage of scripture, we read it, verses 3 through 6 there, but he says, godliness with contentment is great gain. There is a false teaching out there. Today. It's called the prosperity gospel. This error that's taught that says somehow your godliness is tied to your wealth. That if you have a lot of wealth, it's because you are godly. And if you're poor, it's because you are not godly. I want you to know that's false teaching. That's error. That's what it says here in these verses, if you go through and read it again. Just because one inherits a vast amount of money does not make him godly. Any more than putting a sombrero on makes you Mexican. It just doesn't change the fact of who you are. Don't buy into. You know, it's actually the exact opposite. Do you understand the prosperity, the prosperity gospel is actually based on greed. If you think about it the opposite direction, the goal is wealth. That's the ambition. The drive, the goal of all that is to achieve a level of status in society. That's contrary to the scriptures. Contrary to what God wants. This world is not our home. We're just passing through. Hey, we're not supposed to be laying up treasures here on earth. The faithful will withdraw from this doctrine. The faithful man will recognize it as false and withdraw from it. He says, perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, verse number five. And destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. From such, withdraw thyself. Supposing that gain is godliness. From such withdraw thyself. I want you to see, secondly, the flea for contentment. This is our admonition here by Paul. Let us be content. First of all, there's an expected practice. This is expected of Christians, that we're to be content. This is something that we have to motivate and bring about in our own heart to be content with what God has given us and what God has provided us. There is an expectation for Christians to be content because of all that God has done for us. When we stop and ponder and think about God and his blessing on our lives. We should say, Lord, you have richly blessed me. And I'm happy, I'm pleased, I'm thankful, God, for all that you've done. And recognizing that brings about contentment in your heart that you don't need anything else. There is that expectation that as Christians are to be content, but I want you also to see the established parameters that are given to us in this verse. What does he say there in the verse? And having what? Two things are there: having food and raiment. Therewith be content. Wow, that hit me like a ton of bricks when I look at that and thought about that idea because we in our minds We think, oh yeah, I'm content. I've got a $200,000 house, and I've got a $25,000 or $30,000 car and I've got the toys that I want and I I've got the I mean yeah, I'm content Or I shouldn't have to be content because I don't have what I should, like I feel like I should get yet. The established parameters here are food and raiment. If you have food or raiment, be content. This is what God has promised us. My God shall supply all your needs. According to his riches and glory. But I know many times we look at that all your needs as far more encompassing than food and raiment. Boy, I have need of this and this and this and our need list is pretty big. Well, if we were honest, we'd see it as our want list, right? Because God said He would supply all of our needs, and we think, well, Lord, you haven't met this need yet. And what it is, we haven't acknowledged. In fact, it's just a want yet. It's just a want. We are supposed to seek after righteousness, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. You know, that's my light verse. I've looked at that and applied it to my life many times and thought, well, if I seek God, all these things are going to be added unto me. And my list of things is pretty long. The things that I'm waiting for God to add. Amen. All these things are going to be added unto me because I sought godliness. But hey, in the context of that passage of scripture, if you read verse 31 and 32. Of Matthew chapter 6, he says, Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or wherewithal shall we be clothed? Do you see a correlation here? Do you see a consistency of thought? In verse 32, he says, For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that what ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. So in the context, what are the all these things that he's talking about? Food arrayment. Are you guys with me? Well I'm enjoying it. Food and Raymond. That's what we're added. Let me give you the problem with covetousness, verse number nine and ten. He says, but they that will be rich fall into temptation and And a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through With many sorrows. The problem with covetousness I want you to see is the eagerness to prosper. It's an eagerness to prosper. Listen, it's not about what you have, it's how much you love what you have. There's nothing wrong if God prospers you and God gives you wealth. There's nothing wrong with being wealthy. There's nothing wrong with prospering here on earth. But where is your love? What is it that you're seeking after? What is it you're trying to get? They that will be rich, it says. They that will sacrifice other things to get rich They that rich is the ambition, rich is the goal. It is an attitude of the heart that leads to idolatry because you put other things in front of God. Because the goal is wealth, not God. Colossians 3, verse number 5 says, Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanliness, inordinate affection, evil conception Conspicuousness and covetousness, which is idolatry. It's idolatry because we put other things in front of God. It leads to idolatry. It leads to temptation. When you desire, when you have an eagerness to be rich, when this is a driving motivation for your life. There's that drive that, oh, I've got to acquire, I've got to get a certain amount of wealth, I've got to have such a position. It leads to a wrong balance in your life. Where other things are out of balance, it leads to a compromised integrity. When Fanny's Crosby's mother passed away, Fanny was saddened by the conduct of her sisters more than by the passing of her mother. You see, when her mom came to Bridgeport over a half a century before with nothing. Through her life, she acquired a little bit of something, but she died without leaving a will. Julia and Carrie applied for the estate, declaring themselves to be Left nothing for Fanny. You see the ambition for wealth, that eagerness for money Fanny did not object. The courts awarded the two sisters the entire estate. Fanny accepted this without any bitterness. She is quoted as having said, she felt God provided for her needs, and that was enough How many would settle for that? I could I could name right now in the last couple of years four families that I know dealt with the passing of a loved one that Turned ugly. That something that that the passion of a loved one had, whether it was a little bit or a lot, all of a sudden the possibility to get that money. Cause these people to do unthinkable things against their own family members Because of an eagerness to have, an eagerness to prosper. Many times I want you to see that it is self-inflicted wounds. They pierce the themselves through with many sorrows. The problem with covetousness is you you wound yourself. Many times, I mean, people, they they They in a desire to have, a desire to obtain, they missed church, and then they didn't hear the message that they needed that would have fixed the problem in their family That would have helped them with raising their kids, that would have helped them to be what God wanted them to be, that would have kept them from dropping out and quitting altogether. They Buy a car that they can't afford. In an eagerness to have, they way overextend themselves. One of the major problems in divorces is money problems. Most of the time, those money problems are brought on people of their own They did it to themselves because they wanted to have a certain car. Oh, I need a car that that that's gonna be reliable. So they go out and buy a twenty-five thousand dollar car. Let me just say you can get a reliable car for a whole lot less than that. You're using the excuse of needing a reliable car to go get the car that you want. And you overextend yourself and then you have problems. And then you lose your job. Well, I didn't know I wasn't gonna lose gonna lose my job. I could handle the payments before, but You didn't think ahead. The prudent man foreseeth the evil. You plan ahead. You don't overextend yourself. If you do it right, you never buy a car that you're upside down in If you don't know what that is, you shouldn't be buying a car. Okay? You think that's if you think that's rolling upside down on the road, you have no business buying a car, okay? You got a lot of people here in the church that'd be happy to give you some advice. But would you take it? No, I want this car. I got my eye on that. I'm looking at it. I I want this house. You overextend yourself. You pierce yourself through with many sorrows. That's the problem with covetousness. I want you to understand it's the empty promises of Satan. It's a futile attempt to try and satisfy yourself. You can't. The more you get, the more you want. It's never it's never ending. You see, contentment is not gained by a change of your situation. Contentment is gained by a change of your heart. And with God you can change that heart. If God prospers you, amen. But if God doesn't, amen. You can be content where you're at. You know, he tells us very clearly in verse number seven, you can't take any of it with you. God doesn't ever put any priority on this world, the things of this life. None of it's going with us. It's all going to be here anyway. Ecclesiastes 5. 10 says, He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This is also vanity. Doesn't matter how much silver you got, if you're chasing after silver, it's never gonna be enough. But you can be satisfied with what you got, and then God can give you a little bit more Today the young envy the old and the old envy the young. The rich envy the simplicity of uh Lest the poor envy the wealth of the rich, the tall envy the short Short and be the tall. I mean we could go down the list. Nobody's porridge is just right. It's all just wrong. Why is that? You know, one of the biggest problems with young people today in our society with this abundance of wealth and the Dissatisfaction, it doesn't matter how much they have, they're not content. It doesn't matter how blessed they are They're not happy. Doesn't matter how many toys they got, there's nothing to play with. How much food is in the fridge, there's nothing to eat. How good mom and dad are, mom and dad aren't the right kind of people. Mom and dad, they're they're they're they're they're too loose and let us do whatever we can they want or or they're they're too hard and they they're they discipline us too much and and uh there's all these problems. Why? It comes from a discontent heart. Which is I want you to see the practice of contentment Verse number 11 and 12. He says, But thou, O man of God, flee these things, and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. Paul stands as an example of contentment. I've stood on the arena of the Colosseum in Rome where Christians were taken and martyred for their faith I walked down the street in front of the Colosseum there, just probably a little bit over a block away, where you find the Maritime Prison. The prison where Paul was imprisoned It's got a metal over it right now, bars where you can't really go down into there, but you can look down into the prison, and this that you can see would be the upper prison. And it's pretty dark and dingy and wet. You would have to pass through the upper prison and go down into the lower prison to find Paul. If you could go back to that day and go into the maritime prison and you go down into the lower section of the prison there, you would see this this so this prisoner in the back. You might ask you know the guard, you know, could I go in and visit him? And you would make your way back to the back of the prison and the guard opens the door for you, you go into his cell and you bend over his shoulder there and you look down at this makeshift table where the Apostle Paul is pinning these words. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care for me hath flourished again Wherein ye were also careful, but lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned In whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. Paul didn't pin those When he was sitting at his dining room table in his house with a meal spread before him. Boy, God is good. Yeah, I'm content. Amen. I've just finished my Pralines and cream ice cream. I just finished my steak dinner. I mean yeah, I'm oh I'm content. No, Paul was in the prison. And he pinned that. He said, I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound everywhere in all things. I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and suffer need. And then he says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Paul says, Hey, beloved, let us be content. He says, and God will give you the strength to do so. Whatever it is that you're dealing with, whatever it is a shortfall that you have that you You say, Oh, how can I be content? This is not met, this is not available, I I'm I how can I be happy and not have this thing or or or have this need met or this whole in my heart, whatever it is, God knows what you have need of before you even ask. And if He hasn't brought it into your life, then it's not God's plan Can you be content with what God has brought? Content with what God has withheld We see him here, the education that he's given us and the practice that he had. Paul learned the lesson. How to be content. You and I can learn how to do it too. It's an exercise. We've got to practice at it. It's human nature to get discontent over time But when you feel that discontentment growing in your heart, regardless of what it's dealing with, it may be dealing with your relationship. It may be dealing with your parents. It may be dealing with your family. It may be dealing with your job. It may be dealing with your amount of income. It may be dealing with your car. It may be de It could be dealing with anything. When you feel that discontentment coming into your heart, you need to stop and say, Lord. Forgive me for not being content. God, you've been abundantly good to me. Thank you for your goodness. Help me, God, to be content and not to look for more. You understand everybody here could cry themselves to sleep tonight You could find something to cry about. Find something that's need that's not met, some some problem in your life, some worry or concern that you have. But everybody here can go to sleep tonight satisfied too. Because we have God I want you to see that eternity is supposed to be pondered. Verse number 12: fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life. What is it we're living for? This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. What are you living for? Are we living for that next paycheck? Are we living for Friday? Thank God it's Friday. Are you living for to be able to buy that car or buy that boat or buy that what whatever it is Listen, it's all going to pass away. Or are we living for eternity? If we in our heart will lay hold of eternity And keep that in view. It'll be a lot easier to be content with what we have here on earth. The fact of the matter is, is what you dwell on is what you begin to want. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desire. D. Al Moody said, it takes me 15 minutes with most people to tell whether their treasure is on earth or in heaven. 15 minutes to determine whether somebody's treasure is on earth or in heaven. Where is your treasure? Have you laid a hold of eternity into what is most important? Wealth given to us by God is given to us to make a difference, not to make a living You see, but our worldly mentality that goes against that. I think, oh, God's giving me a raise, now I can buy this or this. But maybe he's giving you a raise because he wants you to make a difference. You gotta fight to do it. He says there. Fight Verse number twelve, fight the good fight of faith. It's not just going to come easy. You've got to fight to make it happen. Invest some energy, invest some effort. Fight against the flesh, fight against the devil. He's going to bring every desire, covetous ambition in front of you You need to focus on your need, not your luxury. Exercise faith in God. Is what God brought into your life enough? Can you trust Him that God knows what's best? Beloved, let us be content. Live satisfied It's something that can't be bought. You can't buy that satisfaction. But it can be given to you by God, satisfied in your heart Regardless of what you've got. Because you've got God. The stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. I'm going to ask the pianist to come and play a moment of invitation, give you opportunity to Make a decision for God. Maybe you've allowed that covetous spirit to grow in your heart. Maybe you've allowed that discontentment to get seated. You found that whether it's not even not even be monetarily or or with possessions, but maybe relationships, with your job, discontentment, wherever it is. Give it over to God. Ask God to help you to be content.