Turn your Bibles to our text this evening, 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5 In our text this evening here in 1 Thessalonians, there's contained three admonitions that go along with the let us series that I've been looking at. We have dealt with and spoke upon The first two of these already some months past, uh maybe even over a year past initially we hit the first couple of these, but I was drawn back to this one uh today uh specifically because of the situations that I I've uh heard about and just what we're dealing with as a nation and And I just was challenged. Um I heard today about another pastor that was accused It has not been proven, but he was accused of being improper. And I just saw that and I just said, you know The devil is out to destroy the church. And he'll do it by any means possible. So as I was hearing about this and really just it's like a gut check each time time I hear something like that, a man of God who has you know exposure that uh people know about and in today's world Everybody in the world knows within a matter of hours you know uh of any bad news that people want to get out. I mean that it's there and uh Uh certainly it's it's detrimental to the cause of Christ. Uh it gives people cause to accuse. And as I thought about that, I was drawn to this challenge this evening. and just an admonition for me, and then hopefully for you. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5, if you would just follow along with me. I'm going to read the first 11 verses. And in here in verse number 6 and verse number 8, you'll see our admonition for tonight. He says, But of the times and the seasons, brethren. Ye have no need that I write unto you, for ye for yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then suddenly destruction cometh upon them And travail upon as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, That that day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are as the children of light, and the children of the day. We're not of the night nor of darkness. Therefore Let us not sleep and do as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep in the night, and they that be drunk, are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober. Putting on the breastplate of faith and of love and For an helmet, the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us unto wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. Wherefore, comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also ye do. Lord, we come to you tonight. We ask you, God, to guide through these thoughts, and Lord, you would challenge us as your people. to be sober. Lord, we live in a wicked, wicked world. And Satan is indeed a roaring lion. walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He is on the prowl, and he's out to destroy Christians' lives. And he would want to in any way possible to harm and to hinder the cause of Christ and to put a plot on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ or on his church. And Lord, we just pray that you would give us as God's people and me as a leader, the strength, the fortitude, the ability to be sober in this wicked world. I pray you'd challenge us with these thoughts this evening. We ask this in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. You saw in our text there the three let us, and the first two, as I said, we've dealt with before, they each begin. You see the let us not sleep. There's one of the let us not. There's a few of those I've touched on. That first let us not sleep I dealt with uh way back, I think, in 2017. Uh was when I first began to start preaching on some of these ideas Then there is there that and let us watch. Let us watch. And we walked through the Word of God and saw where we as Christians are to be watchful, what we are to be watching. And the things that are important for us as Christians to watch. But this evening I want to look at that third one where each one of those could be in verse number six, it could be looked at, therefore let us Let us not sleep, therefore let us watch, therefore let us be sober. But then that admonition is repeated specifically in verse number 8, where he says, But let us who are of the day Be sober. Let us be sober. We are of the day. Beloved, the head, our mind Is of vital importance as a Christian. It is the place where we formulate our opinions. It is that which allows us to think through and to process life's problems. It is where we establish the truth that we choose to believe. Even if you believe in your heart, it begins, it starts in the mind where you think and where you process things. It's where we come to the conclusions that we settle on, and they become our convictions. It is in the mind that we first come to value and appreciate friendship. And where we begin to build relationships with people. It is where you establish your priorities. The very thing that you will give your time and energy and money to first starts in the mind. Where you begin to determine that this is important, this is valuable, I need to invest my time here, I need to invest my money here, I need to invest my my energy here, understand those things are important, but they come only after our mind has been able to evaluate and think upon and contemplate the ramifications of it. And then we are convinced. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. It's all in the mind that these things take place. Your values become fixed first in your mind, and then the course of action that you proceed to take is because of what's been established. You act and react because of the perceptions that you have throughout your mind. The mind. Our mind is the center of our faith. It is vitally important that we as Christians have a right mind. This is why there's a significant number of scriptures that deal with the mind. There's many of them, and I'm just going to give you a few of them here from the New Testament. We're to have a new mind, according to Romans 12, verse number 2. We're to have a clean mind. We're to have a We're to have we're to love God with all of our mind according to Mark 12. 30. We're to receive the word with a ready mind according to Acts 17, 11. We are to have a humble mind, Acts 20, verse number 19. We're to be of one mind, 2 Corinthians 13, 11. We're to have a lowly mind, Philippians 2, verse number 3. We're to have a willing mind, 2 Corinthians 8. 12, we're to have the mind of Christ, Philippians 2. 5. We're to have a sound mind, 2 Timothy 1. 7. The Bible has a lot to say about the mind. The reason that I have taken a few minutes to establish the importance of our mind and how we think is because tonight the admonition is: let us be sober. And you understand that phrase to be sober is dealing with a state of mind. Right. How we are thinking, how we're processing things. What it how we are approaching life It has to do with how we think and the activity that proceeds from such a mind to be sober. So first tonight I want to give you the requirement that I see according to the Word of God that we as Christians are to be sober. We have this given to us here, this admonition, let us be sober. Uh I was uh many of these passages as I give them to you you'll remember. But I personally was shocked as I began to study this idea out and see uh how much and how important this is. In the Word of God to us. First of all, what it means to have a sober mind, the definition sober means to be clear-minded, to be sensible. To have a level of seriousness about you, to be in control, to be steady. Sober-minded saints are going to have steady, balanced life. You see, they're not going to be tossed about by every wind of doctrine Because they're sober-minded. I cannot help but think about, and I'm sure many of you have heard or read stories about people who drank the Kool-Aid. About people who bought into, even though the scripture very clearly says no man knoweth the day or the hour, they bought into the fact that somebody projected a date that Jesus was supposed to come. And they sold their house and sold their possessions and which to me is mind-boggling. Why would they do that? I mean, if God's coming and they're taken out of here anyway, then what difference does it make? Why sell it first? Like sell it you gotta sell it to get ready? I mean you can't take it with you. You can't I mean the money you sold I mean Where is that? You you're leaving it for your family that's lost, that's still gonna be here? I I don't know what what where the mind comes that you gotta sell your possessions, but they stole it all. Go stand on a hill somewhere and wait for Jesus to come, and of course he hasn't come yet. You see, a sober-minded Christian is not going to buy into that. He's not going to participate in that kind of foolishness. To be sober-minded, to think clearly, to be in control. We see some descriptions of what it means to be sober-minded in the scriptures. First of all, it means the opposite of being asleep In our text here, verse number six, it says, Therefore let us not sleep as others do, but let us watch and be sober. Watch and be sober. You know, opposed to sleeping, you're sober, you're alert, you're awake, you're engaged. That's a good thing to be in church, amen. To be alert, awake, and engaged. I I hope that I I mean I endeavor to try and keep you engaged, and I hope that the messages are challenging, then they're they're a blessing, and I'm able to do that in and through the power of God. But that's what sober-minded is. It's the opposite of being asleep. It's the opposite Of being lazy. In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 13, he says, Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober. You know, the fact of the matter is, in today's world there is a propensity towards a lazy mind. Because our entertainment is so I mean you try and get a kid to read a book today. What? Read a book? I mean, no, because entertainment is so easy And they can just watch something, or they can just look at their phone or they can play a game. They can be involved in all these things that don't really take much thought process. I mean, my dad has for years done a crossword puzzle every night before he goes to bed for no other reason than to engage his mind. So that his mind is pushed to try and think through this these words and just a matter of exercising the mind a little bit And if you aren't careful, your lazy mind will take over and you're never exercising it. You're never working the mind. To be sober is to be the opposite of a lazy mind. It's the opposite of watchfulness. In 1 Peter 4, verse number 7, he says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober. And watch unto prayer. So it's the opposite of not watching. I shouldn't have said it that way, watchfulness, I should have said it's the opposite of Not being alert, I guess is what that is. Soberness is being alert, being watchful. Uh when you're driving, one of the best things they teach you, one of the most important things, is you're to be a defensive driver. You may be a real good driver, but you don't know what kind of other people are on the road. And a lot of other adjectives could be used to describe the other people on the road. But you you don't know what kind of people are driving and their ability or their skill or whether they're watching. So you Have to be engaged in your mind. Have you ever been driving somewhere and you've been driving for a while and you kind of your mind goes into neutral And after a while you kind of think, wait a minute, did I miss my turn? Did I miss my road because I wasn't really watching? I wasn't really engaged and you try and figure out where you're where you're at in relation to where your your turn was and you're like, I don't know At one time when I was y much, much younger, I I fell asleep when I was driving. And uh ultimately I had a real bad wreck and praise God it didn't kill me but But uh it was bad. But uh I remember driving and waking up and not realizing how I got to where I was You know, I mean I don't remember taking those corners. I don't remember going through intersections. I I mean I literally my mind cannot remember uh when I was in college sometimes there's two ways to get to Michigan City, I worked at Walmart, Michigan City, and I could not remember if I took the interstate or if I took Highway 20. I would pull into the dorm and I would be like I And that's a little scary when you think about it. You think, how did I get home? Well, there's people like that on the road So you have to be engaged. You have to be watching. But that's what it is to be sober-minded. That's why they don't want you driving intoxicated. Because you're not alert, you're not watching, you're not engaged, everything is, your response times are all hindered. And in fact, to be sober is the opposite of drunkenness. He says here in our text, he says, for they that sleep in the night, and they that be drunk are drunken in the night, but let us who are of the day be sober. Be sober-minded. It's you know, drunkenness is the opposite of sobriety. Drunkenness is the opposite of being sober, being engaged and thinking and using your head. You know how many dumb things people do when they're drunk. I had a friend whose father was drunk uh all the time growing up. He drank them out of house and home, literally. They got kicked out of where they lived about every five, six, seven months. They would have to move somewhere new because he drank all the money and they stopped paying the bills and they would move somewhere new and get in for a little while and then they would be okay for a little while and then he would be drinking again and it happened nonstop. But when he was drunk he would do the most dumb thing Because he was drunk. Being sober-minded is the opposite of being drunk We as Christians are supposed to have a sober mind. What Christians are supposed to have a sober mind? I mean, I told you, see, all of these talk about having a sober mind. Look also, we see first of all that the man of God is to have a sober mind. In 1 Timothy 3, verse number 2, he says, And a bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober. And it goes on, but where to be sober? That's the requirement for the man of God, that he be sober minded. You know, everything shouldn't be a joke. There's nothing wrong with laughing, there's nothing wrong with having a good time, but everything shouldn't be a joke to the man of God. He ought to be able to be serious and have a sober mind. Titus 1, verse number 8 says, but a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate. That's a requirement for God's man that he be sober in his mind. The wife of the man of God is to be sober. According to 1 Timothy 3. 11, even so must their wives be grave, not slanderous, sober, faithful in all things. This is pretty important for Christians that we be sober-minded. The aged men of the church are to be sober-minded According to Titus 2. 2, the aged men to be sober, grave, temperate, sound, faithful in charity and patience. The aged men are supposed to be sober. Not only that, the aged women are supposed to be sober. I think what he's saying is at some point we're supposed to grow up. Amen. We're not supposed to stop acting like children. We're supposed to be able to think. The aged women in in Titus two verse number four he says that talking about the aged women that they may teach the young women To be sober, to love their husbands, and to love their children. You see, the aged women, that's one of the things they're supposed to teach to the younger women in the church, is how to be sober-minded. How to think, how to use your mind, how to be engaged, sometimes with young people, with kids, and you know I have five of them, and sometimes you look at them and you say, where was your mind? What were you thinking? And you know the obvious answer is I wasn't. You know, and of course they're they're like, I don't know. Uh uh, I don't know. They don't really have much to say, but that's kind of really the marks of immaturity. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. That's the facts of life. But as we get older Maturity, the aged men and women are supposed to be teaching the younger generation how to be sober, sober-minded. So we're all to be that way. So we see this here, first of all, that requirement is laid out for everybody. We have the admonition found in our text, but it's all through the New Testament, amen? So I want you to see, secondly, the reason why we're to be sober. Really, it's given to us in here. in our text, as he talks about this fact, he says, Hey, but the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For ye yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. The fact of the matter is, is that Jesus is coming. We have got to be sober-minded because the end is near. Because our heavenly Father is coming back. The Lord, the judge, he's coming for sure. You can count on it. People may discredit the stories, people may say that it's not going to happen, but it doesn't change the fact that it's a promise from God and he said he's coming again and just like those who were there that got to watch uh his ascension up into heaven we one day will be caught up together with them in the clouds Or if we're passed on, we're going to rise first. But Jesus is coming. Jesus is coming again. First in the resurrection, and then his second coming, where he'll come here to earth It's a fact. He's coming for sure, but we also know that he's coming suddenly, in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye. He's gonna come. And Romans chapter 13, verse number 11 says, and that knowing the time. That now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. It's high time that we as God's people began to live With the fact, the acknowledgement of Christ's imminent return. He's coming suddenly. In our text here, there are given to us two examples. He's coming. He's coming. It's gonna happen. Like a child who has put off That job or those things that they were to require, that they were supposed to do while mom and dad were gone. And they've put off and they've played and they've entertained themselves for the last few hours and they were supposed to load the dishwasher and they were supposed to take out the trash and they were supposed to clean the living room But then they hear the garage door begin to open and their fear overtakes them and mon dad are back and quickly they try and grab the trash and somebody's working on the dishwasher and All of this endeavor is being done quickly because, oh, mom and dad are back. But they were caught. And mom and dad come in and they know that the children haven't done what they're supposed to do because it would have been done a long time ago. They wouldn't be endeavoring to do it right now when they were coming through the door. They haven't been loading the dishwasher for two and a half hours. You know, they know that. Matthew 24, 44 says, Therefore, be ye also ready. For in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. We have to be sober-minded because Jesus is coming again. He's going to come, he's going to be here, and he's going to come before we know it. Hey, these examples given to us like a woman taken in childbirth. Amen, Mrs. May. Uh she's she's ready, but not not yet, she said. She's gotta get another week and a half or something like that. Sister Mills is she's she's ready but not ready. You know, is it not quite long enough. We've got to make sure the baby's healthy But but uh he's saying, yeah, Matt says he's ready, but she says not yet. But it's gonna come one of these days, right? One of these days when you least expect it, when you're least ready. When he's at work and you're home alone and watching the kids, right? It's gonna be time. Oh, it's time. The baby's coming. Let's go. Let's get it. Hey You get caught like that and there's not you can't just say, oh wait, wait, wait, I wasn't ready. Let's schedule this for tomorrow. You can't do that. The baby, I mean you're caught in in in child labor. It's it happens. It's there. And there's nothing you can do about it. There's also, he gave us here the example of like a thief caught off guard by the break of day. This thief is in, you know, working doing what he does that he knows robbing a place or whatever, and then all of a sudden the sun comes up. He was caught by the light. He wasn't ready for the light to come yet. Too many Christians are living their lives. They're not ready for the Son of Man to come. They're not ready. They're not living soberly. Beloved, this serves both as an encouragement to us. First, whatever you're going through, the day of his coming is at hand He's gonna give we're gonna be out of here. Whatever burden you're carrying, whatever troubles you have, whatever trial you're enduring, Jesus is coming again and we're gonna be out of here, and the day is sooner now than it's ever been. That ought to be an encouragement to us, but at the same time, it's a warning to us that Jesus is coming again And it's sooner now than it's ever been, so the time for you and I to do what God wants us to do is shorter than it's ever been. We're going to get caught. We're going to hear the trumps going to sound and we're going to say, oh wait, I wasn't ready. There was somebody else I was supposed to witness to. There was another job I was supposed to get done. There was another task I was going to accomplish. I wanted to read through my Bible one time before I went to heaven. I wanted to try and witness to at least one person before I met Jesus. I wanted to try and accomplish something before God came. But then it'll be too late. That's why we've got to live soberly right now because Jesus is coming. Not only is he coming, but judgment's coming. Judgment's coming. In 1 Peter 4, verses 5 and 6, he said, Who shall give an account? to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. For this cause was the gospel preached unto them that are dead, that they might be judged according to the men in the flesh. Now, that's verse 5 and 6. But in verse number 7 of 1 Peter chapter 4, he says, But the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober. Why? Because the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober. The therefore that he's talking about, the end of all things, he says, be therefore. Why? Because the end of all things are a hand, and at the end of all things comes judgment day Referring back to verse 5 and 6, where he says, Who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge? Judgment Day is coming. We've got to be sober sober because judgment day's coming. We're going to have to give it an answer for everything done in our bodies. You know who doesn't mind Judgment Day? The one who's prepared for it. Like test day in school. You know who doesn't mind test day? The student who Who's ready to take the test? The student who's ready to have judgment passed on how well they listened and on how well they studied. They walk into class, they're like, oh, test day. Almost like, let's do it. I want to see how good I can, I want to see if I can hit 100. And I got the bonus question right. They're excited. Everybody else is like test day? Mom, I'm sick. I don't want to go to school today. It's test day. They're not ready. The sober-minded person prepares and is ready for the judgment day. Now, beloved, judgment of our sin took place on Calvary. If you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, praise God, that judgment is taken care of And that that's the great white throne judgment. We're not going to have to stand there. But our judgment for our service takes place at the judgment seat of Christ. And we will be judged for our service. That, the judgment seat of Christ, is a place of reward. It's a place of recognition. It ought to be a place of rejoicing. But beloved, because it's also a place of reckoning, a lot of people won't be rejoicing. Because they will have to answer for the things done in their body, whether they be good. To be sober-minded is to live in light of the fact that judgment day is coming. We're going to be judged for what we've done in our body, and we're going to be judged for what we've done Done with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So we see the requirement, we see the reason. Because Jesus is coming and because judgment day is coming. Well, what is the result? What is the result of living soberly? Don't you see, first of all, that in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse number 13, he says, For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. He said he was living soberly For others. It was for their cause. It was to reach people. God encourages us to live sober lives because it has an impact on others around us. Because it brings honor and glory to Him. And when you and I live sober lives, first of all, it is so that we won't have to be ashamed. We won't have to be ashamed. In 1 John 2. 28, he says, And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence. And not be ashamed before him at his coming. You see, Jesus is coming. There are some who will have confidence at his coming And there's some who will be ashamed. Just like a child that got caught that hadn't done what they were supposed to do. They're ashamed. And yet, those that did what they're supposed to do, they stand out with confidence. Oh mom and dad, good to have you home. Hey, come and see what I did. They want to show you how good a job they did. They want to point out out what they did in the kitchen and how clean they got it. They're so proud of what they did and and they they have confidence with their mom and dad because they did what they're supposed to. Love it as Christians. We can approach the coming of our Savior with confidence, or we can approach it and be ashamed. Early teens, I got caught doing something that I shouldn't do. And I remember the shame that I felt when my father found out. I remember him coming and talking to me about how disappointed he was in me And and I I felt so ashamed. I literally felt like I I I can't even go to church anymore. I I don't want to see anybody in God's house. I I I it's never gonna be the same I'm I'm never again going to be able to be back where I was with my father because I've disappointed him so and I've I I I had that shame that I felt and that guilt. By the way, parents, you have to be careful how you handle that your children's guilt. My my father handled it correctly. We got it right and he let me know I was forgiven and that he loved me and he was not not holding that over. As far as I know, he's never again in my life ever brought that up to me. And our relationship did go back to a good father-son relationship, but I remember the shame I felt. And if I had that kind of shame disappointing my earthly father, what am I going to feel when I see Jesus? And I know I haven't done right. I know I didn't do what he wanted. Beloved, we don't have to be ashamed. The result of living soberly is that we can come to him with confidence. We don't have to be ashamed. Not only that, we don't have to suffer loss. In 1 Corinthians 3. 15, he says, if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be burned. Be saved, yes, so as by fire. Beloved, you're saved, you're on your way to heaven. Praise God for that. That you're not going to lose. But you're going to suffer loss. If your works are burned up. If you've lived your life for self. Hey, at the great white throne, there'd be a lot of people that are to discover that they are lost. They may even thought they were saved. They're going to be, oh, I went to church, and he's going to say, you know, they call me Lord, Lord, but he'll say, Depart from me, I never knew you. But at the judgment seat of Christ, there's going to be a lot of Christians that are going to discover what they lost. Because we didn't live soberly. There are rewards that are to be had for the sober, sincere saint of God. You know, I've had the prayer O taking my family to Six Flags. And uh we have a great time when we get to do that, and the Lord's blessed and given us the means to do that. that several times and uh you know I I know you guys have all been there or to some amusement park a theme park of some kind and you know as we as you go out you know you don't eat in amusement parks do you are too expensive, right? You pack your lunch and bring it in a car. That's what we do anyway. And so if you go out in the middle of the day before they close, if you think you're going to come back in, what do they do? They stamp your hand. But you can't see it. But when you come back in, they put it under the ultraviolet light. And you can see the stamp. Oh, it's there. I didn't know that anything was there. You know, beloved, one day, everything that we We've done in our body is going to be put under the light of the holiness of God. And that which is for self or for sin or for this world is going to burn up and be gone. Only that which is done for Christ will remain All the wood, hay, and stubble. A sober-minded person keeps that in mind. And therefore, when they get there, they don't have to be ashamed. And they don't have to suffer loss. They get the reward that God wants to eagerly give That's why we live sober. I would hate to on that day, instead of receive a great reward, receive Great rebuke. That would be h hurtful. But we don't have to get there if we live soberly. Therefore, beloved, let us live soberly. Our adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion. He walketh out, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Christians I thought this morning about the state of our world and about good men who've fallen into sin. I said, man, we need to live We need to be aware of where we're at and what what's going on. And continue to be vigilant. Lest We too are cast away. And we stand ashamed before God and lose the rewards that He wants to give us. I pray one day we could stand and And he'll say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord