Amen. Time to get into the word here. We are continuing with the let us series. You probably are uh wonder how many more of these could possibly be in the scriptures. Each one has its uh own challenge, its own area of study, and it's been uh enjoyable for me, even seeing how many of them have worked out or fit right into uh the calendar year and things that have been happening. Uh for instance, uh when we our very first service that we're able to come back and be in person at church. Uh we brought the message, uh I was glad when they said unto us, let us go into the house of the Lord. And uh that was a fun message to preach uh at that particular time with that topic uh to be able to gather back together and the admonition for that. Um I don't know because I only have a few left, so I don't know how close I'll be able to get. Maybe I'll skip a couple of weeks. But there is one that is dealing specifically with Thanksgiving. And we will be dealing with that. Uh here obviously we're just a little over a month away or less than a month now uh getting to um Thanksgiving. Uh and so uh that's coming up. But by then we're We're going to be really close to being done. We've only got a few more and we will be out. There's a couple let us knots that I'm going to get into and deal with, but then we've completed this study. It's been a good one for me. Turn your Bibles to Lamentations chapter 3 and verse number 40. I told you last week that we would be dealing with the verse number 40 this week as we looked last week at verse number 41. And uh that was a challenge, but dealing with that specifically because of what had been going on in my heart and dealing with those things uh that specifically For this time frame. That's why I took them out of order. But then backing up to verse number 40 in Lamentations chapter 3 and verse number 40, he says, Let us search and try our ways. And And turn again to the Lord. Let us search and try our ways and turn again to the Lord I believe tonight that this is something that every Christian should look at and consider. Let us search and try our ways. I could not help but think about as I was preparing for this the admonition that we have regarding the Lord's table. The really at the heart of observing the Lord's table is that we would examine ourselves. That we would search our ways, that we would look at our life and see where we're at and see what is going on in our hearts. And of course we don't want to be guilty of taking it or The Lord's supper unworthily, that is, with sin in our heart or sin in our life, and so there is always a time of examination with regards to the Lord's table. So this is a fact that's seen throughout the scriptures and believe that God would have men, would have Christians examine themselves, take a careful, hard look at your life. See what's going on there, see how how God it would have us live and if we're in line with that or if we're living our own life. It is the desire of God that we would do that, lest He He would have to chasten us. And God will chasten those whom he loves. But he would rather us deal with it ourselves. Uh we know That First Corinthians eleven thirty-one says, For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. You know, if we would take care of the things in our life that we know don't please the Lord, then God wouldn't have to judge us. God wouldn't have to take us through uh the fire, as it were, to try and get our attention. If we would respond and judge ourselves. So we want this evening to look at the idea that we are to search And try our ways. Search and try our ways. If we are going to uh search our ways, what I would like you to do is turn to a very uh I would say kindred passage of scripture, turn to Psalms 139. David here is speaking, and he says a very similar thought. To search ourselves means the idea of searching means to go over, to look through To find something, to examine for something that might be concealed, to search and seek, like finding treasure. To search. It's not just a cursory glance. It's like when you've lost your keys and it's time to go Where where are the keys? Where are the keys? And you're looking, you know, under all the pillow cushions and you look in the car and you look upstairs on the desk and you walk through the house and you look everywhere you look in the drawer where they might have got dropped and on the key hook where they're supposed to be I mean you're searching. You're trying to find those keys. It's time to go. We got to get it done. And you're searching. It's not just, oh, I didn't find them. No, that's what your kids do, right? When they when they can't, I can't find my shoes You know, did you look for them? Yeah. And then you walk in the room and there they are under the bed or whatever. You know, they you can find them quick. But uh they didn't search that hard, but that's what the idea is to really actually put some effort into it We're implored tonight to invest some real time, some real effort into searching our ways, examining our heart to see where we're at. The truth is that many don't want to know. Where they're at. Many don't want to really know the truth as to what is in their hearts, what their ways are, and whether they're pleasing God or not. To be completely honest, we if we're going to really search our our our hearts, we've got to ask God to do that We've got to ask God to search us. Because you know, that familiar passage of scripture, you know that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? And many times from our own eyes we might look at our heart and we'll say, Oh, I'm as pure as the driven snow. I I I my motives are all right, my ambitions are all in line with God's. I mean everything I can see, I'm in good shape. And uh doing doing fine. But when we get serious about it and we say, Lord, search me. This is what David did in the text that I ask you to turn to in Psalms 139. Verses 23 and 24. David said, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way of everlasting. So if we're ever really going to search our hearts, we've got to implore the mind of God and the heart of God into searching us, saying, Lord, search me. Search me, Lord, see what there is. Man generally will overlook things in his own heart. You know, our tendency as men is we see things in other people's hearts. Even things that aren't obvious, somehow we are able to deduce what somebody was thinking. I know they meant to say I know what they said, but what they were trying to say to me is this. You don't know you're you're making that all up. You know, I I I dealt with somebody this last week and They had somebody else give them an article. And so they read the article. And they called me and said, they gave me this article because they were throwing stones at this other person I say, wait, wait, did they say something about that? No. Was there some conversation leading up to this about this other person? And then you got the article? Uh no. I just think. Okay, well the Bible tells us to think no evil And you are thinking evil of this person that gave you the article, thinking they had some underlying goal. Of making somebody else look bad. But that's all fabricated in your mind, isn't it? I mean you have no proof to that. But don't our minds do that? They just they just take things and pick them apart and read through the lines and we just I'll tell you what, I told this person I was dealing with about this. I said, listen, this is something that is it goes against the flesh and our flesh wants to think evil and so you got to constantly remind yourself think no evil. Don't think evil of another person. Don't don't put that in their heart and their mind because you know we a lot of times are real good As seeing the moat that's in our brother's eye when we have a beam in our own. Right? Didn't that what the scripture saying? Self examination. Commentator James Vaughn said this Self-examination is not the simple thing which at first it may appear to be. No, no Christian who has ever really practiced it has found it easy to do. Is there any exercise of the soul which any one of us has found so unsatisfactory, so almost impossible, as self-examination? The fact is this: that the heart is so exceedingly complicated and intricate, and it is so very near the eye, which is tasked to investigate it And both it and the eye are so restless and so shifting that its deep anatomy baffles our research Just a few things here and there that might be broad and open, floating upon the surface. A man discovers these, but there are chambers rescinding within chambers In that deepest of all deep things, the heart of a sinner, which no mere human Attempting to investigate will ever reach. It is the prerogative of God alone to search the heart of man. And if you think about our hearts and how shifting they are, uh one minute experiencing fear and the next minute experiencing a la One minute, you know, angry and next minute happy. And there are things that you have in your life. That are part of your heart, that have been there, they're so deep, they're so well ingrained, they've been there since you were 15 years old, or they've been there since you were 20 years old, when something happened in your life. I mean we really think about our hearts, boy, they go deep. And our motives and actions and things that we do today are dictated. Ruled by our hearts, which were conditioned sometime in the past. And so we need God to search our hearts. David asked God. He said, Search me, O God, and know my heart. David was on the run from Saul. Of course, you know King Saul wanted to kill him. I mean have you ever had some bad things happen to you and you kind of thought, Lord, is this my fault? Is there something that I'm doing here? David was on the run from Saul and things were bad and then people were accusing David of treason and accusing him of deserving this and David In the purest of hearts, David looks up to God and says, God, are these things true? Is the accusations of my fellow man uh could there be any truth there, God? Search me because I want to know the truth. Is there anything in me that's not right? I want to know the truth. Most people don't want to know the truth. They they they want the truth that they've established in their mind and they don't want anybody pointing out anything different. Why would we why would we want to see anything different? But he got real with God. He got honest with God. He let down all of his guards. He removed all the disguises. And I believe that his statement there, search me, O God, and know my heart. We of course know that God knows our heart, right? God knows our heart. He didn't need David's permission to know his heart. But I think David was asking, Lord, Show me my heart. Let me know what's really in my heart. It's a whole new level. Of getting real with God and letting God reveal to you your emotions, your motives, your affections, your appetites Your prejudices, your challenges, your strengths, your weaknesses, saying, God, search me. Search me. The challenge tonight here is let us let us search and try our ways. If we're going to effectively search our ways, we need God to search us. Get honest with us and allow him to be that instrument which shows us the truth of our heart. Then we need to try our ways. David also Extends the same question to God here. He says, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Then he says, try me and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me. So he says, search me, and then he says, try me. The trying of our ways. This is literally test me. Test me. I mean, somebody that says, oh, I've gotten a victory over my temper And then the test comes. Right? Uh oh yeah, no, I I I've got victory, and I try to encourage people that are dealing with any besetting sin. to be angry, to lose control of yourself is a sin, and some people uh they really battle with that. And I encourage them that listen, we're sinners And you may, at some point down the road, lose your temper again. You need to confess it and forsake it. And if it's three weeks from now, then what you need to do is say, okay, I'm gonna try and make it a month. I'm gonna go a month without losing my temper. And if you make it a month, that's a victory. You praise God. And maybe you make it six weeks and you lose your temper. Then you for you confess and you forsake it and you say, God, listen, thank you for helping me to make it six weeks. I don't want to be this way. Would you help me make it for two two months? Make it for three months. And you'll get stronger and stronger, you'll get better at it, and victory can be yours in the power of God. But there's tests that come The trying of our ways. And maybe you believe that you've gained a victory, but then there's the test. And David asked God Lord tests me. I'll tell you what, when I was in school, if I could have skipped test day, I would have liked that. You know, uh go go through classes, whatever, but m you knew test day was coming. So you had to invest time and energy and studying and preparing I'll tell you what, every bee I got in college I had to work for. I had to work like a dog to get to get the bees. And my wife She she never studied. I'm not going to say that. She did study. She studied in the hallway on the way to class. She would get 100% I would literally study all night, never go to bed, study all night. You know, I would get 87. So frustrating. But has different skill sets. God's given her that mind. But test day So you think you're spiritual. Well let's see how you respond when your car gets damaged in a grocery store parking lot. Test day. Well see what you do when someone cheats you out of some money. Let's see how you respond when you're given an opportunity to be dishonest for gain. Oh no no I'm an honest person. But you're given an opportunity for gain and nobody's gonna know. Nobody's gonna have any idea. Let me give you an example. I bought something recently, some vehicle I can't remember what vehicle it was. But the guy selling me the vehicle Told me, hey, I'll write whatever you want on the purchase price. You want to say you bought the car for $500? We'll put it down there for 500. You know that saves you a lot of money on taxes, right? When you go to get those plates That's a lot of money. Nobody's gonna know but him and I. And the Lord How are you going to respond? Some of those situations, if you haven't already made up your mind when presented with it, You won't do right. Because it's too easy to do wrong. Test day comes. Try me, Lord. Lord, see if there be any wicked way in me. He says, try me. You know, it's like this. We have a dog, and the kids have been working with our dog, trying to train the dog, you know. And uh one day Uh Christina brought up a nice big hand bone and gave it to the dog. And the kids were kind of playing with the dog. And so Alicia grabbed the hand bone and took it away And the dog was growling, but when she took the bone away, the dog bit her. Now he didn't he didn't bite down hard, but I kicked that dog. And I said, give me that bone. And I went over there and I set that bone on the ground in front of that dog and I said, No. And made the dog sit there and look at it. And then I picked it up and took it away. He's not going to be responding like that to the first people that are taking care of him. I took that bone away, then I gave it back. Then I took it away again. I wanted to see how he would respond. And then we waited two or three weeks. I took some rib bones out to him. Let him get a good taste of those rib bones. Then I reached down and took it away. Test day. Did he learn? You don't respond like that. And he's done really well. He hasn't he hasn't he hasn't done that, but sometimes when they're training dogs, they'll put a stake over there. And dog will sit here just drooling, just looking at it, just drooling, you know, looking at that. But he won't move until his master says, get it. Then he'll go get it. Train training training the dog. It's test day. And that's what God were saying, God, try me. And man, that puts us in a pretty awkward place. Are you going to come through come forth as gold? When God tests us? When God tries us? Now, if God does not tempt us, we know the Bible doesn't, the Bible is very clear that God tempteth no man. So he's not gonna God is never gonna tempt you to sin. It's Satan that does that. But God will test you. He'll try your faith. He'll see. If there's any wicked way in you. And when we ask God to do that, that puts it on a whole nother level. But God's refining fire is designed To try our ways. Zechariah 13, 9 says, And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined. And will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, and I will hear them, and I will say, It is my people, and they shall say, The Lord. is my God. God can and will. But are you ready like David to say Try me. Try my ways, Lord. See if there be any wicked way in me. That's quite a challenge. David asked God to try his thoughts. He said, try my thoughts, try my thoughts. Do my thoughts line up with your thoughts, God? Is the way that I think about things in line with the way that you think about things, Lord? You know, our mind naturally thinks about things from a human perspective, from this world's perspective. And it takes time in the Word of God, and it takes time with the Lord. To start to view things from God's perspective, from an eternal perspective, instead of from man's perspective or from a political perspective. Or from our own personal agenda. David said, try my ways. Not only try my thoughts, but try my actions. See if there's any Things in my life that I thought were okay, but God looks at them and says, No, those aren't okay. need to change that. The goal of the test, the goal of this examination is not for us to get mad at God, but to find out how God would have us change. It's not that we could justify our actions or explain what we do and try and have God understand. But with honest hearts we come to Him and say, Yes, Lord. Okay, Lord. This is what you want, I'll do it. Just as David said, search me, try me. Then he said, Okay, Lord, I see the problem. And then he says, lead me. He says, lead me in the way of everlasting. So the goal here is to change our ways. To change our ways. Lead me in the way of everlasting. One can the Christian life really is All through the scriptures, you know, the wise man built his house upon a rock. We are building in our lives. We're building and constructing our lives. And it's not just enough, it's not enough to just know the facts. It's not enough to just know what we're supposed to be doing. We have to at some point implement or put into practice what we know about God. This is how we grow. This is how we continue to build on the foundation that was laid at salvation. The foundation given to us by Jesus Christ. We know that Christ is the foundation. 1 Corinthians 3. 11 says, For other foundation can no man lay that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Jesus is the foundation. That at salvation, when we put our faith and trust in Him and Him alone, the Holy Spirit comes to live in our hearts and dwells in us. That foundation is laid. And we begin to build on that foundation. 1 Corinthians 3, verse number 12 says, Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, and precious stone, Wood, hay, or stubble. What are you building? David was saying, search me, try me, see what I'm building, Lord. Show me, test me. Is there anything here that shouldn't be in the house? Is there anything that's wood, hay, and stubble that's not going to amount to anything at all? Lord, try me and I want to be building with gold. I want to be building with things that have eternal value. Precious stones, not just wood, hay, and stubble. So, what are the pillars of Christian growth? The pillars of Christian growth as we ask the Lord to change our ways. He says, lead me, show me. So if we're going to ask God, Lord, search me. Lord, show me there's something in me that's not right. Try my ways. It's not just so he could point out what's wrong, but so that we could change them. Does that make sense We want to change those things and bring them into line with what his thinking is and with what he wants us to do. So, what are the pillars of Christian growth? Let me just give you a couple of things and we'll be done this evening. First of all, there is a confession. of sin. There's the confession of sin. Now you and I know that Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. And Jesus is the foundation. We put our faith and trust in Jesus. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. Jesus takes away sins. And at the cross of Calvary, when we trust him, all of your sin was paid for. All of it was paid for, present, past, and future. All your sin was paid for on the cross by Jesus Christ. Romans 5, verse number 9 says, Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through him. Through him, through Jesus Christ, because of what he did for us. Those who have been saved, they're saved for an eternity. Their sin debt was paid and paid in full by Jesus Christ on the cross. However, we know that our fellowship is broken. Our fellowship with God is at risk. When we as Christians Knowingly, or even sometimes unknowingly, sin and do wrong. Our fellowship with Christ is broken. Psalm 66, verse 18 says, If I regard iniquity in my heart. The Lord will not hear me. We want to talk to the Lord and have fellowship with God, and we want to we're talking about the growing as a Christian, building the pillars of a Christian life, and what we're building on the foundation which is Jesus Christ, well we've got to have communion with him. We've got to have communication with him. And so it starts with the confession of sin. Otherwise, our communication is broken. And our growth is going to stop. We've got to be able to communicate with Him. Unconfessed sin destroys the communication. Isaiah 59, verse number 2 says, But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not So as God shows us something in our life and says, Oh, hey, this is wrong, you shouldn't be doing this. If we don't change that, we're regarding iniquity in our heart, we're keeping that in our heart. Our communication with God is broken. Our growth, the foundation that we're building upon, the Christian life we're building, now is not being built in the right way. Well, beloved, the the joy is as Christians is that if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. All we've got to do is confess. Confess that sin to him and forsake it. I'm glad that we don't have to confess our sin to a man. I'm glad we don't have to go to somebody and tell them the things that we've done wrong. But we can go directly to the throne of God. We know He knows it already. He's just waiting for us to acknowledge that we recognize it as sin and ask. for his forgiveness and our fellowship, our communication with him is restored. So there's confession of sin. There's a communication with the Savior. We've got to continue to communicate, then there's a commitment to sacrificial love. In Mark chapter 12, verse number 30 says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind And with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. It's a commitment to sacrificial love. Do you love God with all your heart? With all your soul? With all your mind, with all your strength. That's what God is asking of us. As recognition of His what He's done for us, we ought to love Him. And we know the second is like unto the first, and that is to love thy neighbor as thyself. So it's a commitment to sacrificial love, the sacrificial love of God. sacrificial love of your fellow man. This is Christian life. It's a pillar of the Christian life. One of the telltale things the Bible tells us of how this world are going to know that you're a child of God. Is that you have love for the brethren? It's going to be recognizable because you have love for the brethren, sacrificial love. This is obedience in action. It's what God is calling upon us to do. You know, what you commit to is what you love. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. What are you committed to? What do you love? Do you love people or do you love things? Do you love God or do you love self? What is it that consumes most of your time and most of your thought and most of your treasure? Beloved, we're supposed to set your affection On things above, not on things on the earth. We're supposed to set our affection. That means make a choice. You see, we bought into this Hollywood mentality that love is something that you fall into. Love is something that comes by accident. That all of a sudden you're going to be walking down the street one day and there's going to be your love of your life and the sun's going to be setting and there's going to be uh uh you know, an orchestra playing in the background and everything's gonna line up and all the stars are gonna be right where they're supposed to be, and that one person that that that's for you, that's it's a Hollywood love. You know, love is the decision. And one of the reasons a lot of marriages are in trouble is because they forgot that. And they've bought into this Hollywood mentality of love and they think, well, I just don't love her like I used to. Well, whose fault is that? Love's a decision. He says, set your affection on things above. That means you choose What you're going to have affection for. Set your affection on things above, on the things of God instead of on the things of this world. That's sacrificial love. Purpose to love God. Purpose to be in God's house. Purpose to grow and to be what God wants you to be. You said, search me, God, try me. See if there's any way And when you show me, I want to change it because I want to be what you want me to be, Lord. You're not gonna grow in Unless you have a steady diet of the Word of God. So you've also got to consider the Scriptures. The fourth pillar I'm giving you there is consider the Scriptures. You've got to be in the Word of God. God's Word, God's love letter to us, you've got to be reading it. You've got to have the Word of God in your life. So then faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Revelation 1, verse number 3 says, Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy and keep those things which were written therein. For the time is at hand. There's a blessing to those that are in the Word of God. We're to meditate on it. We know that. Psalms 1, verse number 2. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. We're to commit the scriptures to memory. The word of God should be part of our life. We have the verse of the month here where we try and memorize it. But the Bible says in Psalms 119, verse number 11, Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin Against thee. The Word of God, a crucial, central part of the Christian life. You're not going to be able to build on the foundation without it. Every Christian. Acts 17, verse number 11 says, These were more noble than those of Thessalonica, and that they received the Word of God with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily. whether those things were so. Are you having a daily walk with God? You know, the path of the wicked the wicked The way of the wicked. Do you know what? It's easy initially when you're heading down that path. It's like floating down a river. It's easy initially, but you know the Bible says the way of a transgressor is hard. And if you've lived long enough to see the destruction that comes when somebody lives a life of sin, You know that to be true. Oh, it was easy and maybe enjoyable at the beginning, but the way of a transgressor is hard. On contrast, you know, the way of Christ is hard at the beginning. Hey, narrow is the beginning is the way. When you choose to do what God wants you to do, it's not going to be easy. But there's reward with it. There's joy with it. There's satisfaction with it. And although initially it's hard, in the end, it's glory Opposed to the opposite, where the way of the wicked is easy, but in the end it's hard. See you right now committing to follow the Lord and you'll experience and have that joy, that satisfaction in the end. Anybody can go their own way, and most do, but it takes a dedicated, courageous Christian to honestly say, Lord, Search me, try me, lead me, and I'll do it Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and their eyes closed. I'm gonna ask the pianists to come and play. Let us search our ways. This is the individually. I could point out some ways that people go, and for the majority of the room here, that wouldn't touch you at all. You would say, oh, I'm not doing any of that, preacher. But you know as well as I do, when we get honest with God and we say, God, would you search me? It doesn't take long for God to put his finger on something in our life and say, Hey, you really shouldn't be doing this, or you really should be doing that. And then ask God to test us, try us. And as He shows us what we need to change. We need to ask him, change me, Lord. Help me to change that I'm even more like you. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to your heart, take a moment, talk to your Lord.