We'll try and do that a lot, but if we have uh some visitors here that I think might be uncomfortable in that situation, then we'll we'll change that and and uh Uh you know, change is okay. Change is alright if we don't do it the exact same way every single time. And uh so we'll change that. But when especially when it's our church family, give us opportunity to pray. As we were closing in prayer there, God brought to mind Brother Lee, who's not here tonight. Of course his eye is one good eye, you know, he has one bad eye, has one good eye that he injured last week. and was in quite a bit of pain from that. I did talk to him this week and he is doing much better. The blurriness is starting to go away and but that's something we need to continue to pray for that that would heal. Because he needs that other eye. Um he really, really does needs needs to be able to have that to work and do all that he has to accomplish. So And then of course right now he is taking care of his wife who who is uh down because of her surgery. Um she should be getting a little bit better, a little bit stronger uh now. Um coming close to the end of her recovery time, provided things go well. But if you would uh be in prayer for them. Um now turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter ten. Hebrews chapter ten. A couple of weeks ago, well it's been probably a month ago now, I preached for the first time, uh, and I preached a message entitled Let Us Pray, and I let you know that I kind of of was spurred in my study for that to just look at this phrase in the scriptures and see what God would have us to learn and it's amazing to me as I began to study and And look more and more in the scriptures what God was teaching us through this statement, let us. And uh in tonight our text comes. from Hebrews chapter 10, verse number 23. I don't know how many of you last time when we were in this passage, last uh time we taught on this, I taught on let us draw near How many of you read ahead and saw the others? Saw the other let us that we see right there. Um see, because in verse number twenty-two he says, Let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water So I took from that text our our message and our title a few weeks ago, Let Us Draw Near. But I didn't I purposely didn't read any further because I didn't want to get Give you guys the uh what was coming next, but now you know what's coming next. So verse number twenty-three says, let us hold fast. the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And of course a very familiar verse, verse number twenty-four, which we'll get to another week, but he says, And let us consider one another to provoke and to love and to good works. So that'll be another week, but tonight we're going to look at this let us hold fast. Now we have been looking in the scriptures at this and uh this admonition to let us is a call of cooperation. It's a call to let's come together and let's go do this. You know, we might not phrase things that way so much anymore, but you know, let us move this pile of dirt. You know, let us it's a let's let's all come together and let's be a part of this. It's a cooperation, a call for cooperation, a call for unity, a call for participation. And throughout the scriptures you see this in many different situations Even all the way back in the book of Genesis, God, talking to the Godhead, said, let us make man in our image. He was speaking And so throughout the scriptures you see this admonition used in a lot of places. Now there are some times that the admonition is used in an adverse way. For there will always be those that will be crying or calling for us to go away from God. Just like you have, hopefully, somebody heralding, let us come together, let us gather, let's unify, let's do something for God, let us do this. There's always going to be those that are calling on the other side. Let us Rest for a while. Let us sit down. Let us stop working. Let us go do this. Let us go away from the things of God. And you'll see that in the scriptures, and one night we might uh tackle that a little bit from that perspective, but we've been admonished here in our text tonight to let us hold fast. Hold fast to the profession of our faith. This is a statement that is made. There's an implication made here that you need to be sure that you have a profession of faith. There is that implication that there is a profession, that you do know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. This is stated that you're holding fast to that which you already have. He said, Let us hold fast. to our profession of faith. Holding fast to that which you already have. Do you have it? Do you tonight know for sure that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior. Are you holding fast to that profession of faith? If you uh remember that, if you remember the time that you trusted Jesus Christ, then hold fast to that. Hold fast to that. You say, well, I don't remember the exact day. Somebody not too long ago was asking You know, at church we sing that song, it was on a Monday, you know, that Jesus lifted me, and we sing it was on a Tuesday that Jesus lifted me, and he said, I I I don't know what day Does it matter? And I said, No, it doesn't matter. You just say it was on a one day Jesus lifted me. You don't you don't know what day it was, what day a week it doesn't matter. But he kind of had a question about Maybe am I not saved if I don't know what day it was or I don't know the date, September 25th, so or whatever. I said, no, do you remember a time? Do you in your mind's eye, can you go back and picture that? You might not know you might know it was in the fall You might know you were around ten or around twelve or you know, I don't know exactly, but if you don't have somebody uh reiterating for you those things especially those that get saved when they're young, if you don't have people talking about this and if you don't have in junior church the opportunity to give your testimony and things like that, you're gonna forget. You gotta be reminded of those things, but if you you ought to be able to in your mind's eye go back and be able to say, I might not know the exact day, but I do know a where I was. And I remember seeing my need of a Savior and that I was lost and on my way to hell. And I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. You don't have to know the day, but you better know that there was a time At least there was a time. You remember that situation that brought you to there. And when you do know that there's a time, then hold fast to that. Don't let the storms of life steal the assurance of your salvation Things are gonna come up and and you might be like Job and his friends come and say, Why don't you curse God and die? or or were you even saved anyway? If you had these Matt and Tiffany the battles you guys have been facing The old devil's going to come to you and say, man, if you were a good Christian, this wouldn't be happening. That's not true. Don't let the devil come and put these things in your mind and and And tempt you and say that, oh, maybe you're not saved because of this or because of that. If you remember the time or you bowed your head and trusted Jesus Christ, hold fast to that. Hold fast to it. Don't let the sin in your life steal the assurance of your salvation. The fact of the matter is, is there's a lot of people that question our salvation because of sin in their life. Sin separates us from God. And we don't feel close to Him. We don't feel uh you know all lovey with the Lord Jesus Christ and we kneel down and we want to pray and we feel like our prayers aren't getting higher than the ceiling But we know in our heart there's sin that is there. And when you let that sin go for a period of time, you're going to get so far from God, you're going to wonder if you were ever saved. But you don't have to wonder if you were ever saved. If you remember that time, you understood you were a sinner, you needed a savior, trust Jesus Christ and be saved, and know that, hold fast to it. Get the sin fixed that's causing the problem between you and God, but don't let that steal the assurance of your salvation. Know that you're saved. Don't let other spirituality steal the assurance of your salvation. Sometimes you look around, you might see somebody else, and you You think, man, they're so holy and they're so godly and look at them and and I could never be like that. I must not be saved. No, everybody's at a different place in their Christian life and the direction you're heading towards God and you know that there was a time that you trusted Jesus Christ. Don't compare yourself among yourselves, the Bible says that's not wise. Just look at God and have a relationship, build a relationship with Him. Hold fast to that profession. Aren't you glad this morning that you're tonight that you can know that you're saved? You know the agnostic he doesn't even know if there's a God. I don't know. He's it it's all out in La La Land for him. The Ba the Baha follower doesn't know which part of religion The charismatic Christian doesn't know if he is saved today or if he's lost today because of how he happened to live. If he praised God enough today to make it to heaven. Thanks be unto God that give us the victory through Jesus Christ. And I know I'm saved not because I've earned it or because I'm good enough or I'm able to keep it, but because of what Jesus Christ did did for me and I can hold fast to that. In first John chapter five. There's a lot. Chapter 5, verses 13 through 21, there's a lot about the assurance of salvation. As a Christian, we can be assured of the possession of our salvation. These things have it written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that you may know that you have eternal life. God wrote it down so you could know That you could know that you have eternal life. We don't have to wonder. We can be assured of that. We can be assured of answered prayers, verses 14 through 17. We can be assured of our victory over sin, verse number 18. We can be sure of having a the new birth in verse number 19 and assured of our knowledge of God in verse number 20. That's all in 1 John 5, 13 through 13 21. Read that on your own. Ponder those verses and think about what it is that we have in Jesus Christ. Hold fast to that. But I want you to think tonight about holding fast. There's some things with regards to that. First of all, God's given us a command here to hold fast by the the pen of uh we'll say Paul uh you know there's a debate who who wrote uh Hebrews. Uh it won't really matter, we know ultimately God did it, right? And so we know that the inspired Word of God, Paul, or whoever it was, wrote down this command to hold fast to your profession of faith. That is to hold to the confession, the hope that you have, the hope that is within you, Jesus Christ, and what he has done. Constantly keeping this before us. You know, holding fast to the things that you had before, the things that you've learned, the things that you've grown in, the ground that you have kept, the ground that you've won for Jesus Christ. You want to hold fast to that. There must be a decision of character, not wavering, the Bible says. How long halt she between two opinions? the scripture asked. We need to hold fast to the truths of God's word. If something's right, it's right. If the Bible teaches it, it teaches it. If it's something that's biblical, it's biblical. And we need to get Get a hold of these principles in the scriptures and hold fast to them. Don't let it be taken away from us or stolen or held up against us, but we hold fast to that. Not half-hearted, not not just a little bit, but complete surrender to the truth of God's word. If you get down in the scriptures and you see something that is real and in your hearts and mind you see it And you're fully persuaded in your mind about the truth of God's word, then hold fast to that. Don't let somebody don't hold fast just until the family questions it. The family says, oh, uh uh are you sure that's what you should be doing? Or that seems a little bit strong to me. That seems a little bit radical. Whether if the Bible teaches it, then hold fast to it. Don't let it go. Establish your way. Fix your mind and stay to the end of the chorus. Things don't change just because time changes Just because culture changes. Just because our situation or scenarios around us change. The truths of God's word are timeless. I am God. And I change not. God doesn't change. And we ought to hold to the truths of God's word. Hold fast to the ground that you've gained in your life. We talked about this a little bit on Sunday, but the children of Israel who had gained a bunch of ground in the promised land. Even the city of Jericho. And then they lost it. They lost that ground Too many Christians get a hold of God and God teaches them some things and they think, oh man, you know what? I need to start going to church on Sunday night. I need to be in church on Sunday night. And they make that commitment. They see that's what God wants them to do. And they they gain that ground for God and hey the church is excited for them and the pastors encouraging them and and they start coming faithfully on Sunday night and they're here for Sunday night for a while. They gain that ground, but then oh they get sick and they miss a Sunday night and then and then the next week the family's in town and so they miss another Sunday night and then the week after that they think well I already missed two Sunday nights. I think tonight I'm going to go ahead and get my yard mode while I got the chance. And that subtly the devil has taken back that ground That you had won for Jesus Christ in your life. And that's just a simple example. Who knows what it is in your life that God has spoken to you and said You know what, you need to be reading the Bible some more. You need to be praying some more. You need to be working on this in your family some more. You need to be committed to this. And you start heading that direction, you start gaining that ground for God, and you're being victorious as a Christian, and you're on cloud nine, and you're on the top, and seeing God do things for you, and you're thrilled about it. You've gained that ground, you're conquering, you're being victorious. The devil wants to steal that ground back from you. Hold fast to that ground. Say you can't have it, devil. You can't have it. You're not gonna win here. I'm gonna hold fast to this I'm going to keep doing what I know God wants me to do. I'm not going to let you have that ground back, devil. I'm not going to go back to listening to what I used to listen to, and I'm not going to Go back to doing what I used to do, and I'm not going to go back to participating or talking the way I used to talk. Hold fast to the ground that you've gained as a Christian. God wants you to do that. Don't let the devil get that ground back from you. They lost it. The children of Israel lost it because they would not separate from the people of that land. The truth is, is as you gain ground, You have to do one of two things. You have to either change your companions or you have to compromise One of two things, because the friends that you had when you were over here in the world doing things that are wrong and sin, and you can't continue to be best buds with them. One of two things is going to happen. Either your companions are going to change, or the ground you gained for God is going to change. You're going to end up compromising on those things and start to go back. That's what happened to the children of Israel. They didn't separate from the people of that land. And then they went back into sin and they they intermarried with people they weren't supposed to be marrying with. They set up false idols. They were worshiping uh other gods, and you know the story of the children of Israel and what happened there Don't lose the ground that God has given you. There was a day when churches Many churches were moving out of the Southern Baptist Convention, becoming what we know today as independent Baptist churches Because people saw, this was many years ago, the ground, the direction that the Southern Baptist Church was headed, was not right. And groups of people and men and leaders and people in the churches said, hey, we don't want to go that route. So we're going to separate from that and we're going to become independent. But now you have independent Baptist churches trying to link up with Southern Baptist or any other group or denomination. And join together to accomplish something for the greater good. When we do that, you will either compromise Or you can't do that because that is going to cause compromise. You are going to we had a uh church approach us about having a youth activity recently. Came to me and said, Hey, uh the pastor of this church said, We'd love to get together with your youth and our youth, and we can get together and have an activity. And And uh, you know, I said, man, that would be great. We would have a we would have a wonderful time. You know, I said, but uh, here's my concern. When churches start getting together, It's usually the lowest common denominator that's adhered to instead of the highest. Typically, the more churches you have, it's not everybody comes up to the highest standard. It's everybody gets together and agrees on the lowest standard. And then churches end up compromising. on their beliefs, on what they believe is right, on how young people should interact with each other, on what the activity should be, on what kind of music should be the activity, on what should be done there. And I said, I'm afraid that if we start getting together too much That we would compromise, one or the other. And I said, I don't want to be the cause of you compromising, and I certainly wouldn't want you to be the cause of us as a church compromising What we believe to be biblical truths, we need to hold fast to those things. Hold fast even though the ground changes. You wouldn't think the ground would change. But it sure feels like it at times here in America, it feels like the ground is just getting ripped out from under us. It seems like the foundations of things that that y would have never been up for debate, like what constitutes a marriage. How in the world is that possibly even a consideration? I mean I understand that there's people that want to live perverse lifestyles. But but how is it that we can try and put it on the same plane as a wholesome family? And it's acceptable and okay. It's not. It's a biblical truth that does not change. And if We as a church or as a people don't hold fast to those truths, we will find ourselves in a few years from now compromising on something as strong as that. We live in a changing society. This church that we're looking at in the book of Hebrews is a church that was struggling. Look in verse number 32, chapter 10, look down in verse number 32. But call to remembrance the former days in which after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions. 33. Partially, Wessel, you were made a gazing stock, both by reproaches and afflictions, and partly whilst you became companions of them that were so used They became gazing stocks. That means that people looked at them and they look at this church and said, wow, that church is weird. That church is different. That church, oh, they they are holier than thou people. They are uh that church over there that look at look at that church. Have you ever had anybody look at look at you and And wonder about you. You know, we ha I've looked at a few people and wondered about them. I mean, you know, you see a guy and he's got six rings in his nose and four in his lip and one in his tongue and all around his ear and his hair spiked and And then he looks at you and says, What are you looking at? How could you possibly dress that way and not expect people to look at you? You start to wonder. Well the truth of the matter is is if you live like a Christian and act like a Christian and stand for what's right and and when the guy in the booth next to you is talking vulgar You stand up and you say, Hey, excuse me, my my wife and daughters are sitting right here and I don't appreciate that kind of language. They look at you. What who are you? What is this? The world today is so vile and so vulgar, that type of stuff is accepted. And when anybody wants to take a stand against it, they look at you and think you're weird. You might have to bear some reproach for Christ. Hold fast even though the ground is changing or shifting underneath us. The ground that the church stands on should not change. We need to pass on to the next generation the same that we got. When we think about our kids, I think about Timothy and Melissa and Stephen and when these little kids grow up and they are Sunday school teachers. And they are singing in the choir and uh they are preaching or going out and raising support to be a missionary somewhere. We want them to be preaching the same truths that we're preaching today. We want them to have the same kind of church that we have today. We want them to believe like we believe today. And if that's going to be the case, we as adults have to hold fast to those truths And don't let the compromising, soft Christianity that's out there today change what we are. They want to change us. In 2 Timothy 2. 22, and these things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. The same commit thou. We are to pass on the same thing. And the truths of God's word don't change. People try and write new definitions for things. People try and make a new classification for it and try and make a way that it's acceptable. But if it goes against the Word of God This is one of the things that the pulpit committee dealt with that made their job and task so difficult. I would sit in meeting after meeting and most of the times it you know didn't say much unless they asked for for my opinion or on my thoughts on something. I just was present. And then of course would ask them about questions regarding the church because they were our advisory board during that time. But, you know, they looked at a lot of good men. They looked at a lot of men that were really they were they were pretty good men. But there was always a question about, you know, well are they a little soft they're they're good but they're a little soft on their music standards They're good, but but they're they're a little soft on the on the King James issue. They're not really strong on that. They're good, but they're a little bit soft on their dress standards They're good, but but they don't mind the the compromising and and their associations that they have might take the church the wrong direction and every man that they they were looking at, they saw a lot of good men, but they were in their they were purposing in their heart. to try and find somebody that would keep the church where it is. And I'm sorry you got stuck with me. We're not. Amen. Praise the Lord. But that was the challenge. Sometimes it might be in every situation they look at him and say, Man, this is a great guy. But this little thing right here. The little things matter. The little things make a difference. Things that are different are not the same. And if we want to have, ten years from now, fifteen years from now, twenty years from now, the same kind of church that we have right now, we can't, for the goal of bringing more people into the church, change what it is we believe, teach, or preach. We are never commanded to build a church. We're commanded to go out and win them and let God build the church. We're commanded to teach the whole council of God and let God build the church The problem with the emerging church crowd is that they started accepting people's sins. Not just people. They would look at a church like ours and say we're legalistic and say that we don't accept people Because we would take a stand against sin. And they say grace would allow that. And Jesus loved everybody Yes, Jesus did love everybody, and he did accept everybody, but he stood against their sin. He saw the woman at the well, and he did talk to her He did spend time with her. He didn't just cut her off. But when he saw her at the well, he said. Yeah, you you you said that. You said it right. You're not married. And the guy you're with right now is not your wife, your husband either. He confronted her with her sin. Right there. Jesus dealt with the sin. He didn't accept sin. He did accept people. And we should always accept people. And that's one of the hard things as Christians that we have to deal with to try and love people and accept them, but not accept the sin. Because sin is not okay. We don't o under the guise of love just accept everything. There's some things that the Bible teaches very clearly. We've got to hold fast to those Rick Warren, who is pretty far from what we are, and if you had any question about that, then you uh uh you know You know need to s need to see me. But uh Rick Warren at first stood for h for uh proposition eight in California. which is the proposition that stood against uh the redefining of marriage in the state of California. And he told his church family that they needed to stand for prep for Proposition 8 in California. But then, because of his associations, because of who he hung around with, because of his friendships He quickly had to withdraw his statement in stand for Proposition Eight. After pressure, he said, I regret having instructed the congregation to support Proposition 8. He regretted telling his church that they should stand against homosexual marriage. Warren retired his opposition to the same-sex couples, arguing that, in quote, it is not sin to love somebody. It might be a sin to have sex with them, but it's not sin to love them. Compromise. Trying to find a way to state it that they're okay. He said that he had to call many of his homosexual friends. And apologize to them for taking a stand on this issue That is where these churches end up that aren't willing to take a stand Because you start blurring the lines and all of a sudden there aren't any lines to stand on We've got to hold fast to these things. There is a cost to holding fast. Not only is there a command to hold fast, but there's a cost to hold fast. You need to purpose in your heart that you're going to do right. And when you do right, there's going to be a cost. Some may laugh at you Um in John chapter nine uh Jesus uh had healed a uh Man and uh you remember the the blind man that got healed and and the the Jews and the Pharisees came and they said, Who healed this man? And his parents said, well, we don't know. And he said, well, who heals you? And he says, I don't know, but this one thing I know that once I was blind, but now I see. Well, in 922, the Bible says this, these words spake his parents because they feared the Jews. For the Jews had agreed already that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. So there was the Jews had already agreed if anybody says that he was Christ, they're going to be put out of the synagogue. So this family whose son was healed, they said, we don't know who was how he was healed He's of age, why don't you ask him? And they went and asked him. But they were careful how they answered because there was going to be a cost for saying that this was Christ. And when you and I stand for Jesus Christ, there's going to be a cost for it. And sometimes that cost is so small that it's hardly even worth mentioning, but sometimes we're not even willing to pay that cost. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, but many times we are ashamed, aren't we? All it's going to cost us is a little bit of our pride or a little bit of them maybe thinking that we're weird if we give out a gospel track. All it's going to cost is maybe they're going to reject it, and then we'll feel a little bit, a tinge of rejection, even though they're not rejecting us, they're rejecting Jesus, but we don't want to feel that rejection. And we're not willing to pay that cost, so we don't give out a gospel track. I know that that doesn't, I mean, that's the way I feel. And if I'm dealing with those kind of feelings when I'm standing at the checkout counter, that's such a small cost. But are we willing to pay that? There's going to be a cost for holding fast to the truths of God's Word. The three Hebrew children, they held fast. And they walked in the fiery furnace. There was a cost. In our country The cost might start getting much higher. The cost for holding fast to the truths of God's Word might quickly Get to the place where it gets pretty expensive for us to hold fast to these truths. Do we change what we believe if the cost is higher? No, we can't. If it's right, it's right, and we've got to trust God. We've got to be willing to pay the cost. Daniel knew the cost of kneeling down and praying. You see, Christianity today would say, well, I know that uh I'm not supposed to pray. And although I always went and prayed by my window before, I'm not going to go do that. I'm going to go in my closet and pray because I don't want to take a public stand. For God, I can pray in private, and that'll be okay. And we feel like that would be okay. But Daniel knew that that was a compromise. Daniel went out and opened his windows and knelt down as he did aforetime and prayed to his God. You see, you know what kind of testimony it would have been if Daniel would have closed his windows and he would have gone in his room and prayed? He would have still been praying, but everybody out there would have looked and said, Daniel doesn't believe in his God. They wouldn't have seen Daniel's faith. And that's what God wanted him to do, to stand publicly. And our cost in the future, when we stand publicly for what is right, may end up getting very expensive. But we need to be willing to pay that cost. We need to be willing to stand for truth, for righteousness, for God. But the thrilling thing is that there's compensation for holy Holding fast. There is compensation for holding fast. When we hold fast to the truths of God's word and do what we know is right to do, there is compensation for it There is a blessing. There is benefit. It'll cost you some pride to give out a gospel tract. But there will be one more person in heaven because you did. Or maybe there will be one more person that has the opportunity to go to heaven. Because you were willing to pay that cost, to do what you knew God wanted you to do. There is some compensation some compensation When you do what's right. When we uh most of the people in here and only a couple that are still dealing with uh training your your kids uh and working with your families as they look around there's a f A few more, but when you're dealing with your kids, sometimes you think, Man, I I can't discipline again. I can't discipline. I mean they're they're gonna hate me. I mean I'm you know And when we hold fast to the promise of God's word and do what God tells us to do, there is compensation for it. You know, I can tell you many times growing up, I was sitting at a restaurant with my family, mom and dad and us six kids. And we were sitting there and I I mean I remember times people came up and they paid for our meals. Eight of us. And they came up and they says, Hey, we paid for your meal because these kids right here and how they're acting. We want you to know that that is amazing. Little do they know that when we got in the car, two of us got beat because we were messed doing something we weren't supposed to be doing. But they they were like, wow, look at these kids. And I I mean I remember people coming up and saying, Man, your kids are just amazing. Look at how well they behave. You think that that re that reward comes just because? Just No, it takes discipline, it takes training, it takes effort, it takes it takes Putting God first. It takes doing what God says and rearing up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It takes work. But there's compensation for it. My dad right now gets to travel the country and visit all of his kids. He gets to see his 26 grandchildren. And he gets to enjoy a family that loves him and respects him and would do anything for him. Compensation for having held fast. When we were kids, I remember like it was yesterday. Somebody in the church came to our house and brought a TV to our house. Pastor, you are depriving your kids. You need, I mean more than once. It happened more than once. Somebody gave our family a TV So that we could have a TV growing up. And I was, thank you, Jesus. I was yes. And Dad took it. Thank you. Boy, we appreciate that. And he went out the back door and threw it in the trash. More than once. He my my in-laws and my dad's brothers and sisters used to give him such a hard time about the way we lived about going to church. Roger, why are you always taking them kids to church? Have you looked at their families now? And what's they're dealing with? Now they're calling and saying, Roger, I wish we'd have done what you did. There's compensation for holding fast to the truth of God's Word. In the battle, in the fight You think it's not worth it. It's just so hard. I'm so tired of doing this. I'm so tired of working on this and trying to get this done. And I can't get up and go one more time. I don't want to read right now I don't want to study right now. I don't want to be a witness right now. And y but when you hold fast, there's reward. There is reward. Sometime ago, one of our great ships was out in the ocean. There was a solitary soldier who was not ashamed of his faith in Jesus Christ. He was a follower of the Lord. For a long time he alone would stand on the bow of the ship and in prayer ask God to protect them and provide for them. had a relationship with God on the bow of the ship there. He took much mocking and and uh people making fun of him, but after some period of time there was another sailor who was also a Christian who came and said, Could I join you? And he being so thrilled to have another member uh with him and praying. And people knew what they did. They would go out there on the bow of the ship and they would pray and talk to God and they Stood out there day after day during a particular time and asked God to bless them. And they wanted God to do a great work and and asked God for fruit and to help them to be a witness Well, they it became well known and the whole ship would make fun of them. The whole ship would mock them and would laugh and and make jokes of them and several times they were uh involved in in fights and things because they were standing for Christ. Well, it got so active among the ship that the admiral of the ship stepped in and said, we're not going to have this anymore. We're not going to have this on my ship. We're not going to have this disunity. These two want to bow and pray and talk to their Lord. We're going to give them a room to do it And they set a room aside in the ship, down in the ship, that these two could go and pray. And the entire ship was instructed to leave them alone After a period of time, another came and joined them and said, We want what you have. And then another. And then another. And by the time this man's commission was done, there were 32 souls that had come to Jesus Christ. Because he was willing to hold fast. To what he knew to be right. There is reward. There is compensation when we hold fast. When we are faithful to what God has given us to do. This evening, Christian, what do you need to hold fast to? What is the devil maybe gaining back on in the ground in your life? You need to hold fast to that. Don't let the devil take that ground away from you that you gained for Christ. Hold fast to these things. Let us stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Let us hold fast. We need to hold fast as a church. But each individu each individual Christian needs to hold fast. Hold fast to the promises, the verse says there. The promise that He's given us. A promise from God is better than 10,000 promises from God. From men. You know he's going to come through. Is God ever let you down? Then we can hold fast to those promises. As the pianist plays, you do what God wants you to do.