So if you're in Joshua chapter 14, we'll get to our text in just a moment. This is the month of June. You know, the idea kind of just stirred my heart yesterday with regards to men. and the passion and the desire that we have. You know, it's kind of something that's innate in the heart of man that God put there. That we have this this ambition, this desire, this motivation to move forward, to climb higher. Um, you know, if there's a hill there, we've got to go over it. If there's a road or a steep hill, we've got to go down it. You know, you ask a lady why she did something. And she will give you a systematic answer why it was prudent to accomplish the task at this time. You ask a man why he did it, and you'll be. 'cause it was there. a piece of wood and set it on a rock to try and jump it. But then that rock's not big enough. We they gotta find a bigger rock. And then they gotta find a bigger rock. The other day I looked out and uh my boys and some of the boys from the church were sweating women in the pool over there and uh they had taken a two by ten and put it from the ground on top of a trash can And they're running from the yard up up the the two by four, of course, w all wet feet, the wet ground, you know, no running around the pool rules all that they didn't know. They're running up this board and flipping off of this trash can. I mean there's no way that could end bad, right? I mean But but why is it that boys are like that? It's just like oh yeah, let's do this and let's make it bigger and let's make it better and let's go faster and and I mean if you know just pushing the limits And that's kind of like the way men are. They're just driven to accomplish something. It's quite possibly the motivation for the first expedition up any mountain. The mountain was there and some man in that region looked at it and said I've gotta get to the top of that. I gotta conquer it. I gotta I gotta climb that. Well w why? Just because I have to Uh it's there. We gotta get we gotta conquer it. We gotta get to the top. Most of you know that my boys and I were supposed to climb the Grand Teton this year and This year we're not going to be able to do that because of COVID, but uh you know, sometime in the future we'll do it. But let me just tell you, having summited the grand in the past, that there's really an amazing feeling of accomplishment in the victory when you get to the top. When you actually get to summit and accomplish a a task that you set out to do, that you trained and prepared for that takes strenuous strenuous effort and desire and motivation and you make it happen, you finally get to the top, you've conquered that mountain, you got up there. What a sense of victory and of a This morning I want to talk to you about somebody in the Bible who wanted a mountain. Who wanted a mountain We sing that song for Caleb that's I want this mountain. Yeah, that's a fun, it's a fun song. I want this mountain. Well, Caleb wanted his mountain. Look in Joshua chapter 14 and verse number 12. This is where he asks the question, where he states his desire. In chapter 14 and verse number 12 of the book of Joshua, he says the first phrase there is: Now therefore, give me This mountain. Now, therefore, give me this mountain. Would you ask God to speak to your heart as for the next few minutes? I preach on I want that mountain. Dear Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you that you would allow the cares of this world and the burdens of our life to kind of fade into the background. And our hearts and minds to be able to focus on the Word of God. We ask you, Lord, you'd give me liberty to preach. I'm an unworthy vessel, but I'm preaching a worthy book. And Lord, I pray, God, that the Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God would work in the heart of your your people this morning that you would motivate us to see and desire to gain and and uh win the mountaintop for you and Lord we pray that your work would be done in Jesus' name Amen. The mountains in our lives are not the rock formations that stretch into the sky with their snow-capped peaks that we beheld with great grandeur as we look out over the landscapes. But those physical masses of rock stand as pictures of the almost insurmountable challenges that we face daily in our lives. With their heights reaching above the clouds, they stand there calling the heart of men. They stand there calling to be conquered. Well, we all have mountains in our lives. We have things in our lives that seem to be impossible. Things that appear to be as if there is no way we could ascend to their heights The rough terrain makes it is discourages us from trying to accomplish it. The slippery slopes that we would have to ascend motivate us to stay where we are instead of trying to. win the victory, the wind that would surely buffet us as we attempt to accomplish it says it can't be done, and yet in your heart there's a desire to see There is still that ambition that is there, and I hope in your life you've got something that you're looking at Something in your heart that says, I want to conquer this, I want to see victory here, I want to see God do this great thing. Many of you might have mountains in your life that you desire to accomplish or to conquer. Some of you might have a temptation that you're struggling with. You've got something in your life that for a long time now has held you almost captive, and you desire to conquer it. It stands as a mountain before you and you say, I I I've Ascended time and time again, but I've yet to sum it. I've yet to get the victory in this thing in my life. And you desire to conquer that. Maybe this morning there's Some of you that you've faced some financial challenges and you want to get past them. You've looked at it and you said, I've got to get through this, I've got to get these bill paid, I've got to get this debt taken care of, I've got to get this a In my life, and it seems like an insurmountable goal. It seems like a mountain that could not be climbed. And you look at it, and it there's a desire there, but the the end seems so far away Could I tell you this morning there's people in this room that several years ago decided in their heart they were going to get this area of their life under control and they set a goal and they began to trek towards the top of that mountain And it's not something that happens in a week or two. Why that would be easy. But it was years later that finally they summited that mountain. And the debt was paid and the bills were taken care of and the car was paid off and that weight was removed from them. What a sense of victory when you get to the top of that. Amen. Now I know I've been talking at at about ten, twelve miles an hour, and you guys are just listening. But I want you to engage with your mind and with your understanding and hopefully You're stirring in your own heart. What what is it? What mountain do you want to accomplish or get victory over in your life? Maybe you're looking at the will of God for your life and what God wants you to do, and it seems so far away or seems so unaccompl. Accomplishable. Maybe you have a desire to lead somebody to Christ. You say, boy, I would love to be used of God to bring somebody to a place where they realize they're a sinner and they're on their way to hell. But that Jesus Christ came and died for them and and I could point them to the scriptures and faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God and I could be used to bring somebody the saving knowledge of Jesus and you have that desire in your heart but it's It seems so hard. It seems so far away. I don't know what mountain is in your life. Maybe some of you want to be an amazing father. You desire to be an amazing mother. You desire to be the best possible mother or father that you can be. The day in and day out grind of that trek up that hill seems so hard. It just seems like the steep incline's never going to stop. It's not going to get any easier and to be faithful day after day after day and consistent in your life and to love and to lead your children how you should. It just seems like an impossible task. But you desire to accomplish it. Maybe you've got a loved one that needs to be brought to Christ, and you're praying for that. Maybe you've got a child who's away from home or away from God, and you deserve desire for them to come home. It seems like an insurmountable mountain. Could I ask you this morning, is there anything in your life That you truly desire to conquer? Is there anything that you really, really want to grab a hold of and get victory in? This morning I want to help you by giving you the spirit of Caleb from this text, some thoughts about Caleb and how Caleb conquered his mountain. As he said here, give me thy mountain. He had a desire. And he he was able to conquer and to get the mountain that he desired. And so if you this morning are in a place in your life and there's something that you I believe if we implement and put in place the truths from the Word of God that Caleb did in his life, we could do it in ours and we could see victory First of all, in Joshua chapter 14 and verse number 12, he says, Now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the Lord spake in that day. We see here that Caleb asked for his mountain. The Lord had spoken to him. Do you know the story? Joshua and Caleb, they went into the promised land as a spy to check out the land, and they came back, and twelve men went to spy in Canaan, ten were bad and two were good. They came back and they had a good report. They said, Hey, God's promised us the land, let's go get it. And the other ten said, No, there's giants in the land and we can't do it. Well at that time God had promised to Caleb This inheritance. God had promised him this land. And Caleb knew in his heart that it was a promise from God. And the time had come, and he said, Now therefore give me. This mountain. Even though God had promised it to him, he had asked for it. You know God has promised you and I many things. This book right here is full of precious promises of God. Promise after promise after promise in the Word of God that are given to us. Even though the promise was given, Caleb asked for it. I don't understand. I can't give you a great explanation as to why God wants us to go ahead and ask. For we know that God knows what we have need of before we even ask or think it. God knows. Yet he still says ye have not because ye ask not. God wants us to ask He wants us to come to him and to request and and to seek from him the provision or the victory that we desire. God wants to give it to you. Matthew 7. 11 says, if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how How much more so your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him. Ask him. God wants us to ask for it. God wants us to seek Him in prayer and ask God for it. You've got a desire in your life. You've got a mountain that needs to be conquered. You've got some victory you need to get in your life. Are you asking God for it? Are you asking God for it? Again and again and again? Not just once and forget about it, not just two or three times and forget about it, but Continue to ask, the parable of the widow and the weary judge tells us that we're to ask with importunity. We're to ask again and again and again and again. To see God bring that to fruition in our lives. Continue to ask. Continue to ask He asked, and he knew that God was with him, and he knew as long as God was with him, he could do it. Look at verse number twelve again. He says, For thou heardest in that day how the enemy Were there, and that the cities were great and fenced. If so be the Lord be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. He said, hey, as long as God's with me, I'm going to be able to do it. He asked God to give me the mountain. He said, if God's going with me, I'm going to be able to drive this mountain, I'm going to drive these people out. I'm going to be able to accomplish that. that. With God's power, Christian, you can conquer that mountain in your life. You can get victory over that sin in your life You can see someone saved. You can reach that loved one. You can be the father that you need to be, or the mother that you need to be. You can do it Not only did Caleb ask for his mountain, but also he anticipated his mountain. Look in verse number 7, Joshua chapter 14, there, verse number 7, he says, Forty years old was I. When Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me into Kadeshfarnea to spy out the land, and I brought him word again, and it was in So he was 40 years old when he went to spy out the land, when he was sitting in as one of the spies, and he came back with what was in his heart. His heart was to say, God has promised us the land, let's go get it. Amen. Christian, God has promised us many, many, many things. Let's go get it. Amen. God has promised these to us. A lot of times we don't have them because we're we're not asking about it, and we don't have it because we haven't anticipated It. What I'm saying is that he was willing to wait for it. He anticipated the day it would come. He looked longingly for it. He was willing to wait for when it would happen. Look at verse number 10, Joshua 14, verse number 20. He says, and now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years. Ever since the Lord spoke these words unto Moses, which the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. So now Caleb's 85. He was 40 years old when he went to be a spy. Did you see that? Now 40 and 5 years have passed. Now he's 85. Forty-five years. He looked with anticipation for when it would happen. He had a promise from God and he knew that it's what God wanted and he knew that God could do it, and it was in his heart to do it, and he desired it. But he had to wait 45 years. I mean, you get a child just to wait for dinner. When is dinner gonna come? You know they're looking with anticipation. It's like mom I'm hungry. When are we gonna eat? I'm hungry, when are we gonna eat? I'm hungry, when are we gonna eat? I mean, it It's just non stop They're not very patient. They don't want to wait that long for dinner. How long are we willing to look with anticipation? You know, we're we're we're planning this trip. We've been planning this trip to climb this mountain for several years. This was the year it was scheduled. We scheduled it for this year several years ago. We've been looking with anticipation. You know what that's half the half the uh battle, half the fun, looking looking forward to when it's going to happen. You've got a a promise from God. God's given you A promise, are you willing to wait for it? Are you willing to anticipate it? Say, listen, this is gonna happen in faith, I believe, and you and you look. He looked for it for 45 years. It didn't happen in a day or a month. Do you want to see someone saved? Are you praying for it? Are you waiting? Are you willing to wait for it? I think it's I think it's worth the wait. One year, two years What a blessing it was on Thursday night to hear little Sammy, Sammy Kim raise his hand. grandma because she's not saved you know when we were in here I I came into the church when they first came into town and they were in a auditorium here with Miss Amy and uh I came in and I first time I had seen uh Sammy and John for you know since they got back and I came in and talked to him. I hadn't been talking to him for about ten minutes before he told me you know My grandma's not saved. We're praying that she'll be saved. Do you know why he has a burden to see his grandma saved? Because his daddy has a burden. Because they're probably don't ever bow their head for a meal or for for devotions if they don't pray to see Grandma Trust Christ. Are you willing to wait for it? Listen, I believe that God's going to answer Sammy's prayer. I believe that they're going to be able to see Grandma saved. Maybe not this week. Maybe not this year. But I believe God's going to answer that prayer that prayer. Do you have a relationship that you're looking to be restored? You got a a a friendship or a family member that you're estranged from that you look at and say, Boy, I don't know Seems impossible. I don't see how that could ever be restored. It's a mountain we couldn't couldn't possibly uh get get through. But are you asking God? And then are you willing to just wait in anticipation for when God sees that, listen, there's a reason for God's timing. I don't understand it. I can't give you this morning the the ex exact reason or why, but what I know is that's God's timing is always right. Back in 2005, uh I felt like God was stirring my heart and that possibly He I don't know why, but possibly He would want me to pastor So I went to my pastor at the time and I told him, I says, Hey, uh I don't know exactly what God's doing in my heart, but I I think that possibly I'd be a pastor or missionary something like that. And he let me know that, well, if you're if you're going to be heading out, I don't want you leaving in the middle of a school year. This is summertime. I need to get somebody else in for next school year, so uh you've got uh about four or five weeks and I'm gonna need the apartment emptied so I can move somebody else in there to take to take your place next year. That was okay with me. I thought, man, hey, God's doing this quick. I'm ready to go. We loaded all of our stuff in a in a U-Haul that I bought because I didn't know how long it was going to be in the U-Haul. We didn't know where we're going. We had no idea where we were headed, so two-week old baby. Loaded all of our stuff in the U-Haul and we hit the road. I thought, man, God's going to lead us. We're going to drive to the promised land. We're going to drive this U-Haul up into a church parking lot, and they're going to say, looking for Pastor Caleb. I mean I didn't know what God was going to do, but I started sending out resumes and letting people know uh this new uh magnificently talented young preacher was on the market Yeah. Letting them know I was ready and gonna go preach, right? I sent out all these resumes and nobody responded. Nobody was interested in having this new young talented preacher. I was looking, I said, man God, we're traveling, and I actually did candidate during that time at a couple of churches. We had a couple of responses, but whether it was me that didn't feel that that was God's will for me or they said, hey, it's not Not going to work. Whatever it was, God didn't didn't lead during that time. And we were on the road for about six months. Finally I said, man, we've got to get settled somewhere. At least for a year. Let's settle down for a year so Mary can homeschool the kids. We're not living on the road. And you know what? Let's go to Hunt Valley. We prayed about it, sought some advice from several pastors, and decided to come to Hunt Valley and be a help to the young church. It was just over two years old at the time. I was gonna be here for one year. Just help the church for a year and then I'm I'm on God's gonna show me where to go. And I came and I got settled in. We we we I worked really hard during that year and was looking at hey One year we're going to turn this over. I'm going to be out of here. The church is going to go on. And we're looking for God to lead and direct. And one year turned into two, two into three, three into five, five into ten. God still hadn't put me into ministry. Uh I didn't know what God was doing. Just waiting on God's time It took ten years for Hunt Valley Baptist Church to call me for pastor. You guys know that I kind of pushed against it for a couple years, but even that I think is God's time. It's God's timing. I believe it's where God wants me. And I I I cannot imagine being anywhere else I count myself to be the luckiest man in the world and and I just I don't know words can express the privilege that's mine. To pastor God's people, to be used this way, to be at this church, to be with you, the church family. Listen, God's time Time and is perfect. I didn't know what God was doing. I I was getting on the road and I thought, hey, back in 2005, I thought I'm going into the pastorate. Going in to do what God wants me to do. But that wasn't God's time yet. It was ten years later. When God finally led, listen, you want to get married? Wait on God. Wait on God. God's time in his best. God's time at his best. Let God lead. Let God you ask him. You anticipate. But you wait Wait on God. You want to go into the ministry? You want to serve God? Let God lead. I can't explain God's timing, but I can't I can say it's always best. There was a man he was praying to God and he said, God. And God answered him and said, Yes, my son. He said, God, could I ask of thee a question Certainly, my child. God, what is a million years to you? And God said, Oh, a million years is buddy. A second. He said, Lord, could I ask of thee another question? He said, Yes, my son. He said, What is a million dollars to you? He says, Oh, a million dollars to me is but a penny. He said, God, could I have a million dollars? He said, sure. Just a second We don't know what God's timing is. We don't know what God's gonna do and when exactly, but as God's people, we can live Look with anticipation and wait. Wait on God. I'm saying if you've got that mountain in your life that just seems insurmountable and you've been battling with this for a while, you've been looking for victory in this world. For a while, and are you asking God? Are you anticipating? Waiting? I also want you to see that Caleb assaulted his mountain. In Joshua chapter 14, our text, verse number 12, he says, Now therefore give me this mountain whereof the Lord spake in that day. For thou heardest in that day how the Anakims were there and that their cities were great and fenced. If so be the Lord with so be the Lord with with will be with me, then what's the next word? I, right? Then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. You see, God didn't just do it for Caleb. He didn't just say, God, would you give me that mountain? And God said, Oh sure. And he wiped out all the enemies and said, Go ahead and take it. No, God said, I'll give you the power to take it, but you've got to do it. You have got to put forth the effort and the work and put forth the ambition to see it. You see, all through his life, Dav uh Caleb wholly followed after God. You can't just pray and then go your own way. You can't just ask God and say, okay, I'm going to wait for God to provide it. I'm just gonna wait and and I'm not gonna do anything, I'm not gonna do any work, I'm not gonna do any preparation, we're just gonna let God drop it in my lap. You might be waiting for a second. For it for it just to be dropped in your lap. Look at the last phrase of verse number eight. He says, Nevertheless, my brethren, that went up with me made the heart of the people melt. What's that last phrase? But I wholly followed the Lord my God. Look at the last phrase of verse number nine. He says, Because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. Look at the last phrase of verse number 14. Because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. Caleb, his whole life through, followed God. He asked God for it, he anticipated it, he was ready for it, he followed God and did what God wanted him to do. You want to see that mountain conquered in your life? Keep doing right. Keep doing what God wants you to do. You're anticipating it, you're asking God for it, you're waiting on it But while you're waiting, you've got to keep doing right. You've got to keep following after God. You've got to follow God wholly with your heart. Not partially, not just a little bit, not just waiting to To see if God's going to do it for you. And so I don't want to give up on God yet because He might provide this that I'm asking for. No, you've got to wholly follow after God. We've got to follow after God, just as Caleb did. He knew that God could do it and he was willing to. How many of you understand that when you're 85, things don't work like they did when you were 40? It's just not quite the same. Yet you see Caleb here at 85, willing and ready, and actually if you read chapter 15, you'll see that he does go fight the giants. He does go fight these giants. I mean I could see him at forty years old strapping on his armor and getting ready to go and saying, okay, I'm gonna go fight him. But at 85 I'm sure some of his kids were saying, Dad, I'm not sure you should do that. I I don't know. And he's like, no, I gotta go This is promised to me by God. I've got to do it. And he was willing and ready to do it. Here's the point. God promised it to Caleb. Caleb wanted it He asked for it and God empowered him to accomplish it. We've got to do our part We can't just expect God to drop it in our lap just because we've asked. Now, we've got to ask. That's a clear principle in the Word of God. We've got to be willing to anticipate and wait on God for when it comes. But when that time comes we've got to do our part. We've got to do our part to see God bring it through. Caleb went and put a hurt on them giants. He did some work. He put forth effort. He did some labor. You know, a year ago, sat down with my boys and said, okay, next August we're going to climb the Grand. If we're going to climb the grand next August, then we need to start right now with physical fitness training. We need to begin to to climb, we need to begin to walk, we need to begin to exercise. We need to begin to to do some strength training and we need to begin preparing. We we were going Going to not going to be able to now, but we began working out. You've got to put some effort. You want to accomplish it, you've got to put some effort You can't just say, oh, yep, next August I'm going to climb the ground. Been looking forward to it for a long time. Yep, I even asked and and and I'm ready to do it But without it, I mean my boys might have made it up, but I'll guarantee you I wouldn't have made it up without physical training, without preparation. After what I feel like, after just as weekend there's no way I would be making it up to grand. When we found out we couldn't do it, we stopped the physical fitness That that that goal is no longer there. We're gonna put it off a little bit. But what I'm saying is we gotta do our part. Does that make sense? So Caleb asked for his mountain. He anticipated and looked for his mountain. He assaulted his mountain when the opportunity came. If you've got a mountain Mountain in your life. I don't know what it is. I've given you a lot of different things. These tasks that look insurmountable. These things that we think there's no way we can do it. But we learned some lessons. This morning from Caleb on how we can trust God and actually get victory in our lives. Would you stand with Your heads bowed and your eyes closed as we have a moment of invitation. I'm going to ask the pianist to come and to play the Word of God. You listen to the Word of God this morning. Let God's word speak to your heart. Do what God wants you to do. Are you willing to fight to have the victory? Are you willing to fight to gain the mountain that you desire? It's in your heart. There's a passion there, there's a desire to see victory. But how bad do you want it? Oh, I want victory, but I'm not going to get off the couch. I want to accomplish this, but I'm not going to study my Bible. Why I want to I want to see my relationship restored, but I'm not ready to pray. Ask God for it, anticipate it, and then assault it. Get after it. Do what God wants you to do.