Turn your Bibles to 1 John chapter number 4 as we get into the Word of God this evening. And we're going to look at another one of the admonitions found in The scriptures regarding led us. With fact of the matter is that we are influenced by others, and others are influenced by us. That's how life works. That's just the way it is. The first time that you see this idea, the earliest mention of the admonition to let us that you see in the Word of God is actually found in Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 26. When God the Father is talking to the Godhead, and he says, Let us make man in our image. He is talking to God to God the Son and God the Holy Spirit and he says, Hey, uh let us make man in our image. The idea of this encouragement to participate in a particular activity You get those people who are of a like mind and who are of a like spirit and you you gather them together and say, hey, let's do this. Let's go let's go get involved in this. Let's let's participate in this And that is something that we see throughout the Word of God. Now, not always from the standpoint of a positive action. Occasionally in the scriptures, there are those that would uh encourage others to do wrong, just as like you see with the c with the with the rioting and and the uh l looting that's out there today when where one man by himself probably uh very unlikely would throw a chair through the front of a store and run in there and get what he wants. if he was the only one. But because there is a large group of people, and they're all participating in this activity, there is that mutual a uh a spirit of let's do this together and they all get in there. They encourage one another, even though it's in a wrong activity. In the Word of God sometimes you you find the children of Israel in Numbers chapter 14 that they said uh they didn't like living in Egypt or living in the wilderness anymore and they said, hey, let us make a captain and let us return to Egypt. Well they obviously weren't supposed to return to Egypt. That's not what God had for them, but they were trying to encourage each other that way. Throughout the book of Numbers, many times you find people trying to encourage the children of God to they say, Let us serve other gods. Often you find that phrase, let us serve other gods. So there's this this idea, this uh encouraging of one another even in a wrong activity. But I pray that we as God's people would want to and desire to encourage each other always in a positive way. Amen? Let us never be one who would say, Hey, let us skip church tonight. Hey, let us stop reading our Bible. Hey, let us not be a soul winner. Let us not be a witness. Hey, let us Do this. Let us go down here to this part of town. It's a bad part of town. Or let us go over to participate in this activity. I pray as God's people. We would never do that, although occasionally we fall ourselves. I pray, hey, listen, be not many teachers, because a teacher has a greater condemnation, and if we lead people astray, we're going to be held accountable for it. We need to be headed in the right direction and encourage each other, and that's what we're trying to do with this series on Let Us. So we see tonight the admonition is let us love one another in 1 John chapter number 4 and verse number 7. He says, beloved, let us love one another. That's what we need to do as God's people. Love one another. There this passage of scripture actually starts. It's uh entitled or given the the description of the love of God. And it starts there in verse number seven and goes down through verse number twenty one. We're going to cover a lot of stuff about this passage of scripture tonight, so I want to read it quickly if you'll follow along with me. He says, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. In this was manifest the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world. That we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us. And he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time if we love one another. God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfect in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us Of his Spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed that the love that God hath to us, God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world There is no fear in love, but perfect love passeth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. If a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he's a liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen How can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God loveth His brother also. Let me give you tonight three thoughts with regards to this admonition. Let us love one another. First of all, I want you to see the reason The reason, why should this be something that we as Christians do? First of all, because it is the very essence of God. It is the essence of who God is. In verse number eight, he says, He that loveth. not knoweth not God, for God is love. This is who God is. This is God's nature. This is Not love just doesn't necessarily come from God, but it is who God is. God is love. And beloved, just as we At the moment of our salvation, we receive the new nature. We receive that nature from God. Old things are passed away and all things are become new. At the moment of salvation, my God consciousness was reborn, born again. That part of me that was dead, that knew not God, that was separated from God, my God consciousness was reborn, given back to me. I was born again. That's what it talks about. And we are known, uh, we know and understand spiritual things before salvation. Spiritual things are not discerned discerned by the natural man. So the spiritual man is able to discern those spiritual things because now we have a spiritual nature. So we have our physical nature, that nature that we were born with, but that that that natural man, but we also have God's nature. Given to us. And God, the essence of God's nature is to love. If we are going to be like Him, we are going to love. Now, just as I am like my Father. I was given my father's genes. And I can blame it on him, right? That I'm a sinner. Because I was given his sin nature too. That was handed down to me. But you know what? I have a lot more than just the sin nature I got from my dad. I've got a lot of mannerisms that are very much like my dad. I've got a lot of speech patterns that are like my dad. I've got a terrible memory and bad eyesight like my dad. We could go down the list. I've got a lot of things that are just like my dad. I'm actually more like my dad than any of my other brothers. And you know, when I was a teenager, that would have really bothered me. Because the last person in the world that I wanted to be like when I was a kid was like my dad, right? I mean as a teenager, nope, you're you're you know, you're cool, you're chilling like a villain, you got nothing to worry about. Last thing you want to do is be like your dad. But Alas, God has a sense of humor, and he has gifted me with much of my dad's personality. Which there's many good things about that, and I don't want to tell you what the good things are because they're good about me too. Amen. I got some good things for my dad, but I have my dad's nature. And beloved, if we are given God's nature. We're gonna love. Because that's who God is. That is who God is. If we have that spiritual nature, it's the very essence of God. I want you also to know, beloved, that we are given the example. Not only is it the essence of God, and not only is it who God is, but we are given the example by God of how to love and what love is. In verse number 9 and verse number 10, he says, in this was manifest the love of God toward us because that God Sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through Him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us, and sent His Son to be the perpetuation for our sins. Beloved, God sent his son to us. You know that in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You didn't go searching for God. God went searching for you. You and I were the offenders. Yet God sought us out. God didn't say sitting up in heaven with his arms kicking back and well if they come groveling to me, I'll consider forgiving them. That is the spirit of most people today, the idea that, well, uh, they offended me. And if they come And confess and forsake and humbly show enough contrition, then I'll consider forgiving them. That's not what love is. Jesus Christ gave us the example of love. God gave us the example of love when he sent His son. We were the guilty party, yet God sent his son anyway. And listen, beloved, if you were if you would quit looking for uh you would start looking for restitution instead of retribution It would do you some good. It would do you some good. We need to search out and seek. Hey, you go to Matthew chapter number 18. What does it say? If thy brother offend thee, go to him. You see, if somebody else, you say, well he offended me, he needs to come to me. That's not what Matthew 18 says. If thy brother offend thee, go to him. That's what the Bible says we're supposed to do, and that's the example given to us by God. By God. That's what love is. If you really love your brother, you're going to seek him out. God sent his son. God sacrificed his son. What an example of love. Love, beloved, is not glib. It's not like the world's love today, you know, we say, Oh, I love ice cream. Oh, I I love this, I love that. We got all these things that we love. You understand there's nothing wrong with that, but what I'm saying is the love that we're talking about here is love that's much greater than that. It goes way beyond that. It's not just glib. It's not just commonplace. Because real love must give. Real love. Jesus Christ sacrifice, God sacrificed. One of the most recognized slogans in the world, and you tell me where it's from, when you care enough to send the very best. Hallmark. Hallmark Cards. Ed Goodman, the sales and marketing executive of Hallmark Cards, sat in the office one day and jotted down the idea. What does Hallmark stand for? And he came up with that slogan that is known across the world today. When you care enough to send the very best, I want you to know God sent his very best. And his very best gave himself. He laid his life down, it was not taken from him. He gave himself real love. The example given to us by God is that we give. We are willing to sacrifice. It's the opposite of selfishness. One deacon living in a Brookshire town. was hard at work one day out in his field, he was picking apples that had to get to market, and somebody stopped by and said, uh, Deacon so-and-so, and I don't know the name of the deacon, but he said, sir, sir, would you please stop and spend a few minutes and and and spend some time praying for a family in town? You see, the father has fallen and broken his leg. He's not going to be able to earn money to buy food for this week, and they're going to be starving, and there's nothing that we know what we can do for them. Would you please stop and pray for them? And the deacon said, Sir, I simply cannot stop and pray right now. I must get these apples to market before close of day. But what you are welcome to do is go down into my cellar and get some ham and get some eggs and uh get get some uh some rice and get some flour and get some sugar and you can take that to them. That's what you can do. That's what I can do. You see, real love gives. You see, he said, I couldn't I can't stop and pray. I will pray for them. I will later, but right now I've got to do this. But hey, I can I can meet the need. God has given me the ability to do that. If you just go down to my cellar, I'll I will I will give. You see, it's the opposite of selfishness. Love is not out to get. Love is out to give. This is contrary into opposite to the world's mentality and the world's philosophy today. Most people enter relationships because of what they want to get out of it. This is one of the reasons why so many marriages are struggling today, because it's about what he is doing for me or what she is doing for me. But real love seeks to give, not to get, by the example that we're given by Jesus Christ. The Hollywood mentality when it comes to love is Backwards. In the world society today, we've got a lot of young people in here right now. Let me tell you something. A young man That wants to partake of something that's not his before the marriage altar doesn't love you. That's just lust and he just wants that for himself. Oh, he'll use the word love. He'll say how much he loves you and talk about if you love him so much, young lady, then you'll give yourself to him and you'll give up and sacrifice that one thing That is yours, it's precious, it's given to you by God, and be able to keep and give it to your husband on your marriage altar that day, and you'll sacrifice and lose that To a selfish boy who is not doesn't love you. Doesn't love you at all. You're just looking for satisfaction. I read this story uh uh uh this week about uh gives a good example to this. There was a man walking through his his orchard in uh Florida and he grabbed one of those beautiful succulent oranges off of the uh off of the tree He pulled out his pen knife and he drilled a hole down to the center of that orange, and then he held it up to his mouth and squeezed and he drank all that wonderful juice out of the orange and He he sucked it almost dry and he threw the orange on the ground and he said, Man, I love oranges. Young lady, that's what that young boy is doing when he when he when he takes you. It's not about love, it's about lust. And I want to encourage every one of you, young ladies and you men to not be that kind of a boy. Real love gives, real love doesn't want to take. The world's mentality is to look at it and say, What can I get? What can I get? This is for me, this is for me. How does she make me feel? Real love is concerned about her, real love is concerned about him. Beloved, the reason that we love is because it is the essence of God and the example that He has given us. And in verse number 11, beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Amen. We have this amazing example given us to by God and an admonition to say, hey, if that's the example If that's how God loves us, that's how we should love one another. But let me ask you, have you ever met somebody that was hard to love? Some of you are saying, yeah, he's talking right now. He's preaching to us. Yeah, well There's a recipe for how to love the unlovable. There's a recipe on how to love that one that's hard to love. And there there is individuals that we come across and that we deal with and in especially in the ministry or in the house of God, sometimes we we say, boy, that person just rubs me the wrong way. Boy, that person just really gets under my skin, or whatever it is, and opposed to trying to escape from them or get away from them, we need to use the recipe that God's given us and allow us to love them in and through the power of God. I want you to see it, beloved. First of all, no man has in themselves the ability to love like that without the grace of God. Verse number seven says, For love is of God. Love is of God This God is love, but that love comes from Him too. And without Him, we don't have the ability to love beyond our human nature. Was not just created by him as everything else is created by him, but in fact is part of him. He's not just the source, but he's actually the substance of love. Therefore, only those who are born of God can truly love as God wants us to love. I know that you understand love is a decision. Not a feeling. In many of our relationships, we need to commit to the action and let the attitude come later. We need to commit to the action to display our love, as in he hath commended his love toward us. He hath showed his love. He hath displayed his love toward us, and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us Commit to the action and let the attitude come later. Commit to the decision to express and show the love of God, even though the individual is not very lovable. Because we have the nature of God, every man with God has the ability to love everyone. It is given to us by God. Look in verse number 12. He says, No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. And his love is perfect in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us because he hath given us Look at the phrasing here. What does it say? Of his spirit. We know at the moment of salvation that we are given the Spirit of God. But God tells us right here that He gives of His Spirit to us. The Spirit, some of his ability to love like that, is given to you and I as Christians. That ought to thrill your soul, that ought to give you encouragement, because we don't have to love that individual ourselves the next time somebody offends you, the next time somebody does something that rubs you the wrong way, the next time it's hard to love somebody. You can say no no no you can say, God help Let's say it like this. God, would you love them through me Because it's of God's spirit of love that we're enabled to love others God, would you love that person through me? Wow That'll put you under conviction. If we would literally before God with a heart sincere, And say, God, in my flesh is hard. In my flesh, I can't hardly talk to this person But God, would you love them through me? Whatever you've got to do, God, just show them your love. His love, not your love. It's not about us, it's about Him. God, whatever you've got to do to show them your love, would you do it through me? That's how somebody who was through the Holocaust Could walk up to their torturer and extend a warm handshake and say they forgive them. Because it was not about them, it's about showing God's love through them. Every man that has God has the ability to love every man Beloved, when we live at odds with one another, we are rejecting God's nature in us. And embracing our own. When we live at odds with one another, we rejecting his spirit that he wants to give to us and embracing our own. Let us love one another. Because the results are too important to go without It's too valuable for us as God's people to reap the results of loving as God wants us to, for us to live outside of this realm of blessing. Beloved, love is the most powerful emotion in the world. Love will make a sane man go stupid. Love will, I mean, how many dumb things has a guy done for love? Love will make a man who's lost his mind find it again. I mean love is a powerful emotion that God wants us to experience and to have. Love will give you peace in the day of judgment. Look at verse number 17. He says, Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment. Because as he is, so are we in this world. Beloved, in the day of judgment, when we stand before God, we'll have peace. Because we know God. Because we know God's love. We'll stand there. We know our names written down in the in the Lamb's Book of Life. We won't have to tremble in fear as those that are standing there that do not know God. That love that we know God has for us will bring peace in the day of judgment. When God's judgment falls, when we stand before Him and the books are opened, Christians will be able to be bold, but those that without Christ will tremble. It gives us power in the face of fear, verse number 18. He says, there is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. Because fear hath torment, and he that feareth is not made perfect in love. Beloved, love and fear coexist only where love is not yet perfect. He hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of love. In a sound mind. I know love's not perfect in all of us yet. Because he's still working on us. But love casteth out fear. That love removes fear. We can face death without fear I heard remotely, not directly from Hannah. But What a testimony of her mother's homegoing. And how she said the peace of God in her heart and in her face It was though the glory of the Lord was shown round about her. As she was passing from this life to the next. From what I understand, Hannah's words were saying, if I didn't believe in heaven I would before this, I would I would now. Because of seeing that peace. Beloved, when you know God, God's love casteth out fear. You can face death without fear, you face judgment without fear, you face hardship. without fear. Love, beloved, is the foundation. It is the function of all other graces. First Corinthians chapter 13, 13 says, and now abideth faith, hope, and charity, these three, but the greatest of these Is what? Charity. Charity. Love. Why? I think because it is the essence of God. Beloved, just as when you are constructing a large building, you have finished carpenters that come in and they do the trim work and they do the painting. and they do the carpeting and they make everything look beautiful. But you know before they did all that you had your rough end carpenters? The roughing carpenters had to come in and they had to put up all the studs. and your electrical crew had to come in and put in the electric and the plumbing crew had to put in the plumbing, the HVAC crew had to put in the HVAC. But you know before that you had a foundation crew. They had to establish and build a foundation, but you know before that you had to have a plan. You had to have an architect An engineer, somebody that gave a design, here's where all of your labor's going. This is what ultimately all of your effort each and every day invested into this project is going to produce this Beloved, that's what love is for the Christian. It gives us direction. The love of Christ constraineth us. For all the activity and the effort that we do in church and all the work that we do around God's house and all the effort to pass out John of Romans or the money given to send out the flyer this week or or everything it's all why? Because of the love of God. That guiding principle for all that we do. Beloved, because it has a powerful testimony before the world. John chapter 13 and verse number 35 says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye love one another. What a powerful testimony before the world if we love one another. In those great old steamships, they used to have huge boilers. It was impossible to take the cap off of a boiler, you understand it's under pressure. And there's no way to look in the boiler to see how much water was in there. And if a boiler runs dry, it will explode. You've got to keep you've got to maintain the water level, but of course it's steam driven, so steam is evaporating the water. You had to watch the water levels very closely. You couldn't looking there to see the water level, but there was a little glass vial over here off to the side. And they could go over and they could look at this glass vial and wherever the water level was on this vial told them where the water level level was in a boiler And beloved, that's what we have in our love for one another. You say, how much do I love God? Did you look at the glass vial? The glass vial is how much do you love your brother You can't go over and look in the boiler, and maybe you can't see. Well, how much do I love God? But you've got this glass vial, you've got this gauge over here that's ever-present. How much do you love one another? This is a testimony that stands before the world that's powerful. How many of you understand that the world is looking for love? They just want to be accepted. They just want to be loved. They just want to be welcomed. They just want to belong to something. And beloved, the church should be the easiest place where they are able to come and find unrestricted, unmitigated love. Yet why is so much of the world finding that belonging and finding that love in community organizations that don't know God? They're finding it in places out there, activities. It might not even be sin. It's just events and activities out in the community. Other things that they could be doing, but it does not offer them Jesus Christ. The church ought to be the place where that love is evident. And it's most evident in how we love one another It is the love of God that saves a sinner from hell. It is the love of God that will bring a hardened, antagonistic man Who is proud and full of himself to a position or a place of humility before God where he's ready to confess his sins and humble himself before God. Why? Because of the love of God. And if that love is the love that God has for us, how much more should we love one another? Beloved, I feel like I'm preaching to the choir tonight I feel like we have a church that loves one another. We've had many people in the church come to me over the last 11, 12 weeks now and say, hey, is there anybody in the church that has a need? Not one, not two, not three, not four. Many people in the church come and said, Is there anybody in the church that has a need that that we could read that we could read? Let me know if there's somebody that has a need. And I pray that I praise God for His protection and God's provision on the church family. And not that everybody is without any incidence or everybody's without any needs, but as I talk to people, they say God's been good. God's been good, but I'm telling you the expression of love between God's family is an encouragement. I'm thrilled to see that. I'm so thankful for those of you that invest time and energy and effort to love our senior saints Whom we can't even really see right now. A week ago, a group of people went down and sang uh happy birthday to Brother Nash for his 90th birthday. He came out on the porch and man you can just imagine the joy in his heart. But do you know what kind of testimony that was to the people in the nursing home? I'm saying when you love one another, it's a powerful testimony. It's a powerful testimony to the world. Beloved, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed. And in truth. And I think you're already doing it. I just want to encourage you to keep it up, to love one another. Amen. To let it go beyond just conversation or to say hello or to just, oh yeah, I love my church family. But to be willing to give. To seek out, to sacrifice. There was an American walking down the streets of China in a Chinese city one day, and there he saw the children now playing, and a number of the children and playing actually were carrying on their backs a small bundle and as he got closer he realized that the bundle on the on on the back of this little boy was actually a child. And they're out playing their games and they're trying to run and trying to play and the whole time he's he's holding this bundle and keeping him safe and and everything and he's playing it and he goes up and he talks to the boys for a minute and he tells the one holding the bundle on his back he says I'm so sorry that you have to play while you're holding And the the man uh he said, Well you're holding this burden. And the boy said, He's not a burden. He's my brother. The boy didn't think anything of it. No, he's not a burden. He's my brother. And how often do we feel that we would be glad to be rid of that burden? That brother or sister in Christ. And instead of having the spirit of that child and say he's not a burden, he's my brother. They're no burden. No. I'm glad to be able to love them with the love of God. Beloved, let us love One another. Dear God, we come to you and I ask you that you would help us to have this spirit always about us Lord, we do get caught up in our lives and we get distracted by our own activities many times while people around us need the love of God. And I pray, God, that we would show, display the love of God. Help us to love the unlovable in and through the power of God by that spirit that you've given to us Lord, we thank you for the thoughts from your word this evening, and how they speak to our hearts. We ask you to make them real in our lives now. In Jesus' name. Amen.