Amen. Well, I didn't remember as soon as Pastor Derek began to I wanted to talk briefly about Easter Sunday and the fact that we had a service here and And uh, you know, the drive in service. I don't know uh did you get a count how many cars were here? Thirty. Thirty, we had thirty cars here. I figured it was probably somewhere around thirty and uh Uh you know, I did wasn't expecting it to be packed, um, but it was enjoyable. It was definitely different. Um not something that we want to do on a regular basis. It was very difficult for me to preach. Um to hopefully if you were at home streaming the audio it didn't come through that way. But uh it was it was hard, but it was a good service. I was glad that we did it. It was something It's certainly an experience. And uh but what we want to do, I think, is we want to get an FM transmitter and uh we can put it here, hook it to the system. and it'll be available for any service. We'll hold the service just like we do now. We'll stream it. I'll preach from here. But the FM transmitter will be broadcasting out into the parking lot for any service. service and anybody that wanted to come for the service and just sit in a parking lot and turn on your radio and listen to the service, you you're here, you're on site. Uh and there's some people that don't have the means or the ability to stream. And so that would be available for them to come sit in the parking lot, listen to the service like that. Some people are on a limited data plan on their phones and obviously they're they're using all their data up and streaming the services and so that would be available to them and that kind of so that's uh an option that we're looking at doing we'll let you know when that gets in place. So that's something I wanted to let you know about. Well, there's people all over the country streaming our services. And Uh one of those folks is my mother-in-law and uh father-in-law. So I have a mother-in-law joke for you. No, I'm just kidding. I always tell those in honor of her when she's in town. So they're streaming their services. Now their services are on Wednesday, so they're streaming theirs on Wednesday, streaming ours on uh Thursday. And uh but last week she sent a text to Mary and she said, For somebody firing on only four cylinders, uh your husband did a great job. Now she's a little biased, but uh you remember last week I just was not I felt like I was in a fog or something, didn't feel like I I really had things together. But the Lord did give grace last week. He really did help me and and I had liberty to preach and I was pleased. And God blessed, I think. And so hopefully the Lord will do the same again tonight. Turn your Bibles to 1 Chronicles chapter number 19. 1 Chronicles chapter number 19. The fact of the matter is that we are all affected by what others and what other people do. You see that so prevalently in society today. How quickly people are adapting to what's going on. You know, the wearing of the mask and the gloves and and the don't touch anything and and keep your social distancing and And the more people that embrace this, the more people other people feel like, oh, maybe I should have a mask on, oh, maybe I should have gloves on, maybe I should you know, get wrapped in bubble wrap. Maybe I should uh it's just that influence of other people. It's the fact that it's it's the way of life. It's what it is. There's no way around it. How many stories have you heard that started out something like this Well, I wasn't going to do it, but then Billy said uh and then of course the story ends like this, where mom and dad look at him and say, Well, if Billy would jump off a building, are you gonna do that too? Right? It's basically talking about the influence of other people on our lives. And that's exactly what we're talking about in the idea of let us Now there's no question that we are faced with standing against sin and encouragement to do wrong on every hand. It starts when we're very young and it literally never stops. Through all of our life, that's something we've got to learn to do is to stand against worldly influences, influences that would pull us away from God Now, all through the scriptures, there are many examples of people using this same admonition that we've been looking at to encourage people to do wrong. For instance, those that were building the Tower of Babel They said, Let us make brick and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone And slime, and they they formed mortar, and they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven. They said, Let us build this tower. They they gathered the people together and said, Hey, let's all do this. Come on, let's do it. Let's get this tower built. Let's go. And they raised themselves up uh without God in the wor And uh above what they wanted to lift themselves up by the encouragement to do wrong. Abraham's girls, when they were planning to sin. They talked among themselves and they said, Come, let us make our father to drink wine, and we will lie with him that we may preserve the seed of our Father. Encouraging one another. How many brothers and sisters have encouraged one another to do wrong? Oh, mom and dad aren't home. Come on, let's play with this fire. Oh, mom and dad won't care. Let's let's let's turn this on. Oh, let's do this. And and the usually the the conservative child is kind of like, I don't know if we should do that. And the other one or the other two were like, no, no, no, it'll be fun, don't worry about it. Mom, it's not not nothing's gonna happen. And then mom and dad come home to, you know burnt holes in the living room floor or whatever and you're just praising God the house didn't get burned down. Uh you know, those things. And well how did that happen? How did that hole get in the wall? Um well uh we were yeah That admonition, Joseph's brothers, when they were planning to do him harm, they said, Come now, therefore, let us slay him and cast him into some pit. And we will say, Some evil hath befallen him. They went on and said, Let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. So what I'm saying is all through the scriptures you see this encouragement to do wrong, but praise God, there are many examples in the scriptures of those that are encouraged to do right with the same type of admonition. Which is what we're going to look at this evening. So let us, the title of tonight's message is Let us Behave Valiantly. Behave Valiantly. Our text verse for this evening, 1 Chronicles 19, verse number 13, he says, Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly. For our people, for the cities of our God, and let the Lord do that which is good in his sight. So I want to describe for you here, just kind of look at this text. If we back up to the beginning, I want to kind of just walk through and lay down for you the the context so you have an understanding of why he would say this. Why would this come out? What is the the context of this conversation? So in Verse number one and two, we see there's a change in the kingdom. The former king had died, and the son is taking over. And David decides to show kindness. To Naash. He says here, now it came to pass after this that Naash, the king of the children of Ammon, died, and his son reigned in his stead. And David said, I will show kindness unto Hanan, who the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me. And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of David came unto the land of the children of Ammon and Hadan to comfort him. So that was his objective, that was his goal. But We don't know what was done to David or for David. It's not recorded for us what instance took place that made David decide to be kind. To the son of this king. Quite possibly it was something that he had done for him when David was on the run from King Saul. For King Saul's very first victory, I believe in chapter 11 of 1 Samuel, his very first battle and victory over enemy was against Hadan's father, Nahash. And David would have been on the run, and quite possibly David and this king both being enemies of Saul of sort might have he might have found some comfort there for a little while. I don't know, but s what I'm what I want to say is that you don't know how far even a small measure of kindness will go. Something that you that David that this king did many, many years ago was brought back, and now David was going to show kindness. Because of that kindness shown many years ago. You have no idea how far-reaching it is and what will happen down the road, and let me just encourage you, especially in today's day and age, to be a person that shows kindness. We see though in verse number three that there's a suspicious nature. But the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hayan Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, that he hath sent comforters unto thee? Are not his servants come unto thee for to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land? They said, boy, this is just a ploy. You really think Ken David just sent somebody over here to be nice to you? I don't think so. This was a trick. They want to overflow the overthrow the land. Listen, it does great harm when people live with a suspicious nature. You've got to be careful about that suspicious nature. Many times It's a person that is guilty of the sin in which they are accusing others of, because the liar cannot believe that other people do not lie. The thief does not believe that it's not everybody's nature to just steal what they want. So many times the one that's accusing those of coming and being this way and being conniving and secretive or whatever is probably because that was their nature. Their goal in coming to the king there was really probably wrapped up in the fact that they were trying to impress him. They were conniving and trying to work their way into the with the king and and they got it all wrong and you'll see that they cost the king. In verse number four, the king of the Ammonites took the men that David had sent and publicly shamed them He took their pride, embarrassed them, and left it, left their pride in the dirt. He says in verse number four, wherefore Hanaan took David's servants, And shaved them, cut off their garments in the midst, hard by their buttocks, and sent them away. They shaved the beard off of them. To be clean shaven was a mark of a slave A beard was a mark of a free man, of a man's man. It was valued, and to have your beard shaven was like the greatest disgrace that could happen to you And then it's very descriptive here in this passage of Scripture that they removed the bottom half of these men's clothing. They left them exposed for the world to see. Now in today's world where people run around half naked all the time, that might not seem like that big a deal. But in that day and age, men were covered, and there was such a thing as nakedness, and it was a shame for you not to for you not to be covered. And for them to do this to them publicly, just shame them to no end It was an insult to them, but also it was an insult to the king that they represented. You need to remember that because we're going to get back to it. Verse number five, the foolish response of these men does not detract from the noble nature of David's actions. You see David's nature come through in verse number five where the wisdom he shows is he shows respect and care for these men. He says, then There went certain and told David how men were served, and he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return. He could have brought them back home and he could have put them on display and said, Look at what this king did to our men He could have used them to stir up everybody and to get everybody on fire and angry to go fight this battle. But he didn't do that. He respected these men. He said, listen, you stay. Until your beer beards are grown. There's no reason for you to bear any more shame. You stay, and I'll things at home will be taken care of until you till your beard is grown and you can come back You see his care and concern for them. In verse number six, the enemy saw that David's anger was kindled against them. It's an unusual word there. He says, and when the children of Amnon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, that word literally means deserving of hatred. Deserving of hatred. They saw that what they did was deserving of hatred. And so The children of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemens out of Mesopotamia and out of Sarah and out of Zobath. They sent them these this money to basically raise an army because they were afraid of David. In verses 7 through 12, the battle lines were drawn. They're established. Joab goes into battle with all the mighty men of Israel. And he he comes into the battle and it describes there how the battle was before him and behind him. They were surrounded by the enemy, soldiers from Syria on one hand, and the children of Amnon on the other. Well, Joab wisely sets the battle in array and he says, hey, listen, what what we're going to do here is I'm going to take the best men because the Syrians were known as fierce fighters. The Syrians were known as brutal people. Then everybody else, you're gonna go with my brother, and you're gonna fight the the people of Ammon. And he says, Whichever one is winning, Send any guys you got free to come help the other one. So as soon as you've got things under control, turn around and help the one that's failing. And we're going to go into battle here. They made this agreement. If I need help, I'll come and help you. If you need help, you come and help me. And then out of his mouth came the expression of true valor that we see here. He says to these men as they're set in battle, these men that are ready to fight, they are surrounded on both sides by a huge, magnificent army. He says to them, be of good courage And let us behave ourselves valiantly. Wow. I like that word, valiantly. There's just something manly about that word, valiantly. It goes beyond courage. It goes beyond just being brave. I want you to see three things tonight as we talk about this and the time that we have. First, I want you to see the conduct of valiant men. How are we to behave ourselves valiantly? First the conduct of valiant men. The true importance of this in this day and age is most important indeed. Today, I mean if you think about the day and age in which this battle was faced. Today when people go to battle there really is something about what weapons you have. I mean there's there there's certainly a uh Deficiency or a a discrepancy between uh people on the battlefield based on what weapons they've got. Back here in this time, when they went to battle, it was literally man against man with essentially the same thing. Sword and shield and the need for men to behave valiantly was necessary. It was of true importance In life, it is not the dreamer of valiant deeds who wins the prize, but the men who step in the ring The one who engages in battle, the man who would be valiant, must do so by action, not just talk. How are we to behave ourselves valiantly? It's not just to think about all the good things that we could do. It's not just to dream about the ambitions, endeavors we could do for Christ. Boy, wouldn't it be great if we could see this happen? Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could see that happen? Oh boy, I sure would love to see the church grow. Boy, it would be wonderful if we saw so many people saved. Boy, it would be these are dreams Where's the actions? Where's the actions? Where are their feet to those dreams? The conduct of a valiant man goes beyond just dreams, but to actions. It is beyond bravery, beyond courage. It literally means heroic or honorable To be valiant is to be heroic, to be honorable, to behave valiantly is not a matter of how one feels, but a choice that one makes. A choice that we make to decide, to determine that we are going to behave valiantly. Where are the heroic men and women today? Where are the men and women of honor today that behave themselves valiantly in their deeds and in their actions? Valiant men are men that go beyond the ordinary, like Abraham, who was willing to leave everything he knew. To go to a land that he knew not of, to be obedient to his father. He was willing to take his only son and lay him on an altar. To be obedient to God. Beyond the ordinary. A valiant men goes beyond the ordinary. Christians as a whole today want less to do, not more. Christians as a whole today, as a general rule, want lower standards, not higher standards. Christians, as a general rule, today want everything easier instead of harder. That's something that comes across in every part of our life. But I ask you. What would Christ do? I don't know anywhere in the New Testament that Christ lowered the standard. I don't know where anywhere in the New Testament that Christ made it easier. I thought he said, take up your cross and follow me. I thought he told them pretty clearly that, hey, you're going to suffer persecution. This is going to be hard. But if you love me, keep my commandments. We need to be willing to go beyond the ordinary, and ordinary Christianity today is slovenly, it's slothful, it's lazy, it's casual, it's hidden myths, it's whatever feels good. But God wants something more than that from us. And we are going to be men and women that behave ourselves valiantly. We're going to go beyond the ordinary of the day. And we're going to stand out. We're going to stand up and be counted for Jesus Christ. Valiant men give of themselves, like Esther, who is willing to lay down her life for her people. For such a time as this, God put her in a place that she had a job to do, and she said, If I die, then I die, but I've got to at least try to do something for my people. She was willing to give of herself, and valiant men are willing to give of themselves. Most young people today are not concerned with what they can do for others. Their only concern is with what they want. Their life is consumed with what they want, how they want to spend their time, what they want to eat, what games they want to play, what activities they want to be involved in. And anything that they don't want to do is a drudgery and a nightmare. And anybody that doesn't provide or meet or give to the young people of today What their expectations are, the young are upset with them. Where are the young men? The young women? Who have a desire to behave valiantly. To give of themselves. Not about what I can get or about what I want. What can I do for somebody else? Valiant men are not okay with mediocrity. I think of Daniel and the other Hebrew children who would not defile themselves with the king's meat. But they were found ten times better. Where are the men and women who want to be found ten times better? Who aren't content and willing to be counted with the average? To be mediocre in their Christianity. The fact is, as you are right now, or soon shall be, what your friends are. You hang around mediocre Christians, you're going to be a mediocre Christian. You spend time and hang around with the world? You will be worldly. You spend time and hang around with the slovenly, casual crowd, and you'll be slovenly and casual in your Christianity. Mm valiant men do what they ought to do. I think of peace Peter in John, who told those Jewish leaders that they could not stop preaching in the name of Jesus because they were to obey God rather than man. In the face of being imprisoned and being tortured, being punished, they said, we must obey God rather than men. They did what was right. Valiant men do what's right. just concluded in our family devotions reading the story of Eric Liddell. He had a way about him in his life That drew people to him. A character about him and a consistency in his life that shocked those around him. He was a true sportsman. That many people were almost uncomfortable with. It was not common for the day of a practice, but many times as they started a race Eric would walk down the line and he would wish them success. It became such a habit of his that the Racers on the line came to expect it. At the beginning of each race, he would pass by and wish them success. He would never wish them good luck because he did not believe in luck. And he made it known he believed the winner of that race would be the result of what God wanted. So he wished them good success. And racer after racer said they believed it to be a true expression of of Eric's heart that they would do their best and who God would want to finish across that across that finish line would cross the finish line first. Eric had prepared for and was the fastest hundred-meter racer possibly in the world at the time. Certainly he was the only chance for Scotland to win a gold medal in the nineteen twenty-four Olympics. Only when the race schedule came out for the hundred meter race. They found it was to be held on Sunday, and Eric said, I will not race. He didn't think about it. He didn't Crunch his hands. He didn't Boy what am I gonna do? Oh no, the race is on Sunday and and I'm supposed to race and I'm I'm the only chance for a gold medal and I'm not sure. I mean, should I do it? Should I not do it? He didn't Immediately, without hesitation, he says, I won't race. He wasn't upset about it. He wasn't angry. He didn't have this bad attitude about everything. He just said, Oh, well, no, I'm just not going to race. And the director of the athletic division there for Scotland understood and he knew Eric had never raced on Sunday and he wasn't going to change now. Eric said, I will not race on Sunday. He said, I cannot run because God told Moses. In his fourth commandment to remember the Sabbath day and to keep it holy. If I run in a race that honors me or other men, I am not remembering God's Sabbath. And if I choose to ignore one of God's commands, I may as well ignore all of them. I just cannot do it. I love God too much. He said, I'm gonna do right. He was called a traitor by the Scottish people because he was the hope of their nation to get a gold medal. And all through the papers, traitor, Eric, traitor, traitor, he should run. Is this more important than church? He said, I'm not gonna run. Papers accused him of simply doing this as a publicity stunt. And then they tried to turn it on him and said spiritualize it and they said, Eric, why don't you run and then you can dedicate that run to God Well, they like to spiritualize sin, don't they? Eric said, I won't run. And on Sunday, the day of the run in the Olympics, he was in church when the rest of his team was out on the Olympic field. That's valiant. That's behaving yourself valiantly. Against all odds When other people disagree, when some people don't like it, some people mock and make fun, but you behave yourself valiantly, heroically, honorably For God. After he went on in the nineteen twenty four Olympics To run a race that he had never run before, the 400 meters, which is substantially longer than 100 meters He said one time in public speaking, he says, you know, I'm a short distance runner, which means I'm short-winded, which means I'll be done pretty quick. And they, of course, found that humorous, but he was not accustomed to running long races. Well, he won the 400-meter race in the 1924 Olympics. His character was such that he said, I don't want to say anything to the press for fear that it would sound proud. But I cannot miss an opportunity to testify for the Lord, for that is why I run in the first place. So he went to the press and he told them for the first 200 meters, I ran as fast as I could. The last 200 meters with God's strength, I ran as fast as I fast as he allowed me. And he won. He lifted up God so much that at his death The Reverend Bryson said, the secret to his far-reaching influence was his God-controlled life He followed his master and Lord with a devotion that never fledged, and with an intensity of purpose that made men see both the reality and the power of true religion. And when he died in a prison in a in a Japanese internment camp just before the war ended. Everybody in the prison came to his funeral, including the guards, came to see this prisoner buried Because of the testimony that he had, even in prison. And in the prison camp, when they read off the fact that he was a world-renowned Olympic champion. There was but a handful of people in that entire crowd that knew of his Olympic achievements. Eric didn't make a habit of talking about those. But they knew that he loved God and that he would do anything for anyone. He behaved himself valiantly. Can we think about the consideration of the valiant with me, if you would? What are the motives of a valiant man? What is the reason why we behave such a way? It's not for pride or self-promotion. There was a lot more at stake here in our text than an individual's pride or what somebody thought of them. Had they lost, it would be far more reaching than just an embarrassing act. So look in our text there and see what he says, the reason, the motivation. To be valiant is. He says in the text: be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for our people and for the cities of our God. I see three things there that he purposed to behave valiantly for, three reasons. One is for the people. There are many people that need us to behave valiantly. I know sometimes we're thinking I we think we're an island to ourselves and it doesn't matter what we do and nobody's gonna care. It's not gonna make any difference. That we can play around, we can mess around with sin, we can go out in the world and do what we want to do, and it's not going to matter. But there's a world out there that needs us as Christians to behave valiantly. They need us to stop playing around at Christianity and be real and be what God wants us to be. If nobody else needs it, let me implore you and emphasize the fact that your family, men Needs you to behave valiantly. Your family needs you to stand up and be the man that God wants you to be. Where are the parents that will stop playing around with the world and just do right? And I'm not just talking about just being in church. Being in church is a given. Being in church is is beginning, baby steps for a Christian. Foundational, saved, baptized, added to the church. You might have never even opened a Bible, and that should be part of your life. What I'm talking about is living like a Christian seven days a week. That's what I'm saying. Being what God wants you to be. Living honorably before God and before men, day after day after day after day after day. Not just Sunday morning. Not just when you put your tie on and you walk through the door to church. I'm saying when are you gonna quit losing to Satan? When are you going to put down that sin that you know you shouldn't have as part of your life? When are you going to get the victory that God wants you to have in your life and Behave valiantly, wake up in the morning and say, God, by your grace and with your power, I'm going to put this sin aside. I'm going to live and behave valiantly today. Because there are people that need us to. There's a wife that needs us to, there's children that need us to, there's a church that needs us to. But also I want you to see they behave valiantly for patriotism's sake. He said, his cities, where are the men who will stand in the gap the gap for a country who is going by the wayside? Where are the men who will just say, I'm going to do right, I'm going to stand up for truth and righteousness in this country that's just going down the tubes? Instead of just saying it's okay, well, it's not my problem. Well, I don't have to worry about it, it's not affecting me directly. Where are the men who will stand up when this world makes a mockery of our king and shames the king of kings and the lord of lords? Where are the Christians who will behave valiantly for piety's sake? For their God. For the God that they serve, the King of Kings. We don't have time to turn there, but in 1 Samuel chapter 31 and verse number 12, it says, all the valiant men arose. I was going to take you to this passage and look at this story, but here the story is, is that Saul and his sons were killed in battle. And The enemy during that time, many times the the armies were not paid anything. It was accepted practice. It was the the what you got paid was the spoils of war. And so what happened is if you read the text there in 1 Samuel 31, what happened is they had won the battle, the enemy came back in and they were picking over the bodies. They were taking the spoils of war, whatever they could find. And you can imagine somebody turns over the body of this man and like, oh my goodness! It's Saul. It's King. It's the King Saul. And hey guys, look, King Saul is dead. And you can imagine the amount of victory that they felt like They thought they had just won a war, just won a battle, but they had actually won the war because there was the king on the ground. And what they did is they took this king, King Saul, they lifted him up. They took them around and put them on display for everybody to see, and they mocked him and made fun of him and made fun of his God because they had won the victory. Then they hung him on a wall and left him displayed there for people to see. And told them, there's King, King Saul, great King Saul. Ha ha, he's hanging on the wall. What a joke Well, when the valiant men of Israel heard this, it says, all the valiant men arose. And went all night and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there. You see, where are the Christians when they hear this world mocking the King of Kings? Right? Making fun of the King of Kings, laughing at weak Christianity. Laughing and making fun of anemic Christians. Where are the Christians that will arise up? All the valiant men arose. Where are the Christians that will be valiant today for Christ and for God and stand up and say it's not right the world mocks my king? It's not right they're laughing and shaming him It's not right to treat him that way, and I for one cannot take it. Would you be a valiant man, a valiant woman, that would be motivated because of the people that need us to be, that would be motivated Because of the country that is going down the tubes, or because of this world and how it mocks and makes fun of your God. Consider with me the confidence of valiant men. Where, from whence, does their confidence come? Joab went into battle here and he laid it out. He told them everything that needed to be done, but then he says there, notice he says, and let the Lord do. That which is good in his sight. This, beloved, is not a decree from a fatalist who feels that all is lost. But it is the decree from a man of faith who understands all is up to God. You see, this kind of faith is unheard of. He was not there with an expectation that God would grant them victory Certainly that was the desire of his heart, but he had this kind of faith. He said, And let the Lord do that which is good in his sight. He was going into battle. He didn't know what was going to be perceived to be good in the sight of God. Maybe what was good in the sight of God was that he would lose. But you see this kind of faith in his God where he says, I believe that whatever God wants is indeed whatever's best. Therefore, I am going to prepare like everything depends upon me. I'm going to pray like everything depends upon God because it does. And then have faith in God that whatever God determines is best. Even if it's not what I thought or what I felt or what I think, we know that whatever God does is best. What an amazing confidence he had in God. We need to do our best. We need to give our all, but then leave the results up to God. For if God be for us, who can be against us? us. To do nothing because it is up to God is as much of a sin as to say God doesn't care, so I must do it all. Yes, the outcome is dependent upon God. But to say, oh, the outcome is dependent upon God, so I'm not going to do anything, you see, God wants you to do your part. He wants you to set the battle in array. He wants you to stand up and to behave valiantly. And then God can give you the victory as he did here. Psalms 118 verse number six says, The Lord is on my side. I will not fear what man can do unto me. He prepared like it was up to him and prayed like it was up to God. He put the battle in array, not like it was a battle between Israel and the Amorites. But like it was a battle between the Amorites and God. Right. That's how he went to battle. Beloved, we can be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might. For the battle truly is the Lord's. Valiantly. Behave valiantly. I don't feel like I've done an adequate job communicating the heart of this message and how important it is for us as believers to behave valiantly. But that's the message. How are we going to act? Are we going to behave valiantly? What is our consideration? What are our motives for doing so? And ultimately the confidence to do so should come from God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we come to you now. We ask you, dear God, that you would be with this moment of imitation. As the pianist comes and prepares, Lord, we pray that we prepare our heart. Just searching and asking, God, is there anything that I need to do? Is there anything I need to yield? That I need to give up? Lord, when when when am I going to stand up? And And behave valiantly instead of allowing Satan to have victory after victory after victory in my life. Lord, there's so many that count upon it. And need it, I pray God, you'd be with each and every every Christian that's tuned in tonight, that's streaming, listening, that you'd motivate us to behave valiantly in the power of your might. In Jesus' name, Amen. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to your heart wherever you are