And uh everybody that's there ready can turn to the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter four. Hebrews chapter 4. Well we had a great time out caroling Tuesday evening. It's so m fun to uh be able to uh the the joy that it brings to the uh elderly folks who are there in that home and you come by singing and That brings joy, but it's the little kids. They see them little kids and those people they just light up. I mean it's like just the the Christmas lights got turned on and They just get so excited about seeing the kids there and one guy even came up and said, told the kids, Thank you so much for coming and doing this. I know this is not how you want to spend your Tuesday, but I appreciate you coming and singing to us, you know. And uh of course the kids are you know they they have fun at it too and we came back here and had hot chocolate and you know they had a good time too but uh just the joy that it brings them being able to see us out there singing and singing praises to the Lord and Jesus who came and um this is the third year we've been and this is the first time that uh some of the uh Um folks that live there recognized us really. They're like, we've seen you be you've been here before. And uh yeah, we have. And uh Uh as we were leaving the lady who's in charge of the activities over there, she said, Thank you so much for coming. This means so much to them and and they talk about it for days and it's just such a great surprise. And she said, We'll look forward to your call next year. And uh so it was a lot of fun to do that on Tuesday night. So if you're in Hebrews, chapter number four, it's uh our Text last week was Hebrews chapter number four verse number one that we saw. He says, Let us therefore fear. That's where we were last week. But uh let's read um from verse number one or just read down through verse number 11, where is our text verse for this evening. Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. For unto us was the gospel preached. as well as unto them. But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith, in them that heard it For we, which have believed, do enter into rest, as he said, as I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world For he spake in a certain place on the seventh day of the wise, and God did rest the seventh day from all his works And in this place again, if they shall enter into my rest, seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not because of unbelief. Again, he limited a certain day, saying in David, Today, after so long a time as it is said, Today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day? There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works as God did from his. Let us labor, therefore, to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. Let us labor. Now the word labor is found 89 times in the scripture, and we of course know and understand that God wants us to be laboring Christians. He doesn't want lazy Christians. He wants laboring Christians, Christians that are about doing the work of God, that are accomplishing something for him. That's one of the reasons we as a church push forward and why we have Christmas Caroline and why we have banquets and why we have activities and and why we have work party because it gives opportunity for people to labor for the Lord. Certainly we could just pay somebody to take care of the buildings. We could just pay somebody to vacuum the floors or to mow the yards. But that would steal from us as a church the opportunity to labor for the Lord. And God wants us to be laboring for Him And if we gave all those opportunities to other people, what opportunities would we have as a church family? We ought to be laboring. We know that God wants us to be laboring. Proverbs 13, verse number four says, The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath nothing, but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold. Therefore shall he beg and harvest and have nothing. I thought that was a good one for tonight, fitting because of the cold. And you know, today I had a box in the foyer and needed to go to the dumpster. And uh in my mind I thought, well a little later my son Andrew will be here and I can tell Andrew, take that box to the dumpster, and certainly that's what God gave his kids for. Amen. But uh I'm sitting there and I I had been studying for this message, you know, and uh, you know, in my in my mind, you know, the Lord's like quoting this verse back to me, for reason of the cold he will not throw trash away, you know. And I thought, all right, so I I ran out there and threw the box away. But I mean that cold weather keeps us in, doesn't it? We don't want to go do anything in cold weather. And that's what he says the the the the guy won't go out and plow his field because it's cold in harvest time he's gonna be hungry Because he he he's not going to have a harvest. We've got to be laboring. We know that God wants us to be laboring. A sluggard is a slaughter or an unprofitable servant. We know that. And here in our text there is found a great contrast. between two realities. There is, if we back up into chapter number three, as we looked at this a little bit last week, and I don't know that I need to lay all that foundation again because we know we're talking about Christ and or God when God created the earth. And that on the seventh day he got to rest. And we saw that clearly as it was being taught and referenced creation. And uh we know that Christ, when he completed, or God when he completed the work of creation, when he had brought his labor to an end, When he had finished his task, he rested. But we see that in contrast to that, what Jesus gives us by example here in the book of Hebrews is the children of Israel. Who did not complete their task. They knew they were supposed to go into and possess the land, but they didn't do that. We know because of unbelief. And they did not experience rest. Because they did not follow through. They did not complete the task that was given them because of unbelief, because of disobedience. They never experienced rest. So you have those two contrasts there. And last week we looked at it about that that's something we ought to fear. We ought to fear not entering into That rest. Well, then we are challenged in verse number 11 to take that one step further, and we ought to be laboring to enter into the rest. The fact of the matter is, is the supreme satisfaction for the Christian is to be doing the work of the Lord in the will of the Lord. Resting in the grace of the Lord. That is where we find supreme satisfaction. Doing the work of the Lord in the will of the Lord, resting in the grace of the Lord. That's where it's at. And it's sad that there's so many that don't experience or don't know the rest that God has for us today. Most people today are restless. Even Christians, we're very active. We're very busy. We're very restless. We want to move and be about things, and we can't find that that rest that's available to us. Well, there's two things here that I want to make clear, and that is that activity or busyness doesn't equal rest Although here we are encouraged to labor, and we're going to look at this and I hope understand it very clearly, but just laboring doesn't equal rest. And on contrast to that, just because you happen to be at home doing nothing doesn't mean you're resting either, that just doing nothing doesn't equal rest. So here is the thought. If rest is available to all, and we know it is, and we are to labor to enter that rest, what labor are we to be doing What labor do we have to do to experience that rest? In what ways are we to steadfastly, diligently commit ourselves to that we might experience that rest? So I've just got two points for you tonight. Two points. And the first is the reward of rest. The reward of rest is promised. It's given to us here. We see that in verse number one that was our text. last week that the rest is available. Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest. We have a promise That is left us that we can enter into rest. This rest is available to all. We know that. It's been given to us. Now, this is not dealing with in context, not dealing with eternal rest. Now, we used that by way of application last week and talked about one day we will ultimately be in eternal rest. And there should be a measure of fear that we that some would miss that. And we use that by application, but interpretation of this text is not dealing with eternal rest. How do we know this is not dealing with eternal rest? We know that because of two things. First of all, and the clearest thing is we are committed to labor to enter into this rest. And we know that the work of salvation is something we do not labor for. The eternal rest that we get from Jesus Christ is a work that Jesus did, not us. We don't labor for that. Yet we are commanded here or exhorted here to labor to enter this rest. Well we don't labor for eternal rest. That was a work that was done and completed by Jesus Christ. All we do is accept that. And we know that. So that very clearly lets us know we're not talking about eternal rest by interpretation. Certainly could be given in application, but by interpretation We know we're not talking about eternal rest. We know we're also not talking here about a physical rest. Although physical rest uh is something that is enjoyed and needed and okay. That we ought to y you know, if you don't rest, you're gonna get sick. You're gonna get you're gonna get ill. And sometimes some of the things that that we endure uh sickness-wise is what we brought on ourselves because we aren't taking care of ourselves Because we aren't resting, because we aren't uh eating properly, and so on. And sometimes we've got to make some changes to be able to take care of ourselves. So there's nothing wrong with that, but we know here we're committed to labor to enter that rest. So we know we're not talking about a physical rest either. What we're dealing with here is a spiritual rest, a rest that you have in your spirit. That you have in your heart, that you can be calm and resting in Jesus Christ in the greatest of storms. You have that rest, that quietness of spirit, that strength internally that only comes from having labored to have that rest. when the storm comes. It is a spiritual rest. This rest is something that we enter into or can have now. That's another reason why we know it's not eternal. Because it's something we can have now. We are, you see in the context here, it's talking about that we can enter into this rest now And that's something that we should be laboring to try and have. It is sad that some who are saved and who are part of the family of God still do not know this rest. They don't experience the rest that they could have in Jesus Christ. This is partially because we have an adversary. We have the devil, the roaring lion, who is doing all he can. To keep you from experiencing that rest. He brings trial, he brings torment, he brings temptation, he brings these things into your life all in an effort to rob you of the rest of the rest That God wants you to have. But many times that's not the only reason. It's because we ourselves are not willing to labor to have the rest. We just want the rest to come. But we're here commanded to labor to experience that rest. The saved are bound to obey the commands of the Lord. Those who do not obey are bound to endure its consequences. We're dealing here with a contrast between unbelief or obedience and disobedience and the rest that's available to those that obey. He didn't say this exact sta exact quote. This was William Bradford who said this, something like this The saved are bound to obey its commands, talking about the Bible, and those who do not are bound to endure the consequences. So you're either going to obey and be not deceived, God is not mocked, whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. You're going to obey and reap the blessing and the reward of the rest that's available to those that obey, or we are going to reap the consequences of not obeying. And even though we're saved, we will not be experiencing the rest that's available to us. Because we're not obeying. Which is what the children of Israel did not do. The children of Israel were told to go into the land. And because of their unbelief, they didn't do it. Whatever the reason is, they disobeyed. It takes labor to enter into this rest. This rest is entered into degree. One degree at a time. Degree by degree. Measure by measure. It's a rest that you grow into over a long period of time. A new baby Christian, somebody that just gets saved, starts to experience a relationship with the Lord, they don't have that confidence in him. They don't have that faith in him. They don't have that that resting in him that comes from a lifetime of walking with God. You take an older saint, somebody that's been serving God, loving God, had a relationship with God all their days. And it seems like no matter the battle, no matter the hardship, no matter the trial. They've just got the joy of the Lord. They've just got a spirit of calmness about them. They're just resting in God. That comes. With lots of labor. It doesn't just happen. We have to labor to experience that rest. It is like the man or the woman who would labor all of their life. So that in their latter years they could, we call it, retire. They could rest. They labored all of their life so that the day would come when they would no longer have to labor. They could rest. They they they they exercised some discipline and they went to work when they didn't feel like it. They exercised some discipline and they didn't spend every single time they wanted to. They said, no, I can't go out to eat today. No, I can't buy that particular thing. No, I can't do that because I've got to save this money because the day's going to come when I want to rest. And so they labor all of their life and they experience that rest in their latter years. That's where how we are as Christians. This is a a lifelong labor that we get measure by measure. Experience by experience, we grow into being able to rest completely in Jesus Christ. And find that rest in him, even in the greatest of trials, in the hardest of times, being able to rest in him This is done by laboring in the Word of God. We labor in the Word of God. That's what we're trying to do as a church family this coming year as we read through this devotional together. Together be laboring in the Word of God, spending some time studying and letting God speak to us. It's done through laboring in prayer. It's done through laboring in obedience And it is a labor to obey when we don't want to, to do when we don't feel do what we know is right, even though we might not feel like doing it. The wicked labor in their sin, and they have no rest. But as Christians, the saved should labor in grace There's a direct correlation between faith and obedience. The fact is, if we truly had faith, we would obey. I mean, if we truly believed, if we truly had faith, we would obey. There's a direct correlation between faith and obedience. Disobedience equals unbelief. That's a very strong and powerful statement if you let it sink in. If we truly believed, we would obey. We see here in our text Uh either verse number seven or verse number nine. Let me see verse number seven. Again he limits no Alright. Alright, verse number six. Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of Unbelief. They disobeyed because they didn't believe. There's a direct correlation there between those two. Strong faith, strong belief will equal obedience for the Christian The fact is, is that most Christians today are not laboring to enter into this rest. They're carelessly going through life They're just walking day by day, letting life happen to them. They're not laboring to know the Lord. They're not laboring in the word. They're not laboring to be obedient unto God. They're just uh experiencing a measure of Christianity because it makes them feel good. They come into the church house and they hear the preaching, but there's no real relationship with God, just casual worship There is no real obedience or labor to be obedient, just casually watching what God is doing. They're like the children of Israel who enjoyed they enjoyed seeing the miracles. Wow, it was amazing to walk across the the the water there on dry ground and see the the the sea parted It was a miracle to see the walls of Jericho fall. And wow, that was amazing to see those things. And many Christians today they enjoy watching And from a casual measure experiencing, there's a good market today for the experience of religion. But there's not much of a market for true purity, for holiness, for a relationship with God. There is a market for people to experience. Oh, let me experience religion. But a relationship that changes us not so much. That is the difference in obedience, faith that changes us, and just casually worshiping from a distance If we are going to experience this, there is the requirement for this rest, and that is that we must labor. Let us therefore labor. And as a church, I'm extending this to you and to myself. Let us therefore labor that we would enter into that rest. How many Christians live so superficially? That they don't have a real relationship with God. And when the storm comes, there's nothing to hold them. Nothing to sustain them I pray as a church here there would be a reality of knowing Jesus Christ personally and experiencing a relationship with him, not just religion on Sunday morning. I hope that as a church, that's what we do. We must labor to experience this rest. It is after diligent labor that that satisfying rest will come. This word here, labor, has with it the meaning of diligent effort. Of putting forth diligent effort. If we put forth diligent effort to know God, to walk with God, to read His Word, we will be rewarded with rest. The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, the Bible says. That's a fact. That's a promise. Some of the days I have the hardest time sleeping is when I got to lounge around all day. You know, like Thanksgiving, we get to sit around all day and get to eat and just and then it's time to go to bed and you're like, Oh, I don't know, I'm not gonna sleep very good tonight. I'll tell you what, when you labor all day, yeah, when we were working on our car we were uh in Garland's garage down there. And when I called him to go over to work, he's like, man, I knew you were going to call me. I just got in bed. I I n I I said to myself, as soon as I climb in this bed, Pastor Kidd is going to call me and tell me he's ready to come over. I called him and said, I'm ready to come over. And we were there working for about another five or six hours and he was up with us. But the next day he said, Man, I slept like a log last night. He said my wife said, You better do that more often. He was down there working with us. Hey, that labor makes you tired. It's a rest that God you can experience when we labor. The fact is Is God wants us to experience rest. But you know what? God doesn't just give you a house. God gives you trees. That you can take and cut and fashion into timber, that you might build a house. God gives you limestone and stone that you could cut and form into bricks and mortar that you can you can build a house. And God's just not going to give you the rest, and God's not just going to give you that relationship and that spirit of rest that you can have. It's something He wants us to labor for. that we could have if we would. You have to fight for it. You have to win the war before you can enjoy the peace. There's some of you in here dealing with besetting sins, things in your life that you can't get the victory over, and you have no rest. You're not experiencing rest in the Christian life. There's continual battle and continual warfare, and you just don't have any rest. You gotta win the war before you can have some rest. You've got to get victory over that. Then you can rest in God, in Jesus Christ. Win the war. Then rest will come. It's like the parent who would not want to labor in disciplining their children. They have no rest. It takes labor to discipline your children But it sure is a whole lot more enjoyable when you do. I've said it a hundred times, if I've said it once, I don't know why parents do that to themselves They are doing it to themselves. Letting a child have his own way is just you might as well just take take a whip and just beat yourself with it every day. Because that's what you're doing. This kid just take j the kid is gonna rule the roost. He's gonna do what he wants to do and he's gonna tell you what to do, he's gonna tell you when to get up He's going to tell you when to sit down, he's going to tell you when to prepare dinner. And you say no, he doesn't. Yes, he does. He does, unless you tell him. It's one or the other, and many people today are letting the two and three and four and five-year-olds in their house tell them what to do. That is unbiblical and it does not provide for rest. You have no rest in your home That's why people they hear that we have five kids and they're like, Oh my goodness, five five kids? How do you do it? And I say they're a lot of help. Yeah, they don't it's not hard. You know what? Alicia, fifteen years I've had kids, not one time in 15 years, not one time has one of my children thrown a fit in the store because they didn't get a toy. Not once. Not one time did they say, oh Dad, I want it You know why? Because they were trained. They knew that if they did that, not only would they not get the toy, When they got home, they'd get a spanking. And then about five toys that they already had, they would have to take and by themselves give them to their friends. Then you don't have that problem. You go to the store, I I just for fun, I would take my kids to Walmart and let them look at the toys. We would do that for a family activity When they were little, they would sit in the aisles and they would play with all the toys. I was bored out of my mind. But they're there just playing for I mean we would stay as long as I would let them stay. Five kids and I could say kids time to go. All of them put the toys back Said, let's go. To this day, even with their own money. Even with their own money. Andrew will come to me and say, Dad, can I get this? I have the money in my pocket. And I say, no, you gotta save your money. And he goes and puts it back. That takes training. It takes labor to have that rest. Parents can have it. And that applies in so many areas of the Christian life. We've got to be faithful to find that rest. Faithful in laboring for the Lord. Finding the Savior in your daily walk, in your prayer time. It's like the man who was he's an older gentleman, he's walking around, he had a I mean he had uh uh j you could tell something had happened, he had a skip in his step and a smile on his face and You know, one of his friends said, hey, what's going on? And he says, oh, my family, they bought me an annuity. I've got $200,000 a year for the rest of my life. My future is taken care of. I don't have to worry about a thing. I'm just, I just uh uh I just the the weight is gone, the burden is gone. I my future is taken care of. But we can rest in Jesus Christ like that. Because your future is taken care of. You know who holds tomorrow. But it doesn't just happen. We want to grab the reins of our life and we want to control it. And we've got to learn through labor to rest in Him and to trust Him and to let Him lead. We labor carefully and cautiously and consistently in our life. And if we do that, you can know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. God sees it. In Deuteronomy 26, verse number 7, he says, And when we cried unto the Lord God of our fathers, the Lord heard our voice and looked on our affliction and our labor. And our oppression. God sees your labor, your labor of love that you do for Him, in an effort to know Him and to walk with Him and experience a true relationship with Him. You know, nobody failed in this because of a lack of opportunity. Nobody failed in finding rest in Jesus Christ because of a lack of skill. Or because of a position in life, or because they started out in one place or another. The same opportunity is available to all. We all make our own choice. How much we will labor and how much rest we experience from God Almighty. We choose what we're going to experience To not labor to know the Lord is to be to pour contempt contempt on the rest that's been offered to us. In Psalms 106, 24 and 25, he says, Yea, they despised the pleasant land. They believed not his word, but murmured in their tents. And hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord. You see, they didn't obey. They did on unbelief, they didn't obey. They didn't go into the promised land. And God said they despised the pleasant land that God gave them. They believed not his word. They murmured in their tents. We decide whether we're going to labor in belief and obedience. or whether we're going to exercise unbelief and not experience the rest that's available to us as Christians. Will you with me labor that we might have this rest? Stand with me with your heads bowed and eyes close. Lord, we ask it tonight that you would help us. Let us therefore labor as a church. May we we labor and put a lot of effort into a lot of things in this life. Lord, I pray that we would put effort and labor into knowing you, into walking with you, into understanding you. into experiencing that rest that you have available, that you've extended to any who would desire to have it. Lord, I pray that you would help us as a church to labor, to know that. Through a real relationship with you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As the pianist plays, the altar is open, you do what God wants you to do.