Return your Bibles tonight to Job chapter number 34. Job chapter 34. I'm not going to say this is a familiar passage of scripture. And sometimes we get into familiar scriptures. As Pastor Derek and Pastor Gus and I uh learned uh when we were doing the book of Job for devotionals and writing these devotionals. We found Job to be a tasking book, uh to to get a devotional from every chapter, something that we could glean and sometimes you think you know the context and you begin to read it and study it and you and And like the title, sometimes the title that I have given my devotional when I picked the title last year, and then now I'm writing it this year, like that's not what this I have to somehow make this work because that's not I mean my title was going a completely wrong direction because in my mind I thought oh yeah I can make it right a devotional about that and it was wrong So it's been a good study for us at least in the book of Job. But uh tonight we're going to look at another one of the lettuce that are found in the scriptures And if you look at Job chapter thirty-four, just we'll start in verse number one, the lettuce is found in verse number four. He says, Furthermore, Elohu answered and said, Hear my words, O ye wise men, and give ear unto me. ye that have knowledge. For the ear treth words, as the mouth tasteth meat. Let us choose To us judgment. Let us know among ourselves what is good Tonight the title of the message is Let Us Choose Judgment. Let us choose Judgment. Many years ago, when I worked at Walmart, they had a saying there that there's a right way, there's a wrong way, and there's a Walmart way. Now I'm sure you've probably heard that saying in in many different contexts and used in many different ways, but uh the idea there was is that there's more than one way to skin a cat. There's more than one way to get something done, and a good employee would look at any situation. He would know what he was supposed to do based on his knowledge and understanding. Of the philosophy and the desires of the organization. They would know what the organization would want Uh it's not necessarily what you thought was best. It's not necessarily what you would want to do. But the longer you work there, the better employee you are, the more you would understand what what Walmart would want for you to do. do in that situation. One of those such uh policies was that the customer is always right. Now there was many times, well there's two times in particular that I did not feel the custom was right. There's one lady uh one time that brought a swing Set back to return to the store. This swing set had obviously been outside for years It was rusted through. I mean the bolts were all rusted off. I mean, it was in terrible shape. And I did not want to let her return that. I said, there's no way this has only been outside for six months. And she's like, We've only had it this long, and she didn't have a receipt, and she was arguing with me, and the manager came by and and uh he looks at me and he says, Caleb What's the Walmart way? And I said, Did you see that swing set? It's not y she is lying, and this is not right, you know, and he's like, let her have the swing Okay. It wasn't what I wanted, but I had to yield and say, okay, we'll get her a new swing set. And uh to this day I'm upset about that. But it's that idea of just doing what the company would want based on the principles that Walmart felt or held held high. I think now that might have changed a little bit. They're not quite as much on the customers always right as they were twenty-five, twenty-six years ago when I was working there. Uh but Our text tonight gives forth the admonition that as children of God we're to use judgment. Let us not seek our own way. Let us not do what we feel is right, but let us use, could I use this word in this context here, discernment. That's what he's saying by let us use judgment. He is not saying let us judge, although he's saying let us judge in the idea of discerning what is the best course of action. And we're going to talk about the context here in a minute where you get an understanding of what he is saying here. But let us gain through study and correct view of life what the Bible would have us do. Let us labor to know what is good. And then in all of our dealings, let us Let us use judgment. Let us use discernment It would be a worthwhile study for anybody that wants some homework to look at that word throughout the scriptures. It could take you down a long path, but if you look up discern or discerned, and see what things we are to discern. Evaluate from the Word of God. What is where are the Christians supposed to have discernment? Obviously this word is very closely tied to judgment So there's some l overlap there, and then obviously it has the implication or is an exercise of wisdom, using wisdom in our decision making. It's amazing to me that it is a sign of sinful people that they lose all discernment. And it seems like as a nation we're progressing that way. There's just the lack of discernment The complete inability to think and process and realize the end road of a particular path is gone. Is say, Pastor Caleb, where do you get that from the Bible? Well, do you remember that wicked city that Jonah was supposed to go to? Young people, what's the name of the city? Nineveh. Nineveh, the Bible says in description of that city, the Bible says that they had lost the discernment to discern their right hand from their left. In description of a truly wicked people, their discernment was all gone. But as God's children, we should be gaining in our discernment. As we yield and live our life for God and do what God wants us to do, we should be gaining discernment, gaining wisdom, and using discernment in the decisions that we make. First of all, can I describe to you discernment? A definition. Let me give it to you straight from the 1828 dictionary. The act of discerning. Also, the power or faculty of mind by which It distinguishes one thing from another, as truth from falsehood, virtue from vice Acuuteness of judgment, the power of perceiving differences of things or ideas and their relations or tendencies. The error of youth often proceeds from want of discernment. The error of youth often proceeds from want of discernment Discernment, quite literally, is the ability to make accurate evaluations based on the wisdom and understanding of the scriptural principles. It goes beyond just knowing something. It goes beyond just having knowledge. But being able to carry that knowledge out and to use it to Make your informed decisions. There might be someone who is a discerning dresser. Where's Amy Joe? She skipped leap tra oh there, Amy Joe. They might have a nice tie on, right? Amy Joe checks everybody's tie out. wondering who she's going to strangle. I don't know what she I don't know what her she likes ties. You might have a discerning dresser and you might have some that are less discerning. The other day one of my kids came in and I said, son, you know that clash is really bad, right? I'm just telling you, he's like, I know He didn't care. Uh but you know they're less discerning. Or you know what? I think we use the word connoisseur. But there are some who are connoisseurs of different types of food. And maybe you've got a type, maybe it's pizza. You're kinda I mean you know good pizza. You or or maybe it's steak. You know a good steak when you have one. And like, oh this is not good steak. Brother Glover grew up on uh dairy cows, which apparently the meat from a dairy cow is horrendous. So he said he didn't have a good steak until he was out of the house. He didn't even know what good steak was because all the meat they had was like cooked you know, just try to no end and not not much good flavor left and chew I mean it was like beef jerky when it came out of the oven, you know So but maybe you're a kind of steward you've got discernment concerning these things or or other things you could apply it to life. Maybe you're a uh discerning art critic. You've got an eye for art, you know how to value that. Or maybe you've got a discerning ear for good music. You can hear when things are played right. We had some of the ladies up here that were talking about the instrumentalists that came from Fairy Haven and they were playing with their instruments. I thought it sounded awesome. It was great. They did great. And I'm sitting here just to the ladies and they were like, oh my goodness, she was so far off. She I couldn't believe it. I was like, please fix that Might have sounded good to me. Uh I didn't have a very discerning ear. I couldn't hear what was wrong there, you know. But they could. But see, those are practical areas. These are not what we're talking about tonight. What we're talking about is spiritual. Discernment. Spiritual discernment. We could say it like this: the ability to think biblically The ability to think biblically. Let me encourage you parents, if you have yet to your your children are educated in the public school system, let me encourage you, you have to work extra hard to overcome The world's philosophy that's being ingrained in them for eight hours a day. They're not being taught to think biblically From a biblical world view. Even if their teachers are not outright socialists, outright promoters of homosexuality, outright I mean against God. I mean you have teachers like that and some of those scenarios are are unbelievable that kids have to deal with. But there are good teachers in the public school. There are teachers that do a good job. But they're not teaching things from a biblical viewpoint. And so your children are learning all of life's lessons, all of life's information, all of this stuff from a viewpoint of humanism or evolution. It takes a lot of extra work to overcome that, that they might be able to have biblical Spiritual discernment. In the context of our passage here, Elohim is calling Job and his three accusers together for a discussion. Now, if you I I looked it up and did some study on this passage of scripture, so I could rightly divide the word of truth here, and it's funny that he is the youngest. Of all these men by a number of years. And yet he's calling them together. Now, men, let's look at this situation. You see, Job had accused God of injustice. Because Job said, I'm innocent. And yet he's you know, from their perspective, he was accusing God because Obviously he wasn't innocent or he wouldn't be going through this, right? But then his accusers came and his accusers, his three accusers, his good his good fellow friends there, uh they came and accused him of doing wrong and And so Elihu comes in and says, wait, wait, let's let's look at this. Let's consider this. And so he weighs in the balance their arguments. And he says there, after looking at it, he says to him, Hey, the ear trieth the words. He's saying, come and give ear to me. Let's listen. Let's listen to these arguments. The ear trieth the words as the mouth tasteth meat. He's saying just like you can taste something and you know it's good, oh that's good. That's delicious. The ear knows if it's hearing truth. is what he's saying here. And he says, let us choose to us judgment. Let us know among ourselves what is good. It's noteworthy that Job does not answer this young man. The young man speaks and talks, but Job doesn't answer him. From that, what you will, but I think the implication is Job didn't highly esteem this young man's thought. And young men should be learning from their elders, not telling their elders what to do. But we must be able to discern fact from fiction 1 Thessalonians 5, 21 and 22 says, Prove all things, hold fast to that which is good, abstain from all appearance of evil. We're to prove all things. Don't let the seeds of the world's philosophy get sown in your heart. Don't let a take root. We're supposed to let the seeds of the Word of God take root. We're supposed to let that grow in our heart. That feed us spiritually, that help us in our daily life. But we're not to let the this worldly influence, these things from outside take root. We're to prove all things. And if it doesn't line up with Scripture, if it doesn't line up with the Word of God, then don't let it get a hold of you. Don't let it grab, get down and seated in your heart as a way that you're going to think and look at things. And there today is a plethora of comments and opinions and And everybody out there talking about how they feel about different situations and putting forth different philosophies with regards to current issues. Everybody has an opinion. But what opinions line up with the book? What about you're thinking about this situation? You're thinking about these current events You're hearing these comments from all these different people? What do I believe? How do I think about this? Well, what What person you're listening to is pointing it back to the scripture? What person that you're listening to is saying this is what God says about this? Don't let what other people are saying take root in your heart and guide your thinking. That's not using discernment There's a lack of discernment in the house of God, in the church, today Lord, give us discernment in the coming days, false teachers on the rise who try to amaze. With signs and wonders that don't hold true, the only real miracle comes from you. You taught us to test every claim against the Scripture It's as simple as that. Why don't we get the picture? Your word, absolute truth, but some continue to deny. They laugh and they scoff, brought into Satan's lie. Christians, stay strong, for to temptation will come, but rest in knowing that to him you belong. Reading the word, thoughtful immersion, remember The enthusiasm you had at your conversion. Shine his light into the world and tell of his love. The Father will bless you From heaven above. As for the lost, they do not need our prayer. It's our true calling to make them aware to seek his forgiveness because He truly does care. True discernment is a scarce commodity in the church today. It's very evident the decisions that many, many of us make. Is not an exercise of true discernment. How do we develop discernment in our life? How do we get this? We need, we want discernment, so how do we develop it in our life? Verse number three says, For the ear trieth words, and the mouth tasteth meat. It's just as the mouth can taste and knows when something's good, our ear. Should be able to hear. We should have discernment. God wants to give to us each a level of discernment that is almost that natural. Just like you put something in your mouth, oh, that is nasty. Or wow, that's good. That's delicious. I like that. That natural instinct for the Christian discernment should be like that. It should almost be just a natural instinct, just a natural thing that, oh, that is not of God. That is not right We should not believe that, we should not go that way, we should not do that, we should do this, we shouldn't do that, and it affects every area of our life. Let me just say that true discernment starts with salvation. It starts with knowing God. We're talking about spiritual discernment, and you can't have that without knowing God. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness of him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. You can't have spiritual discernment unless you know God. You've got to be saved. And so we can't hold it against the majority of this world that they're buying into some of these crazy philosophies, these crazy ideas, because to them, this book is foolishness. Because they're spiritually discerned. They don't have the Spirit of God to yield them. You don't need more light. What you need is spiritual sight. All the light in the world does not help Carol Gamble It doesn't help her. And I'm talking about physical light. Because why? Because her her she can't see with her eyes. She's blind But if you have sight, when you turn the lights on, it helps. Much of the world is spiritually blind. They don't have spiritual sight yet. They need Jesus Christ that they're given spiritual sight. And then you give them the light of the Word of God, this light that is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. And then they can know what is the right way to go. Well we're talking about, and you've heard it, it's not a religion, it's a relationship. It's a relationship with God. It starts by that, having that relationship. Do you love God? Do you love the Savior of your soul? Then you will choose his way of doing things. Spiritual discernment. Deciding to do what God would want you to do. My wife does not like Mountain Dew at all. She would most of the time go thirsty than to take a drink of my Mountain Dew, which is fine with me. But let's say I had planned a beautiful picnic for Mary and I, and we hiked out to a serene area and sat down and spread the blanket out and I got out all this food for us to have and all that I brought to drink was Mountain Dew. What why would you do that? You know that she doesn't like Mountain Dew. You obviously did not prepare that meal for her. You prepared it for yourself. And a lot of times, Christians, that's how our discernment works We're not doing what we're doing for him. We're doing it for ourselves. And you hear it when people say, This is what I like. Well I like Mountain Dew. But she doesn't. But I didn't do it for her. Well there's the problem. When we say, I love God, but this is what I like. This is what I want. I don't see anything wrong with it. Are we doing what we're doing for us because this is what we want, or are we doing what we're doing For him, because we love him. Who are we trying to please? Some would say, well, God didn't command that Well, in 1 John 3. 22, the Bible says, and whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments. Does anybody know? that that verse continues? That verse goes on and says, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. And do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Our love, there is no command that says I have to bring coffee Praise God to uh meal with just Mary and I. Although I know she would like coffee. But my love knows that would be pleasing to her. And if I'm gonna pack a mountain, I can guarantee you if the roles were reversed, Mary would have Mountain Dew in there for me. No doubt. Why? As an expression of her love. There's nothing saying she had to do that. But she would do it because she loves me. So you say, well there's nothing that says I have to do this. But would it make God happy? Right. Would God be pleased? I think it's a pretty good reason to do it then. Just because it's going to make God happy. Just because He would enjoy it. This is an expression of your love. Using building biblical discernment starts with that relationship and understanding that it's about doing what pleases him. Then we develop discernment in our life by studying God's Word, by studying God's Word. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Must we we've got to be prepared in life for the things that appear to be good You know, that's a lot of times when the Bible is talking about discernment, it's talking about discerning between right and wrong, between good, better, best, uh, between Virtue and vice. And a lot of times things that aren't good don't necessarily appear to be bad. And you've got to rightly divide the word of truth and you've got to know the word of God to be able to discern that. A lot of times these modern-day preachers, it's not about what they say that's the problem. It's about what they don't say. It's about the large sections of the Word of God that they just leave out because it's unpopular. And if that is your diet of what you're listening to, being fed spiritually from that, you're going to have a lot of fundamental doctrines that you're not getting. Because they're not touching those issues. They're not dealing with those things. We need to study the Word of God. You know, sweets are good. But in excess they can be bad for you. The other day my my all my kids work now. They all have jobs. They're all Busy doing something. And so they buy their own stuff. Praise God. They buy their own stuff from the stores. Well, they bought this large bag of gummy bears. And last night we're sitting down for devotions and Mary goes, did you guys eat that whole bag in one day? And they're like, well, yeah, but Anderson and Andre helped. So they threw you guys under the bus, man. They threw you under the bus. Too much sweets are okay, they're enjoyable, but too much is not good for you. It's not about what fits your fancy. Because what fits your fancy might not be good for your faith. Tim Chalice, in his book, The Discipline of Discernment, describes how his children, when they were young, would put anything in their mouth If you've had babies, Brother Mike, you know you've got to watch them. It doesn't matter what it is, if it's on the ground and it's in reach, it's gonna go in the mouth. Andrew ate a cricket once. It was on the ground, it moved. Looks good to me. He ate a cricket. I just downed it. Uh he's still with us, praise the Lord. It didn't kill him. Um Whatever it is. You know what? What what he's saying is little kids are not very discerning. And true discernment it somebody that has a lack of discernment, it really is a testimony to their spiritual immaturity. That's what it is. Because the more mature you become as a Christian, the more discernment you should have. Just like a child begins to grow, he starts to learn that doesn't go in your mouth. We don't put those things in our mouths. We don't eat bugs. Unless you're in China. Oh now I'm in trouble, right? We don't eat bugs. We we don't you know, these things and we start to learn, you know, hey, those things are hot. You know, that's sharp. We gotta be careful with this. And you you begin to learn discernment in some of these areas in your life because you're starting to mature. Well as Christians we're supposed to be maturing. We're supposed to learn. And the more that we learn of him, the better we understand, and the quicker we are able to naturally quickly discern what is right and wrong. Because we know him. Just like my employer said, hey Caleb, what's the Walmart way? I was trying to do it my way, but he was saying, hey, this is how we do it at Walmart. That means Next time this comes up, you don't have to think about it, the customer is always right. The better you know God. You don't have to try and figure it out. Why is there such a lack of discernment in churches today at large? Why are we debating whether homosexuality is right or wrong? The scripture is so very clear. But we've lost all discernment because we've lost our relationship with Him and who it is that we're trying to please. And those issues go all the way down the line in our life. The more we learn of Him. Hosea 4, verse number 6 says, My people are destroyed for a lack of knowledge. I came to Maryland and I began working for Brother Greg. First day out there on the job. He says, okay, now you see this car? He says, every car has two colors. He said there's a face color and there's a side tone. Now come here. Went over. He says, you see it? And I said, nope He says, no, look, look, see this is this is it's it's not w it's white, but actually do you see the orange in it? I'm like, nope. He's like, well this has a real strong orange. Now look at this white car. This white car, but this is much redder. Do you see the redder? Nope. He's like, this is gonna be hard. So he started teaching me about the face color and and the side tone and how that has to be correct. And we began working together and he began training me and I started painting cars for him. And do you know what? I can hardly walk through a parking lot now without looking at the cars and be like, oh my goodness, somebody messed up that job. Somebody messed up that job. Oh, look at that paint. That's the side tone on that is way off. Mary probably gets tired of hearing it like, look at the side tone on that car. She's probably like, I don't know what he's talking about. But I mean I cannot help but see it Why? Because of the knowledge that I gained. When we have this knowledge, hide God's word in thy heart. Discernment. It'll come that quick. You'll know what's right. You'll know what you should do. You'll have spiritual discernment because you have the Word of God. Then you need to Submit to the Holy Spirit. We're talking about building discernment. How to build discernment in your life. Submit to, we're talking about something that is really spiritual discernment. It is spiritually enabled. It's not something like, you know, knowing whether you like vanilla or chocolate ice cream. Yeah, vanilla. It's knowing spiritual things. They're spiritually discerned. So you need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit. Howbeit, when He, the Spirit of Truth, has come, He will guide you into all truth. The Spirit of God is going to guide you into all truth. But you have to be sensitive to Him. You know you can grieve the Holy Spirit? You can quench the Holy Spirit. And when you do that, he stops guiding you. If well it's bad illustration with Damie Joe. Um because she uh has to do what I say. But um let's say uh Akira was talking to Alicia uh Melissa And Acura comes up to Melissa and asks her, do you think I should do this or this? And Melissa goes, what are you stupid? Why would you think about doing either one of those if you had half a brain in your head? Do you think she's going to come and talk to her again? No, definitely not. Well let's turn it around. Let's say what if she came and talked to her and Melissa's had to kick out of that. What if she came and talked to her and She's Melissa said, hey, I think it would be great for you to do this. And then Akira did the exact opposite. Melissa would be like, well, I'm not sure why she asked me. She did what she was gonna do anyway. And then she came to her and asked her again, and Melissa said, Well, how about you do this? And she does the exact opposite. The next time she comes and asks, Melissa is going to be like, you don't listen to me anyway. Why are you asking me? You see, when we don't yield to the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit just stops speaking to you He says, You've been ignoring me. You you've been disregarding what I want you to do. You have not been yielding to me. And he'll stop speaking to you. You're able to quench that, Holy Spirit. So that he won't come and talk to you. You've got to do that. Then to develop this in your life, you need to stay humble. You need to stay humble. Because sometimes we've got to correct our ways. And when we're full of ourselves, we're not ready to correct our ways. When the Holy Spirit shows us something and says, hey, you ought to do this or you ought to change that. We don't want to change because why? Because we're too proud. So we've got to be humble if we want to build discernment in our life. The slugger is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reasonable Seven men could come and talk to him and say, hey, this is a good reason for this. And he's wiser in his own conceit. Full of himself. A proud man is not ready to use Now the displaying of discernment in your life and we'll be done. In Philippians chapter one, verses nine and ten he says, And this I pray. Why don't you turn there? I know it's not on the screen. Philippians 1 verses 9 and 10, but I want you to see this in the scriptures. He says, and this I pray that your love may abound. Yet more and more in knowledge and in all, what's that word there? Judgment That judgment there is the same judgment we looked at. It's in all judgment, in discernment. But what is it that causes that to abound? According to the text there. What is it? He says, that your love may abound yet more and more. And now And all judgment. The love that we have for God. We're back where we started. As love abounds, you're going to display more and more. Discernment. As you love him and build your relationship with him, the better you know him, the better discernment that you'll have. This is going to be evident in every part of your life, every decision you make. Do you know that everybody needs some white blood cells The problem with many illnesses is they destroy the white blood cells. A. W. Tozer said the red capillaries are like faith. They carry the life-giving oxygen to every part of your body. The white cells are discerning, and they spot and pounce upon dead and toxic matter. And carry it out to the drain. In a healthy heart, there must be provision for keeping dead matter out of your life. Everybody needs some white blood cells. We've got to be able to discern those things that shouldn't be there. And get them out And when something comes in that starts attacking the white blood cells, sin, not yielding to the spirit, not spending time in the word. We're losing our ability to discern and we become sick spiritually. But God wants us to have discernment. You need Discernment. Beloved, let us use judgment. I think we all can grow in this area. We all can be better discerned. For every area of our life. It affects all it affects places we go, what we listen to, things, things. I could just build a list. We need discernment in our our lives. Who are we allowing to feed us, educate us? Use discernment. Let us use judgment. I'm going to ask the pianists to come to the piano. I'm going to close in prayer and have a moment of invitation. Lord, we come to you now. We ask you, dear God, that you would be with us. We pray, Lord, that you'd be with our church family. Those that are at home that watch the service tonight remotely, I pray, Lord, to be with those that are here. Each and every one of them in their respective place, I pray God they would yield to you the They would use discernment in every decision that they make. Discernment that's led by the Spirit of God. Help us, Lord, to become more discerning through God. Getting more knowledge of you and walking closer to you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.