All right. Turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve is where we're going to be tonight. We will have a nursery for Roundup. We'll do that in the house. And uh we're also gonna make available one of the rooms for um Miss Martha's class for junior church. Uh and P Pastor Derek wants to set up a little corral for his junior church. He's working on that. He said the kids would probably have a real good time with that. Um we thought about doing it on the bus, uh and you know, but I don't know if one way or another but we will have uh class as well, th those junior church classes uh and a nursery. Now I know that I mentioned to you all that I was going to be starting on a uh study the doing a Old Testament survey and we are going to do that. I'm in the process of preparing those notes and kind of getting a coarse overview and a projection Because it's such a large subject, if I did one book a week, we're looking at uh you know, thirty-nine weeks, uh you you're you got a a ways to go. And so if you You know, you I mean we could pretty easily take a year to do this, so I'm trying to get an idea of what would be my focus before I just shoot and, you know know j head out head out the gate without any real direction. And so in because of that we are going to put it off a couple of weeks. Uh the launching of that will probably start that the first week of October and uh then uh uh carry that through on our Thursday nights. So in light of that, I'm going back to tonight to one of the topics that we've looked at uh in what I'm calling the Let Us series. Uh a series of messages that I started teaching on Thursday night uh actually last October. It's almost been a year uh that we've looked at these a little bit here, one or two here or there. Uh but the let us the the admonitions in the scriptures that you see the phrase let us. And in Hebrews chapter twelve, look down in verse number twenty-eight. Hebrews 12, 28. The Bible tells us here, uh, wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace. whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. So he says here in this passage of Scripture, to let us have grace. In this series of messages that we've looked at that join us together with other believers, I I like the idea that uh it's let us do this. It's not you go do this or I mean don't you feel much better when uh somebody says, hey, let's go rake the yard, instead of why don't you go rake the yard Um let let's go stack the wood or let's go do this when there's several people. I mean many hands make light work and and having other people with you makes it more enjoyable. It makes it encouraging, it makes it a good time and and It gets done a lot quicker. And I like that admonition kind of, hey, let us that are joining with those that have gone before us and joining us as believers that are on the same direction, heading the same path. Saying, hey, we're going to do this together. We're going to be experiencing the grace of God in our life. We've looked at several things in this study already. We've looked at let us go on to perfection. Let us lay aside every weight, let us run. Let us draw near, let us hold fast. Let us consider one another, let us fear Let us labor. These are the topics we've looked at already, but tonight we're going to see what the Lord could teach us in this matter of grace. We're encouraged to have grace in our life. There is the implication in this verse that it's possible for you not to have grace, for you not to be experiencing or extending grace to others He's admonishing and encouraging them, hey, let us have grace. So there is the implication that there is a chance or the possibility that a Christian might not be experiencing grace in their life. And that's not what God wants for us. Let me just say on the on on the outset as we get going with this that this is not talking about saving grace. You see, there's grace in the heart of man is implied or taught in two facets. There is grace as it is applicable or applies to the lost man. And then there is grace as is exemplified or experienced in the saved man. And it's there's two different there because we know that the grace that is extended to the lost man is grace that is just given to him freely. He does nothing for it. For by grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's uh grace that's given is unmerited, undeserved, and and by the way, unrepayable grace. That God gives to each and every man that's willing to accept it. We've heard the acronym Grace is God's riches at Christ's expense That grace is given to every man. They just have to be willing to accept it. But as we are admonished here There ought to be a measure of grace happening and taking place in the Christian's life on an ongoing basis. This is what should be prevalent. In fact, we are entrusted with grace. We have been made the stewards of grace. In 1 Peter chapter 4, verse number 10. He says, as every man hath received the gift, Even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We have been made a steward, a keeper of the manifold grace of God. The grace of God is supposed to be evident in our lives. It's supposed to be something that people see in us. They are supposed to know that the grace of God is at work in our heart and in our lives. And you know what? When we lose our temper, they're not seeing the grace of God. When we are complaining or flying off the handle or yelling about things just like everybody else, they're not seeing the grace of God in our life. When we lose our patience with our loved ones, whether it be our children or our spouse, and we we are not expressing or extending the grace of God in our life, and our loved ones aren't seeing it. You know, the grace of God is supposed to be evident in the believer's life, and that's not just on Sunday morning. When we for about an hour can put a smile on our face. and put a Bible under our arm and say praise the Lord and sing the wonderful praises of God. The grace of God is supposed to be at work in the Christian's life all week long. It's supposed to be at work in our life. We are supposed to be growing in grace, the scripture tells us to do To grow in grace. This is something that's supposed to be in our life, that's supposed to be growing and becoming more and more active and more and more in control of us instead of us in control of ourselves. As a steward of this great grace that's supposed to be ever growing in my heart. And according to this text, we're encouraged to have grace. I'd like to ask you, have you been extended a measure of grace? In your life? I mean, hopefully everybody here tonight has been extended at least to saving grace, where you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and God uh gave us something that we did not deserve. He extended grace to us and saved our soul. I mean he had mercy on us by not judging us and giving us what we do deserve. But then he went beyond that and extended grace to us and gave us something way beyond, something that we don't deserve at all. That grace that we've been given is to be at work in our lives. And according to our text, he says, Wherefore we receive a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably. There is a grace which gives us the ability to serve God acceptably So how has this happened? What type of grace is this working in our in our hearts and lives? Grace is such an amazing topic. There's so much in the scripture about grace. First of all, we are made better servants of God because when the grace is at work in our life, it renews our strength. It renews our strength. Have you ever got tired? You ever got wore out? Have you ever been preparing for a big day like Roundup and thought, man, here we go again. Wow, I'm so tired of setting this tent up. Wow, I'm so tired of hauling these chairs back and forth. Or wow, I'm so tired of of of mowing the grass. It just never stops mow growing and and whatever it might be. You ever get worn out? Well, grace is a work, a supernatural work of God in our heart and life. You know, I mean you think about the supernatural work of grace that saves our soul. That is a supernatural work that God does. He forgives our soul. Gives us a home in heaven. Well, it's a supernatural work as well in our heart and life of the grace of God working, giving us the strength to keep going. In 2 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 5, he says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. So he starts out and he says, be strong. He says, Timothy, I know you might be weak. I know you might be tired, but be strong. He doesn't say, Timothy, be strong in thyself. Timothy, be strong and work extra hard. Or Timothy, give it your best shot. No, he says, Timothy, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for mastery, yet he is not crowned except he strive lawfully. He says, Hey, in this battle of the Christian life, Timothy, be strong. Be strong how? In the grace of God That grace is supposed to be working in our heart and in our life and giving us strength to be what God wants us to be. To live this Christian life on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday when you're at work. When you're around other people, when you're in the environment that's not the church environment. When it's a little bit harder, and sometimes as Brother Greg was saying tonight, Uh, you know, in our heart, in our life we say, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and I'm not ashamed of my Lord. Yet sometimes We are. We don't want to be, and we certainly would not desire that, and we want we love God and we would want to proclaim his name from the mountaintops. But we don't That grace of God has to be at work in our heart and life to give us the strength to pass out that track, to be that witness. To invite somebody to church. You know, I was thinking about this just today. About the fact, you know, we don't want them to not like us. We don't want them to think that we're weird. We don't we would like them to appreciate our values. You know I thought about it? The opposite is absolutely true. There are they do some things that I don't appreciate. I mean, I wouldn't want them standing on my door telling me about their wicked lifestyle. It goes both ways. I mean we certainly want them to uh em embrace or or follow the Lord Jesus Christ and we are working from the principle of the we have the gospel of Jesus Christ and the truth and God. But what I'm saying from their standpoint They don't like people that don't like them either. I mean they're dealing with that as well. They want people to like them. They want people to to to value what they value. And our values don't match. And that's why we aren't can't be the best of friends. Well it's we we should still be a witness. We are to find and maintain this strength from God, this grace that God does in our lives. It is only in him that you can find the strength to keep on, keep it on, to not quit, to get up one more time, to be faithful one more Sunday. To come back one more Thursday night, to pray for that lost loved one one more time, to pray for that need one more time, to ask God one more time for that answer that you You've been looking for. It's the grace of God that works in your heart that gives you that faith, that gives you that strength to keep going. Not only does the grace of God working in the Christian life renew our strengths, But it renews our spirit. It renews our spirit. In the book of Philemon, Philemon, uh a man in the first century. We've been led to Christ by Paul, Philemon, had a servant named Onismus. And he was dealing with him. Banisimus had run away and had created this breach in their friendship, had created a breach in their relationship. There was a problem there. One day while Onismus was in prison, he met Paul, and Paul began to talk to him. And ultimately that spurred the letter that he wrote back to his good friend Philemon. And in Philemon, verse number 18 and 19 he says, if he hath wronged thee or owed thee aught, Put that on my account. I, Paul, have written it with mine own hand. I will repay it. Albeit, I did not say to thee how thou owest unto He said, Philemon, if Onesimus has done anything wrong, if he owes you anything at all, let me cover it. And I'm not even going to talk about all the stuff that you owe me that I'm not asking for. That's what he that's what the Apostle Paul is saying. He's saying, you owe your life to me. All that you are and what you've been accomplished or what you can do right now, you owe that to me. But we're not talking about that. What we're talking about is what you're demanding of Onismus. And Paul says, well, I mean you need to have the right spirit. You need to let the grace of God work in your life and have the right kind of spirit. Paul saying, I'm the one that led you to the Lord. Remember that when you consider whether you should forgive Onesimus or not. The measure of grace which we have received. Should be the measure of grace that we're willing to extend to others. But we forget about all the grace that we've received from an almighty, all-powerful God who has extended us an unmeasurable amount of grace. And he continues to do so day by day. Extends to us grace, his unmerited favor. And then those who have wronged us in the smallest way. We want to hold their feet to the fire. We want to say that is unforgivable. That is not something that can be taken care of. That can't be let we can't let that go No. But what about all that grace that has been extended to you? What about all the grace that's been extended to me? How could I possibly demand of others when God has been so gracious to me? Have you been hurt? If you can't get past it, you're telling on yourself. You're telling everyone that the grace of God is not at work in your life. Because the grace of God, according to 1 Peter 4:10, as every man hath received the gift. Even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. All the gift that we've been given by Jesus Christ, all that He has done for us, we're supposed to minister the same to others. As the manifold grace of God that has been given to us. How can we, who have been given so much, hold others accountable? We have to have the right spirit if we're going to serve God together. You know, it's only in the face of an offense that you get the privilege of demonstrating true grace. Without the offense, there's not the opportunity to extend grace. But when the offense comes, and they will come, when the offense comes, you can extend that grace And it's amazing there's some in here, I know it's hard to believe, but I've done something that offended them over the years that we've been ministering together. And right now in my heart, I have gratitude for the grace that they've extended to me. Yes, I came and I apologized and said, hey, I did wrong, but it still took that forgiving heart. It still took somebody saying, I understand you're not perfect and I'm willing to forgive you. And they extended that grace to me. I don't say that I deserved it or that I earned it, but they extended that to me. And right now my heart is gratitude in it because they would do that for me. But it's only in the face of an offense that we get the privilege of extending grace to a believer in Christ, to another brother or sister. My, this is what we ought to do as believers. Show forth the power of God in our life when the rubber meets the road. Let the grace of God reign supreme. Good for good is only fair. Bad for bad soon brings despair Bad for good is vile and base. Good for bad shows a measure of grace. Only in the face of that do we get the privilege of showing grace. We could even thank God for it. For the opportunity. Yeah, think about Jesus Christ. They hung him on a cross. He did not deserve that. Even the powers that be wanted to wash their hands of it because they could find nothing guilty in him. Trying to free themselves of any guilt for him going to the cross. He wasn't guilty. And he went to the cross for you and I. And he doesn't hold that against us, but instead extends forgiveness. He said it himself on the cross. He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. It will renew your spirit if you let the grace of God work in your heart. Sometimes these matters are the hardest to deal with. But let the grace of God renew your spirit. And you'll get past it. It will renew your surrender. Romans chapter eight. I'm sorry, Romans chapter twelve, verse number three. He says, For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man a measure of faith. He says it's through the grace given unto him that you're able to not think more highly of yourself than you ought to think And when somebody is humble, they're able to surrender and yield to God. James chapter 4, verse number 6. But he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace. to the humble. It is a humble spirit that submits to the will of God and to what God wants to do in our life. And God gives us the grace. Think about the fact that God resists the proud heart, but extends grace. to that which is humble. When we think about God's grace in our lives, it should renew our hum our humble spirit. Just ponder who you are, what you are. And I know on the outside and as we walk among people we we put on airs and and we are a certain thing and we've got this we've got everything together. Now think about it in your heart and in your mind before an Almighty God that watches you 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 52 weeks a year. You think about what God knows about you. And think about the fact that even with all that knowledge, he extends grace to you. And that should put us like the prophet who said, Woe is me. And humble us. You know, uh recently we had one of the church members here testify about something very personal in their life And there's several that commented about the humility that that takes. Why why is that? Because they were exposing their heart. They were exposing their life. They're saying, here I am. This is what I've done. This is where I'm at. It takes humility to do that. And we're before an Almighty God that way all the time. And we need hearts that are humble, surrendered to God. Are you surrendered to do whatever God wants you to do? The church is set up as the organization, the place in which you can serve The church is where you have an opportunity to reach up in worship, to reach out in evangelism, to reach in in fellowship, and to reach around in ministry. Inside the church, are you willing to do whatever God wants you to do? You are uniquely gifted to fulfill a particular task. Are you surrendered to that task tonight The amazing thing is, as I studied this, I thought and pondered upon this thing, this thought. Has God extended grace to me? In vain. You see, he said in 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse number 1, We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. The grace of God is extended to us. Is God extending it to me in vain? Is he giving it to me and I am not doing with it what I should? Am I not letting it grow in my life and to be extended to others? Am I not exercising grace and standing on the strength of Jesus Christ, renewing my spirit and surrendering to his will? Am I not experiencing grace as a Christian? Is God extending that to me in vain? I hope not. God help me to gain the most benefit from the grace that you've extended to me as a Christian. That's been my prayer throughout the day as I've studied this thought. Let us have grace. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed Grace is what God wants us to have. It should be evident in our lives, not just to us, but to those around us, to our friends, to our family, to our co-workers, to those that we see. Has God extended his grace to you in vain? I'm going to ask the pianist to come and to play a song of invitation. Give you an opportunity. To pray and talk to the Lord. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to be in your house. We thank you for your word. I ask you, Lord, that you would allow the grace, your grace, to work in our lives. And that we would extend it to others, Lord. We could never hope to have the measure of grace that's been extended to us. But Lord, I pray that we would at least try. And we'll Thank you. As the pianist plays, you do what God wants you to do.