Hebrews chapter thirteen, verse number fifteen, I've been waiting for some months to uh to preach this message. Uh I mean I didn't write it until the last couple days, but the text I found as I was searching months and months ago for the I You know, I've been teaching on occasion on the Let Us series. Let us do this and that, and I've found several of them. I've looking forward to Christmas as well, because right around Christmas We're going to be teaching on let us adore him. And I'm looking forward to that. But today we're looking in this text, Hebrews 13, verse number 15. He says, By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. Tonight, for just a few minutes, we want to look at let us praise him. Let us praise him. Let me open as a word of prayer as we start. Lord, we thank you for tonight and we thank you, God, for your love for us. And I know in this room right now there are others who have in their hearts and their mind things that they're gratify grateful for. Maybe maybe echoing the sentiments that were stated clearly by others, maybe taking them a little step further or Putting a little bit more life's experiences behind that gratitude, but Lord, hearts full of gratitude and thankfulness to you nonetheless. And I pray this evening as we look at this idea or this thought of let us praise Him that our hearts would be full and overwhelmed with your love and your goodness for us, that we would have an outpouring of gratitude. Yes, over the next Next few days, but not just then, as we saw in the presentation, that it's not just a holiday, but it's the way that happy people live, and we know that to be blessed To be happy, and Lord, you bless your people, and we pray, God, that you would lead us through these thoughts in Jesus' name. Amen. As we have seen in our study of the Old Testament and the tabernacle, that God has done away with the sacrificial system. And we haven't taken the time yet uh to look at the different sacrifices and what they represented and who could present them for what reason. But uh yeah we know that the sacrificial system has been done away with. But does that mean that we as Christians are not to offer any sacrifice. I think that you know that that's not true. Um we of course know that it is Our reasonable service to offer our body as a living sacrifice. We know, and that would be a wonderful study for somebody. I haven't done it, but if you would like to look at And see what sacrifices the New Testament Christian is to offer. That is a would be a great study, but we know from our text here tonight that we are to offer the sacrifice Of praise unto God. Offering that sacrifice to praise unto God. In this text, I at first thought I might use this outline. I'll just give it to you. I kind of broke it up a little bit differently. But we can look at the who, what, where, and when of this verse. It's all right there. We've got the who. That is us and Christ, the who that's involved in this verse. Then you have the what. What are we supposed to do? We're to praise him. We're to praise him. The where? It's supposed to come from our heart. That's where the praise is supposed to come from. And the when, we're supposed to do it continually. Continually, without ceasing, uh all the time. But we want to look at just a couple other things, break it down a little bit differently as we consider this verse. First of all, the praise is to be to Christ. To Christ. You see, He's the source. He's the beginning. God is the source of all things that we have to praise about. I mean, you think about that idea. Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. It all comes from, begins with, starts, and finishes with an Almighty God. Our sacrifices and the ability that we have to offer a sacrifice of praise comes from God Almighty. Sometimes you and I just need to be reminded of that fact that it all comes from him. You know every breath you take is a gift. Every time that you wake up in the morning as this we just watched this presentation, he says, I've got my legs that I can walk around on the land. That God's given me. I've got my eyes to be able to take in the beauty of the fall colors here. And just acknowledging all it was that God had truly given him. It all comes from God. I mean, if you think about just the breath, you know, here in this room, I think probably Dave Rodney fights with uh his lungs more than anybody else here. And I know there's times that he finds it's hard to breathe. He's got things built up there and he has to have some oxygen and he's got to have things help him breathe. You get to the place where you have to fight for a breath. And that'll make you thankful for to be able to breathe. Amen. Amen, Dave. Amen. It'll make you thankful. When you get to the place in your life like so many people are that they have to roll the oxygen around with them all the time, make you thankful. That you can take a breath. It all comes from God. Every good gift and every perfect gift, we know that it comes from God. The rich man in his wealth confides, but in my God my trust abides. Laugh as ye will, I hold this one thing fast. That he hath taught, who trust in God shall want for naught. Yes, Lord, thou art as rich today as thou hast been And shall be yea. I rest in thee alone. Thy riches to my soul be given, and 'tis enough for earth. Earth and all of heaven. It all comes from God. Every good gift and every perfect gift, it comes from God. The beginning of our ability to praise Him starts with Christ and it goes on. To Christ, the beginning and the end. We are to praise continually. He says in our verse: praise. Let us therefore offer the sacrifice of praise to God. continually. This is not just supposed to be something that we do when things are going well. And hey, when things are going well, that's exciting. That's that's th those days are fun. Ms. Ms. Tanisha and I were talking just before service and she got a good deal on a pair of shoes and that's something to be excited about. I got a good deal on a drill yesterday and that's something to be excited about. I mean, hey, that's great, but you know what? We're not just supposed to praise God and have praise for God when things are going good. When we get the deal, when the car is running, when the bills are at least paid or up to date. I mean, we're not supposed to just praise God when when we're on the top. You know what makes the difference between you and I and the world who is going to observe Thanksgiving? What is the difference between our gratitude or our thankfulness and their thankfulness? I think it goes back to our first point. Is ours is supposed to be directed towards God. It's supposed to be recognizing that he is the provider. And we do it whether things are going good or whether things are going bad. Not just in this place here at church, but in every place. Not just today, but every day. Not just around our family. But around everyone, not just when we're happy, but also when we're sad. David Lin David Livingston said: An hour of praise is worth a day of fasting and mourning. One hour of praise is worth a day of fasting and mourning. You know it takes real faith to praise God when it's cloudy. It takes real faith to praise God when things aren't going good. When when things are a little rough or the bill is not paid or you don't know what's going to happen or the car just broke down or you just received that bad news. That's when it takes faith to praise God anyway. Faith says, I know that God's in control. Faith says, I know God knows what's best for me Faith says, I know this didn't take God by surprise, and although I can't see light at the end of the tunnel right now, and although I don't know what's coming next, I know he does. And therefore, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. It's faith that gives you the ability to praise even in the bad times. Praise gives wings to your faith But doubt will clip the wings one at a time When we doubt him, you get into that struggle and you begin to doubt that maybe God really knows what's going on. Maybe he doesn't really understand what you're facing. Maybe this has taken him by surprise, or maybe uh maybe this is not supposed to happen this way, and you begin to doubt. And you no longer have the ability to praise him anyway. You've got to trust. You've got to have faith. And praise Him continually. Even in the good times. Even in the bad times Not just today, but every day. Praise is to be called out. Here's the substance of our praise is to be called out. He says, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our, what does it say? Lips. It's something that's supposed to be said. It's something that's supposed to be proclaimed. It is a fruit. It's like, how many of you ever seen a fruit basket? A group I mean a beautifully put together, really, you know, big fruit basket. I like fruit baskets that have candy in them That way my wife can eat the fruit and I can have the candy. I like those for the snacks. The fruit baskets I have, you know, bags of chips and saltine crackers and all the other stuff in there. That's what makes a good fruit basket. But that's not fruit You know, this talks about that praise is supposed to be fruit, the fruit of our lips. That means there's got to be a root somewhere that this fruit is springing up out of. There has to be something down inside of here, something that is real, that has faith in an Almighty God that's overflowing. with praise because of all that he has done for you. When you continually recognize and acknowledge How good God is to you. It gets to the place where the cup that is holding the blessings of God begins to run over, and you can't contain it. And it just begins to flow over. And as it flows over, it becomes the fruit of your lips coming forward, coming out. And it's being a blessing to many others As you can't hold it down, it must just must be spoken, not just felt. Yes, you adore him, but did you declare that to anybody? It is the natural fruit of your lips for someone who has a heart filled with gratitude to God. It's not something that must be forced. Doesn't have to be worked up. It's something that just comes out. Sometimes you might be in a public place and somebody will say something about, wow, isn't it a nice day? And you say, man, God is so good. Look at the good day He gave us. Acknowledging where that good day came from and the blessing of it for you, but giving praise to him. It just comes out. And sometimes people look at you like What are you like a religious kind of dude or something? Are you religious uh you know hey I just recognize God's the one that's in control and he gave us a great day today You don't even have to think about it. It's not forced. It comes out. Our request flow as natural and as free as a river Our request to God. Boy, they come out and list, don't they? We've got a list that we published of our request. What about our praise? What about our praise? How natural is that to flow from our lips? God help me with this, God. Keep this from me. God help me pay this bill. God help me solve this problem. God, get me out of this mess I made. God, would you please do this? Where's the praise that's supposed to be a natural flowing from us? It's damned up by the cares of this world, by a discontent heart It should be flowing freely, but we've put some obstructions in the way, something that's blocked that flow of praise to our Almighty God We should give God praise. Why should God give you an eye any more than he already has When we have yet to show him gratitude for what he's already bestowed upon us. We've got so many things, and we still have a want list, and yet we haven't expressed any gratitude or real appreciation for all that God has already given us. You know, I recall a occasion would doesn't happen as much here, although we do get people coming by here asking for money. but not as often because we're kind of off the beaten path. I know when we get on Shawan Road it's going to get a little worse. Not so far from the light rail. We've had people walk all the way here from the light rail to our church to ask for money. And uh well in Kansas I recall this gentleman who came to the church and he was asking for money and he needed a place to So I took them down to a local hotel that we had arrangements with to provide a place for people to stay when it was necessary. Now it wasn't the Hyatt Regency, it was a little local hotel, but it was nice and it was clean. Well I took him into the four-year of the hotel and I said hello to the manager and says, hey, we want to want to put him up for the night. And this guy looked at me and he says, You're putting me in this hotel? He said, You wouldn't put your mom here. And I said, I sure would He's like, well you must not love her then. He says, what kind of person are you? You would put somebody in a hotel like this. I said, well I assume that this is a lot better than sleeping on the street. And he's like, well, I want to stay, and he told me some hotel down the road, and I don't recall which. I said, well, here's the thing. Beggars can't be choosers I wanted to say to stay on the street then. This is what we're offering. But I I didn't eat at that point I didn't even want to give it to him. At that point I'm like, if you don't appreciate it at all, why should I give you this room at all? I mean it still cost us 70 bucks a night to stick you in here Why should we do this for you? Because there's no appreciation, no gratitude. You know, our God, He's not as petty as we are. He's able to look beyond some of that with us. But I wonder if God doesn't look at us and say, I already gave you this and this and this and this and this and this and this and this. this and this and this, and you haven't shown any gratitude, any thankfulness for all of that blessing that's been bestowed upon you. We need to remember all that God has done and let that praise flow. It's a heartfelt enjoyment It's something that must be cultivated as you consider every heartache that's been averted. Think of the things that could have happened that God has saved you or protected you from, as you remember every answered prayer that God has provided As you somehow in your finite mind measure the mercy that's been bestowed upon you in your life. As you consider the level of grace that you've enjoyed, if you think about every stripe that he bore for you and I. Because it was by his stripes that we are healed. The Lord has done so much for me that I must praise him It must be something inside that's like a fire that's burning that just can't. It's gotta come out. That wellspring that should flow like a river of gratitude from our lips. That the Lord might be honored and glorified. You know, both words of praise and works of piety are spiritual sacrifices. that please God. Read with me verse number sixteen of our text there. Read it out loud for me because my Bible turned pages and I'm not there. What does it say? Verse number sixteen. Uh if you uh usually have um Amen. God is well pleased. If you weren't reading, you probably couldn't understand it. But if you had your Bible open, you saw that God is well pleased, and what does it say in there in the beginning? of that verse it talks about the the good what is the phrase good what to do good to do good the good things that you do The sacrifice of praise and the good things that you do, both the works of piety. And the worship that we give God are things that please Him, that please the heart of God. Do you have a heart of praise to an Almighty God? In conclusion, I want you to consider a couple of things. Consider the true benefactor of this sacrifice of praise. Yes, those around you are encouraged by your praise and the good spirit and a good attitude that you have, and they're encouraged. Yes, it is a sacrifice that's offered unto God, and so God hears it, and it is pleasing to him. But do you know who the true benefactor of this praise is? It's not a quick question. Does anybody know? I know you don't know. Sometimes you don't know if you want if I want you to answer or not. It's us. It's me. We are the benefactor. It's proven by science. If we didn't even have the scripture, it's proven the benefits of a heart of gratitude. The true benefactor is you, as you consider the full blessing of God on your life. We know blessed are the people. Blessed means happy. You'll be happier because you have a heart of gratitude You know, man, just as anything in this world is happiest when they are doing what they were created to do. You and I were created to give honor to God. And we'll be happiest when we're fulfilling that in our life. We were made to glorify Him. And that will guarantee you happiness. You need to understand that gratefulness does not come from happiness. That's the world's philosophy. I'm very happy, and so therefore I'm grateful. No Happiness comes from gratefulness. Grateful people are happy. One can go ahead and live a life of discontentment. For that's what we're really talking about. For somebody who cannot see the need for gratitude. is they have a life that's they're discontent. No matter how much they've been given, they're not happy with it. You can live with this overriding spirit of discontentment. You can wallow in your misery. You can put yourself down into the pit of despair and spend your days absent of joy. Or you can choose to turn it all around and exercise a heart of gratitude And experience the joy that is the natural result of giving the sacrifice of praise Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. God wants you to praise him. We are to offer a sacrifice of praise From a heart overflowing. It's to be the natural fruit of our lips. Just naturally coming out, praising Him, offering the sacrifice of praise. I know we all have much we could express our gratitude for, but are you declaring it? It must be spoken, it must be called out through our lips, not just to our family and friends, but to those we know and come in contact with, giving praise. In honor to God. As a pianist plays, I don't know how God spoke to your heart tonight, but the altar will be open, you to deal with your Savior