If you have your Bibles, uh want you to turn to Romans chapter number 13. Romans chapter number 13. And uh verse number 12. Back on October 20th in 2016, I preached the first message of a series of messages Motivated out of the thought, the admonition, the plea that's found in the Word of God, the idea of let us Do something. Let us, the scripture, there's a call there. Let us. There's that that, hey, let's go do this. Let us do this. And I preached the first message there on October 20th in 2016. And uh through twenty sixteen and actually uh much of twenty seventeen, I preach across that time I preached fourteen messages uh from that let us series, and I actually have about another ten that are uh that I'm looking forward to preaching, but I didn't preach on it at all in 2018 or at all in 2019. So now here in 2020 we're going to get get back to that series and pick up a few of those and look at them. They're very interesting to me. And it's a call to action, and as we as a church are using as a theme to press on, you know, let us press on. Amen. Let us take the next the next step. And in Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12, we see the topic for this evening. He says, the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. The title for tonight's message is Let us put on the armor of light. Put on the armor of light. I was brought to this study as a result of actually looking into the Word of God and doing a study on light. I was just studying light, and a couple weeks ago I talked to Pastor Derek about it, and I said, hey, this idea actually, the title of the message that I was originally going to be preaching was The Light of Life. Because Jesus Christ is the light of life. And and that is that's what my message was going to be on. I was going to preach on the light of life. And the idea of that as we as Christians are supposed to be Walking in light. The light that's revealed to us, we're supposed to be walking in that light. Now, we of course have the whole other aspect that we are supposed to be letting the light shine through us And we are supposed to be a testimony to the world, but the focus was how does that light that we have affect us? How does it challenge us and what does it mean for us day by day as we think about the light of life? I mean I mean you look and you to hear people talking about how man they just had that light in their eye or they just they they're just they're so alive and and they're so you know The idea of the light of life, I was just kind of burdened about that and began studying and looking in the scriptures and literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of verses. that contain uh scriptural principles with regards to the light that's revealed unto us. And how we're supposed to be responding to that light. And as I began studying that, I thought of or came across a verse in Isaiah 59, verse number 10, it says, we grope for the wall like the blind. We grope as if we had no eyes. We stumble at noonday as at the night. We are in desolate places as dead men. And I thought about this world and how the world is walking around in darkness, how they grope for the wall like a blind man, like It's as if it's the middle of day, but they can't see what they're going. They can't see what they need to do. They're battling and struggling through their life. Men seem to be struggling and stumbling around as if they were in the dark. Yes, they're walking through life, but the direction they're headed, the decisions that they're making. It's as if they have no light at all. You see a child and the foolish or dumb things that a child does. And you look at it and you say, well, it's a child. Obviously, he hasn't learned yet. He doesn't know any better. He hasn't matured. But what is mind-boggling is when you see full grown adults making decisions as if they had never had any instruction at all. As if nobody's taught them anything. How could they make these decisions financially? How could they make these decisions for their home and for their family? How could they make these decisions for their life? It's as if they can't see. That's the heart of the message tonight as we're talking about putting on the armor of light, being protected. Sadly, it seems to be the case for most of the world today that they're walking around groping for the wall as the blind. It's as though there is less and less light every day. Every day you see less and less light, the destruction that is brought on Most of the time by people's own decisions. Oh, I know they want to blame it on other people. I know they want to talk about their situation and why it's not fair and and what happened to put them in that place Most of the time it's because of the decisions that they made. The foolish, ill responsible Unprepared for decisions that they've made in their life. The destruction that is brought on most of the time by their own doing is almost discouraging. Proverbs chapter four four and verse number nineteen says, The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They don't even know what they're stumbling on. I know all of you have done it. You've all walked through a dark room. You you you stumbled over something and y you didn't you're like, what was that? Uh how did that happen? Where did that come from? And and either you had forgotten that it was there or it got put there since the last time you were in the room, but you don't know what you're stumbling over and So much of this world is making decisions and their their direction of their life and the things that they're deciding is is so uh pointless and empty. They don't even know the own destruction they're bringing to their life. But what is truly discouraging is when Christians Christians like those of you who are streaming tonight Like those that are here in the auditorium, that love God, that know Jesus as their Lord and Savior, that have been given light, It's discouraging when we are walking through our life as though we have no light. We do have light. It's available to us. Our eyes, the scales have been lifted, and Jesus Christ, in his glorious light of the gospel, has given us light. But we're living life as though we don't have any. Colossians chapter one and verse number twelve. Says, giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness. And has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. You see, God has given us light. We have that light available to us. Sadly, many Christians are not living in that light. They're living and making decisions and taking steps and And determining actions for themselves that are as though they're in darkness. We're not to be living in darkness. We're not to turn back to the darkness. Christians do not have to and should not be groping around in the dark trying to find out what to do because we have access to the light. This is just as dumb for a Christian to be going through his life and making decisions without the light of God. As it is for a man to be in a room searching around for his keys in the dark. When all he has to do is go over here and turn the switch on. Let's let's phrase it like this. All he has to do is put on the light. And he can see what he needs to see. But too many Christians are going through their lives wondering what should I do? Where should I go? What what decision should I make? How should this work out? And all they've got to do is put on the armor of light. And they would know what to do, and they would be able to see it. It's so f I mean you you're looking around in the dark forever, and you turn on the light, and it's like, oh There they are. That quick. That easy. And that's how easy it would be for the believer if he was just walking in the light. Instead of living his life as though he didn't have any light, just like the lost and dying world without Jesus Christ But Christians is living in darkness, making decisions for themselves and for their families as if they have no light at all. We're told to put on the armor of light. They give you three points because any good message has three points, right? That's what I was taught anyway. I don't know why that is. You know why that is? Why they say three points? So you have a limit, I guess, so you're not too too long. I don't know. But we're gonna give you three points. We're gonna see tonight the The problem with darkness, or the problem of darkness, we're going to see the power of light and the protection of light. As found in putting on that armor that's in the text. The problem with darkness, I think that's pretty self-explanatory. I mean That's something that we have all very practical and easy to see that things are harder when it's dark. But if you want to turn to a text we're going to be looking at a little bit in and out of here tonight, turn to Ephesians chapter number 4, if you have the Word of God there in front of you. And you would care to look at it in Ephesians chapter four. We're going to look at a couple of verses and reference it a couple of times throughout the evening as I will be giving you lots of scriptures because I said there's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of verses. I had to be very selective because there's so much scripture on this topic that uh be a great study for anybody to just dig into uh what it means to walk in the light, to live and direct your life according to the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But Ephesians chapter 4 and verse number 18, we're talking here about the problem of darkness. He says, here having the understanding darkened. Okay, the lights have been turned off. Being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness. Of their hearts. The ignorance that is in them and the blindness of their hearts, their understanding has been darkened. You know, today men are better educated But more ignorant than they've ever been. We have more highly educated people in our country than we've ever had, and yet you look around or just watch the news day by day, and it's mind-boggling to see the ignorance That is portrayed as news. Or that's portrayed as fact in the world today. The adoption of the foolish, crazy, hare-brained ideas and beliefs that people have It's just mind-boggling to see how they could possibly grab a hold of these things and believe it. And the illustrations are are too numerous to list is even in recent days, as you hear the conspiracy theories about how coronavirus was released, you know, to control the population of the world or or as a weapon against America or you know who who knows all of these different ideas that that people come up with. Ultimately, uh the one that was the farthest was the adoption that coronavirus was Mother Earth. Mother Earth is fighting back against the evil tyrant, the human, who is destroying her. So this is coronavirus fighting back. That's Mother Earth fighting against us because we have been destroying her. Look at the links that people will will go to. Alienated from the life of God. Through their ignorance that is in them because of the blindness in their heart. The complete And utter ignorance that is out there is motivated by a rejection of the light. Amen. The adoption of this foolishness is because of their heart's desire to reject the light. If I came into this room and I had the ability to turn the light on, but I decided not to, and I tripped over something that failed, it's my own fault. Because I rejected the light. And there's so many people in the world today who are living their lives and they're on purpose rejecting the light of the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ, rejecting the light of Jesus and who He is the light of the world, and His Word that is a light to our feet and a lamp to our path, that word that is for us, the rejection of that. Puts them in darkness. In nineteen ninety-four, George and Tina Rosalind of York PA Named their newborn daughter Atheist Evolution Rosalind. They literally named their daughter Atheist Evolution Rosalind. Mr. Rosalind said that his daughter's name is their answer to other parents' use of biblical names. There are so many people who have Christian names like Christian or Christina or Bible names. Here is just one person that is named atheist, complete and utter ignorance, because of the rejection of the light That's what happens when you're in darkness. The problem with darkness is when you're in the darkness you can't see how filthy it really is. You can't see how bad it really is. You see men walking in darkness, they look at their life and they think, I'm okay. I'm pretty clean. I'm doing well. They can they have no comprehension of how filthy they really are Sometimes I think maybe the restaurants like having the dimmer lights because you really can't tell how much dust is on everything. You really can't tell how dirty the corners of the restaurant are. I mean if you walked in there and all the lights were on, you'd be like, whoa. Now I remember because one when my oldest sister who was about when she was about twenty, uh she was working at a Shony's. And I went into the Shoney's one night when she was getting off and they turned all the lights on and she was cleaning up and I was like, man, this place is dirty. Like this is gross. And you know, there's not many shonies around anymore, so that might be why. But hey, when the lights are off you can't see how dirty it really is. Mm that's why men love darkness. Rather than light. Because their deeds are evil. And in the darkness you can't see how evil it really is. You don't want light shone on that subject. Men have no comprehension of the true state of their soul as long as they abide in darkness. You understand it's always been God's plan that men would walk in light. The first words ever uttered by God, to our knowledge, the first words ever uttered by God and given to us were Let there be light. And Genesis chapter one and verse number three. Let there be light. It is God's plan from the very beginning that man would walk in light. The word of God from the very beginning has brought light. Any time the word of God has been spoken, it brought light. But do you understand when sin entered into the world, it plunged men into darkness? Men were plunged into darkness, but God in His love and His mercy devised a plan whereby men could be brought back into the light. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 4 through 6, he says, In whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is in the image of God, should shine unto them. That was God's plan, to shine the light of the gospel. Verse 5 says, For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. Hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. John 12, 46 says I am come a light into the world, and whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. Whosoever should believe it on me should not abide in darkness. So Christian, I ask you tonight If you trusted and believed on Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, why would we walk through light as though we had no light? Let us put on the armor of light. Jesus came to bring light. The Word of God gives light. That light that comes from Jesus and the Word of God is powerful. Let's look tonight at the power of light. Light in every situation dispels darkness. They cannot coexist. All you need to do is shed a little more light on the subject. And darkness cannot remain. If you're walking in a fog, if you're not sure what to do, just shine a little more light on the subject. And you'll know what to do. Just get some direction from the Word of God, from the light that's available to us. I I know sometimes I I'll be looking at a book and as you guys know I have to start wearing my glasses now. And I may pull out the glasses and be looking and I I still struggle a little bit because I might be in maybe a dark corner of the room where there's not as much light as in the others. But all I gotta do is turn on some light, and the darkness is there is dispelled. It's powerful. Just like light is a picture of God, God is all powerful. And light has power to dispel darkness. So why would we walk through life in darkness? Somebody much wiser than me. I don't have a name or I would give you a name who developed this, and it may not even been original with the pastor that I got his notes from, but He must have been a science professor, I don't know, but he very eloquently described the three different types of light. There's three different types of light. First of all, there is a chemical ray. This is an invisible light that cannot be seen nor felt. Kind of like the light from an X-ray. That passes through you and gives the exposure on the other side and it can't be seen, it can't be felt, it it's but it's there. It provided a an image for us Then there is the illuminating rays. Those can be seen, but not felt. You can see them, but you can't feel them. Then there are heat rays. Light that provides heat, and that can be felt, but not seen And he likened this, as we see that God is the picture of light, to the three aspects of God the Father. First, the Father is invisible. We can't see them and we can't feel them. But then the second type of light, the illuminating light, is that sun. The Son of God, the one whom we can't feel, but you can see. He is that light that is the light of the world. And then you have the spirit, the one whom we can't see, but you feel. They're not going to be able to do that. That kind of light. Christ is the light of the world. Just as the sun is the source of light for our physical earth. The Son of God is the source of life for the Christian. The stars and the moons are not the light. They bear witness to the light. At nighttime they bear witness of that light. You know, we are not the light. But we're to bear witness of the light. The light of God is supposed to be shining on our lives. The Word of God is supposed to be lighting our path In Ephesians, if you're still there, chapter four, verse number seventeen, gives us a description of a life in darkness. He says, This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles. In the vanity of their mind, having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness. of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over unto lascivitousness to work all uncleanliness with greediness. Do you know that despair is a result of life without light? Right. And think about the world today and how many people how many cases of utter despair and discouragement and anxiety and how many emotional problems are we facing as a world today uh that that it seems like people on every hand are overrun with despair Yeah. Why? Because life without light will end in despair. Right. Do you know that the works of religion are just as empty to the Christian who is walking outside of light As the works of the flesh are to a lost man. Oh, we preach it all the time and we like it when we talk about that, hey, the flesh and the world, it's not going to satisfy. You need to trust Jesus Christ, you can pursue some fulfillment in drinking or in alcohol or in drugs or in the world's entertainments, and you can none of that's going to satisfy because you need Jesus And we say Amen, and people are called to the cross of Jesus Christ and told that they need to trust him because man, the world is so empty and meaningless, and it's it's nothing without Jesus Christ. And all amen to all that. But do you understand that the same principle applies to the Christian who has religion? Do you know your religion of carrying your Bible and walking to church and putting offering in the plate? The religion that you have that would motivate you maybe to give out a gospel track? All of that is empty and meaningless to you without Jesus Christ. It is just as unfulfilling. And my, how many Christians I've talked to that, you know, the Word of God just doesn't do anything for me. I don't understand what the big deal is about doing this or doing that. It's meaningless to me. Because you do not have you're not walking in the light. And the Christian life that you're trying to live is nothing more than a religion. We talk about how with Jesus it's a relationship. And we say, Amen. But how many Christians are really day by day fulfilling that relationship? Instead, they're living like a lost man. In darkness, groping around, trying to find satisfaction and fulfillment in their religion without the light of Christ. Jim Berg has a quote in a study that I've done on purity And in this study on purity, he's talking about the pursuit in life for fulfillment and satisfaction and Literally discussing and looking at the life of Solomon and how Solomon had a thousand wives, and you would wonder, when is enough enough? I mean, how many wives do you need? And and he's talking about that, and Jim Berg in that discussion, he has this quote that's kind of lengthy. I'm going to read it to you, but I've asked Pastor Gus to put it on the screen for you so you can follow along. He says this. The bottom line truth is that life is not supposed to work without God at the center. Those who try to do so, even Christians, can maintain only an artificial facade of hope and satisfaction. The grim reality is that the emptiness of life without God at the center pushes itself to the consciousness once again when the music stops. The drugs wear off, the eroticism fails, the fashions grow old, the relationships disappointed. The accomplishments fade, the thrills subside, they are left to themselves, and the emptiness for most people is too much. Instead of crying out to God for light, however, they dive back into their activities Mainlining the anesthesia of their endless pursuits to dull the pain of their empty souls. Such is the picture of a man without God at the center. Even a believing man who isn't seeing God in a new and fresh illuminated truth. You see, even a Christian We understand it. We think of the world and we think, oh, they don't want to actually come to the reality of where they're at. And so they keep sticking their head in their sand or they keep pursuing mindlessly these activities and these things To keep them busy. But how many Christians are the same way? They don't have a real thriving relationship with Jesus Christ. It's meaningless. There's no pursuit of God. They're not seeing God in a fresh and new light. Ever. But instead of acknowledging where they're at and calling out to God, they keep groping around in the darkness. We're not supposed to walk as the men who don't know God walk. With their understanding darkened, because we have Can I talk to you about the protection of light? As we try and wrap it up this evening, Romans 8, I mean Romans 13, verse number 12, our text. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. That protection. When you and I are walking in light, we're protected because light enables you to see. As I said, the discouraging thing is the Christians that are driving through life in the dead of night with their headlights off. Right. You ever try to drive in the dark? With the lights off? Too many Christians are trying to do that. That's right. They're walking in darkness. They're having problems in their marriage because the light is off. Because the light is off They're having problems. They don't know how to build their relationship. They would come and say, I'm doing the best thing I know how to do. And it's not working. What does Ephesians 4 seventeen say? This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk. In the vanity of their mind. In the vanity of their mind. God saying, listen, you don't know how to do it all. You don't have it all figured out. You are walking in the vanity of your own mind, thinking you've got it figured out. Without the light that God wants to give you, without the light that's available to you in the Word of God. This is one of the reasons why church is so important. Because week by week the Word of God is opened and light is shed into your life. For somebody to neglect the church house. Is to say, I want to walk around with the lights off. I want to walk around in darkness. I don't want to be protected. I don't need any more wisdom because I have all the wisdom I need. And it's mind-boggling that somebody could reach the point where they were walking around in the vanity of their own mind and think everything's okay. When they know their family's falling apart, they know their relationship between their husband and wife is terrible. They don't know how to raise their kids. They can't get their kids to obey. They can't get their kids to do what they're supposed to do. It's constant bickering or fighting in the home, and sometimes they're ready to pull their hair out And they're walking around the vanity of their own mind when they're a professing Christian and are supposed to have light for their life. And they can have light. It's available to us all. We've got it right here. The pastor or the staff or the college students or nobody has a corner on it. You got the same book I have? This light's available to any one of us that want to get into it and begin pursuing God, spending time put on the light. You don't have to make the dumb mistakes that your parents made. You don't have to make the dumb decisions that the guy at work made. You don't have to be in the boat that I don't care if divorce is is normal in our country. You don't have to go through it. Oh, one day, if we continue to walk in the light that we have in our own mind, you may have to endure such a terrible thing like that. But if you will stop and pursue God, you don't have to wake up one day and find out that your kids have left and they won't talk to you anymore. It doesn't have to get there. Because you could get into the Word of God and have protection of the armor of light. A saved man thinks differently than a lost man. Or he should. People have problems at work and they're not sure what to do. They got problems in their finances and they're not sure how to settle it or fix it. But you can have light. It starts by knowing Jesus as your Savior. I'm gonna presuppose that Most of everybody listening tonight, if not everybody that's tuning in or present, knows Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. But listen, if you you're walking around in darkness, You have no opportunity of seeing or understanding the light if you don't have Jesus. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. He is the light. When he said that to the Jewish people there, what they understood that he was talking about that he was that pillar of fire. He was that glory of that cloud that directed them and led them back in the wilderness. He was that Shekinah glory that came down and rested upon the mercy seat. He knew when they knew when he said, I am the light of the world, what he was talking about. And friend, if you don't have Jesus Christ, there's no way you can have light. It starts by having him as your Lord and Savior. It continues by maintaining that relationship with him, by studying the manual. By studying the manual. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. We can quote that verse, even though most of the time we mix it up and say it say it one way or the other. We always get the path and light mixed up, which one is uh a lamp and a light and a path, and uh but you know. And we quote the verse, but are we actually living it? Are we actually living it 2 Peter 1, verse number 19 says, We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye dwell. That ye take heed as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. You have a more sure word We're supposed to take heed to it. If this if the lights were all off in here and I pulled out my phone and I turned on my light I would take heed to where the light was shining. I would look down and say, oh, yeah, this is where I need to step. You guys have most all of you probably have have tried to do a job with somebody like Titus holding the flashlight. You ever hold the tight hold the flashlight for Dad Titus? Yeah. And and dad has to keep saying, hey, shine the light right here. Shine the light right wait, hey, no, not over there. Shine it here where I'm working. Right? And that's what we're doing as Christians when we're living our life. The word of God is shining right here, but we're we're over here walking in darkness God wants to give us light, that light is there, but we're not taking heed unto where it shineth. Until the day dawn and the day star rise in your hearts. We studied the manual. Not only that, we need to stand, we need to stand in line. You know, Psalms 36, verse number nine says, For with thee is the fountain of life. In thy light shall we see. In thy light shall we see what I was going to uh do if I had a crowd here uh to to illustrate this is the idea You know that we're not the light, but we reflect the light. And if I had a mirror here And I had a bright light shining over here. In order for that light to shine that way, I have to get in line with the light. And that light shines this direction. It shines through or to And reflects that. If you and I want the light of Jesus Christ to shine through our life and provide light to our path and to give us light for our life to live, we've got to be in line with the light We can't be over here doing our own thing. The light's still shining. It the light didn't go anywhere. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The light is still there. We just got to get back in line. Get back in line. Not only do you have to stand in line, you've got to stay clean. You've got to stay clean. You can't let anything get in between you and the light. For the Christian, that's sin. Sin gets in between you and the light. I don't have my phone on me, but if I did I could shine a light here and obviously if I I took a piece of paper and stuck it between here, it blocks the light. Anything that gets between you and the light, it blocks the light. You don't want to let anything between you and the Savior. A young boy about nine years old went with his parents on a trip to Europe one summer. Part of their trip was to tour the old cathedrals of the past as they visited these great cathedrals. He saw the massive stained glass windows that were there. And my what pieces of art and magnificent detail drawing the old saints in these windows. When he came back home, he was in Sunday school and His Sunday school teacher asked him what he liked most about his trip, and he said, the great churches of Europe were amazing to see. And they said, What did you like most about the churches? And he said, Boy, what I liked most was the windows of the saints. She asked him, what is your definition of a saint? And his mind went back to those great massive, beautiful stained glass windows, and he said, a saint is someone God shines light through. If God's gonna shine his light through you and I, we've gotta be in line. We've got to keep anything from between us. Don't let anything get to stay clean. Study the manual and make sure you have the sun. Christian, we are supposed to be living our lives with the light of the Word of God directing us. But sadly Many Christians are groping around in the darkness without the armor of light. So the admonition this evening is let us put on the armor of light. Put on the armor of light so we don't have to be in darkness