First Thessalonians chapter 5, verse number 6. I am uh looking forward to getting into the Old Testament survey here in a week or two. Uh no, the first Thursday night. In October, we're going to start the Old Testament survey, and I'll be introducing that that thought and idea, and then we'll be looking for some months on Thursday evenings at an overview of the Old Testament. But tonight we're going to deal with another one of the let us that you find in the scripture. And I'll tell you what, um I I keep thinking that I found them all and as as I study and look I I come across more and more of them. I have a number of them still that uh have not had had the opportunity to preach and have those set aside for some dates down the road. Um but uh very very interesting the challenges that you can find. So we're going to read actually from verse number one down through verse number six. Our text is verse number six, but follow along with me 1 Thessalonians 5, verse number 1 through verse number 6. But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, then suddenly destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with a child, and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep, as do others, but let us watch and be sober. So here in verse number six, I was looking at this text and was initially planning to deal with the verse in its entirety and tackle both of these That you saw very clearly in this text, there is the admonition to let us not sleep and also let us watch. and be sober. And I was going to deal with these because certainly these two things are are tightly bound together as somebody would be asked to uh stay awake and watch lest the enemy come in. I mean these things are bound together. However, as I studied and uh got into the scriptures and looked at this, uh I felt uh that I to try and do both in one night I might do neither one justice. And so we will be dealing tonight just with the admonition here, let us not sleep Now, let us not sleep, you're saying, oh no, what is the where are we going with this? Let us not sleep. And I thought, you know, it's quite funny because this is how false doctrines get uh kind of taken on and people end up believing in and and embracing false doctrine. Because very clearly here in the scriptures we see the command, let us not sleep. And and we could preach a message on And you know, you could just get run off on that. But you know, of course, that this is not dealing with uh physical sleep This is not dealing with rest that we're supposed to have for our body, for we know in Psalms 127 that the Bible tells us that God gives us rest. He says it is vain for you to rise up early and to stay up late to eat. eat the bread of sorrows, for so he giveth his beloved sleep. God himself in Psalms is saying, he gives us He allows us to rest. And you know, over there in the book of Proverbs where it talks, the sleep of a laboring man is sweet. I mean, you know, when you've worked a long day and you finally get to put your head down on the pillow, I mean it's it's just uh it's just sweet, yeah. Amen. I mean you just finally get to lay down after a long day and and that rest that comes to you after laboring, I mean the sluggard or the lazy man might be tossing and turning, but somebody that's labored all day, they're out. They're down for the count. Until that alarm goes off, they're out. And that that labor or that rest is sweet for the laboring man. And we know that God wants us to get rest. However, we also know that we're not to have an extreme. We're not to be getting too much of this thing called rest We don't want to go too far overboard there. We know in Proverbs chapter 6, verse number 9, he says, How long wilt thou sleep, old sluggard? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? I used to have a friend. Well, I don't know if he was a friend or not, but he was a roommate in college. And I would be taking a nap in the middle of the day. And he would come into the room and he would start yelling this. It my I mean our room was You know, just like the corner of this right here, that was our room. And he would come in and he would say, How long wilt thou sleep, O slubbard? And I'm trying to rest I'm trying to take a nap. I worked half the night or something. And he would yell that and he would say, Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep so shall thy poverty come as one that travaileth, and thy want as an armed man. And so he would quote that to me, and I didn't appreciate that at all. Uh but we're not supposed to love sleep that much that we don't know how to get out of bed and to to do what needs to be done. But this passage here is not dealing with that kind of stuff. sleep. This is dealing with spiritual matters. This is dealing with things that uh speak to the heart and with the soul. He says here to wake up. Wake up. He says there's a spiritual battle going on in the world. And you can't be asleep for it. He says, wake up. How long are you going to sleep while your brothers and sisters are at war in this spirit spiritual battle that's taking place. We find ourselves in the world today, I think, the church as a whole, so many Christians dealing with this The they literally are asleep spiritually. And I'm afraid that they're gonna find themselves one day like Samson. Samson, the scripture says that he awoke out of his sleep, and he said, I will go out as a four and shake myself. And he wist not that the Spirit of God had departed from him. The church is asleep in the spiritual battle and the warfare is going on around them They don't even realize that God has long since left the scene. But they're just asleep and don't know the peril that they're in. There's so many asleep in the church today into what's happening around them. Paul is writing this to the Corinthian church. I'm sorry, to the Thessalonican church. He's writing this to the church there in Thessalonican. If you read the this ch this book, First Thessalonians, in its entirety, first couple of chapters you see that he's dealing with their past and he's talking to them about where they were and how they've come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. what God has done in their heart. And in chapter 3, he deals with them about the persecutions, the thing that they have been appointed unto and that they're going to have to endure. And then in chapter four, he gets into and he starts talking about their future, about what's coming after death and those very familiar verses. that we read at funerals many times, or that we use to bring family members comfort. But I would not have you be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. So he closes this passage, you get down to verse number 18, and he says, Wherefore comfort one another with these words. And he closes that at the end of chapter number four, and he opens up chapter number five. He said, but of the times. I mean y the obvious question, he finishes number four and he's the obvious question is, well when is that time going to be? When when we're comforting one another with these words, but when is that gonna be? And he says, But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. He said, I don't have to write unto you that you would know because you're not in darkness. You're you're of the day. You you should know what the signs of the times are. So we can't be asleep in several areas tonight. And first of all, I want you to see in context of the passage of scripture here. We can't be asleep with regards to his his coming. We can't be asleep because he is coming again. Now we don't know the day or the hour, but we know that he's coming. And we should know that as Christians, we're not in darkness. I like the strong contrast that are given to us here in these six verses. He he talks about light and he talks about darkness. And you know that light and darkness don't go together. The darkness in a room it it leaves when the lights come on and as soon as you turn the lights off the darkness comes back. They don't dwell in the same place. We know that the people of this world are typified by darkness. This world is darkness. I don't have time tonight to read all these verses to you, but I'm going to give you the references. First of all, the Bible says their understanding is darkened in Ephesians 4. 18. this world. Their understanding is darkened. They're they love darkness rather than light. John 3. 19. They are controlled by darkness, according to Ephesians 6, verse number 12. The Bible tells us that they are going to end up in outer darkness, according to Matthew 8, verse number 12. But that is contrasted with the fact that Jesus is light. God is the light of the world, John 8. 12. We're not to walk in darkness, but to walk into light. We are the children of light, Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 through 14. The gospel is said to bring the light of Jesus. 2 Corinthians 4, 4. Then he contrasts not just light and darkness, but knowledge and ignorance. If you look back at that verse I read in chapter 4 4, verse number 13, he says, I would not have you be ignorant, brother, concerning them which are asleep. There are some who literally are just ignorant about what happens after death. They don't know. Some would say you've been out visiting or talking and you ask them, well, if you died today, would you go to heaven? And they say, Well, I don't know until you start to present the truths that are found in the Word of God. And they might say, Well, I just don't believe that until you ask, Well, what do you believe? And they say, Well, I believe after death I'm I'm just dunk gone, I'm just put in the grave. And so I took turn back to the scriptures and I said, Well according to God that's not what happens. But let me give you something to think about. Let's say that I'm 100% wrong, and you're right. But you know what? At the end of my life, I get put in the ground, and it's all over. And I I've lived a good life and you know we've had a good family and God has blessed us and and it's all over and it's done and and it that's it. But let's say The Bible's right and you're wrong. Then at death you're not put in the ground. You the Bible says you're going to wake up in a place called hell To live an eternity in darkness, an eternity in flame. Why would you want to throw the dice? Why would you want to say, oh well, this is just what I believe? The fact of the matter is, like we talked about it, they're they're in darkness. The devil has blinded their eyes. Satan keeps these men in darkness. Acts 26, verse number 18. Satan keeps men ignorant. This world is ignorant of what God plans to do because they've rejected him. They live with a false sense of security. You see, he says here In verse number three, chapter five, he says, For when they shall say peace and safety, then suddenly destruction cometh and upon them as travail upon a woman with child He says, hey, they've got a false sense of security. They think everything's alright. But then it's going to be too late. It's like he gives the example here of a woman going into labor. Now praise God I've never had to endure that. But I've watched my wife endure it six times, five times, our first one the Lord took before. She got that far along. But five times she actually had to give birth. And you know, she taught in school on her feet eight hours a day until the day before she delivered. With all of her children. Except Caleb, we were here, all the other children. But she'll be everything's fine. She's like, oh no, I'm doing okay, and she'd go to bed And then she's like, Caleb, Caleb, I mean them labor pains came, right? And they're there. And Mary had the longest Boring labors of anybody. Twelve, fifteen, sixteen hours. We would get to the hospital, get checked in, I'd say, You doing all right? Yeah? I said, okay, I'll be back. I'm gonna go have a steak dinner. There was a really good steak restaurant right by the hospital, so I would go over there. Hey, I knew she was gonna be there for hours. We've been through this five times, so the first time we're like waiting, waiting, waiting forever. But that that comes. And it happens so fast. And then it's there and there's nothing you can do about it. That's the example he gives us. You know what's amazing is uh We know that he's gonna come as a thief in the night. So although we don't know when, it shouldn't shock us when he does come. We should be ready. We should be ready for him to come. Not, oh no, I wasn't ready. Like a child who knows his parent is going to come home, doesn't know exactly when, but he knows, so he's getting ready so that he is ready when his parent comes back. We should be getting ready. Don't know when it is, but we should be ready for it whenever it is. You know, according to some, it's Saturday. It's all it's all over this coming Saturday. Um Planet X is gonna hit the Earth and We're we're all done for. The rapture is gonna take place and you know this is what I don't even have time to give you the long list of people that have prophesied or said that the earth was ending so many times You know, the people that have done this over and over again, he tells us very clearly in scriptures right here that you do not know the day or hour. I think that e If somebody prophesies and says God's coming back on this day, God would change his plans just to prove that guy wrong. I I mean I don't know. I'm just saying that God's not gonna let some quack be right And he he just, you know, these people, the this this planet that's out there, that is supposed to be out there, there is no evidence of it anywhere. by anybody knowledgeable. Uh i you know, NASA, these people said they I mean something that big we could see with the naked eye right now. But there's still no evidence of it. Uh you know the guy that's talking about that saying it's gonna happen, you know he's afraid to give out his address and tell people where he lives? You know, if the world's ending in two days anyway, what does it matter? Why wouldn't you give your address out? I mean in two days he's not gonna be here, right? But We don't know the day or hour, but we know that it's gonna happen. So we need to be awake, be alert. Let us not sleep regarding his second coming. Let us not sleep. I'm going to give you several other examples of things in the Bible that I think we can learn from regarding this idea of sleep that Christians Christians many times find themselves, let us not sleep regarding our children. Regarding our children. In First Kings chapter 3, verse number 20, the story there about the woman And the two ladies that had their children and and the the one child died in the night and and so they the one lady she came and she took her child and and swapped it out And then you remember they went before uh Solomon and and he wisely discerned uh who the parent was. But the Bible says there in that verse that while she slept, her child was taken. And I'm afraid that while Christians sleep, spiritually we lose our children. We lose them to this world. We lose them to friends that are pulling them the wrong direction We lose them to the appetites of sensuality that this world is promoting. We only have one chance to raise our kids. We must do it right. Let me encourage you if you're still working on that here as a parent, don't be asleep on the job. I'm talking about spiritually. You don't want to wake up one day and find out that they are gone or that you've lost their heart or that they are pulled away into this world You've only got one chance, and we've got to be awake and vigilant in disciplining them. Let me just tell you with regards to discipline that consistency is far more important than severity. You must be consistent in disciplining them. We've got to be disciplining them. Don't worry about what your family thinks or what they say about you carrying your kids to church. I mean I have a story about somebody that said they had a real drug problem. And uh I thought about using this one on the radio but they said I had a real drug problem. Every Sunday I got drugged to church and every Wednesday I got drugged to church and every He had a drug problem. He was drug everywhere. Uh don't worry about it. You you take your kids to church and you do what's right and this world's gonna mock. There's people in our church right now that are under attack from their family because they bring their kids to church We need to be in prayer for these families. Because this is the hope that their children have. Why would a family attack somebody for wanting to do what's right? It would be okay if their kids were out on drugs and alcohol and being in trouble with the law. That would be fine. But they want to bring them to church and want to teach them that God loves them and the family is attacking them. We can't be asleep on the job. We've got to be discipling them. We are to be teaching them about the love of God. We are to be teaching them about the law of God. John Wesley said this, I learned more about God from my mother than I did all the theologians of England. Mom, how much are we teaching our children about God? We are to be developing them. The Bible says, train up a child. Train up a child. That means investing time in them and training them and teaching them to do so many things. And I know not everybody in here is a parent and some your days of in direct instruction and parenting are are long since past. But there are those here that are still dealing with this, and it's our job to be investing in them and teaching them how to get out of bed in the morning. It's not just math and English and history. science and we can't just leave it up to the school. We gotta train them how to get along with other kids and train them how to how to make their bed and train them how to clean their their room and clean their bathroom and train them how to change attire and train them how to work with their hands and train them. There's so many areas that we need to be investing in these young people in our church here. About a year and a half ago, Pastor Derek and I had the idea that, well, you know what, there's some skill sets that maybe some parents don't have, and God has given us those skill sets. And so let's make ourselves available, and we told the church family that we would be glad to meet a parent or some children here on a Saturday in We'll set up the time that works best for them. We'll do it around their schedule. And we'll spend some time and try and train their kids on different basic things. Not one parent of Hunt Valley Baptist Church asked for us to teach their children anything. What are they being taught? We're to be developing them, teaching them. Teaching them how to wash a car, how to clean a car correctly. Not only we develop them, but we're to deliver them from evil. It's our job as parents to deliver them from evil. And we know that we're supposed to, in regards to, let's say, uh if they're going to touch a hot stove We certainly would jump on that and we would say, Whoa, whoa, don't touch that or you're going to get burned. But where is the parent who's jumping out of their seat and running to rescue their child when they're sitting in front of a television that's putting filth in their mind? Where is the parent who is uh lacking the wisdom and the discernment to hand their child a device that's connected to the worldwide internet and not have any kind of protection or safety on that? They're giving these young people, kids, 10, 12, 11, 13 years old and younger devices that that have direct connection to the internet That you might as well hand your son a Playboy magazine and say, okay, now I don't want you to look at that. The young mind is inquisitive. A young man wants to know, young girl wants to know, where do you think all the questions come from? Dad, where do babies come from? Because they want to know. And you're handing them a device that's going to give them answers in a graphic way that they don't need to see. Where is the discernment, parents? It's our job to deliver them from evil, to protect them, to put a hedge about them. And we certainly would do it. We would jump to try and save their life from any physical harm. But we're asleep when it comes to spiritual matters and guarding their heart. Protecting them from the influences of this world, the flesh and the devil who would want to destroy their mind before their mind has a chance to grow. We've got to, we cannot be asleep. We've got to deliver them. Let me just say that it's not your job to deliver them from every single hardship. This is another area where parents kind of go overboard. They deliver their children from every single hardship. And then they've raised a 25 or 30-year-old who still acts like a five-year-old. He doesn't know how to take an offense. He doesn't know how to get along. He doesn't know how to deal with hardship. You know, the reason David was able to defeat the Goliath is because he fought a lion and he fought a bear. We've got to let our children deal with the lion and bear. Or when they get a little bit older and they've got to face a giant, they don't know how to do it without mommy, without daddy. We've got to let them face some of those challenges, some of those battles. What I'm saying, parents, is if all we did as Christians is win our own children to Christ, And give them the heart for God that we have, we would be an unstoppable church. If all we did was reach our own. We cannot be asleep with regards to this. We can't be asleep with regards to our communion. Turn to Mark chapter fourteen. That's a familiar passage of scripture. Mark chapter 14, verse number 34. I'm dealing with the idea of communion here as our communion with God. Our prayer time, the time that we talk to him in Mark chapter 14, verses number 34 down through 42, he says this. He says And saith unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful unto death, tarry ye here and watch. And he went forward a little and fell on the ground, and prayed that it were possible the hour might pass from him And he said, I have a Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but thy will, thy but what thou wilt. And he cometh and findeth them sleeping. And saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldst not thou watch one hour? Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. And it goes on down through verse number fourteen. But Jesus here was facing a tremendous challenge. I think it's amazing when you think about this, that God in the flesh Jesus Christ knew what was coming. He knew that the cross was what he was going to be going to next, and that's what he was facing. He said, God, would you let this cup pass from me? Is there a way that we could do this that I wouldn't have to bear this or go through this? And then he said, but whatever thy will. You know sometimes you don't know how to pray. You're praying for your loved one. You're praying for somebody that you really care for that is sick, maybe nigh unto death. There's an example by Jesus Himself about how to pray. You say, God, if it be your will, if there's any way we would love to see this person healed in their entirety. We would love to see a victorious and miraculous miracle. But whatever your will is, God, we're going to trust you. But I think about this and I think about Jesus coming and asking his friends. Could you watch and pray here with me for a little bit? He was going through a time of turmoil and of heartache and crying out to his father, I have a father! And he called for his friends to pray, and his friends were found sleeping. We as a church need to be praying. We need to be praying for one another. We need to be praying for God to do great things. But the fact is, is great victory is brought through great prayer, and great prayer takes great work. And that's why we don't see great victory. Because we're not unwilling to invest the great work We need to pray that God would give us at Hunt Valley Baptist Church a great harvest of souls. We need to pray that God would give us a stirring and a revival in the hearts of those that are here. We need God to do a great things. What's amazing is that in so many churches, you're dealing with Christians that have been saved 10, 15, 20 years. And they don't know how to pray at all. If they were called on and asked to open a service in a word of prayer, they would not know how to do it And they've been saved for how long? We can't be asleep as Christians in this matter of prayer. There's no excuse, friend. Prayer is something that is a vital part of the Christian's life. And there are books untold Some of which we have in our bookstore right here on prayer. If you have any questions or are wondering about it at all or want to know anything about it, there's tons of passages Of Scripture dealing with prayer, and I preached messages in their entirety on just the subject of prayer. There's no reason that a Christian attending Hunt Valley Baptist Church would lack any knowledge on how to pray But the fact is, is we just don't do it. We just don't do it. And why is that? Because it's work. Because it's work. If it wasn't work, we would do it. But this labor, the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man, availeth much. We need to be praying. We can't be asleep with regards to our commission. The Great Commission that is given to us to reach this world with the lost, because we know that Jesus is coming. We don't know the day or the hour, but we know that he's coming, and we know anybody that has not trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, have not given their heart to him and asked him for forgiveness of their sins, stands in danger of the judgment. will spend an eternity in a place called hell. We know that. We can't afford to be asleep with regards to our commission. Reaching this world with a lost, this lost and dying world with the truth of the gospel. You know, C. H. Spurgeon preached from this message or from this text a message entitled Awake, Awake. And in that, he gave three examples of the Christian who is asleep, who is asleep in, this was back in 1857. And one of the examples that he gave, he talked about the idea that it's like somebody who is on in a jail cell waiting to be put to death. And they're there and they know they're going to be taken and they're going to be put to death. And everybody around it knows they're going to be taken and they're going to be put to death. And the the time is drawing near and and he's going to be taken, he's going to be killed, and everybody knows it. And there's somebody that's holding the pardon And they're asleep in the room next door. They're holding the pardon that's going to save that man's life, but they're sleeping. How can we sleep? When so many of this world are dying and on their way to a place called hell, they need the truth of the gospel. We need to be reaching them with that truth. You know, I wonder our church is probably a little bit above the average. in this area, but I wonder how many people if somebody came to you And said, What must I do to be saved? Could you tell them? If somebody came to you and said, What must I do to be saved? You know in your average church, I bet you'd be hard pressed to find three out of ten people. They might have been going to church there twenty years. If somebody came to you and said, What do I have to do to know I'm going to heaven? Could you take that book and show them how they could know for sure they're on their way to heaven? We can't be asleep in this thing. It's not very hard. If you have any questions about how to do it, we'll be glad to show you. We'll give you a typed out I'll bet you Don Wilson has one on him right now. We'll give you one of Don's typed out things on how to how to show somebody they're going to heaven. We'll help you with it. But you can't just live passively and not put any thought into the fact that this world is dying and on their way to hell. I'm not going to spend any time here, but you know that there was somebody named Eudachus in the Bible. You know when he fell asleep? When the preacher preached long. He fell asleep and he fell to his death. You know, I'm not I'm not going to spend any time here, but you know there's a real strong spiritual application with that. When you come to the church house and you're not awake enough to get what God has for you. You're going to fall to your desk spiritually. This is where the word of God is opened, and we need God to speak to our hearts. That means we need to be alert and we need to be awake. We can't be asleep in the church house. True. I'm not saying you don't I mean I know there's times where you get up at four or five o'clock in the morning you drive forever in traffic and you work all day long and you get back on the beltway and drive forever in traffic and you come in here on a Thursday night and you First time you really get to sit down all day and you fall asleep. I understand that. I've been there. But if you find yourself doing it on a regular basis, Then that's a desire problem. Because I guarantee you tonight, if I was gonna tell you tonight how you could pay off your mortgage in five years or less, guaranteed, no matter what your income. Everybody in here it would be packed full of people and every single person would be sitting up and listening. There's people that pay all kinds of money to go kind all kinds of those uh financial guru advice things and all that. What what is it? It's the desire that's there. Do we desire to have God speak to us that way? Friend, consider this, and I'll be done. Consider the great peril that's presented by the sleeping Christian. You are completely defenseless When you're asleep. When you're asleep, you're defenseless. We saw that with Samson. He could defeat a thousand enemy on his feet with just the jawbone of an axe. And he laid his head in the lap of a woman and fell asleep and lost it all. You're completely defenseless. You know, another area of rabbit trail we could run down is that you miss a lot of opportunities. You know how when you're young? You you fight going to sleep. When anything's happening you want to be awake because you don't want to miss anything, right? You you know the kid you ask him, he's sitting there, he's like And you say, Are you tired? And they go, No. You know, you want to go to bed? No. Why? Because they don't want to miss anything. There's still stuff happening. They want to see what's going on. They don't want to miss a thing. Where are the Christians that don't want to miss anything? They're missing the opportunities. What God could do. Could you imagine the thrill and the privilege of God using you to lead somebody to saving knowledge of God Jesus Christ. Man, you're on cloud nine. You're woo! Oh man, he was on his way to hell and now he's on his way to heaven, and God used me to do it. Amen. The sleeping Christian doesn't experience that. They miss those opportunities. They never experience it. Only those who are awake ever have the hope of that joy or the hope of victory against the wiles of the devil. Ephesians 5. 14 says, Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from thy dead, and Christ shall give thee light. Oh, how I long for the light of a new day after a long night! And how the Christian should long for the light of the presence of Jesus Christ. That the light of His word and His presence would dispel even the least or the smallest vestige of darkness that remains in us. Let us not sleep. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed. As the pianist comes and plays, we want to give the opportunity for you to come and to Pray and ask God, are you alert, are you awake, vigilant in this matter? Are you asleep concerning raising of your children? Are you asleep concerning this great commission of your communion with God, your prayer time? Are you vigilant and invested in praying and talking to your Lord? Or have you been asleep, missing it? Let us not sleep. As the pianist plays, you do what God wants you to do.