So on. And so we try and keep that in there. Um that would be great. But don't forget that on Sunday morning in in here. Now Brother Uh Cromwell is going to be preaching uh or teaching Sunday school and uh Sunday morning during the service, we'll be watching a presentation from uh his ministry and Sunday evening he'll be preaching. Uh so you want to be here to uh hear hear that. Well turn your Bible to First Thessalonians chapter five. First Thessalonians chapter five. And uh you should know where we're going with this. Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse number 6, the verse that we looked at last Thursday. This is the last week that I will be giving you one of these in our series on the lettuce. Not done with this series at all. I've gotten a number more that I would like to cover, and we'll be doing that in in months and weeks ahead. But next Thursday night we'll be starting our uh look our overview of the Old Testament, a Old Testament survey. And I'm excited about that and chomping at the bid to start teaching some of the stuff that I've studied and prepared, but uh the plan was to start an extra Thursday. So we will do that next Thursday, get into our Old Testament overview. And uh so tonight the last of the lettuce series for a little while at least. But in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse number 6, he says, Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch. and be sober. So last week we took some time and we looked at the idea of let us not sleep. And that was a very challenging thought for me as I considered it and looked at the The responsibility, even as me, as the pastor, as the overseer, to not be uh in a daze or to not be uh just sleepily going through the motions, but to be vigilant and on guard and and uh when I applied it to the Christian life and started thinking about the fact that there's so many Christians That are literally asleep today, unaware of what's going on around them, unaware of the hardship or the uh attack of the devil that is so close. And uh I was very, very challenged spiritually with that study on let us not sleep. And then tonight we're going to look at the second half of this, and that is let us Watch. Let us watch. There's a controlling statement here in the beginning of this that is applicable to all three of the admonitions that are found in the conclusion of the verse. He says, therefore, that is because of, or for these reasons, therefore, let us not sleep as others do. That therefore could be repeated for each of the other two admonitions there. He says, therefore, let us not sleep. Then you also could take that and say, therefore, let us watch. Therefore, be sober. And that phrase in there, as others do, lets us know that there is a group of people that are sleeping. There is a group of people that spiritually are not alert. There is a group of people that are not watching. They are not vigilant. They are going through their Christian life and Uh things are a ho-hum and come what may, this is how things are and it's gonna be okay. And they're just going through their life like that, but that's not what the Bible tells us to do. The Bible says be sober, be vigilant, be Because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. The devil wants to take us down. Therefore, we must be watching. When you look into the scriptures and walk through the pages, you see that 61 times in 57 different verses, you have the word watch. Many of those are not applicable to us as they're you know something that has to do with watching the sheep or or uh told him to go watch this or that. But there are many places in the scripture that that word watch appears and it is applicable to us. It is something that for us as Christians we are told or commanded or encouraged to watch. And I want to give you a few of those tonight. First of all, we are to watch the house of God. In 2 Kings chapter 11, verse number 6 and 7, the Bible says, and a third party shall be set at the gate of Shur, and a third part at the gate behind the guard. So ke so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down. And two parts of all you that go forth on the Sabbath, even they shall keep the watch. They are to keep a watch of the house of the Lord. This is not the only place in the scriptures that you see them setting a guard or setting watch over the house of the of God. We need some people that would be willing to set a watch over the house of the Lord. Now I know that as a pastor I, of course, am uh I watch for your souls, and I'm going to answer to God for that as a leader of the church, and that's a responsibility that's upon me But we need some Christians, some men and some ladies that will say, I'm willing to be a godly person and I'm going to watch for the church I'm gonna watch, I'm gonna be a guard dog as it were and watch out for the church. Look and do what I can to protect and guard the church because you know the devil's out to destroy the church. The devil wants to do anything he can and find any way to wiggle or squirm his way into the church and do harm to those who would follow and accomplish his will. You know, uh as I study the Old Testament, one of the biggest things that we see is uh, you know, God working in the affairs of men. But right alongside that you see Satan working in the affairs of men. And every time God attempts to do something great with a group of men or women or a group of people, here is Satan doing all he can to undermine it. And destroy it. And Satan is out to destroy the house of God. We need people that will watch out for the house of God. And certainly we're talking Uh you could talk about this in a physical nature that it would be great to have some people watching out for the house of God in a physical way. We don't want people to break in and destroy any of God's property and We want people, we need to set up, as this world wax worse and worse, we need to uh set in in place some uh guards here, even during services and times where we're gathered together because this world is getting worse and worse and you have no idea what somebody might come through that back door with evil intentions and try and harm the people in God's house. Actually just talking this week with Brother Les about some options for training on how to respond and what to do for people that come in and attack or want to do harm to God's people. And we as a church will be looking at that and setting some things up that we have some guards in place that some people will act as watchmen while the church is going on in a physical way. But what I'm dealing with tonight and what I would like us to think about is that we need some watchdogs that will watch out for the spiritual well being of God's people. We need some people that are that have their ear to the ground that are are are more concerned about people's spiritual well being about God's church than they are about this or that, than they are about her or him. You see, the church should come first. The church should come first. It is so important that we guard and keep a watch over the spiritual well-being of God's people. We obviously understand that the deacons, this is their one of their responsibilities, one of their jobs. They of course should should act as that and and try and uh guard and protect the church as it were. But I don't think it should stop with them. I believe that there should be some godly men and godly ladies in the church that would act as a guard dog, that would act as a uh uh uh watchmen to look out for the souls of the church. Look out for attacks from without. Look out for attacks from within You know, it's amazing to me how the devil can be stirring and causing a problem. The devil stirs up and and and creates this problem over here. And this church member over here hears about it. And they talk about it with this person that has this problem. And they talk about it. And then they tell these three people in the church about this problem and what the devil's doing. And I find out three or four or five weeks later that this person over here has got a burr on his saddle and he's upset for some reason. And I find out that this person heard it from that person and this person heard it from that person and that's what he said originally. This person over here ought to have enough spiritual well-being to come and take care of it personally. But if they don't, there ought to be some watchmen in the church that say, hey. Pastor, I just want you to know that this happened. You know, this thing about uh, well, I told them I wouldn't say anything You're showing your spiritual immaturity. That would be like a brother or a sister in a family when their brother or their sister is sneaking out of the house at night and running around. May maybe maybe smoking dope or on drugs. And then they're they say, well, I told my brother I wasn't going to say anything, so I'm not going to tell mom or dad. We would say, whoa, they shouldn't do that. They should tell mom and dad that child's gonna get hurt. Will you understand that Satan's trying to destroy and hurt the church And he'll do anything he can. And Satan's doing this work in the background, and nobody's telling the shepherd. We ought to have some watchdogs that say, hey Pastor, guess what? I just thought you ought to know that that this person has this concern. that this this happened. And if somebody comes and talks to you, the first thing you ought to do is shut it down. The second thing you ought to do is say, hey, let's go talk to Pastor. And and if they say no, then you say, okay, well I just want you to know that that as a church member I I've got to protect the church and that I'm obligated. I really need to go let the pastor know that this is happening You say, oh I couldn't do that. Well they wouldn't come to you again. And you know what? If everybody did that, then maybe they would handle it biblically and they would go to the person they have a problem with. I'm trying to help ya. I'm trying to help ya. This is biblical. But for some reason the devil's able to get in the back door and cause these problems and and stir things up and half of the church is mad about it before anybody that can do anything about it knows anything about it We didn't even know, didn't even have any idea. Somebody could be upset that I'm wearing Cordobaan shoes and every Sunday it just It really makes them mad that I'm wearing Cordoman shoes and every Sunday I get up here and then I'm sitting here and I sit down with these Cordoman shoes and I put 'em up like this and they're just sitting there. Look how he flaunts his Cordovon shoes. And they're getting more and more mad, and I don't even know anything about it. And they think I'm doing it on purpose. Look at my shoes. Look at my shoes. They think I'm doing it all on purpose. I don't even know they're upset. Now that's a funny illustration, but that's what the devil does. Tries to destroy the church. It's something that happens. And the people that could do something about it don't even know We've got to have some people with spiritual discernment and say, you know what? I'll be a watchdog for the church. I'll watch that the devil doesn't get in and cause a problem. This is not Caleb Batrell's church. It's first of all God's church. You're not protecting this church for me or from me or for me. You're not protecting the church. It's first of all God's church. It's sec Killing your church And you want to guard and protect the church that God has given you. You say, Well, my my loyalty is not with Pastor Caleb. I think it should be, because this is your church, but if it's not That is irrelevant. Because this is not my church. You know, most of the things that we do here are ideas that you all have had. Oh, I know that you don't necessarily know that. Sometimes you might think, oh, look at we're doing what Pastor Caleb wants to do. But you don't know that the person next to you is the one that told me it would be a good idea and I agreed with them. A lot of times what we do is a direct result of somebody saying, Hey Pastor Caleb, why don't we do this The reason we held Roundup Sunday over on the church property is because I had two church members come to me and say, hey, we would be really good if we just did it on the church property. It's close by. I mean I was out knocking on doors trying to find a farm that would let us have Roundup Sunday on their farm. And after the second church member came to me I said, Lord, are you trying to tell me something? I said, well you know what? Let's do it on the church property. I think it's a good idea. And man, that was a great testimony to our community. There's a lot of things like that that happen You don't know that that's a we're doing it because somebody in the church said we should. You think, oh Pastor Caleb's doing what he wants to do. I mean I'm in charge and I have to say yes and hopefully be led by the Spirit of God, but this is your church. I hope that you want to protect it. We need some people that say, I'll be a watchman. I will. Purpose in your heart that you'll be a watchman for the church. We also need to watch out for the enemy. Watch out for the enemy of God. I'll tell you what the enemy, the your adversary, the devil, he's coming. He's coming to destroy you He's coming to destroy each of us. That's what he wants to do. The Bible says in Nehemiah chapter 4, verse number 9, Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them. day and night because of them. Now you know the enemy there, Nehemiah, Sambalat and Zebias, these enemies that were coming in trying to destroy the work. And it I think it's really neat that it says here in verse number 9, it says, Nevertheless we made our prayer unto God And set a watch. You see, they prayed unto God. They talked to God and said, Lord, we need you to handle this problem. We need you to protect us from this enemy. We need to be a praying church We need to be a praying church and ask God to protect us and as people to keep us, but also we've got to set a watch. We got to watch out for the enemy. They're trying the enemy's coming and trying to destroy what God wants to do. We also in the scriptures see throughout the scriptures several things that we need to do with regards to watching ourselves watching ourselves. The scriptures tell us to take heed to thyself. We need to watch ourselves. And in Nehemiah chapter 7, verse number 3, he says this And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot. And while they stand by, let them shut the doors and bar them and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch. And everyone to be over against his house. With regards to ourselves, first of all, we need to watch our house. You see, there in Nehemiah's day the enemy was coming in, and yeah, they set a guard at the gate, and yeah, they set a guard up on top of the wall, and they set a guard at the house of God, but then he said, Hey All of that, at the very least, you gotta be watchmen at your house. You if all the if if the enemy comes and they're able to break through the guard, if they're able to get over the wall, if they come and overrun the city At least you're going to be a watchman at your house. And I'll tell you what, sometimes the enemy comes in and he does wreak havoc in the church, and sometimes the enemy comes in and He might wreak havoc in somebody's life who you love and respect and you think if anybody's gonna fall, it's never gonna be that person. And you see them fall. But you know what? Outside The devil can come and do all these things, but we as Christians at least got to be a watchman in our own house. We've got to watch that the devil doesn't sneakily get into our own home. Oh, I know that we're Christians and we know how to walk and we know how to talk and we know how to say the right phrases and do the right things. All the while the devil, that subtle serpent, is sneaking in the back door of our homes. Getting in to our homes. Setting a watch. You need to set a watch before your home and guard and protect how the devil might get in. And say, I'm not going to let the devil get into my home. I'm going to set a watch before that. I know we preach a lot about the young people and the kids and what they're doing, but we're just adults in here tonight. For the most part, a couple of kids back here, but just mostly adults, but you know what? We gotta watch what we see too. And I know we ought to oughta control that television and be careful what the kids watch, and we've got to control the internet and be careful what the kids see. We need to set a watch before that thing for us. As adults. Because the devil is subtly finding his way into our homes. And allowing, we are allowing it to happen. We are not setting a watch. We're not setting a guard before our home and saying, devil, you're not going to get in here I can tell you what, if you if if you can't control it, there's nothing sinful or inherently sinful with the television. But you and I both know there's a lot of things that are sinful that are on it. And if you can't control it, you need to get rid of it. You know, I I I mean We never had a TV growing up. I mean occasionally people would give us one and dad might keep it around for a little while and then he'll get frustrated with it and kids to throw it out and us kids all be crying again, Dad, no But excuse me, but you know, a lot of times it's i it might not even be a sin about what you're watching, it's just how much time you spend. Because we are admonished to redeem the time because the days are evil. And there's so many things that we could be doing better with our time. And I can tell you right now there's nobody in here that enjoys a good movie more than the guy looking at you right now. I I mean, you know what happens when you're deprived of that as a kitten. But you gotta be careful that you're not wasting all your time doing those things. Guarding your time Setting a watch, don't let Satan get in. Setting a watch over that internet. Guard it, say you're not getting in You know it's amazing we'll pay $50, $60, $70, $100 a month for good internet, but we wouldn't pay $10 a month to be protected from the wickedness that's out there. There's lots of things out there that you could pay a monthly fee and it protects it all before it ever gets to your door. Somebody else is dealing with that. But you know what? That oh we w we're willing to sacrifice to pay to get it there, but we don't want to pay a little bit to protect us We better be setting a watch. Set a watch. The devil is subtle and he is strong. And he'll get in and he'll destroy if we aren't watching. We've got to watch our homes first of all. Also, we've got to watch our mouths. Psalms 143, verse number 3 says, Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Now that's a hard one. Especially for somebody that talks as much as me. You know how the devil can use what we say? What we say can do so much help or it can do so much harm. We need God, Lord, please set a watch before my mouth to be careful that I don't say things that would be destructive or harmful or injurious in any way, but that they would be edifying and encouraging and lifting up, that they would be challenging and that they would be a help to your people. God set a watch before my mouth I don't want to do anything or say anything that would be discouraging to anybody, but I want to encourage them and challenge them to do what's right. And Lord, would you please set a watch before my mouth? We all need to do that Watch what we say and how we say it. We need to watch that we enter not into temptation. Matthew 26, 41, watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. That idea that you can watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation lets me know that there is some type of a warning sign There's some type of a tell. There's something that lets me know that temptation is coming. He says, watch for it. Be aware that temptation is there. And don't allow, don't give place to the devil that you can be taken in temptation. Watch for it. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. You know, when I'm counseling with somebody that is dealing with a concern or an issue in their life or maybe a besetting sin or a problem, and I'll ask them, I'll say, when does this happen? Okay, you have this besetting, let's just say, anger. You have a problem with anger. When do you find that you get the most angry? Is it early in the morning? Is it late at night? Is it after you haven't had a good night's sleep? Is it something that takes place after a long day of work? What am I doing? I'm trying to narrow down the source or the problem, the thing to watch for, because there's a tell. There's a tell and you know that if I haven't got enough sleep then I'm probably gonna lose my temper and I've got to be sure and get enough rest or else I'm gonna be fighting with my anger. You've got that tell, so you watch for it If I've got a problem eating too much. I've got a problem eating too much. And if I I know that I've got that problem, then what I've got to do, I look at it and say, what is this, what is the situation? Well what happens is I I don't eat for a long time and and then I'm really, really hungry, and then I go engorge myself and eat tons and tons, and I know that's not good for me, so what do I need to do? I need to be sure that I eat on a consistent basis I need to be a little more disciplined in my time and schedule out so that I'm eating at certain times and I can control my overall eating by doing it correctly. I don't know what sin or what you're dealing with in your life, the temptation that's coming to you, but I can tell you with a little bit of thought you can think about it and say, what's the tell? When does this usually happen? Does it happen at night when I'm alone? Don't be alone. You know there is one lady that uh is suing a sleeping pill company. She is suing the sleeping pill company because she said that the sleeping pills allow her to sleepwalk at night. and raid the refrigerator and she eats thousands of calories and doesn't even know she's doing it. So she's suing the plea the the uh sleep whoever made the sleeping pill uh company uh things because it's their fault. It's always somebody else's fault. There are tells. You know when it's happening. So you can guard against it. You know a lot of times when the devil gets you, it's just like he got David with Bathsheba. Is when David was not where he was supposed to be. You will be shocked if you pay attention And you think about it, when the devil gets you, you'll think, oh man, I was supposed to be in church today and I wasn't in church. And look at how far I went down. Look at what I did. I did this on a day when I was supposed to be in church because you weren't where you were supposed to be. And you know where you're supposed to be, what you're supposed to be doing. You stay home from work because you're feeling a little bit, you know, not feeling really good. You're supposed to be working, but you stay home from work and then you get into some sin you're not supposed to be in. If you were where you were supposed to be, that wouldn't happen. So you gotta watch that you enter not into temptation. David said that he would take heed. He said, Lord, take heed unto my ways. Are you taking stock of your ways? Are you seeing what God is seeing? You need to watch for the coming of the Lord. In our text we see that very clearly. The first six verses there talks about the coming of the Lord. You know, we don't know the day or the hour, but not just there in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, all through the New Testament, you see that uh he says, Watch, for you name you know not the day or the hour when the Son of Man cometh. We don't know when the Lord's coming and as Christians we're supposed to be watching. And if we were living in light of the fact that He's coming It would change how we live day by day. And we know that to be true, but we allow his ever-approaching return to slip from our minds. In fact, in Timothy, Timothy was told to watch everything. In everything, watch. There is the idea that as Christians, we're just supposed to be watching. We're supposed to be vigilant. We're supposed to be alert and aware of our surroundings. In Colossians 16, 13, he says, watch ye stand fast in your faith. Watch and stand fast in your faith. In Colossians 4. 2, he says, continue in prayer and watch in the same We are to pretty much just be as Christians vigilant and watching, aware of what's going on and what God is doing in our life and what Satan is attempting or trying to do. And we need to watch that we're pleasing God, that we're not missing opportunities that God wants us to take, and that we are fulfilling His will in a day-to-day life, what He wants us to do. This thought as throughout the entirety of the Bible as Christians were to be watched, watching, to live sober, to live on guard. You say, man, that's a hard way to live. It is. I mean you think about a soldier whose life hangs in the balance. And the first few hours it's okay. But after two or three or four days of watching, because if he is not on guard, the enemy's gonna come in and attack. And destroy and take him, kill him. Man, that's gotta be hard. To remain vigilant that long. It wears you out. It wears you out. But as Christians, that's what we're supposed to do. We don't do it in our own strength. We do it in the strength of the Lord. We do it with the Lord's strength. It is hard. Sometimes you think, man, if I could just rest. Well, that's what we looked at last week. He said, let us not sleep. Let us not sleep. We can't be can't just go to sleep. The vigilance that is called for called for here for us to be watching, it does make you weary sometimes. And that's where he's saying don't don't go to sleep on the job. Continue to watch. Continue to watch. It's an attitude. It's a militant courage that he gives us. Look in 1 Thessalonians 5, look down in verse number 8. He says in verse number 8, he says, but let us who are of the day be sober. Putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. You get the idea of he's talking about war. He says, hey, be sober. Put on your blessedly. Put on your helmet. You're going to battle. It is that kind of watching. The friend who says, Oh, you have nothing to fear for me. Watch out. Delilah said that to Samson. And she took him down. The defeated foe in your life that you say, I've got nothing to fear from that, I've I've just I've destroyed that sin. I've I've cut that out of my life. Watch out. Lest that ember which lies under the molding destruction rise up and start a new flare, a fire again. You need to watch. There was a king who had a son whose life was just wicked and ungodly and he did not act the part of a prince and no way did he honor his father as king and he h the the the father brought counselors in the father brought these people in and he talked to him and encouraged him in every way that he could and Nothing the son would respond to, nothing at all. He continued with his wild and free lifestyle, and ultimately the king said, I cannot have a son who dishonors me this way. And he sentenced his own son to death. And he said, son, I'm going to give you three months to live, at the end of which you'll be put to death. You need to prepare your soul for eternity. At the end of those three months, his son was brought before him, and he looked at his son and he says, How is it that you are now come to me in such a different character? And this boy looked at his father and he said, How could I not, when day by day I was faced with death And his father, encouraged by the change in his son, said, Son, because of this great change in your life, your sentence to be put to death will be Wiped away. But you need to remember what it is that you have and remain sober. And he said, how can I? For with all the enticements of this world, in light of my new found life, how could I possibly remain thus? And the father said, son, come here. And he handed his son a shell. And he had a servant come and filled it with oil. And he said, you're going to take this shell and you're going to walk down to the end of the street and you're going to go down to this street and you're going to come back and make your way back here to the to the palace. And he said, son, these two guards are going to walk behind you. And son, if one drop of oil falls out of that shell, these men are commanded to cut your head off right there in the street. If one drop of oil falls from this, now go. And the son marched out of the palace, following the set path that his dad had prescribed for him to go on and He made his way successfully all the way through the city and all the way back to the palace, and not having dropped one drop of oil. And his dad said, Son, what did you behold while you were out about the city? And he said, I didn't see anything. He says, no, no, son, this is our time of celebration. We have all of the markets are open. What great enticements did you see? And he said, Dad, I didn't see any enticements, for my eyes were only on the shell, that I wouldn't drop one thing of oil. And too many Christians are getting enticed by the things in the world, and we've stopped watching what we're supposed to be watching. And the devil's gonna destroy us for it. We need to be watching always As the prophet Habakkuk said in Habakkuk 2. 1, I will stand upon my watch. May we heed that. And say, I will watch as God wants me to. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Be a watchman. Watch over the house of God Watch out for that enemy, the enemy, the devil who would come and destroy. Watch yourself. There's areas in our lives we need to watch and be mindful. And then we need to watch for the coming of the Lord. Even so, Lord, come quickly. Lord Jesus, we ask you tonight that you'd use this invitation that we as Christians Would be ever mindful of the adversary, the devil, who's out to destroy us, and that we would be watchful. We ask that you would use this, and if there's one that needs to respond to you that they would do so in Jesus' name. Amen. As the pianist plays, you do what God wants you to do. The invitation is open, the altar is open, if God spoke to your heart and stirred you So I'll be a watchman. Or God