So we're going to get into the Word of God now. I've been teaching and preaching on the idea of let us On Thursday night, this group, this word group, this phrase, let us, this uh admonition found all through the scriptures, where one brother in Christ, one sister in Christ, one uh place where they said, Let us Do this, let us do this, let us do this. And I found it very encouraging, uh uh a great way for me to focus uh a study on a particular thing. I prepared this message, began studying for this message on Led Us for this last Thursday night, and I thought, you know what, I believe God would want me to preach this on Sunday morning. So if you have not been tuning in on Thursday nights and uh enjoy this morning's message on the let us and tune in, uh have several more that I'm planning to speak on Thursday evening. So turn your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 1 and verse number 18, where we find this morning's thought. And as I said, this is something I believe God wanted me to bring on a Sunday morning. because I believe that God would have this hit the broadest audience possible, as many people as possible, and uh certainly hopefully open the door to reach somebody who has not. Come to the conclusions that we will arrive at today. If you're in Isaiah chapter number one, you get to Psalms and keep going a little ways, you'll get to Isaiah, largest Old Testament prophet. Uh not in size, but the book. The book is the largest one. So hopefully you're there. Isaiah chapter one, look down at verse number 18. He says, Come now and let us Reason together, saith the Lord. Come now and let us reason together. Saith the Lord, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Let us reason together this morning on this passage of Scripture. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, God, that you would allow us to turn our hearts towards the Word of God, that you would allow us to apply our minds. uh to engage our thought processes to gain an understanding of your scripture and what you have for us today. If there's one, dear Lord, who is listening this morning via stream, whether here locally in Hunt Valley or anywhere in the world, that does not know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray God they'd be willing to just engage their mind and think about it for a few minutes. That they'd be willing to ponder these most important thoughts about their eternity. And I pray, Lord, they would hear the compassion of God in his plea given to us here, in this thought of let us reason together in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text that we look at today is one in which many pastors, preachers, and teachers, for as long as the scriptures have been pinned, have been trying to Adequately described the beauty of the language in this text. There's been songs written about it, poems written about it, there's numerous discussions about it. Trying to adequately describe the amazing power of that cleansing stream. The miraculous nature of the request given to us here by an Almighty God. somehow to get people to stop for a moment and ponder the message given to us in these 35 words. And this morning I will too try to adequately describe the message encapsulated in this thought For the invitation of God has been set, given to us by the Creator of the universe, as he asks us to come and sit at his table. To ponder with him these thoughts of eternal value as he imparts for us the truth of our situation and describes the state of our sin and puts on display his power. to cleanse and to wash and make us clean. So I ask you this morning, would you put your brain in gear Would you be willing to reason through these thoughts? Would you be willing to reason together? Stop for a minute and ponder these truths. I dare say the average man is not willing. He's not willing. I have talked to hundreds and hundreds of people on street corners, on their doorsteps, in the mall, in the airport. On a ski slope, I've talked to hundreds of people and they've told me, no, I don't have time to think about that right now. No, I don't want to talk about that right now. No, I don't want to get into that. No, I don't want to I don't want to look at that. I don't want to consider that. I think this morning It takes an above-average person to be willing to really stop and engage your mind and evaluate and ponder eternal truths. As I considered this topic this week and thought through it, I came to the conclusion that by and large I believe the reason that people don't want to come to this conclusion, they don't want to stop and think. is because they don't want to face the reality of the mess that they've made of their life. It's as if as long as I don't stop, as long as I just keep going, I just eat and drink and be merry and keep my head in the sand, I I won't have to acknowledge and admit the mess that I've made of my life. The total destruction, the direction, and the decisions that I've made have brought me to this place And they don't want to admit the decisions were wrong and the sin was sin and the actions weren't right, and the place that they are is a result of their own foolishness. Instead of coming to that, they reject God. And God says, let's reason together. Is that reasonable? Is that really reasonable? I want you to ponder with me these truths here today, first of all, with the invitation. The invitation, he says, come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. This invitation is sent out and Beloved, I want you to know it's not just an invitation to us, but it's an invitation that should be given through us, if you're a believer today. But first, would you notice the author of the invitation? He says, Come now, let us reason together, saith who? The Lord, the Lord. Let us reason together, saith the Lord. He is the author of this invitation God Himself, the creator of the universe, the one who spoke the sun and moon and stars into existence the one who fashioned man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his body the breath of life, he says, would you pause? Sit with me and let me expound unto you this eternal truth that your sins were scarlet, but they can be as white as snow. God sends the invitation. You know, beloved, if you get an invitation for something, maybe it comes in the mail. Aren't you interested to know who it's from? Who is it that sent the invitation? If it's a family member or a friend? Or have you ever got one of those that say to Richard Crane or current resident? Basically, whoever happens to be there, this is for you. You know, you're like you felt you felt real special until you saw that it was to anybody. Just to anybody. Hey, God sends us this invitation. It's not An acquaintance, it's not just some bulk mailer, it's not just uh something out there that it's the author of the invitation is the creator of the world. That in itself ought to make us ponder and think, wow, I need to be willing to sit down and talk to them. Notice with me, if you would, the audience that the invitation is too. The audience, of course, here in context is Isaiah writing to God's people, to the children of Israel. He's writing this letter to them, but you understand what it is, is it's a group of people That knew about God, that knew God, but they had rejected God. You could sum it up by saying the audience is sinners Look with me if you would at the text and let's back up. Look in verse number two and see the description that is given here. He says, Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib, but Israel doth not know. My people doth not consider a sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger. They are gone away backwards Jump down to verse number 10. He says, Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom. Give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah. He literally likens them to the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. He likens them to a well-known and established place of sin and wickedness. It was a group of people that at one time knew God and rejected God. Could I say this morning, I I think you would agree with the statement that as a nation We knew God. We were founded on Christian principles. As a group, as a nation We have the opportunity to know God, but we as a people have rejected God. He says, even the animal knows his master. But these people did not. Could I say to you that the whole of humanity has rejected God The Bible tells us that all have sinned. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every man bears in his body the stain of sin. And so it is to every man that he says, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Not only is he talking, I believe the total summation is that he's talking to sinners. But it's amazing to me, look what he includes here. He also includes people, I think, that feel they have self-righteousness. Look in the text here at verse number 11. Verse number 11 through verse number 15, he says, To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? Saith The Lord. I am full of the burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed beast, and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of eagles When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to tread my courts? Bring no more vain ovulations. Incense is an abomination unto me. The new moon and the Sabbath and the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with. It is iniquity, even the solemn meeting Your new moons and your appointed feast, my soul hateth. They are a trouble unto me. I'm weary to bear them. And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from ye. Ye, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear your hands Hands are full of blood. You hear him there describe people who are full of religious ritual They have this religious engagement that they're involved in. Maybe every single week they faithfully go into a church somewhere. Maybe every week they faithfully spend a segment of time in prayer or a segment of time doing good deeds. Maybe every week they, for the purpose of building a relationship with God or trying to know him, they seek him in his word. They have these self-righteous rituals, but they do not have the reality of God's forgiveness. He said he's fed up with these empty rituals. These empty rituals, which are meant to satisfy our heart. But beloved, they make him weary. Do you see that this morning? Do you see that in the text? So the author is God and the audience is sinners, whether they're self-righteous. Involved in religion or not. But we see the appeal that comes to us in the very first word. He says Says, come. There has never been a greater invitation extended to anybody in the world than this invitation by God. Come. Beloved, God always extends the invitation. First. We love him because he first loved us. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Beloved. God extends the invitation and he says, Come. He says, Come This is an imperative request. It has with it the idea of a command. It would be as if I said to one of my children. Come on downstairs and let's move the couch from mom so she can vacuum. There's a request there But because of who asked it, there's also a measure of expectation that it's going to be done because of the authority that's recognized. This invitation sent out to the world is sent by God and it's a request that needs to be followed. Most invitations and most requests by people have little to no real authority in our lives. And if somebody doesn't respond to an invitation to go to this wedding or be a part of this graduation ceremony or to come over to this party, then that's okay. It's going to be alright. But beloved, there's a lot greater stakes here on the invitation sent by God. Come, he says. Beloved, it's amazing. Even though God knows you, God knows me. God knows the heart of every wicked man. Even though he knows us, he still says, Come. Come unto us He says in John 7:37: If a man thirsts, let him come unto me and drink. God sees your need and he extends the invitation. He says, Come. I want you to understand it's an appointment. It's an appointment that we have to make with God. He says, come now. Come now. There is a time frame in which one has to respond to the invitation. It's not open-ended. It's not for eternity. There's a window of opportunity that God sends and he says, come now. He has put this time frame on it. J. Vernon McGee said this about this passage. In quotes, I tell you, he says, do not, this is a representation of God saying unto Judah, do not force me to render sentence. Settle your case out of court. He has a solution, a divine formula, a potent prescription to heal all thy diseases. But you must come before it's too late. You must come before it's too late. Beloved, you and I don't know how long we're going to live. Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. How many people have I talked to over the years that say, not right now, your window to come may pass like that. We don't know how long we have to come and God calls to you and says, Come now, come now, would you? I am told you this morning, would you pause for a minute and think about what's next? I don't mean what's next tomorrow. What's next next week, or what's next on your plans? I'm talking about what's next after life. Where will you be? The Word of God tells us to point it unto man once to die, and after this, the judgment. What's next according to the scriptures is judgment. Listen to what God says in Psalms 9, verse number 17. He says, The wicked shall be turned into hell in all the nations. That forget God. But beloved, today God implores you with an invitation to come unto Him. God knows what's coming down the road. God knows the judgment that's coming. God knows what is is for any who do not respond to the invitation. And so He implores you to come now before it's too late. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation, he tells us. We see here the invitation, but we also see the intention. What is God's intention in calling us to come and to ponder to think? What is God's intention? He says, let us reason together. God has set the agenda for this Meeting. He wants to talk to you. He wants to show you where you're at and what your needs are and provide a solution for it. He says, though your sins be a scarlet. I don't profess to know much or a lot about Hebrew poetry This is presented in a poetic nature where there is a repeat, uh contrasting A secondary emphasis upon the same path. And he says, though your sins be as scarlet, then he says, though they be red like crimson. He's describing for us fabric that has been dyed, that's been changed. This apparently there was a small worm, an insect that was used that they would gather from as far away as Spain. They would take this insect and when it was crushed, they were able to make this very potent dye. They would make this potent dye and they would take this fabric and they would put it down into this into this dye and they would let it sit for a while and soak and they would pull it out. And the process of getting this into every corner, every single part of this fabric, they would then again, a second time, take this and push this fabric down into that die. To make it this scarlet, to make it this red Creating this permanent color fast stain in the car in the fabric You know, beloved, it is given to us here is not just the idea of colored fabric, it's the fact that it was changed and there was no way to unchange it. Change it. There was no way to get the dye out. It was in every single part of the fabric. It had become as though it was part of the fabric, and there's It just there's impossible to get it out. And everybody that would have read this at that time would have understood there's no way you can make a scarlet uh cloth white again. That just can't happen. You know what happens with if you wash your red clothes with your white clothes. You got a whole bunch of white clothes in there. Do they make that one red t-shirt turn white? No, they do not. They make all the white things turn pink. They they change. And the red doesn't get white. The whites get red. And what I'm saying, beloved, is you can go into a church You can go around good things. You can get around clean stuff, but when you're staying with sin, you don't get clean. Only God can wash you clean. All you do is you get other things dirty. You've got to be washed clean by the blood of the Lamb. Beloved, sin is like this dye down in every part of a person's being It's humanly impossible to get it out of your life. You can't do it yourself. You can turn over a new leaf. You can even Let's say from right now, from this day until the day I die, I never committed another sin. Now that's impossible, but let's say I did. I still have no way to clean all of my past sin. What could I possibly do with yesterday's sin? Only God has the power to clean that. It's amazing here what he's talking about is that indeniable guilt. That's there on the life. You've heard of the saying you were caught red-handed. What he's saying is that there's guilt there and there's no way around it. There is that state. Of guilt. And when you saw this fabric, you understood it had been stained. It was evident. Nobody looked at a red fabric and thought, oh, oh, that just is just the sunlight. No, no. It was stained red Maybe it was done on purpose, but you couldn't make it white again. What's amazing is the contrast that God gives us here in this passage. On one hand, he says you can be as white as snow, but then he gives the opposite contrast and he says, though uh Your sins be as scarlet, they can be as white as scarlet. Though they be red like crimson, they can be as wool. Do you understand, beloved? What he's saying is they can be As though it had never been stained. It can be as though this wool has never even been turned into fabric yet. It has never been dipped in the dye yet. It has never been stained. That is the power of the cleansing blood of the Lamb that God extends for any who would want to accept it. You can take, beloved, the most filthy city in America. And when the snow falls All those dirty, grimy, nasty streets are covered with a white sheet. Beautiful white. It covers it. The blood of the Lamb just doesn't cover our sin. It washes it away like it never was there. Amazing power. We see here the affection given to us by God. You can you can Be as white as snow. As white as snow. Remember, beloved, God knows everything you've ever done. He has a record. He knows how guilty you are, how guilty I am. God knows exactly what you've done. There's no question, there's no there's no wondering, there's no did he see that. God knows exactly what we are in our hearts of hearts and And still he implores you, come. Come. He says, let's talk about this. I have right here before me the proof. All I need to convict you, but I'm willing to forgive you. I'm willing to wash you clean. All you have to do is admit that you're a sinner and ask for forgiveness. It seems pretty simple to me. It seems pretty pretty smart to me Do you see God's love? All you have to do is come into an agreement with Him, and you can be forgiven. Beloved, God is not asking to debate this with you. For he is God. What he is saying is, Come, let us reason together. Would you come to the place where You understand the soundness of what I'm saying to you, where we would only come to the logical conclusion that is to be in agreement with God so that we can can be clean. If you'll come unto him, all your sin can be washed away. He has the ability, beloved, to take your sin. To take the stain of sin in your life and make it as though it had never been stained. That's an amazing and powerful truth. Would you notice with me the indecision that happens in people's lives? It's Hard to believe. As reasonable of an explanation as Christ has given us, as wonderful as the truth is Why wouldn't anybody come? Why would anybody remain in a state of indecision? Beloved, is it reasonable to gamble with your eternity? Is it reasonable? I mean, let's reason together. Let's think about this. And I I have used this illustration over and over and over again through the years. I've stood there at the door and I've said to somebody, I've sat stood here in the auditorium and I've said, listen, if I'm wrong. If everything that the Word of God teaches, and the Word of God is wrong And you're right. Then when we die, it's all over. We just go in the ground and there's nothing else, and that doesn't matter. That's what they want to believe. But I said, what if the Word of God God is right, and you're wrong. You see, the chances are too great I mean just reasoning, just using logical sense, just think about it. If you're right, then when I die Uh all I've done is I've I've lived a a a good life. I've enjoyed my family. I've got kids that love me. I I've had a great church family. We've enjoyed fellowship in all these years, and we're gonna we're gonna die and be in the grave and that's it's gonna be over and that's it. But if the word of God is true, then you are going to stand before an Almighty God, and He's going to judge you for the things done in your body, whether they be good and bad, and you are going to be cast into a lake of fire for eternity. Beloved, is it reasonable to choose a few years of sin for an eternity in hell? No, it's not reasonable. It's not reasonable at all that anybody would do that. Is it reasonable, beloved, to reject God's offer of mercy and forgiveness? For literally, listen to me, reason, think about it. What does it cost you to trust Christ today? Did he ask you to get on your knees and and to spend the remainder of your days on the ground? Does he ask of you to sell all you have and give it to the poor? Does he ask of you to sacrifice everything in life? No. He says, come. Acknowledge that you're a sinner. Just admit you're a sinner. Before God and ask Him to forgive you. How simple is that? How easy is that? Is it reasonable that anybody would reject it? It's not reasonable. Except the God of this world has blinded their eyes, so they cannot see or know the truth And they would be more content to hide their head in the sand instead of admit the fact that they're a sinner and need a savior. Under no circumstances is it is it reasonable. Under no even just logically, just engaging your brain. Is it reasonable to take a chance on spending eternity in hell for what you think might not be true? It's not reasonable. Why would you remain an indecision? No one can cleanse themselves Beloved, only God can wash and make you clean. Why? Because He has the power to. Why? Because He's God. If you went before a judge and you had a charge against you, And that charge was going to equate to you spending three months in jail. Then you go before the judge and you plead mercy and Admit your guilt and say, man, I'm sorry, I I know that I did this and I shouldn't have been driving 125 in that 30 mile-an hour zone, but I was in a hurry. And and the judge The judge says to you, Okay, I'm gonna have mercy on you. You don't have to do any jail time. You don't have to pay any fine. What? Why can he do that? How can he how can he just say that it's okay? Because he's the judge. He has that authority. And beloved, God can forgive and wash away your sin because he's God. And he has the authority. He has the keys of death and hell in the grave. And he has power over it That's why God the Father did not send an angel to earth to be sacrificed for our sin. Because the angel doesn't have power over the grave. The angel doesn't have the authority to forgive that sin. But God God does. God wants to wash you clean. Only through the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses us from all sin. From all sin. Only He can remove us from the wrath of God that's upon us. I want you to understand something this morning. If anyone here under the sound of my voice Voice dies and spends an eternity in hell. It is not because you don't see a loving God It is not because God is not loving. Beloved, it's because you have chosen to reject the invitation. that God has given. You have chosen to spend an eternity in a place in an eternity in a place called hell, opposed to Simply coming now before it's too late. And saying, I realize I'm a sinner. I realize God has the power to forgive me of my sins. And I'm going to ask him to do so. How easy is that? Why would anybody do any different? But week after week, there's people that reject God and they choose hell over It's not reasonable, Fred. I'm gonna ask the pianist to come and begin to play a moment of invitation. You can continue to look this way just a moment. I'm not quite done. If you're at home, look listen. I got a couple things. I want her to begin to play. And here's what I want to say to you. Have you rejected the gift of God's son? God wants to wash away your sin Nothing else makes sense. Would you come to him today? Would you come to him now? Come to him before it's too late. Come to him now with all your sin, just as you are. Come to him. Come to him and have your sin forgiven. Come, beloved, and be made clean. Let us reason together. Some of you have Last year, ten years ago, or maybe fifty years ago, you came to the realization of God's love for you and the power of His Son to forgive you And I know that you're thrilled and happy about the day that you were washed clean. This message is not just an invitation to us, but it should be through us To a lost and dying world. Could I ask every one of you listening right now? Could I ask you, do you hear the Savior calling? Have you come into an agreement with him that you are the sinner? That you need a savior Would you accept his invitation before it's too late? There is an old song Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you fully trusting in His grace this hour? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? God wants to wash you and make you clean. Just as though you had never sinned. Take the stain of the garment of sin and make it like it had never even been made into a garment, like wool. That's what God wants to do for you. Would you confess your belief that Jesus died for you to forgive you of your sin and ask Him to take you to heaven when you die? Beloved, do it. Before it's too late. Before it's too late. I want you to see verse number nineteen and verse number twenty as I conclude this morning. He says here, if ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land. What an amazing blessing extended to us by God. If you be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land. But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. God said it. But all he says is respond to the invitation. Be willing and obedient, and ye shall eat the good of the land. That's what God wants to give us. I hope you're experiencing the blessing of God. If you're listening on the stream today and you would like any further help with this, any further discussion on this matter. matter or any matter. And in some way I can help you, I would be glad to do that. Just call the church, email the church, contact us through the website. And we will minister to you any way that we can. Thank you for tuning in today, for being with us. May God bless you.