Seconds. Kings and Chronicles. You get to Ezra and Nehemiah, Esther, Job. Um so Nehemiah chapter I guess start in chapter number two. Main part of our lesson or what we're looking at this evening comes from chapter number four, but our text verse is found in Nehemiah chapter two and verse number eighteen. Nehemiah says here, Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me, and also the king's words which he had spoken unto me And they said, let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands. for this good work. Let us rise up and build. Another admonition found in the pages of Scripture where one person saw a need, saw uh something that God would have them do and motivated and called the other believers, the other Christians that they had any influence over at all, those that would listen at all and called them and said, Hey Come on, there's a task that's important. There's something that needs to be done. Let us rise up and build. Let us accomplish this for God and God's glory. So this evening I do hope that the message uh is a blessing to you and challenges you spiritually, as was prayed uh by both of those who who bowed their heads this evening and led us in prayer, uh, that God would bless us as we look at this You know the story uh of Nehemiah, the context of the book, kind of what happens this This cupbearer of the king, this leader of men. He was not a uh a prophet or a priest like Ezra. Uh he was not necessarily called into the ministry per se uh to fulfill a role like a pastor would or a missionary would. He was uh what you would call a layman. He was a businessman. He had a position in government, but he was also one of God's children. He was also somebody that loved the Lord and wanted to see uh God and all things pertinent and important to him, honored and blessed. So this cupbearer, he loved his heritage. He never forgot where he came from. He didn't forget his homeland and what had happened and how they had been taken into captivity Obviously, because of the sin of the people, they had been taken into captivity. They had the the city of Jerusalem had been destroyed, the walls had been broken down, the destruction of that magnificent city of God was was destroyed. And uh the people obviously sat in captivity for many years and and were uh discouraged and upset and Didn't know exactly what was gonna happen, but you know as time went on, the uh suppression of their their lives lightened up and God brought in kings that allowed them of course first the rebel went back and he built the temple, put the temple back up and and said, Hey let's let's worship God again and and And then some years later, Ezra came back and brought a group of people back, only about 1,500 with Ezra, I think, but he had a small contingent that came back and Really, Ezra pointed people back to the Word of God. He brought the Word of God back, and he was tasked with furnishing the temple, but a revival broke out. under Ezra, where people really uh sought God and longed to be with God and wanted to see God do a great work in their midst. Nehemiah, meanwhile, back serving the king, uh is getting news from home, and of course his heart is at home and he's thinking about his homeland and And he's hears these news and how things are going, and I'm sure he's excited about the revival. But then he hears about how the city lays waste. And the walls of the city are broken down, and he thinks about those people that are there and the worshiping of God that's taking place. And you know, walls were vitally important. In this time in history, a wall around a city is what provided protection. A wall is what gave them safety and allowed for a city to remain in peace in times of war. And a wall with the cities broken down was easy prey to any outside force. And Nehemiah, of course, hearing of this, his heart was broken. Long to have those walls built back up. God knew about the situation and I believe spurred Nehemiah's heart towards this. Nehemiah responded to do what God had called him to do, to build back up these walls. Nehemiah had to do something about it. He began to pray and seek God and Seek what he could and should do, and God led him in preparation. And he went back, we know, to build up the walls. Then Nehemiah chapter 2 and verse number 17, he says, Then said I unto them, You see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste. And the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the walls of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach. He didn't want to see the people of God be a reproach. He did not want to see people be able to come in and harm or hurt the cause of God, and he desired to have these walls built up. You know, walls were very important in the Bible times, and there's often found in scriptures. the picture of a wall and how important and applicable it is to our lives. And how we too need to be wall builders. How we too need to have walls and guards and protection. around us. And we see that kind of picture given to us many times in the scriptures. But this book of Nehemiah chronicles his call to rebuild the wall. And you and I, this evening, as we look at this passage of scripture, for us, let us rise up and build. Well, we're not building A wall. We're not called to to put up the uh no pun intended. I didn't plan it mean to say that But God didn't call us to build a wall. Amen. God called us to build some other things. And I want to talk to you about what God called us to build tonight. We want to look at that and see how to continue in that purpose to which God has called us to. So first of all, what what Christians should be building. What is a Christian building? I mean, obviously we're not building a wall. So what are we building? What is it that God has called us to build? In Nehemiah chapter number four, in verse number fourteen, he says, And I looked, and I rose up, and I said unto the nobles, and said unto the rulers, and said unto the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them. Remember the Lord, which is great and terrible, and fight for your brother and your sons and your daughters and your wives and your houses. I want you to understand, beloved, that we as God's people, first of all, we are all building a life. The Bible very clearly gives us the picture of the fact that we are building a life. This could be looked at or described as a future. But we're building a life. We know in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 9 through 15, he says, For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. According to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereof. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a ward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved as so as by fire. We have here a description very clearly and undebatable the fact that Jesus Christ laid the foundation for us. He is the master builder. He is the foundation. He has uh when we trusted him as our Lord and Savior, that foundation was laid. There's no other foundation that's good enough. And Neteen and Niha found out this last week that all of their life of of of uh you know worship and praise and attendance to church and all of the things that they had done and and listen, I've sat and talked to Nitin many times and he loved the Lord and and And he was excited about the things of God. Yet he saw that that foundation wasn't right. The foundation wasn't laid, and the foundation needed to be Jesus Christ. And we can't build on anything else but that foundation But Jesus lays the foundation, and then you and I have a responsibility to build on it. Now let me say this: we are building We have a responsibility to build with gold, silver, and precious stones. You see, everybody's building. Everybody's building on the foundation every day of our life, whether we like it or not, we're putting something. On the foundation of our lives. We're building our lives. And what a precious thing as a church that we have the ability and uh, of course, the vision And the capability to work with young people. It's such a joy when you get them saved when they're young and they can start building the right foundation from the very beginning, isn't it? I mean, a lot of times some of you have testimonies you got saved much later in life and you think about all the junk you built on your life before you got saved. Things that weights and things that you're carrying even today. And we we of course want to protect the young people from that. We want to put some walls around them and be able to help them uh live a life that's godly and honors the Lord. Because we're building on that foundation. Every man's building something, maybe wood, hay, and stubble. Things of this life that don't amount to anything. Time invested in things of this life. And listen, there's so many things that we can do that aren't sin. There's nothing necessarily wrong with them in and of themselves. But it's wood, hay, and stubble, isn't it? That's all it is. I was out walking around the parking lot today. It's such a beautiful day, and just thinking about my life and the interest that I have and the things that I enjoy doing. And how much time they might take from my life. And of course I try and spiritualize it, you know, like I like smoking meat But I do that for the church, and so it's okay. You know, we could spiritualize it and talk about, hey, well that's you know kind of blesses God, you know, and the Lord anyway. I can use that for And in some ri aspects it does. But uh, you know, I built that big smoker and took the time and energy and effort to do that and and it was a fun project. I enjoyed it But how much eternal value was in that in that job? And there's things we look we look at stuff and I enjoy cameras and computer computers and video equipment and you know looking at these and the time it takes to learn how to use them and to study frame rates and compression ratios and Kodaks and all of the stuff to know what you're doing when you're pointing a camera somebody but you know you can spiritualize that too we got a video church events uh events so hey use your talents for God whatever they are and they can be something for eternity But I was just asking God to give me some wisdom about my life and what I was investing my time in. And is it wood, hay, and stubble? Is it gold, silver, and precious stone What am I spending my time building? Because human nature is to invest our time in ourselves and invest our times in wood, hay, and stubble, but we've got to have a spiritual mind to Invest our life and build gold, silver, and precious stone into our life. That's why every day when you read the Word of God, you're building on the foundation. As you read the Word of God, you're you're gaining and gleaning things from the Scriptures. And you're building. That's why it's important that we encourage the young people and motivate them and If need be, force them to read the Bible. You say force them? They're not going to get anything out of it. If you made them read it, well do you force them to eat vegetables? They might may not like it at all, but when it went inside it did them some good, didn't it? It still helps them, even though they didn't like it. And the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword, and sometimes we feel like we didn't get anything out of it. Listen, if it got inside, it's doing something It's doing something. It's good for us. And we're reading the Word of God. Anytime we invest in praying, anytime we invest in soul winning, anytime we invest in reaching out to this world, anytime we invest serving God. We're building on our life, building our life that we have. That's why it's vitally important. Listen, I've never known any different I've been in church my whole life and I've been involved in the ministry my whole life. I've never known any different. I don't I don't even I can't even understand Having life, you know how they tell people to get a life? Because they've got nothing to do. But see, I don't understand having a life that's not centered around the church That's all I've ever known. Is your life kind of functions around the church and what's going on at church and church ministries and church activities and church events. Why? Because this is gold, silver, and precious stone, and everything else out there is wood, hay, and stubble. And it's not that you can't ever take a vacation, or not that you can't ever go play around to golf, and not that you can't ever go smoke some meat But that stuff is just for entertainment or fun, but that's not what's going to last for eternity. So we need to focus and try and invest our efforts, our our Our life goal to build upon the foundation that Christ gave us, we're to build our life. You are building and adding to your life every day. The question is, what are you building with? Beloved, this passage of scripture we read is very clear that at judgment day every man's work is going to be made manifest. Then we'll know. Every work is going to be made manifest. Every Christian needs some walls built up in their life to protect us from the world and from the enemy. Not only, beloved, are we building a life that we might call our future, but we're also building a church. As Christians, we're called to be part of a church. Called to be Part of we might say our faith, this family of faith. This we're building a church, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're called to do that. Christian faith that's been given to us, the faith that's been handed down to us from the Lord Jesus Christ. Look in chapter uh four there in verse number fourteen. Chapter four and verse number fourteen he says And I looked and rose up and said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people: Be not ye afraid of them. Remember the Lord. Which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, for your sons, and your daughters, and your wives, and your houses. He says, Hey We've got a job to do. Remember the Lord. Remember the Lord. As we're building, we remember what it's all about. Remember what it's for, the old-time religion. Worshiping God, the privilege we have to worship in spirit and truth. We're building this church. Jesus Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. This is to be an important part of our life, and our goal and effort is to build the church. To see the church grow, to see souls saved, to see people reached, to see families discipled. to see the baptismal water stirred, to see people making decisions for the Lord. That's what we're supposed to be involved in. In Jude chapter 1, verses 3 and 4, he says, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and to exhort you that ye should earnestly Contend for the faith. We're supposed to contend for the faith. That's to fight for the faith, the faith that God has given us We're to contend for that faith, which is once delivered under the saints. That old-time religion that we've been given that sticks to the Word of God and follows the biblical truths, we're to contend for that. We're to hold that dear. For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into license. and denying the only Lord God, our Lord Jesus Christ. So beloved, we're to contend for the faith. We have a church family that we're supposed to contend for For that we're supposed to fight for, that we are supposed to bear ye one another's burdens, the Bible says, and so fulfill the law of Christ. We're to love one another. There are many commandments given to us with regards to the church family and this church family that God has given us. We're supposed to fight for our brethren. The fact is that we are adding to each other's buildings. Each time you exhort and encourage another brother or sister in Christ. Maybe you don't know it, but Anthony was about to quit. He was being so discouraged, and I'm not saying he was, I'm saying this Using him as an example that maybe he was discouraged and ready to quit, and one of you came by and said, listen, Brother Anthony, your testimony has challenged me. So many times, and I just appreciate your love for the Lord and your faithfulness to God's house. You don't even know. But that encouraged him and built on his foundation and gave him some strength. strength to keep going another day. To get through that week that had got him so discouraged and downhearted, and you ladies encouraging each other and challenging each other. each other and texting each other uh a scripture verse. You text somebody some of this word of God and and you're building with gold, silver, and precious stones. You text somebody the latest meme. And you might be tearing down. Who knows what what what that is. I'm just saying a lot of our communication Maybe could be better and building the church family as we have been blessed by God with those that have been added to this flock. You ever get an opportunity to guide or to teach another Christian tonight? I'm striving to build on your family. foundation. I'm trying to give some support to some structure that you already have. I'm trying to maybe refasten some truths in your heart and mind that Maybe you were wavering on and you thought, Oh, I'm not sure about that. And and you hear the preaching of the Word of God and that truth gets nailed down in your heart and you say, That is true, and I do believe it, and I know that's right. and and we secure that so it can't falter, can't fall. And and if you out here get the privilege ever, whether it's one on one or maybe you get the privilege to stand in a Sunday school class or to to teach a lesson And work with young people or with the church family. You're building on their foundation. You get the privilege of doing that. My beloved, there's the Bible's very clear that you have a greater condemnation That is over there in James chapter 3, I believe, he says there's a greater condemnation. Be not many masters, he says. He said, Don't just desire to be the one this teaching, because the one this teaching He wears a heavy weight on his shoulder. He's got a uh an extra burden because he's responsible for what he teaches, for what he builds on those lives. And how vitally important it is, but we ought to be thrilled for the possibility and option to be able to invest in other people's lives to build on their foundation. And with that responsibility, with that opportunity comes a huge responsibility. And we should never take the responsibility lightly. Amen. who ought to take it with the weight that it deserves. You know, mom and dad, you are building on the foundation of your children Even now. Even talking to Mary tonight, she's got a great grandchild. Be born any day She's building on the life of her found of the foundation of her children and now great grandchildren and now great grandchildren. Even though, I mean, they're not, oh, I don't take care of them every day. But with words of encouragement with exhortations to biblical truth, with challenges to walk with God, with text about what God's teaching you You're building. You're building. You're building. Every time that you communicate about the things of God with gold, silver, and precious stones. Every time you point a kid to Jesus, you're building. I just think about the times out there in Jackson Hole where we're walking around and just seeing the magnificence of these mountains and the scenery we were beholding and all of that and how often we stopped just to think about, man, just beholding this beauty and how God created all this and this is just One little mountain range and one section of the world and and one little scope of I mean this is nothing. This is like a pile of sand to God. And and what God can do and just stand there talking to the kids about that amazing scenery and hey, building. We're building Not only are we building our lives and building the church family or the church, but we're also called to build the kingdom, the kingdom of God. That's to be uh part of the mission of the church, but it's the church is made up of people. And all of us, it's part of our job. to be investing our lives in building the kingdom. John the Baptist and Jesus both said the kingdom of heaven was at hand. We are, of course, my light verse, were to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Of all the things that we're to seek in this life, or that we should or shouldn't seek, we know we're supposed to seek first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness, we're to pray for the kingdom of God according to the Lord's Prayer. We're to pray for that. We are to be growing the kingdom of God. Now the kingdom of God is growing. We have the uh parables that are given to us several times. Several times in the New Testament, the parable of Levin and the parable the mustard seed and uh how such a tiny little mustard seed grows into a massive uh a mass And that's a picture of the church and what God has done that started with him when he started the church and the kingdom of heaven that's just growing, but we're supposed to be actively participation participating in that growth. I hope that you are looking to see the kingdom of heaven added to. As the church grows, the kingdom grows. As long as the church isn't a social organization, as long as the church is more than than just a gathering, if there's a purpose, and we gather for the cause of the Would you look in chapter four at verse number nineteen and verse 20. I for the sake of time I didn't read this whole text, but there's many truths that I want to point out to you in the in the story that takes place here as Ne Nehemiah is building the wall. And this is where in verse chapter 2 he says, let's build it. Chapter 4 is where it's happening. But in chapter 4, verse number 19 and verse number 20, he says, And I said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, the work is great and large. You see, the work of God is great, and it's large, and we are separated upon the wall one from the other. In what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort ye thither unto us. Us and God shall fight for us. You of course know that there was enemies there, and we're going to get to some truths there that hinder the the what we're building, but I thought it was very neat here where he says, hey, this work is great and it's large. There's a lot to do. So we can't all be right here. And as I looked at applying this, you know what, we can't all be in Hunt Valley. The work is great. The work is large. There's got to be some missionaries in India. There's got to be some missionaries in Ecuador. There's got to be some missionaries around the world that are participating in this work. We can't do it all from right here. So we're spread out. We're spread out great and far, and we're we're far and wide, but we are a group of God's people, and we're connected by our faith in Jesus Christ. And we pray for them and hold them up. And we pray for their needs and help support them on the foreign field. This is a great work. But I don't know. I find stretching a little bit here But he says here, hey, when you hear the trumpet, you guys come running. Because in this context, there's a fight, right? There's a fight. And God's gonna fight for us, but we need everybody all hands on deck, you know Well beloved, one day we're going to hear a trumpet. And our fight's going to be over. Jesus is going to fight for us. Everything's going to be done. When we hear that trumpet, We're going to be, no matter how far apart we are, no matter how spread from here and yonder, we're going to be called up together with him in the Clouds. We're going to be pulled out of this place. Oh, H. L. Turner said it like this it may be at morn, when the day is awakening, when the sunlight through darkness and shadow is breaking. That Jesus will come in the fullness of glory to receive from the world his own. It may be at midday, it may be at twilight, it may be perchance in the blackness of Midnight will burst into the light and the blaze of his glory when Jesus receives his own. O Lord Jesus, how long How long ere we hear that glad song, Christ returneth? Hallelujah Christ returns. Beloved, one day our fight's going to be done. Jesus is going to take the battle from then on. We will be done. But between now and then We've each got a place on the wall. We've each got a job to do. We've each got something we're supposed to be building and we want to be participating in that. We're building our life. We're building the lives of others. We're building a church and we're building the kingdom of heaven. Till God Christ comes again. Amen? That's what we're called to build. So when we say let us rise up and build, we're saying, hey, build the right thing on your life. Build what God wants you to build on your life. Invest and build the right thing on other people's lives. Don't be so caught up with the things of this world that we miss opportunities to build the kingdom of heaven. I was praying tonight. Are we too busy to be a witness? Are we too busy to pause and tell somebody about Jesus? Hey, we're here because we're supposed to be building. So can I talk to you for a few minutes about why Christians stop building? Why Christians stop building? I have three points. We're not going to get through them all ten I eat. We first hear is what Christians are building, why Christians stop building, and then how Christians can keep building. We'll just go as far as we can here, but Why Christians stop building? In our text here, there's several things that are that are clear. In Nehemiah chapter 4, there in verse number 10, we see, and Judah said, The strength of the bearer of burdens is decayed. And there is much rubbish so that we are not able to build the wall. The strength of the burden bearers is decayed. You know, sometimes people stop building because their strength is gone. Because their strength is decayed. That means literally weakness to to uh falter to to totter your your strength is decayed. Sometimes it's physical strength Sometimes we've invested so much effort in other things, we have no strength left for the spiritual things. And this is so important for us as Christians to do what we need to do in order for us to get what we need spiritually. What I'm talking about is living a disciplined life. Have you spent all your energy on other things? Now, I'm not talking about work. Work is a necessary evil, right? You have to go to work. You have to uh you know, and sometimes you end up working a double shift and Sometimes you end up, you know, burning the candle at both ends, doing all that's necessary just to live. But a lot of times in today's world, people, the reason that they can't stay awake in church on Sunday morning is because they stayed up late Saturday night watching movies or playing video games And you see, they've taken time that they could have got the physical rest they need, but now their life wants to be built upon. The Word of God is being taught, and they're just not getting it because they're physically too They just fall asleep. They just can't stay awake. Now there's other ramifications, and I understand that. Sometimes it's it's health things. Sometimes there's things in in your life that won't let you sleep more than a couple of hours at a time, and you you deal with that over and over, and you're always dealing with that. Sometimes, like I said, you're working to no end. And listen, the Lord knows. So, I mean I've had some people falling asleep in church before and they come and they apologize and say, Pastor Man, I'm so sorry. You know, I just got off a twelve hour shift and I only got I got two hours of sleep last night and I said, No, you know, the Lord knows. Now if they just got done playing twelve hours of video games. Well, that's different. They obviously aren't living a disciplined life. They're allowing things of this world to steal from them the strength that they need to get what they should spiritually. You know, parents, it's our responsibility. I don't know. We've got a few here that are either gonna have children and some w dealing with their children, but uh my kids were never allowed to sleep in church. We started them in the auditorium at three years old, and from three years old on They stayed awake in church. And if they didn't stay awake in church, it was my fault. Because I'm the one parenting them. And they weren't allowed to color. Why? Because this is important. I mean, if it's not important, then let's not do it. If it is important, then they need to pay attention. And so what what do they we just say, oh well when they're five, I'll stop letting them color. Or when they're five they they can't sleep anymore. Uh you know, I I I I figured and I told Mary this, if they're gonna be sleeping, then they can just stay in the nursery. They're going to sleep in the nursery. If they're going to be in the auditorium, they're going to be awake. They're going to listen. Because this is important. The word of God is being spoken spoken. And you're right, they don't get as much as they get when they're older, but that in itself is teaching them something We just we don't sleep in church. It's not that even my kids sitting up here, it's not that I don't ever see their their head bobbing, their eyes closing. You know, th that that's something that we all we all deal with depending upon what we've been doing. But it's our responsibility as parents to help our kids prepare, get a nap. You know, hasn't been that long ago. Caleb was asleep on Sunday night in church. And I said, son, obviously you have to have a nap on Sunday afternoon. So you can't play all afternoon. Nope, Stephen can't come over. Because you have to have a nap, because you can't stay awake in church, and church is important. So your afternoon can't just be full of fun activities and then you sleep through Sunday night. Does that make sense? So that's what we need to do. I'm just encouraging, exhorting your parents to be sure you draw some lines for yourself and for your children. Sometimes we are physically drained. Because of the work we've done, and that is what it is. But it's not always the case. Sometimes it's because we've spent too much time playing or on entertainment. It takes self-discipline to do what you need to do And listen, I'm preaching myself tonight. I'm a night owl. I could work till three or four o'clock in the morning with no problem. That's just me. If I'm in a project, just last night, see I'm telling on myself. Last night I was helping Timothy. We're building something in the basement and we're supposed to have family devotions at 10 o'clock. That's what we shoot for. Well at about eleven twenty Mary's like, are we gonna do devotions? I'm kinda tired. She wants to go to bed. So I'm like, oh okay, we came up. So we had devotions. About midnight we sent the kids to bed Then Mary and I started talking and we talked to almost one. So can I tell you something? I I I can get out of bed whatever time I set the alarm. If I go to bed at one, I set the alarm for 4 a. m. I can get up. That's not a problem. But I have to be honest, I am not as alert as I would be had I gone to bed earlier. And could I tell you that today I'm sitting in the office studying and I'm like, man, I need to walk around, you know. So you thought I was being spiritual, walking around the parking lot. I was just trying to stay awake. You know, like man, it was just sleeping when I'm supposed to be studying. I gotta wake up a little bit, get out of the office, and get some fresh air and then go back to it. Why? Because I didn't get the sleep I should have had last night. Why? Because I didn't discipline myself and say, listen, I gotta study all day tomorrow. That means I gotta be in bed. That means I gotta stop. And what I was doing wasn't wrong. I was working with Timothy. We're building a little project together That's not wrong, but I needed to say, hey, let's stop this. We gotta go to bed. So we have this physical strength that we need. So that you can get up and have your devotions. You ever fall asleep reading the Bible? Yeah, that's happened to me a lot. Sad to say. You know, you're just praying. I mean, just physically the strength of the burden bearers is decaying. Sometimes you come into church on Thursday night and you're like, I mean you don't say these words, but basically you're saying, man, Pastor, my strength is decayed. I'm I'm pr I'm just wiped out. I'm done because it's just the the the weight and the struggle of life and all what you've been through. Sometimes it's a physical thing and we and we can be more disciplined. It would help with that. Sometimes you can't change it. But sometimes its spiritual strength has decayed. A lot of times that's because the physical needs weren't met correctly. And listen, I'd you know I'm not a health nut. The sickest people I know are health nuts. So I think there's a there's a balance there. But I think you ought to take care of your body. Sometimes, you know, you want to be effective and serve God, you do need to take care of the vessel a little bit. Eating the right things and eating at the right times and you know And sometimes um it's spiritual decay that comes maybe Maybe because of discouragement, because other people try and discourage you. Look at verse number twelve. We're going to conclude this thought and we'll be done tonight. Nehemiah chapter four and verse number twelve. He says, And it came to pass. That when the Jews which dwelt by them came and they said unto us ten times from all places whence he shall return unto us, they They will be upon you. Now he's talking about the enemy. Sambalat, Tobias. Their friends, it says there And when the Jews, which dwelt by them, the Jews came and discouraged them. The Jews came and said, Oh, you think you're going to be the success at this? You're gonna fail. Man, how discouraging is that? When one of your brothers or sisters in Christ says something, maybe not even on purpose, but it hits you Right at home discourages you. We've got to be careful, beloved, that we don't discourage our brothers and sisters in Christ because we've caused them to stop building. Well caused them to stop building the kingdom of God and their life with gold, silver, and precious stones. You know, Elijah got discouraged when Jezebel wanted his head. You just seen great victory, but Elijah got discouraged. It's something we deal with. No matter how spiritual you are, there's things that come into our lives sometimes that just discourage us and get us to the point where we just And we want to stop building. Peter got discouraged when he saw the storm. You know, and He took his eyes off Jesus, saw the storm and began to sink. Sometimes it's what we're focusing on. So we gotta be we gotta be careful. So we get discouraged because of fatigue. I don't have time to deal with them tonight, but we get discouraged because of frustration and we get discouraged because We'll look at those in our last point next Thursday evening. But beloved, as we look at this thing here tonight, I guess point number one really the idea is What are you building? We're called to be building, Christians, is what are you building with? Wood, hay, and stubble? Gold, silver, precious stones. What are you building on the foundation that was laid by Jesus Christ?