Amen. I am glad that we can pray. Turn your Bibles to the book of Ezra, Ezra chapter number ten We're going to read the text for this evening and then introduce the thought and bring Another message in the lettuce series. In Ezra chapter number 10, beginning in verse number one, the uh thought from this evening comes from verse number three, but we're going to read down from verse number one. to get it just see where the progression of the text is going uh and how we end up with what takes place in verse number three. So in Ezra 10 and verse number Verse number one. He says, Now when Ezra had prayed, if you look back at verse chapter nine, you'll see much of chapter nine was the prayer of Ezra, and you could read that at your own leisure. But he says, Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, when he and weeping and casting himself down before the house of God. They are assembled unto him out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children from the people, and they wept very sore. And Shechaniah, the son of Jehuel, the son of Elam, answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and have taken strange wives of the people of the land. Yet now there is hope in Israel concerning this thing. Now, therefore, let us make a covenant with our God, to put away all the wives and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of my Lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be done According to the law. In the world today, there is a sad and growing epidemic of pandemic proportions. It's found in every home, in every place of employment. It's undermining the very fabric of our society, but no one's screaming, wait, stop. This shouldn't be We can't continue to go this way, men and women, and their children go on day after day as though this is just normal, that it's a part of life and should be expected. The problem I'm speaking of this evening is that of keeping our word, of being a trustworthy person. Why is a broken promise and an unfulfilled commitment the normal way of life? It surely is not God's plan Let me read for you a story which is really could be echoed by many, maybe not the exact same words, but the experiences. I was seven when my sister spicy dog shooted up my favorite doll. I waited for years for her to fulfill her promise of a new doll to replace it. It was about the same time that the doll was destroyed that my mother came to me and she told me that I would be giving an allowance of five dollars a week. This thrilled my heart, but like the dog, that never arrived the extravagant allowance became just another wish that never came true. Fortunately, time put such small matters into perspective, and eventually I forgave my baby sister and my my mom as well. But still, there remains broken promises that touch a cord of sadness in my heart. And these are not the ones that are made by others, but the ones that I made myself, some unspoken. But promises nevertheless to my parents, my children, my friends, to my first husband, my second husband, and my third husband Yeah. Small promises for the most part, like the little thank you notes I intended to write, the gifts I meant to give, the I love you as I was planning to. I remember times I promised to be somewhere at a certain time and do a certain thing or call a certain one and didn't do it. I think of the books on my shelves that I so long that were so long overdue that it made more sense for me to buy them from the library than to explain how I had lost them. Then there was the promise to myself to play a board game with my seven-year-old daughter at least once a month. That was a New Year's resolution nearly 11 months ago. ago and I suppose we've played once or twice. This is a habit a pattern, a way of life that seems almost as though it's to be expected today, where people have good intentions and We like to live by the mantra that, well, it's the thought that counts. I was planning to do this or I wanted to do that or it was my goal to achieve this, but we haven't followed through thus far my descriptions of this malady. Is promises that have been broken between us, between friends and family. But the greater travesty is that many commitments have been made to God that have been forgotten. Year after year, we've failed to fulfill those covenants that we've made with our Lord, just as Jacob did. And we have yet again not followed through with them. The answer is not which is the habit of many today to just say, well, I just won't make any promises. Today's pattern is, well, if it's hard, just don't do it. If I'm not succeeding at promising or keeping my promise, well, I'm just going to not make any promises, just to give up. It's like someone said, they told me you should never give up on your dreams. That's why I continue to stay in bed That's the spirit of today. It's just this mindset. Oh man, we'll just take the easy road But beloved, that's not the answer. The answer is to yes, make a covenant to God. Make a promise to the Lord. Let's make a covenant with God, but let's keep it in and through the power of God. Let's fulfill those promises. So let me encourage you this evening for a few minutes around the idea here of let us make a covenant. With God. Maybe you in the past have made a covenant with God. You've made a promise. You said, by God's grace, I'm gonna fulfill this. You haven't fulfilled that. You've let that down. Listen, beloved, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins if you just confess them. Listen, we can turn back to God. We can pick back up where we left off. The answer is not just give up and quit and stop making promises. The answer is to get back where God wants us us to to realize the promise we made to him to get forgiveness for failing and follow through with the covenants we've made So tonight I want to give you just three simple thoughts here about covenants. First is the meaning of a covenant. We won't spend long here because obviously I think I'm speaking to an audience this evening that understands and knows what a covenant is. They understand the promise that it is. The 1828 dictionary says a mutual consent or agreement of two or more persons to do or to forbear some act or something. It is a contract, a stipulation. A covenant is created by deed many times, put in writing and sealed. It's something that is a promise that's made. It's a sealed agreement between you and God or you and another person. 1828 goes on and defines a covenant with some examples. The covenant of redemption is the mutual agreement between the Father and the Son respecting the redemption of sinners The covenant of grace is that which by God engages to bestow salvation on man, upon the condition that man shall believe in Christ and yield in obedience. To the gospel. It's a covenant, it's a promise. And from the day of the cross until now, I guarantee you and emphatically say that Christ has kept that covenant. Anyone who has turned from their sin and turned to Christ and asked for forgiveness, Jesus Christ has followed through with that covenant, that promise, and extended his grace to man. And I praise God for it. The covenant here under consideration that Ezra is talking about in our text This chapter of the Bible has been titled or called The Greatest Service That Ever Was. Because there's a group of people here that met with God. God spoke to them. They responded in kind. They confessed their sin. They forsook their sin. This problem that they had was uh taking of these strange wives, people from another belief system, another religion, another nationality, that they were not supposed to be marrying, intermarrying. They made promises concerning this sin. You know, it's they didn't make promises concerning things that didn't matter to them. You know, if you're going to make a covenant with God It should be something that's important to you, something that matters to you. I could make a covenant with Hunt Valley Baptist Church today that I will not, between now And January 1st, I will not drink a cup of coffee. I guarantee you. I don't have a problem with that, because I don't like coffee. I am not the least bit tempted and don't care to have coffee. And sometimes, you know, we we we pick these areas that maybe we're strong in or that maybe we don't care about or that aren't that meaningful to us. And we'll make a covenant with God with regards to that. But what about the sin that we want to keep? What about that which is close to our heart? What about that which we really desire? Oh, I can't make a covenant concerning that. You see, this was something that they dealt with. This was something that was going to cause some pain. This was going to cause some heartache. This was going to be a trial for them. It was something that was close to them and they did it. They removed all connection. with that sin. Not only did they separate themselves from these strange women that were part of their lives, but they actually Set themselves apart from the children that had been born as a result of these relationships they weren't supposed to have. But I'm saying is this cost them something. I'm sure that they had to provide some measure of adequate means of care and uh let's provide for these families, let's take care of this But they were doing what they were supposed to do. It was something that cost them. It was something that was close to them. They removed all connection with it. They didn't just go halfway. You know, beloved, if we're going to make a covenant with God and be successful in making that covenant, we've got to remove all connection. with that sin. We've got to make means or provisions for victory. It's like the man who may be said, well I he I I'm convicted about drinking liquor and so I'm gonna give up drinking liquor. But if he's gonna be successful he can't continue to drink beer. He can't continue to go to the bars with his friends like, oh I'm not going to drink liquor, but I'm just going to the bar with my friends. They're drinking, but I'm just having soda. Everybody here knows that's not going to last very long. You've got to cut all connection with that sin. You've got to make that line. If you're going to be successful in keeping that covenant, you've got to determine what's necessary and cut all ties, remove all connection. To avoid that sin, one must avoid all occasion to sin. 1 Thessalonians 5. 22 says, abstain from all appearance of evil. Galatians 5. 13 says, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love serve one another. Removing the occasion to sin, the opportunity to sin. And sometimes there's things maybe that wouldn't necessarily be wrong to do or would be sin for you for somebody to do. But for you, because of your life and the situation and the lines that you've had to draw in your life, you said, I I can't go there. I can't participate in that. I can't do that because it's too close to the line for me because of my past. I've got a cut from that. If you are given to a particular area of sin, you've got to be doubly cautious. You've got to be extra careful. If I'm given to gambling I've got a problem, an addiction to gambling, and I'm going to see victory in that area, and I could come up and make a promise I'm not going to gamble anymore. And then still play around with the friends that went to those places and talk about what groups went w one, you know, I don't know what they were gambling over, horses or ball games or whatever and talking about the the what is it a spread? Miss Kim, what it what it what it Just kidding. What's the uh you know, they're talking about you you could do a po you can gamble against point spreads and all this kind of stuff and and and discussing those things, if you're given to that you can't have that continue to be a part of your life. You've got to cut the ties from that. Forty to sixty percent of people who've been treated for the addiction of alcoholism relapse in less than a year. I think largely because they continue to have it around. They continue to stay close to it. They don't cut all ties from that. If it's an area, it's not a problem for you. Just looking at this from the other side, if it's an area that's not a problem for you, you might need to be fully convinced about the fact that it's sin. You see, sometimes things that we haven't dealt with, we look at it as, well, it's not really a problem. It's not that big a deal. You try and convict the clean or try and convince a clean drug addict that it's just some pills. That is just one shot. It's just one thing. You know, uh no, he can't have any pills. And he knows, and you'll see they have a very if they want to be successful, they have a very strong aversion and they've got to stay away from it. And they understand that and they draw that line. But sometimes people that haven't had to deal with that area of sin in their life, they don't mind playing with it. They don't think it's sin. Let me just throw this out here. I am not thinking evil of anybody at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I don't believe there's any any problems. But I think that you're opening the door for problems. When there's too much touching going on between the men and the ladies in the church John shouldn't be hugging any other women in the church. He's got one woman he should be hugging Now on occasion like maybe my birthday or something, Miss Karen can squeeze a hug out of me, but n that's like very rare And and I'm not a hugger, and maybe you're a hugger and and you're like, well, it's not that big a deal, and there's nothing wrong with it. What I'm saying is we live in a wicked society, a filthy world. and you've got to draw some lines and you say, well, Pastor, you shouldn't be thinking that way. I don't want to think that way, but we live in a perverse society. And I see men and women in the church hugging each other and and embracing and and and I'm thinking, This is not good We're opening the door here. We're we're we're we're getting the place where it's just you're too familiar with each other. I would never walk up and hug Miss Martha. Even if I was a hugger. Because it's uncomfortable because we're not that familiar with each other, and that is what protects you. When you allow that little bit of barrier down and you get too familiar and too comfortable and we're all chummy and oh I can hug you and I can slap you and I can that shouldn't be happening around the church. Angelica agrees. We just need to protect. It's and again I don't think there's any problems. This is preventive maintenance. I don't want to find out down the road that something happened between some family and the church and there's a problem and some lady's gonna end up leaving her husband or something like that because Of this kind of sin. And there is no reason for it if the problem is is we don't think, oh, it's not that big a deal, preacher. But it is a big deal. We've got to be cautious. We've got to put up the barriers. We've got to see where the s a prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. And it's not that somebody's doing something that's sin. I don't see that. I just think maybe it's a little careless. And we would be careful. Don't be too familiar with one another. And that's just one area of example, but I'm just saying we've got to watch all of our life, and maybe there's some areas that we haven't had a problem with. And we're getting too close to the line because it's not our issue. Maybe we need to look at it from the Bible and say, is this right or wrong? And let's get back to the Word of God. It'll help others if you're going to be successful in making a commitment. It'll help you if you tell others. If you tell somebody about it, if you say, hey, you'll notice he came and uh Sennacherib stood up and he says, Ezra? People, what if we do this? And they said, hey, everybody, this is what we're going to do. And you can read the list of the people, the rest of the chapter, all those that stood up and said, I'm committing to this. There's all the list of the names and the people that did it. There's some priests, there's some layman, there's people that in the group there. They all said, I'm gonna do it. I'm just saying if you're trying to make a commitment and get victory. In a particular area of your life, it might help you to tell somebody about it. It could encourage you. It holds you feet to the fire, as it were. When it gets hard, when the doubts arise, when the devil attacks, you'll be reminded, oh yeah, I told Brother Wilson that I was going to do this. He knows He's gonna be asking. He's gonna be checking whatever it is. So what is the motivation? for making a covenant. What's the motivation of a covenant covenant? I want you to see in our text here that it was the the motivation w broke out of a revival. Anytime there's a revival in the Word of God, you'll see people making covenants with God. We're not going to turn there, but in Nehemiah chapter 10, there's a revival that broke out, and the people committed their families to God, they committed their time to God, and they've committed their money to God. When a revival breaks out, when a truly penitent heart responds to God, there becomes a level of commitment to Him that we want to give. As Ezra prayed before the people, and the people began coming around, and more people began coming around, and more people began, and he's praying and parenting his heart out to God, and they began to be convicted. Ezra wasn't even the one guilty of the sin, and actually if you look in the text, Sennacherib wasn't guilty either. It was his father that was guilty of the sin. But he said, hey Let's make a covenant with God because of the revival that broke out. And I said Shekaniah. Move the people to get right. Let me just give you something to be cautious about. There's a movement today against the altar call. There's really this cry out, and it's even in this group that would call themselves new fundamentalists. where they're talking about the altar call and why it's bad and that there is this play on people's emotions and There's a move to get people to make a decision and you you you're you're working people up and and after all look in the Word of God there's that you don't see altar calls in the Word of God and this is something that's only been in the church since w whenever and you'll hear them give these arguments. But beloved, I want you to see right here the people stood up and made a decision. Jesus Christ, when he talked to people, he asked them for a decision. He preached, he presented, and called upon them to make a decision. And that's all the altar call is. It's to give an opportunity for people to make a decision. Well, the Holy Spirit's dealing with you, and everybody here knows. Because we've all done it. We've walked out of the church house when the Spirit of God was speaking to our heart and we thought, well, that is good, and that is true, and that is right, and I should do something about this. But then after church we walk out and we get talking to everybody and how quickly that conviction fades. And I don't think that it ought to be all emotionalism and and and let's let's tug on the heartstrings because decisions need to be made sincerely from the heart for God. But there's nothing wrong with calling for a decision. He immediately stood up and moved to get right and moved the people to get right. Revival brings this. And beloved, this promise that is made so willingly from the penitent heart. Is looked upon as shackles by the unrepentant. You see, the penitent heart comes to God and sincerely and gladly says, Lord, whatever you want. I I I just I've just gotta be right with you. I've just gotta be clean. I've just gotta be close to you. And Lord, whatever I need to give up, whatever line I need to draw on the sand, whatever step I need to take, I've just gotta be right with you, Lord. And the penitent heart willingly looks for and longs to have some line in the sand to draw, something to give for his Savior, Jesus Christ. Oh, but the unrepentant heart looks at any discussion upon things that might need to be given up as shackles. As bonds that he doesn't want to wear. Is that not the truth? Why the repentant heart looks to longingly and gladly give it all The unrepentant says, How dare you demand that of me? What I'm saying is revival brings us to the point of making a covenant with God. Repentance means to leave the sins that we loved before and show that we are earnestly grieved by doing them no more. I want you to see, secondly, that hope moves a man to a covenant with God. We see in the text there, in verse number two, the statement. Regarding now there is hope in Israel concerning this thing. Have you ever got yourself into a mess that you just thought there's no way out of? Besides the timeshare? I mean, have you ever got yourself in a mess? You just you just thought there's no way out, there's no hope, there's no solution. What am I gonna do? I mean it's just You almost just don't even want to think about it. You just don't even look at it because it's just so bad. That's, I think, where these people had gotten. There's just no hope. Let's just ignore it. Let's just go on with life. But beloved, when people are presented with the hope that's in Jesus Christ There is hope in Jesus. And people can come to him and all of a sudden, for the first time, although they've never seen hope before, although they never realized there was a way out. They see that hope that comes from Jesus Christ. Beloved, hope is mentioned in the Word of God 130 times. I want you to understand Christianity is a faith based in hope. And this this hope is not just a dream. It's a difference between hoping that you will get what you want for Christmas. And hoping that Christmas will come. You see the difference? Christmas is going to come. And we hope that it comes. It's going to come. It's a promise. It's going to happen. The calendar is going to, the days are going to continue to roll by and it's going to be here. Now, maybe what you wanted for Christmas you might not get, but with the hope that people have in Jesus Christ, it's a sure hope. It's gonna come. It's gonna happen. The promises that God has made are sure. We know that the Bible tells us That we beloved don't sorrow as others that have no hope because we have Jesus Christ. In Ephesians 2. 12, he says that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel. And strangers from the covenants of the promise, having no hope and without God. He says, You were strangers of the promises of God and had no hope without it. And beloved, there are so many people in the world that they that have no hope because they don't have Jesus Christ. Sometimes Christians get themselves into a place where they have no hope because they're too far from Christ. They don't see any way back. Like the prodigal son who. Thought, well, I'll just go back to my father and be a servant in my father's house because the servants are cared for better than I am. He didn't realize he was going to be restored. Because he had gotten so far from the Father. Hope, beloved, causes us to make a covenant, to make a promise, to see that there is a solution. Christianity has the answer. No matter how bad it's gotten, no matter how far away you've drifted, there is hope. Hope to be forgiven. Hope to be restored Hope that you can come and make a covenant with God and be victorious. Also, examples that we see move. us to make a covenant with God. Ezra was here in our text and he was an example. He was down on the ground. He was praying. He was repentant. He was crying out to God, looking for the Lord to do great and mighty things. And the people saw that. Beloved, you could be a motivation for somebody else to come and make a decision. Decision and grow and be faithful. You are an example. As Ezra was broken over the sins of the people, Cried out to God, others began to respond and turn back to Him. So how do we successfully maintain a covenant with God? I want you to understand that it's expected by God that man keep his promises, whatever they are. Number thirty and verse number two says, If a man vow a vow unto the Lord and swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond, He shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth. Man, beloved A vow, a covenant, a promise between us and anybody, but especially between us and God, should be something we take serious. Something that we don't just do at an altar one day and get up and walk out and forget about. You ought to be a covenant that's a promise, that's a sure thing, that this is What I told God I'm gonna do. I said I'm gonna have my devotions every day. I said I'm gonna read this. I'm I'm gonna pray for the missionaries. I'm gonna be a witness I'm gonna do this, and you've made this promise to God, well then you've got to keep it in the forefront of your mind and realize how vitally important it is and how God expects that of you In Ecclesiastes 5, verse number 4, he says, When thou vowest to bow unto God, defer not to pay it, for he hath no pleasure in fools, pay that which thou hast vowed. We've got to do it, beloved. We've got to make it happen. We've got to see how serious it is. Jesus tells us in Matthew 5, 33 to 37, that really Our word, any statement that we say, is a promise You know, your word is your bond. It doesn't have to be a, I want you to know that I solemnly swear and covenant with you to fulfill this responsibility You don't have to say all that. If you say I'll be there at five, that's a promise. He says in Matthew 5, 33, 37, he says again Ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time that thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, neither by earth, for it is his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. But let your communication be yea. Yay and nay, nay. What you say is what it is. It's a promise. Your word is your bond There is a place for commitment for making a covenant today. But if we're going to make a covenant, we've got to follow through. We've got to complete it. We've got to maintain it. Not just for a day. Or two, or a week, or two. But for as long as the promise or covenant was sealed. I'm glad today that we have a God that keeps his promises. He keeps every promise, every covenant, everything he's ever said to us. And listen, beloved, everyone here has broken some promises to God. including the one speaking. Tonight is a challenge to maybe look at those promises and pick them up again. Maybe just rededicate yourself to fulfilling it. Maybe you have a covenant that you need to make and haven't made yet, but the Holy Spirit's been talking to you about it. The answer is not just forget about it. Say, oh, I I'm just not very good at keeping that, so I'm not going to make any promises. We need to make some covenants. We need to keep them. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. I'm going to ask the pianist to come. Just play a moment of invitation and allow us this evening to Ponder and think about are we keeping our word? Are we keeping our covenants, our promises? How easy today people just disregard what they said they were going to do. Go from job to job and from wife to wife relationship