I appreciate you being here tonight. Appreciate you putting up with my voice last night. And maybe it'll be a little better tonight. I'm going to cough. I can guarantee you that. It's going to happen several times through the message. And uh I I don't normally bring the message, this message to churches. Uh that this is a tough one. I'm not going to yell a lot, but this is a tough one because it's going to require you to get really serious with the Lord. The message I'm going to preach tonight is a message entitled, When God Curses Believers. It's in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. You can turn there. 1 Corinthians chapter 16. I don't have any doubt if I went to each one of you and said, Do you love Jesus? You'd say to me, yes, I love Jesus. As a matter of fact, you know, you've seen those bumper stickers. Honk if you love Jesus You've heard of these singers that get on stage and they'll say, clap if you love Jesus, and people will clap. And the reality is, though, we don't really love him as much as we think we do. And we like to kid ourselves, we like to fool ourselves. I think if you'd ask a lot of Israelites back in the Old Testament, do you love God? And I believe most of them would have said, yes, we love God. But God said that they didn't love him. When Jesus was asked, what is the great commandment in Matthew chapter 22? He was asked that question, and he responded, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might This is the first and great commandment. Now Jesus was quoting from Deuteronomy chapter 6. He said, that's the greatest commandment of all. It's not do you love your mate? It's not that you love your children. It's not that you love your country. Do you love God with all your heart, soul, and mind Now we know that Jesus Christ is God. Bible says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Verse 14 of John chapter 1. And the Word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us. Jesus Christ is God. Isaiah 9:6. Unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God. The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. That's Jesus Christ. Now, look at this verse, just one verse tonight. But it is power-packed. It says If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. You say, but what's that next word, Maranatha? That means the Lord's returning. That's why this is such an important question. He's coming back. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. And then he gives the reminder, Maranatha, the Lord Is coming. And you realize that when the Lord comes, we're not going to be able to falsely justify ourselves. We're not going to be able to lie in his presence. about whether or not we really love him. So I'm preaching this message tonight. When God curses believers, let's pray. Father, we come to you now in the name of the Lord Jesus And I beg you tonight for the filling of the Holy Spirit of God. Lord, I know these people came to the house of God tonight to get something from you I believe this is what you've laid on my heart. And so, Father, I pray that you would take these truths and drive them home to every life. And may we allow the Spirit of God to search out our hearts. As each one of us ask you again, Lord, do I really love you? God, have your way in our lives, and we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name, amen. Now I know the title of the message concerns some people. It is a shock to a lot of people that being saved by grace, that I could do anything that would cause God to curse me. And yet, I find in the Old Testament, now Mekai chapter 3, we find that when the people were robbing God and tithes and offerings, God said to his people, He said, You are cursed with a curse. Because of their continual disobedience to their God. The scripture says in Psalm 106 and verse 40, therefore was the wrath of God kindled Against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance. Matter of fact, you go back to the book of Judges, you don't have to turn there. But in the book of Judges, a book that should have been a book of victory Because you see, God gave them the land in the book of Joshua. And so the book of Judges should have been just the wiping up of the Canaanites. that were in the land and a book of victory. But instead it was a book where God had to fight his own people. He fought against them using the Midianites, using the Ammonites. Using the Philistines, he fought against them over and over so that his people couldn't even enjoy the land that God gave them because of their continual disobedience to the Lord You say, preacher, does God do that to Christians? Well, in the book of Acts, chapter 5, we find a couple by the name of Ananias and Sapphira. And you'll remember Ananias and Sapphira brought an offering into the Lord. There was nothing wrong with the offering. It was not an offering that they were required to bring to God, but they lied about what they were giving They said they were giving all the price of the land instead of part of it. And so God killed both of those people. The Turks didn't kill them. Peter didn't kill them. God killed both of those people. These were members of the First Baptist Church at Jerusalem. You understand that? God killed them. As a matter of fact, if you go back in 1 Corinthians to chapter 11, dealing with believers In this church of God at Corinth, that were partaking of the Lord's Supper unworthily. He says in verse 30, For this cause many are weak and sickly among you. And many sleep. He said to that church, there are a lot of you. Didn't say all of them. Doesn't say everybody gets sick has partaken of the Lord's Supper unworthily. But the church at Corinth, there were many, not one or two, there were many. Who were sickly because they partook of the Lord's Supper unworthily, and there were many who were dead because they partook of the Lord's Supper Unworthily. I wonder if God was killing off church members that would partake of the Lord's Supper with sin in the life. and not willing to get it right how many funerals we'd be doing every year in our churches. This is a serious matter with God. So here he is, writing to the church of God at Corinth. Remember that Paul began that church. He personally won many of those people to Jesus Christ. It was a church he had personally changed. And in three short years, they had so many things wrong with him that he had to deal with them about a great number of things. In chapter 1 through 4 of the book of 1 Corinthians, he had to rebuke them about their division. Everybody had their favorite preacher. And their favorite preacher. That's how they determined who was spiritual and who wasn't spiritual. In chapter 5, they actually had a man who was partaking in adultery with his father's wife And they were puffed up about it. They thought that showed how open-minded they were. And Paul says you ought to rather mourn. And he told them the next time they were to get together, they were to turn such a one over to Satan For the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. You get to chapter 6, and you find that they're going to law one against another In the church. He said you'd be better off to take the least esteemed in the church and make them the judges over your affairs instead of taking your dirty laundry to a lost and dying world in front of a bunch of lost people. And at the end of chapter 6 and through chapter 7, he has to get after them about the sin of fornication and the subject of marriage, divorce, and remarriage In chapters 8 through 10, he has to deal with them about eating meat offered in sacrifice to idols. Now, for years, Americans have not had to worry about that. We just go to the grocery store and pick up the meat. But now with the rise of Islam and the rise of Islam in the United States of America, Do you realize that over in Detroit, Dearborn Heights, forty percent of the young people in the public schools are Muslim? I'm not talking about the Middle East. I'm talking about in Michigan, in around Detroit, Michigan. That's going on. Do you realize that the meats they eat are called halal meats? Costco sells halal meats? Many of the grocery stores sell halal meats. Those are meats offered to Allah before they are slain. Christians have no business eating those meats. In chapters 8 through 10 of 1 Corinthians He starts out by telling them that they should be willing not to eat meats offered to sacrifice to idols for the sake of brethren, whom he calls weaker brethren. And I believe he calls them weaker brethren because the people he's talking to were people who thought they were spiritual. And yet Paul had already said of these people that they were carnal back in chapter 3, not spiritual at all. So they ought to be willing not to eat a meat offered in sacrifice to idols for the sake of other believers. Number two, Paul gives the example of himself in chapter 9 of three things. that were perfectly right for him to do that he did not do for their sake. And then in chapter 10, he tells them very plainly That which is sacrificed unto idols is sacrificed unto demons, and I would not that ye should have fellowship with demons. He condemns it. By the way, the Holy Spirit of God had already spoken on that matter in the Council of Jerusalem in Acts chapter 15. When the Gentile churches told them there were some some necessary things, uh they told the Gentile churches some necessary things they were not to do, and one of those things was eating meat offered in sacrifice to idols. You see, that hasn't changed. Yes, it does make a difference what you eat, and you need to be careful about what you're eating. I don't want to get off the subject, though, so let me move on. Then we get to chapter 11. In chapter 11, they were confused. They didn't understand that men and women are to look different from the neck up even when they pray. He spends 16 verses telling us why. When we pray, we're to look different from the neck up. Women are to have their head covered. Men's heads are not to be covered. If a man's head is covered when he prays, he dishonors Christ. If a woman's head is not covered when she prays, she dishonors her husband He tells us why. And then even lets us know, does not even nature itself teach you, if a man have long hair, it's a shame unto him. Now, by the way, he says you don't even need a Bible for that one. Nature teaches you that. Nature teaches you that. That ought to be enough. This church was messed up. They had abused the Lord's Supper. Chapters 12 through 14. They'd abused the gifts In chapter 15, they didn't understand the resurrection, so in chapter 16, Paul took up an offering. And that's interesting. But it gets to the end of the book. And he makes this statement in his goodbye. He said, if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. What a warning. Now I want you to think with me now tonight. First of all, just simply what the word anathema means. It is used six times in our New Testament. Now this is the only time that we have what is called a transliteration, where you take the letters from the Greek alphabet and you transliterate those letters over into the English Alphabet, and you get the word anathema. The other five times that it is used in the New Testament, it is translated, for instance In Acts 23 and verse 14, you remember when Paul was in jail, there was a group of people that had bound themselves with a curse that they were going to kill him. And matter of fact, the word curse there is anathema. It says we have bound ourselves under a great curse. In Romans chapter 9 and verse 3, the Apostle Paul said, I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ. For my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. That's the word anathema, accursed. In 1 Corinthians 12, 3. Paul's writing, and he says, Wherefore I give you to understand that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed or anathema. The other two times that is translated are in Galatians chapter 1, verses 8 and 9, where in verse 8 he says, If we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you. Let him be accursed. And then basically he repeats it again. Let them be accursed. Now the closest you come to that in the Old Testament, obviously the Old Testament was not written in Greek, it was written in Hebrew, but you'll remember when the Israelites took Jericho There was a man by the name of Achan, who took a Babylonian garment, some wedges of gold and silver. He took them from one of the houses of the people that they were pillaging, and he took it and buried it in his own tent. Now, you understand God's instructions to the children of Israel was when he gave them victory over Jericho, that all the spoil of this first victory was to be burnt. It was to be given to God And then they could all have the spoil from the rest of the cities that they would fight in. And so God calls that spoil a curse. Man was not to take it. Achan took it As a result, God had all the people of Israel stone Achan, his wife, and his children with stones. until they were dead in the valley of Achan. Now, so the word accurse is a very serious word. So what is The deciding object. The deciding object here is the Lord Jesus Christ. And I love the way this is put in the scripture. It doesn't just say, if any man love not Jesus, let him be accursed. Matter of fact, we live in an area where there are a number of people, they're glad to talk about Jesus, but they don't want to talk about the Lord Jesus Christ. You understand Lord, He is Lord. Jesus is his name, and Christ is his title. He is the Christ. He is the Messiah. He is the anointed one, the promised one of God. And that was the whole issue in the book of John, with Jesus dealing with the Jews. He said in John eight and verse twenty-four He said, if you believe you shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. They didn't believe that Jesus of Nazareth was the Christ and do a little word study about that term. The Christ. He is the Lord Jesus Christ. The deciding object is not, if any man love not his mother. I believe you ought to love your mother, but Jesus ought to be number one above everything. You ought to love him. You know, we well we talk about people that we love with all our heart. I love my mom with all my heart. Well that's good, but you better give more than just a piece of it to Jesus. Ain't that right? Matter of fact, if you're drawing a list of who's first, he's got to be number one You understand? It it it's not if any man love not his wife. Now we're commanded to love our wives, that's true. But he doesn't say if any man love not his wife, let him be accursed. Doesn't say that. It doesn't say if any man love not his children, let him be accursed. It doesn't say if any man love not his neighbor, let him be accursed. It doesn't say if any man love not his fellow man, let him be accursed. It doesn't say if any man love not his church, let him be accursed. It doesn't say if Any men love not religion, let him be cursed It doesn't say if any man love not being good and moral, let him be a curse. Doesn't say if any man love not the golden rule. Let him be a curse doesn't say that. He said the Lord Jesus Christ. He who is the Lord, not his first name, that's his position. He's God. Already quoted the verse. Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6. In Luke 6. 46, Jesus asked an interesting question. He said, why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? You know, that's not just a title that that people over in England give to give to the dukes and the duchesses and things like that. I mean, this has meaning with Jesus. He is Lord of Lords. And he is king of kings. And he says, why call you me Lord, Lord? Why call you me Lord, Lord, if you don't do what I say? Well Your eternity is decided by what you've done with Jesus. You understand that. He that believeth not on him, or he that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. In 1 John 5, 12. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hat not life. Our eternity is dependent totally upon him. The deciding factor is if any man love not Now think with me for a moment. It is not, if any man hates the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. That's not the factor. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. And say, why love him? Well, first of all, because of who he is, he's God. And the scripture that I quoted that Jesus said in Matthew chapter 22, we're to love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. That ought to be enough. But also because of what he's done I mean, he went to the cross of Calvary for us. He died on the cross for us. He was he was cursed, he was beaten, he had his blood shed, all of it for us. I mean, there every person's got a good reason to love him. He has done a work so that you don't have to go to hell. You don't have to worry about spending an eternity with the damn, not at all. Of course, to love him You must first know him. Romans 1, therefore being justified by faith. I'd say I lost the verse. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And then upon that, in verse 5, where the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. So again, we get to the verse. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Now, what are the evidences Of loving Jesus. Let me give you a few. How about number one? Time in his word. Right? I mean we're commanded to read the word, and he even tells us faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. My last verse is Psalm 119, 128. Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right. And I hate every false way. It's a sad commentary on modern-day churches today that our feelings are the final statement of right and wrong instead of God's word. We've got to be careful about that because the Bible says that that which seemeth right unto a man, the end thereof are the ways of death. I can't be judging right and wrong on the basis of how I feel about it. I have to base right and wrong on the basis of what God says about it. That ought to settle the matter for every born-again believer Job said, I've esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Jeremiah said, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me. The joy and rejoicing of my heart. Jesus said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. It's amazing to me, these people That believe they have an infallible book in the King James Bible, and then they don't obey it. What hypocrisy. That's hypocrisy. You say you love God, God's giving you his word, you say this is definitely God's word, all of it, every bit of it, and then you explain away the things you don't like. I got news for you. We don't judge right and wrong on the basis of any man's opinion, but simply what God says about it. If you're in love, you have a strong desire for his word. You want to hear him. Now, even though I just turned 70 a couple of weeks ago, kind of reminds me back when I turned 60. I had five surgeries in the next two years. I thought the warranty ran out. Well, of course, I have turned 70 in the midst of all this junk that I've been going through with my lungs and my and my chest and my coughing and all of that And so I don't know what's worn out this time unless it's just the body by itself, who knows? But that's what happens. But you go back to time, some of you remember this when you fell in love You remember when you fell in love? You say, no, I never did love her. That's pitiful, isn't it? Remember when you fell in love, I mean People get on the phone and talk and talk and talk They talk for two or three hours, looking for any opportunity, just get on the phone and talk some more. What you talk about? Nothing And just wanted to talk to them. Just wanted to hear their voice. Just wanted to hear what they had to say. Do you remember what they said? No. But that wasn't the point. The point was there had there was communication going on By the way, if it stayed like that after you said I do, it could have been as sweet as it was before you got married. Now, I'm not preaching on the home right now, but I just thought I'd throw that in. So time in the Bible. If you love him, you'll want to hear what he has to say. You say, but I've read it So if that's your excuse for not reading it, you didn't get much the first time you read it. I read this book every day And I've read it for years. I had a uh uh a system where I would read six chapters in the Old Testament, five chapters in the New Testament every day. That would take me through the Old Testament twice a year and take me through the New Testament six times a year. Now I'm not saying you've got to read 11 chapters in your Bible. Some people like to read it a lot slower. And take just as long. They like stop and think about everything, and that's fine. We'll have a different way we like to do it. I just know this. If you love the Lord Jesus Christ, you will want to be in his word Not only that, time in prayer. How much time do you spend talking to Jesus compared to how much time you spend on Facebook? I mean really how about how much time do you spend with Jesus compared to how much time you spend listening to Rush Or watching Fox. You know, I just determined a long time ago, if if I don't watch it for three weeks, it is like a regular soap opera. You cannot watch it for three weeks, and when you tune back in, things are still going on like they have been. Now I know some of you are thinking right now, what do you know about soap operas? I was bought up in the lost home, man. My wife my wife, not my wife, my mom was hooked on those things And I know I can I could miss it for a month, come back in, same two people are still arguing, same argument. Hadn't changed. Nuts And it's good that's the way it's going to be about all this political stuff. If we cared enough, I mean you talk to people about spending 15 minutes, 15 minutes in their Bible in prayer, just talk to them about that much And men are thinking, man, I don't have time. I mean, I'm in such a hurry in the morning. And yet, you can spend an hour on Facebook, you can spend an hour on Fox. You can spend the afternoon listening to Rush while you're trying to get a little bit of work done, but you don't have time to spend time in prayer and with God in the Bible. We don't love him. There's a lot of things you give up, things you love that you give up uh uh give up Fox News or give up Rush. No, I've I've I've got to know about that stuff. Well I got news for you, he's the one that can change the mess. And I'm not talking about rush, you understand that, okay. Psalm is said in Psalm 42 and verse 1, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so my soul panteth after thee. Psalm 63 and verse 1: O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. Listen to me, folks. We have become a people that our prayer life is basically forgive me, now give me. Jesus said, God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. You know a lot of people, man, they've got all the spirit in the world. They can jump up and down and shout hallelujah and scream and all that. I'm not necessarily against that. As long as you're worshiping him in truth as well. Spirit without truth is wildfire. Truth without spirit is just dullness, deadness. But spirit and truth together, brother Now that's a relationship with him. Now I'm one of those people when I pray. My prayer closet is the auditorium of my church. I like to walk around and pray. Now I you gotta understand I was a student, I was a teenager of the 60s, and I've had attention deficit disorder forever. And uh I mean that I can't pay attention Maybe it's because we were that poor. We were so poor we couldn't pay attention. I don't know. But I'm one of those people that if I get down on my knees to pray and pray silently, I'm going to sleep I know none of you have that problem. I have that problem. And so one of the things that I do is I walk around the auditorium. I have never fallen asleep. While I've been walking. Not once. Not only that, I don't pray silently because if I'm just praying silently, I'll walk half the length of the auditorium and forgot what I was praying about. So I pray out loud. And by the way, there's a benefit to that as well, because basically most people sit in the same place in the auditorium. So when I'm praying for my church, I can come around on this side and over here sits Martin Sanders and Alan Knapp and right behind them sits the whites. And right behind them sits the stallions. So as I'm going by, I pray for each one of those. I go all around the church. So those four people that never sit in the same place, I never pray for them Let me tell you something. There are times. There are times Well I just think I'm just overloaded, I'm overwhelmed. And you look in all the different things going on in people's lives. And I just get I have a place right off to the right of my pulpit, right on that seat, right there. I'll just come down and sit down like I'm sitting on Jesus' lap and just say, Jesus I just want to love you for a while. When was the last time you had a prayer time that wasn't a rush prayer time? It wasn't just a list prayer time. But you just loved him. You just praised him. You just thanked him for hearing. I mean, where you say, Lord, I don't have a thing right now to ask you for. I just want to be as close to you as I can be. My little girl, Kathy, bless her heart, she's not a little girl anymore. Scares me. She's a 40-some-year-old woman, and I'm not going to give her exact age because there are people here who know her. And uh But you know, she would come in, she'd sit down. Now, those of you who knew both of my daughters, Kathy and Carrie, Kathy was always daddy's girl. When she went to Bible college, everybody knew she was Daddy's girl. You'd ask my daughter, you'd say, whose baby are you? She'd say, Daddy's baby. Always. Always. Now my second daughter, Carrie, she came along eight years later, and we'd ask Carrie, whose baby are you? And she'd have to think about it Which one will I get the most out of if I say it right now? All kids are different, isn't that right? Those of you who got two or three kids, they're all different. They were different. You say, well you must have loved Kathy more. No, I love them both the same And they're both my babies. And I still love them today. I call them, matter of fact, that's one of the things. See, I was brought up in a home. We didn't hear much about love. I do not remember growing up. Now my dad might have said I love you. I don't remember my dad ever saying I love you as a kid growing up. Now, hey, that's all right. Dad taught us men don't cry and all that kind of stuff. My dad was lost. He was a factory worker. He was uh he was an alcoholic, he drank beer all the time He was at those places I mentioned last night all the time. I don't blame my dad. He was lost. And people that are lost don't understand a lot of things. But I got saved just before my oldest daughter got born. And I determined that my children were always going to hear from their daddy. I love you. I love you. I talked to him on the phone. I love you. When I would when I'd leave the house, I love you. Come home, pick up, oh honey, I love you I wanted them to know, and both of my daughters will tell you, they know their daddy loves them. It's not hard to say, by the way. If you really love people, it's not hard to say at all. And for those who may think, well, I'm just not turning that way, then you need to turn around and just start saying it. And you'll find that the more you say it, the easier it gets to say it. Anyway, that was a little extra right there. So evidences of love or time in his word, time in prayer, then also by our service. In Romans 12. 1 he says, and I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. It ought to be the desire of every born-again believer to serve him. Now we all can't do the same thing, but good and I'm sure at this church, just like at our church, there's all kinds of different things you can do to serve him. Where it be the choir, the nursery, being a greeter, being an usher in the church, or anything like that. There ought to be a desire. To want to serve him. I remember after getting saved. I was a radio announcer when I got saved. And man, I was looking for things to do. I remember my pastor got out and said, uh soul winning, uh visitation this coming Thursday night. I'd never been on visitation, didn't have a clue what to do. And I thought he meant, you know, that's something Christians are supposed to do And so I went. And I was shocked to find that only he and Don Moore, the a bass singer in our choir, they were the only two going out. I was stunned. I couldn't believe it. Now I said to him, I said, no, he put me with Don to send me out. And I said, now Don I can't talk. I'm a radio announcer. I said I couldn't talk. Yeah that's almost as dumb as people saying I can't talk and yet they got a cell phone. It's just as phony. So I he uh but the guy pulled the fastman on me, we got to the second person. And he talked to them for a while and then he said, Well, we need to leave. Mike, would you lead us in prayer? I've never led in public in prayer in my life. And uh man, it was a shocker. And then he talked about the bus ministry. I got involved in the bus ministry I mean, just whatever. He wanted to I just wanted to do it. And I got in the choir. I didn't know how to sing bass. I got up, stood beside the deepest bass voice in the choir, and just tried to copy what I heard coming out of his mouth If he didn't have it right, then I knew I didn't have it right. But but that's what I did. And when I couldn't even hit the notes that he hit, that's all right, I moved my mouth so people didn't know if it was him or me Pretty good. I'm just simply saying, if you love him, you're going to serve him. Not only that, in our giving. I hate to tell you what I went through to start giving. I didn't start giving right away. I didn't understand it, didn't know about it, but as I learned and God dealt with my heart about it, man, I start giving. Now I'd be embarrassed if all I did was tithe. I mean I couldn't understand how in the world nine tenths could go farther than ten tenths, and yet it does. I'd be scared not to give. It's amazing. It's fun to give. Matter of fact, I love giving admissions. I love giving I I love giving faith promise. I just for opportunities to give. It's fun. But Jesus put it this way. I want you to get this now. Matter of fact, let's go ahead and turn there. I could quote him. But turn to John chapter 14. John, chapter, we're talking about loving Jesus. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Alright? Now, look at verse 21. Verse 21. Jesus is the one who is speaking. And he says, He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me. Go down to verse 23. Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words. Do you understand your obedience is simply a product of your love for him? Verse 24: He that loveth me not. Keep it not my sayings. So Jesus doesn't say, clap if you love Jesus. Says if you love me, obey me. And if you don't obey me, it is because you don't love me. I don't care what kind of tingle goes on in your chest when you hear the name Jesus, if you're not obeying his word, it is because you do not love him. Now, do you really love him? Again the verse. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Now, somebody may be wondering right now, well, how serious can this possibly be? Well, I want you to turn over to Revelation chapter 2, and we're going to find out how serious Jesus considers this. In Revelation chapter 2, you have the first of seven letters written to the seven churches of Asia Minor. And in the beginning of chapter 2 of the book of the Revelation, it is a letter to the church at Ephesus. Now, the reason we're reading this, I don't want you to miss the purpose of this. The reason I'm reading this is so that you will get an inkling of how serious of a matter this is to Jesus himself. Notice beginning in verse 1, unto the angel of the church at Ephesus, right, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Back in chapter 1, it was Jesus walking in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. So he identifies himself. And then he says, I know my works. You understand. He knows you. He knows all about you. He knows everything you do. He knows everything. Everything you do, everything you don't do. He goes on, I know thy works. And by labor. Look at this church. By labor. Thy patience, how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars In other words, they didn't just accept a preacher because he came in and said he was a preacher. They checked him out with the Word of God. If he didn't line up with the Word of God, they called them what they were, liars. Then he says, and has borne, and has patience, and for my name's sake has labored and has not faded. Now, so far, everything we've read that Jesus said about that particular church in Ephesus It's good. Matter of fact, you would think Jesus would be thrilled having any church like this. Well, man, we're fundamental. We owe to the King James Bible. We work bus routes. When the preacher gets after us enough, we'll go out and knock on doors. And yeah, man, we come to church. We even come to church for revival meets. Oh, that's very good. But then notice what he says. Verse four. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent. Did you see that? Repent. He says, first of all, remember. When it was special to you to read His Word. Remember when it was special to you to pray. Remember when you just couldn't wait to get to the house of God. And you were excited about hearing the preaching of the Word of God. Remember, man, when you heard there was a special meeting and you couldn't help but be there, you wanted to be there. He said, remember what is then he says, repent. No, this is serious. That's what he'd say to a drunkard. That's what he'd say to somebody that's been immoral. Repent. Now notice this. He says, repent and do thy first works. And you might circle in your Bible those next two words or else. Because it's here where we find out how serious it is to Jesus, whether or not you love him like you should. He says to this church, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. You say, well, preacher, what does that mean? Well the Bible is the best interpreter of the Bible. What does it mean when he says, He'll remove thy candlestick out of its place? All you have to do is go back to verse 20 of chapter 1. And there it says, the mystery of the seven stars, which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven candlesticks which thou sawst are the seven churches. Do you hear what he's saying to this church at Ephesus? He says, you've left your first love, you repent, or I'm taking your church out. I don't have any doubt there are a lot of closed church doors today all across America who at one time were seeing souls saved by the hundreds every year. Who were running buses, where they had hard preaching, good Bible conferences, all that, but they got used to it. And they began doing it out of duty. All that they had been doing was good. But they lost their first love. And God said, I want people to love me. And he's taken their church out. God's giving you some wonderful stuff here. You think, my, there aren't many churches like us around here. God needs us. No, he doesn't. Now, you know, I I figured out a long time ago, God doesn't need me. Matter of fact, he got along real good without me for ever. And you know when I die, he's going to get along just as well. He doesn't need me. He gives me the privilege of being able to serve him. That's how serious this matter is. So I say the statement again if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him Be accursed. Do you love him tonight? You say, preacher, what do I need to do? Well, as as John writes to the church at Ephesus. Given the word by Jesus, number one, realize the seriousness of the offense. Number two, repent. If your pride keeps you in that pew and you know you're not loving Jesus like you used to. But if you don't repent, you can lose it all. You can't lose your salvation. Thank the Lord. But is that really how you want to face him at the judgment seat of Christ? Colossians 3. 2 declares, set your affections on things above and not on things in the earth. Our problem is we start getting things. That's the problem in America today. We buy things we don't need with money we don't have to impress people we don't even like. That's where we're at. Toys, man. It's all about toys. And we buy things, expensive things, toys. Missionaries trying to get to the field, and we're thinking about the new toys that we can buy and spend thousands of dollars on. Because we're not sold out to Christ. We appreciate the extra that He's given us, but Lord, I'm already doing my share. Set your affections on things above. There was a pastor Flavil in England. He was preaching from those words, if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. He had finished his message and he looked out of it over the congregation and he said, How can I bless this assembly? When every person in it who loveth not the Lord Jesus Christ is anathema. Now, friend, you can't answer for the person next to you, or behind you, or in front of you. But if Jesus was writing to you today, don't list the things that you do. Have you left your first love? Because if you have, you ought to be the first to hit an altar and say, oh God forgive me. I want that first love back Any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ. Let him be a curse. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in Jesus' name Lord, I know there are a lot of congregations that they couldn't handle a message like this. I believe that there's a great amount of spirituality here, but Lord, I know the tendency for all of us. If we start giving you things out of duty instead of love. And you want our hearts. You said in the scripture that the eyes of the Lord went to and fro throughout the whole earth to show them so strong. in behalf of those whose hearts are perfect toward him. So God, speak to your people tonight, I pray. May none of us want to hold back, but oh God, surrender and get that love back That we once had for you. And Father, we'll thank you as you move upon us tonight. For I ask it in Jesus' name.