Today we're going to look at this theme verse for our month in a message that is entitled A Call to Serenity. Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 15. And let the peace of God rule in your heart, to which also you're called in one body, and be Ye thankful. This message on call of God on our lives as Christians, we're called to a life of serenity. This world is interested in peace. People are talk about peace. They desire peace. In fact, peace is probably the most talked about and yet least experienced. Thing in our human interactions. One man said that peace is that brief, glorious moment in history. Well everybody stands around reloading. That's kind of the description of the peace that's available to us in the world today. It's uh it's a calm before the storm. It's a it's a little bit of peace Uh well everybody picks up another round of rocks, right? It's Neville Chamberlain returned to England in September nineteen thirty-eight after meeting Ada meeting with Ada Adopt Hitler. He emerged from the airplane victorious, waving in his hand a copy of the signed Munich Agreement. He announced to the world, this means peace in our time. Yet the world was to learn that before the ink was even dry on that paper, Adolf Hitler had broken the agreement and plunged England. into war. It is quite literally like the words that are found in the book of Jeremiah, where he says, they cry, peace, peace. And yet there is no peace. This is the situation. This is what the world faces today. A desire for peace, an endeavoring, concerted effort to try and manufacture a peace. Yet there is no peace. There is no peace. They're somehow wishing they could develop it with some force Of external means, not understanding that peace begins internally. So if I could this morning give you a couple of thoughts about the peace that we're called to as Christians, this life that we're called to. Serenity, we're called to have peace as God's people. He says here, first of all, I want you to see the source. The source of this peace It says in our text here, the peace of God. It's the peace of God. This world tries to manufacture and build and develop and make peace. In any external way they can, but this peace comes from God. In John chapter 14 and verse number 27, he says, peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled. Neither He says, I am providing for you peace. And I'm not providing for you peace like the world knows or peace like the world sees. But this is an internal quietness of soul. This is a peace that's given to you by God and it's not disrupted by the circumstances of life. You know, there was one zookeeper that had started receiving a lot of uh national attention He was credited with having ushered in the new age. Somehow he had found it possible to keep inside of the same cage both a lion and a lamb. He says we're going back to that age, and he he denied all interviews for a long time and the news. I mean he was getting all of this publicity, and finally he gave an interview on national television, the The zookeeper was asked, Well, how is it that you're able to keep a lion and a lamb in the same cage? And he says, Well, it's easy. I put a new lamb in every morning. I mean, that's the peace the world offers. It's this mirage It's it's an illusion. It's it's something that's desired and sought after, but when the world goes after that peace, whether they go after it through drugs or alcohol or some type of medication or They look for this external peace in all these ways. It's the mirage. When they finally get there, they find it was never really there to start with. That's not the peace that God gives. The Bible says the peace that He gives is a peace that passeth all understanding. That's the peace of God. But beloved, if you're going to get that peace, that peace of God, you need to first make peace. with God. I'm sure that you all have heard people say that. They need to make I just need to make peace with God, or maybe you've come upon an accident and you you you happen to be there and there stands the relative of somebody who was was Passed off into eternity and tragically taken at the spur of the moment, and maybe their mom is there or their dad is there, and they look and they realize that their child or their loved one did not have ample time to adjust their life or to change what they knew what was going on. They didn't have time. And you'll hear them say something like, I hope they had time to make peace with God. That's the desire that the world has. They put their head in the sand and they hide it and they put it away until that moment. And then they look for it. But beloved, we need to make peace with God. Romans chapter 5, verse number 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God. With God through our Lord Jesus Christ. You're given peace. You make peace with God through Jesus Christ. You don't make peace with God by your own actions. You don't make peace with God by your own endeavors, by your own works, by your own task. You make peace with God through Jesus Christ. Christ. Men in their natural state, the Bible says, are at enmity with God. That means that they are an enemy of God. You see, ever since Adam sinned in the garden, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, so sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. Ever since Adam sinned, every boy and girl ever born was born with a sin nature. They were born at enity with God, an enemy of God. And at some point in our life, we have to make peace with God. There are a lot of different philosophies and ideas in the world about how to make peace with God. Well, beloved, somebody's opinion, somebody's philosophy doesn't change, doesn't make it so. We must go to God's word. To see what God's Word says about making peace with Him. In Ephesians chapter 2, verses 14 through 16, he says, For he is our peace. Who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enity Even the law, the commandments contained in the ordinances, for to make in him of twain one new man, so making peace. And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the Now that is a mouthful. I know that the terminology and the phraseology that's found in that passage of scripture For some they hear it and they're like, what did you just say? I mean you just read that, but Pastor Caleb, I I have no idea what you just read. read. I mean it doesn't make sense to me that how it's phrased. Basically, can I explain it to you like this? He says there was a wall. Between man and God, there was something that separated us. But by the cross of Jesus Christ Because Jesus Christ gave himself a ransom for all. Because he was willing to die as a sacrifice for us to pay our penalty for sin. Jesus died on the cross and the veil was rent in two. The wall was broken down. We now have access to God through Jesus Christ. The enmity that existed between God and man is possible to be dealt with through Jesus Christ. He has here, he says, making peace that he might reconcile. You know what reconcile is. That is to solve the differences. That is to bring back together. The Word of God says that Christ died on the cross, by the cross. That he might reconcile, bring back together man and God. So, beloved, it's through Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross that we can have peace with God. That's how we make peace with God. It's through Jesus Christ. And the peace of God which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds. What? Through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Over and over again you see that principle taught without question. It's not through a church, it's not through baptism It's not through participating in in different kinds of good activities. All of these activities are very good They're good things to do. You may be very charitable in nature and give to the needy, and you may go out and serve in food lines, and you may go help other people, and you may be a great Samaritan But that's not how you're restored to God. Those things are the mirage. Those things are the external things where we're trying to get peace in our heart. But do you understand that the more you do them, you get there and you find that Oh, that peace was so very shortly lived. It did not last. And you have to do it again. And you have to do it again to try and get what some people call just to experience religion. They want to experience religion, but what they're missing is the relationship with Jesus Christ. And week by week they're doing external things to try and maintain that. Level of peace that God offers to all men freely, if they would but make peace with God. Do you understand you can't know God's peace unless you know God's Son. Jesus Christ, who died and gave himself a ransom for you. He died on the cross so that your sins could be forgiven. So that you could confess the fact that you're a sinner and trust, rely upon Him to forgive you of that sin, to remove the enmity that is there between you and God. There's no other way to get rid of it. No other way to deal with it. Everything else is just external. It's a mirage that will not satisfy and will not bring peace. But Jesus Jesus sends that peace. God gives that peace at the moment of what we call salvation. When you trust Jesus as you your Lord and Savior. You understand you can't you can't say, well, I trust God, but I'm also trusting the church. That would be like me saying, well, I'm gonna go from here to Washington, D. C. , and I'm gonna put one foot on this bicycle And I'm gonna put the other foot in Brother Taylor's car. That doesn't work You say, well I'm not sure the bicycle will make it, so I'm gonna I'm gonna rely on the car a little bit, or I'm not sure brother Taylor's car is gonna make it, so I'm gonna take the bike just in case. You see you're not really trusting When you put your faith and trust in something, it's 100% completely, and that's what we've got to do with Jesus Christ. We've got to put our full and complete trust in Jesus Christ. That's how you get peace with God. If you look down through history, you can see dates, specific dates and times When peace was made between nations. You can see the date when they met together in Paris and signed the treaty The U. S. and British representatives on September 3, 1783, ended the American Revolution as they sat and signed a treaty Oh. Our world world world war was ended on June nineteenth, June 28th, 1919. as the Treaty of Versailles was signed. What I'm saying is there was a particular time where peace was made. You see the sides they met together and they agreed on the Terms. They agreed on the terms in order that peace might exist. But beloved, there has to be a day, an hour, a time. When you sat down with the Creator of the universe, who sent his son to die for you and has given you the pathway of salvation, and you have Have to agree on his terms. It's an unconditional surrender. You don't get to decide, well, I want to do this and this and this, but I like that about you, Jesus. No. God has laid out the terms, and we've got to sit down at some point in your life. Every person who can truly sit down Say they're saved, they've been forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ, has come to the point in their life where they realize they were a sinner. They realized, according to this book, they're a sinner That Jesus came and died to forgive them of their sin, they confessed that thought with their mouth and believed in their heart. That God sent his son to die for them. And that Jesus gave his life freely and has power over death and hell in the grave, and rose from the dead, is at the right hand of the Father. Father, you confess and believe that Jesus did that for you, that's how you know you're saved. That's how you know you're forgiven. That's how you make peace with God. That's the source, beloved, of this peace. It's not about external circumstances. Whether circumstances are good or circumstances are bad, you know the circumstances change. They get good, they get bad. I mean just watch the news. Seems like things are getting better, and then they're getting worse, and then they're getting better, and then they're getting worse, and and what we we don't know from one day to the next how it's gonna be. But you know what? God's in control. And the peace that a Christian has, that call to serenity, is not controlled by how much better or how much worse things you're getting because that peace is internal. It's there. It's all the time. It's enjoyed. Because you know the source is from God. Can I show you a second here the submission? There's a submission. He says, let the peace of God rule in your You see a simple condition here. He says, let. Let the peace of God. You know, there's a lot of people that are Christians, they know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. There's no question about their salvation. They have Jesus dwelling in them, and yet they are saying, I don't have that peace, Caleb, that you're talking about. This verse says you need to live Let the peace of God dwell in your heart. It's like this. Have you ever slept in? You woke up Probably this would happen like in somebody else's house where you weren't real like in your house the noises things you just naturally wake up but i you know you sleep you sleep in And you get up, and the house is kind of dark and gloomy, and you didn't realize it was so late. But then you walk over to the window and you You let the light in. You open that and that bright sunny spring morning, that light is shining in your man, I didn't realize it was so late I didn't realize it was so bright. I mean if the window was open, I would have known. Well, Christian, a lot of us are living with the drapes. Closed, uh, with the with the blinds down. That light is out there. The sun has been up for hours, it's been shining, and you're just sleeping away and didn't realize that you've got to go let the light in. And a lot of times the peace that God wants you to have in your life, the simple condition is you've got to let it in. You've got to let His presence guide you. You've got to dwell and think about that and not all of the circumstances in which you're overwhelmed with it. You see a simple condition and you see a strong position. He says, let the peace of God rule in your heart. You gotta let it rule in your heart. That word rule there literally means to act as an umpire. One commentator said this it is a metaphor taken from the judge in the Olympic Games, where he was the umpire, the moderator, the one who determined was the victor who would be crowned. And the apostle has said, there is to be no other empire in the heart of the Christian. It is the peace of God. That's to rule. There's a principle here that we're to allow. This helps you make decisions. It helps you to know what to do because you should have peace You should have that quietness of soul, that peace of God. And when you go to make a decision, Uh to me it's so simple and basic and fundamental as far as Christians go, but I know sometimes young Christians don't understand this. They haven't grown to this point, they haven't experienced in their life, and they they might even think of this as a little bit spooky, like How do you, I mean, you just know you have a quiet peace in your soul that God has given you. You let that rule. You decide, well, should I do this? And in your mind comes all these questions, all these unanswered things, all the all of this anxiety starts popping up Maybe it's really what you want to do, but there's all these things you're unsure of. There's no peace there. shouldn't do it. Because if it's what God wants for you to do, it'll rule in your heart that peace will help you. Philippians 4, verse 7, the verse we've read several times. times and the peace of God which passes all understanding, says there says, shall keep your heart and mind. That word keep literally means to garrison about. To guard, to keep. That peace is going to guard you. It's going to keep you from making mistakes. It's going to keep you from going down the wrong road. It's peace that God offers to us. And we don't need to be unstable in the storm. You see, that peace is far more than just the absence of conflict. It's the presence of serenity that God wants us as Christians to have. So we know that the source is God. We see that it's a submission that We should let the peace rule in our heart, but I want you to also see, lastly, this morning, the selection. He says, to which also ye. Are called. As Christians, we have been selected to enjoy this peace. To let this peace rule in our hearts. We've been selected to have this as part of our lives. We're called of God to have this peace. As Brother Taylor once again was standing up here giving his missionary update and talking about The opportunities we have today to be a witness in one of the most powerful ways is just To be able to show and display the peace that we have because we know God's in control. We don't have to be tossed to and fro. We don't have to be Full of anxiety and fear and don't know what's going to happen. Because God is in control. Because we have that peace in our heart Nothing's gonna happen without the knowledge of God. Every believer is called to this. should be something that as Christians we work on. You have to let that piece in. Oh, it's easy to get caught up in the fray of the moment. It's easy to get caught up in the pressure of it all and the anxiety of it all and to wonder what's going to happen There's gonna be an economic collapse and there's gonna there's gonna be uh everything's gonna go to to pot we're gonna we're gonna it's gonna be a mess or w everybody's gonna be sick, there's people dying, what are we gonna do? And it easy to get caught up in that, but we're called to let the peace. of God reign. Maybe you need to stop and spend some time with your Lord and just pray and talk to Him and allow that peace of God to control your heart. There's a young girl working diligently on her homework. So feverishly was she investing herself in this labor that her father looked at her and said, What are you what are you doing? And she says, Oh, I'm writing an essay. We are describing how to bring about world peace. And his father looked at her, his girl, says, well, honey. Seems kind of be kind of a tall order for a young lady. She's like, oh, oh, don't worry, Dad. There's three of us working on it They were investing time in how to bring world peace, putting some effort into it. Christians should have the peace of God. It should be evident. in your faith. It should be evident on your face. It should be evident to your friends and to your family. That you have peace, that you're not overrun with the anxiety that's so present in society today As the world plunges into chaos, our heart and mind is stayed firmly on Jesus Christ. Your home should be firm. be a place of peace. The fact is, so many Christians today have just as much anxiety as the world does. They know God, and yet they still have just as much pressure. One pastor said this. He said, My people have so much anxiety, I can't even preach them to sleep anymore. He says they're they're so stressed they won't even sleep in church. I mean that's just getting bad. You know, we ought to be able to rest quiet in our soul because God's in control. A man arrived one day at his doctor's office, three o'clock appointment, and he was on time. He had to wait five minutes, and the whole of the five minutes he paced the floor feverishly. They tried to get him to relax, but he would have nothing of it. He said, my point was at 3 o'clock and it's 3. 05 and finally he got called back to his room. and he was going to meet with the doctor and he was pacing around the examin room, examining room. And the the doctor said, if you you would have me examine you, you've got to sit down. And he says, I don't have time to sit down. I've got a lot to do. And he says, well, if you want me to examine you, you've got to sit down. And the guy finally sat down and he says, now what's the trouble? And the man said, my life is full of trouble. You said it right there when you said that. I've got trouble at work, and I've got trouble at home, and I've got trouble with my neighbors, and I've got trouble with my car. My life's full of trouble. And the man doctor continued the examination And did all the normal poking and prodding that he could do. At the conclusion of which he said, you know, you're not wound down, you're wound up. And he says, well, I'm wound up. He says, give me something for that. Give me a tranquilizer. Give me some medicine to help me with this. It's too much, doctor. And he says, okay, and doctor turned around and wrote out a prescription. The man took the prescription, ran out of the office. Later that day he was at the pharmacist, haven't looked at the prescription. Yet he pulled it out and said, My doctor wants me to get this filled. Hands it to the pharmacist. And the pharmacist uh looked at the prescription and he said, Sir I can't fill this here. And the man was just fit to be tight. He's like, what? This is a drugstore, isn't it? You're a pharmacist, aren't you? That's a uh legitimate prescription written by a doctor, isn't it? Why can't you fill it? He says, sir, we don't have this in stock. He says, if you want this filled, you're going to have to go home. I think you probably have it there And the man said, what? And he grabbed the prescription and he looked at it and it said, take three doses of Colossians. Chapter 3, three times a day. The man went home and opened his Bible and read the verse and said And let the peace of God rule in your heart. Let the peace of God rule in your heart heart. He called his doctor. He was not very happy. He said, Doc, what do you mean by giving me this prescription? And the doctor said Sir, your real trouble is spiritual, not physical. And I can give you nothing to give you the peace that you want. But God can. God can give you the peace that you want. If you would but look to Him. Beloved, that peace comes from God. If you are tuning in this morning from anywhere, comfort of your home, I challenge you to truly evaluate your heart and determine have you made peace with God? Have you has there been a day, a time when you can know that you met with God on his terms and agreed with him. Confessed the fact that you were a sinner and trusted his son. And him alone to save your soul. Beloved, that's how you get make peace with God. And then the peace of God will come. It's a peace that's beyond understanding. It's a peace that's available to any and all who just let it rule in their heart. As we conclude this morning Could you look back at the text and could I encourage you to one more truth today? As God has given this peace to each and every one of us. The last words of this text say Be ye thankful. But I encourage you, be thankful for that peace that God gives to us all, even in the midst of such trying times as this. Let's pray. Lord, we come to Dear right now, we ask that you would be with each and every person here, as well as every person listening. They would first and foremost make sure there's been a day or an hour where they've made peace with God. God, that they know beyond a shadow of a doubt that when they die, they're going to be in heaven because they've been forgiven of their sin by Jesus Christ. Lord. If that's been settled, I pray you would help us to let the peace of God rule in our hearts that's available to us. We ask this in Jesus' name