Uh Matthew chapter 5 verses 13 through 16, we will read that, and then I'm going to read John 8, 12 first. And then we'll go into Matthew 5, 13 through 16. It definitely is different from pastoring a church to deputation. I was doing a a a short video to send to some of the churches that we've been to and the ones that support us. And we were at a a stop, a rest stop over in Maryland and it had a nice background view, so it was freezing. It was like thirty some odd degrees, thirty-nine, but the wind was blowing and we're freezing and standing out there I don't know what people thought, but she's videoing me and I'm standing there telling the whole thing. It never took. I go to look where the video was There was no video. And so I nearly died trying to take a video. But I told them in the video I'm praying for a helicopter and a pilot to take us around so I don't have to drive. Some people like to drive. Some people like to get in uh a truck and just drive. Uh other people don't mind getting in a car and driving I want to stay home. I want to hop on an Amtrak and go to where I have to go, and that way I don't have to drive. But you know what? The Lord would have me drive. Guess what? Gonna drive. And um I'm gonna like it. And even though I may not like all of it, guess what? When God calls you to do something, you just do it And it it doesn't matter. That's just that's just something very little. When you think of the whole idea of going and becoming a missionary, uh following God's will, doing what God would have, that's that's just that's nothing actually compared. to everything else that that the Lord can do on the mission field, that the Lord can do in the local church. It's with because without the local church there are no missionaries. I have another message where we talk about the local church sending the missionaries. And without the local church, without local churches, we have no authority to go. The authority rests in the local church. Obviously, the first authority is God. God tells the church who to send. And then Uh the church sends them as we see with Paul, but we're not going to be in that. Um I'm going to get right into it then. I could talk and talk and talk. That's not a problem. But we want to say uh what God would have for us. this evening. You can stay in Matthew 5, 13 through 16, and I'll read John 8, 12, and then we will continue in Matthew 5. John 8. 12 says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. but shall have the light of life. Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Jesus says he was the light, he is, excuse me, the light of the world. Without Jesus Christ, we have no hope of salvation whatsoever. The hope of salvation is not in a church. The hope of salvation is not in facts. The hope of salvation is in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ is that light of the world. But then look at Matthew chapter 5. Verses 13 through 16, he says, Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. If salt Is not salty, what good is it for? You say, well, it's good to preserve things. You know, you can preserve bacon and meat and Salted pork and different things like that. They use salt to preserve different things. That's fine, but that's not salt's main purpose. Salt's main purpose is to be salty. And if that salt is gone, if the main purpose is gone, the Bible says it's good for nothing. It's to be thrown out in the wintertime under the foot of men so it can melt the ice and uh you won't slip and fall. It's good for nothing. Or by us, you throw it out in the street and it rusts your car. So but notice what he says in verse 14. And again, this is as he's talking to his disciples. He says, Ye are the light of the world. I thought Jesus was the light of the world. He is. But what's Jesus saying? As I was sent by my Father, I'm sending you. He said, I'm the light of the world. Without me there is no salvation. He says, Ye are the light of the world. It's the responsibility of believers to do what? To take the gospel to where? The whole world He go continues and says, Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. What is the light of the world? I I forgot to ask that question. Could anyone tell me what the physical light of the world is? The sun. The sun is the light of the world. It lights the whole world. Our whole earth, our whole world depends on the light. Without it, if it was just a little bit off, we would freeze to death, a little bit closer, we would burn up. We need that light. The world needs the light of Jesus Christ. And according to Jesus Christ, we're to take that light. We are the light of the world. We're to take that. Whether as missionaries, but I think again, talking to the disciples, talking to the church. Sending out missionaries and being missionaries themselves. But then he kind of shrinks it down a little bit and says: a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Now it goes from the light of the world to a small city. Or a city in Bible days. Does anyone know how the lights worked in Bible days? Yeah, you just flicked on the switch when you walked into the house. No problem. Well not not quite, but you use candles. But as you look at that idea of a city coming down, I look at the local church I look at the local church in cities, and it's the responsibility of the local church to be a light. To be a city set on a hill for those in the community, for those in the city, for those in the outlying areas, for people to see. But then he goes on further in verse number 15. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. What makes up the light of the city? The candles that are in the houses lit up. They didn't have the street lights, they didn't have all the big lights. I don't know if you've ever been to a city. Um I'm sure Baltimore at nighttime, you probably see it lit up. Maybe Washington DC you see it lit up. Um I don't think that's from the power that's being generated in certain buildings in Washington DC. But um That's a whole nother message. But we were going uh we went to uh a missions trip out west to uh Navajo Nation, and we were coming back at night And we were traveling down 40 and we're getting close to Albuquerque. But you're in the mountains as you're coming around. Then all of a sudden you just kind of come around the one mountain where 40 goes into Albuquerque and that city hits you. You know, like people say when they eat something real good, you know, slap your mama, it's so good. Well though this slapped you real good. And the city just lit up, you just saw all the lights, and I'm like, there's no way you can miss that. But in Bible days, each house, there were houses built into the walls around the city. Rahab is a famous house That you remember being on the wall of the city. So you can imagine all these little candles in the house being lit up, and as people are coming to the houses in the old days, they can see the city Especially if it's up on a hill. There's no trees blocking it, no mountains. You can see that city set out set up on a hill. But it's the individual candles in that house And he says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. I just want to look this evening at the three different lights. Because if we're going to be the light of the world through missions, we have to be a candle on a candlestick lit in our own houses. As part of the theme is being revived and reaching the world. If we're not revived, if our candle isn't lit, if we're not letting the light shine personally We can forget going out and reaching the world. In other words, we're not going to have any burden. Burden of mine is for young people. You've got some good young people. I like to see them sitting up front. And it's good to see young people. But we need to see young people with a burden to serve God. And if that burden's not there, what's going to happen is in a couple of years they're not going to want to serve God. And so forget missions, it's going to be hard just to keep them in the church. Every day in the world, worldwide, 166,324 people die And again this depending where you get your stats from, I get them from the internet, and it's always right. Everything on the internet's true But it was a site on the internet said that, and that was a couple of years ago. I think it was 2020. Looked again, 1,140 people die every day in Poland. So I look at that. Yes, that's a lot of people worldwide, but but we're here in Maryland. I'm here in Quincy, Illinois soon, hopefully to be in Poland. But every year worldwide, 60 million and over 700, 60 million seven hundred and eight thousand people die worldwide every year. That's a lot of people. In Poland, 416,100 people die every year. Looking at that, that's about the total of three cities that we're that I'm looking at as far as we're looking at possibly going after we go to language school. That's like taking out every year, taking those cities, dropping an atomic bomb, and just wiping them off the face of the earth. Every year Does anyone have an idea of how many people died in Maryland in the year 2020? And not from COVID. Sixty thousand seven hundred and fifty-six people died just in the state of Maryland in one year. How many of those people are saved? It just gets you wondering. When you think of those astronomical numbers, it gets you to think: how many are saved? How many are lost? How many of those 60,000 people, and again I didn't break it down to how many in Hunt Valley or in this county. But how many can we reach with the gospel, or did we try to reach with the gospel? Does this move us at all when we think about it? Do we think about, man, that's a large number. 60 million more people the Bible say are going to hell than are going to heaven. Broad is the way that leads to hell. Narrow is the way that leads to heaven. Does it move us? What can we do about it? What can I do about it? What can you do about it? Well, I believe it's found in this, letting our light shine Let's go to the Lord in prayer and then we'll begin. Father, we just ask that you would help us, God, to understand that we need to let our light shine. Personally here, Lord, in our own lives. And ultimately, God in the church coming together and letting our light shine corporately And glow even brighter. And then ultimately, Lord, taking that light around the world. Whether it be personally sending out missionaries from Hun Valley Baptist Church or supporting missionaries. Now that you would just give us a burden to see that candle glowing in our lives and keep it glowing bright and then building in the church and then building into missions. So let Lord we can do something about those sixty million people worldwide that pass away Lord, we just ask for your blessing and your power in the message in Jesus' name. Amen. We'll start small. We'll start with a little one. We'll start with the candles. Or if you don't want to do a candle, you could do a lamp, an oil lamp that they use many times also in the Bible days. But we see, first of all, is that the candle is to light the house. The candle is to light the home. And when we see here, we see that we need to let our light shine in our homes. As parents, we could say as grandparents. We need to let the light shine to our families first. We need to make sure that we're letting them see Jesus Christ in the way that we live, in the way that we act, in all that we do. If we want to see them one, if we want to see them follow after Jesus Christ, they have to see us doing that. They have to see our candle shining. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 6, 6 and 7, and these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up. When you're sitting, when you're standing, when you're sleeping, when you're moving about, that's basically the whole day. When Simon Peter, or excuse me, Simon Peter, when Andrew, excuse me. Heard from John the Baptist, there's the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Who did Simon Peter go after? I did it again. Who did Andrew go after? I gave you see I I I belong in Poland. Polish jokes I can tell you them for fifty dollars a joke if you want to afterwards But who did Andrew go and seek? He went after his brother. He didn't go to his best friend. He didn't go to somebody else down in another. He went to his brother. What? He was letting his light shine in his own house. Do you have a burden for your family? Do you have a burden for family members? Do you have a burden for your own children But then it goes more than just our own children. There's our our our fathers and our mothers that are not saved. There's our brothers and our sisters that may not be saved. There could be aunts and uncles, cousins. That are right in our area, that are close to where we live, that we can help see the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Will you pray? Will you teach your own children? Pray for them. Will you be the example yourself? I would preach this often that grandparents' jobs are never done. When you think about it, man, there's no better time than when little Susie or Johnny or whomever you know we're expecting our first grandchild in. I know I don't look at my wife's twenty-nine, I'm thirty. And uh we're expecting our first grandchild at the end of April, the beginning of May. I'm looking forward to it just in the sense I again I like kids. I like teaching kids. I was at at at a rest stop. And I got a phone call. Was that today? Or was that yesterday? See, I I can't even remember that. Pray for me as I learned the language. A memory helps. But I got uh a text at the stop, and and and in that text was a bus kid that comes to uh a ministry on our Thursday night. When are you coming back? We miss you and said some things. And I said, well, hopefully in a week and a half, we'll be back on Thursday. I get excited about that. Why? Because that's what you're trying to do. You're trying to reach them with the gospel. It's a whole lot better than who cares if you ever come back. We don't And some of the kids aren't the best kids in the world. They get in trouble at school, they get in trouble. But the fact that you want to they they have an interest. But as grandparents, to be able to take little Jimmy, little Johnny, I'm sure they start out young and I don't like handling little baby kids. I'm afraid I'll drop them and break them. But as they start getting older, two and three, and you can sing Bible songs to them, and you can read the Bible to them, there's so much that we can have an influence in just as grandparents We can let our light shine. Candles lit for a purpose also. Not only must we reach our own family, but Or a candle is to light the house, but a candle is lit for a purpose. That purpose is to shine. As a believer, what is our purpose in life? It's to honor and glorify God with it. How best can we do that? There are many ways, but I think one of the best ways is to let our light shine. Let the gospel of Jesus Christ be seen in the way that we live, in the way that we act And what comes out of our mouth? Acts eleven, twenty-three The Bible says, who when he came and had seen the grace of God was glad and exhorted them all that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord. The Bible says that he exhorted the believers, and I believe he's talking about the Gentile believers here, that uh he with purpose of heart that they would cleave unto the Lord. It's a purpose. You need to purpose in your heart. In other words, sometimes that takes reminding yourself, hey, I'm a Christian. I'm a believer. I'm to let my light shine. I think I'll take a track when I go out of the house and stick it in my pocket because I may meet someone at the cast register. I don't know where I'll be, but there's always somebody that can use a gospel track, excuse me, use a gospel track. Pray for God to give you a purpose. I think it's so important to pray. God, give me someone to speak to today I'll be out and about. I'll be I'll I'll be around town. I have time. I'll be running some errands. God bring somebody my way today Or maybe, Lord, I'm going to work. I may be meeting someone. Lord, give me someone at work that I can work with, that I can let my light shine to. Kids that come in on the bus, Lord, help me to be a witness to them. Help me to be a testimony. Maybe there's a bond we can have, I make with one of the children, Lord, that will lead to their salvation. You must pray for God to give you a purpose. Don't forget about it. And if you don't have a burden for souls, I would say pray. More importantly than anything, pray and keep on praying and keep on praying. Reading your Bible and keep on praying and asking God, God, give me a burden. But bushels in our life. As the Bible says, a candle is in our life, or a candle is in the house, but we don't put a bushel over it. We don't set something over it to keep the light from shining. But there are bushels in our life that can hide that light. Sin can be the main culprit. The Bible says we should know how to possess our vessel, our bodies, in sanctification and honor. In other words, be right with God. You want to be an effective witness? Keep the sin out. When you sin, make sure you confess that sin right away. Don't let it go. Don't let it build up. Get rid of it. Fear. How many of us are afraid to witness? I think this is a big one. What are they going to say to me? What's my neighbor two doors down? Jerry is our neighbor. And Jerry's come out to church a couple of times, but boy, we have a good relationship with Jerry. He thinks, you know, I growing, you know, we've been there for 18, well, 17 years at the house. I I mean he he thinks that I beat my kids He thinks I'm I'm I'm a cruel dad. He thinks I'm a cruel husband. He thinks that she, you know, the hammer that's on our table Actually, when you look at that, that is for the wife. It says to beat the stupid out of the husband's head is what it basically means on that stick. And a missionary from Poland gave it to her And and and and and Jerry, he's afraid of my wife. Thinks she's real mean and stuff. But and he'll joke around and say things like that. But but just the opportunity. And actually your dad came and preached for us. That's what it was when when we had a um harvest Sunday, friend day. And Jerry came out. And I remember your dad being in our backyard and Jerry being there and just being able to witness to him through the preaching and being able to talk to him But sometimes you get afraid. What's he gonna say? He won't be my friend anymore. He won't let me borrow a tool anymore. He'll ignore me. Because he'll think I'm weird because I'm trying to witness to him. That's our I don't want to say job, but that's what we're here for. Because if he were to die, if Jerry were to die or our neighbor were to die without Jesus Christ And split hell wide open. You think he's going to be concerned about whether or not we made his life uncomfortable? Whether or not, as he's burning in hell, that uh we were afraid to tell him? He's going to be saying, why didn't you tell me? Maybe we don't feel like you know we're w we feel worthless. Well I'm not good enough to witness. You don't know what I did. You don't know my life. Jesus can't use me. But ultimately that's pride. He can forgive us of our sins and he can use us. And simply a covered light. Means no good at all. Here's a quote. It says, Only those that had bad designs hid a candle under a bushel. That in the dead of night, when all were asleep, they might arise up and have light at hand to help them effect their hoarded purposes of murder, etc. Those that hid their light were the ones that wanted to sneak around, and then when they wanted to do whatever it was that that that that was bad or whatever it was that was their hoarded purpose, then they would uncover the light. But there's those of us that just have no problem, and we should, just walking around, letting our light shine. Is your light shining in the home? Is your light shining personally a priority? But then there's the city. That city set on a hill. That cannot be it, as we mentioned. All these individual lights shining in the houses As someone views it afar off or up on the hill, they see that light. That city cannot be hid from all those lights. And again, I look at that as believers with their light shining coming together as a local church, and people seeing that. Whether you know it or not, people think something of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They've heard of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They see a bus go by with Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They get attracted with Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They they see maybe ads or something in the newspaper that say, come to Hunt Valley. They get an invitation. They see it and they think of something. They know somebody that goes to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And sometimes that's a blessing and sometimes it's not. All depends if we're letting our light shine. But I thank God for the local church. I thank the Lord that I was blessed to be able to pastor for 18 years, just a little over 18 years. And just have that burden, just to see the people come together, not just be individual candles, but to be collectively a city. To collectively let our light shine together, that I don't have to worry about just going out myself and knocking doors or witnessing that there's other people that can join us other people that can share their testimony and encourage me. Boy, when I don't feel like going out, when I don't feel like witnessing, when I don't feel like being the the the the candle that I should, there's always somebody else in the church that can uplift me There's always somebody else that that that can give me that little nudge that can encourage and say, hey, let's go, man. You may not feel like it, and then there's always that person you go with them and you you They're witnessing and all man that stirs you up to do it. But the world's gonna see. What will they see? We need to be that city set on a hill, not that city set in a valley. No, I'm not saying hunt valley, but You put a city up on a hill, you can see it. You stick it down in the valley under the trees, you can't see it too well. Be open. Whether you know it or not, we are an open book for people to see. We are an open book for people to read. Don't be afraid of it Use it for the honor and glory of God. Use it to the advantage of the gospel. Let people see a good testimony. It'll keep us straight. It'll keep us doing what's right. Work on areas in our lives. Man, when Pete Preacher preaches and it's something that hits home, don't That's for someone else. Ugh, why does he have to preach now? What you've been doing? Snooping in my window again? Been following me home? No, the Holy Spirit's been speaking. And I think sometimes God wants to work on those areas in our life that aren't what they should be for other people to see. You ever have those uh glass, I I think they call them um volcano lamps or something. They got the glass on them and you got the little wick with the oil in it. And sometimes if you don't have it properly trimmed or if you have too much wick, man, the black smoke comes up, gets the glass all dirty. We can be like that sometimes. You don't get to see much with that. What happens? We need to be cleaned up. The Bible says, Search me, O God, know my heart, try me, know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me. God says we're to ask him about our lives, and if there's anything wicked, anything wrong, anything keeping the light from shining, he'll help us clean it up. We should want the lost to see the best that God has to offer. He offered His Son, Jesus Christ. And as light bearers and letting our light shine, who are we letting shine forth? We're letting the gospel of Jesus Christ shine forth. And if we can't do that because we're dirty, or we can't do that because there's something wrong with us, what happens? We're not letting our best shine. We're not letting Jesus Christ shine through. Is your light shining in the city? What do people see when they see the light from your church When people see Hunt Valley Baptist Church, what do they see? When the world sees the youth of Hunt Valley, what do they see? And then lastly, let's shine as the sun. And I think this then takes it from ourselves personally, the church, but now it takes it out to the world. We're to let our light shine to the world. And of course, as it is, Missions Conference, we talk about missionaries, and as the theme is, revive us that we may reach the world. If we're not right, and this can go in so many different ways, if I'm not right with God as a church member, I'm not going to give the way I ought. More importantly, I'm not going to pray for my missionaries the way I ought. I won't even be thinking about them. I'll be so self-consumed. And that's what happens when we allow ourselves to not be what we should be. We think about ourselves all the time. Instead of thinking about Jesus Christ. And now we can live for him. But just some things to think about. The sun never stops shining. The Bible says in Psalm 136, verse 8, He made the sun to rule by day. The sun's always shining. If it's not shining here, as it's getting dark, it's shining on the other side of the world. It's always shining. Even if you can't see it and it's blocked by the clouds, guess what? It's still shining behind those clouds. You never lose your testimony in the sense of you're always shining. You're either going to have a good testimony or a poor testimony. You're either going to have a testimony that people see Jesus Christ and they're moved, or they don't. Our witness should rule by day. Not just at church, but at work, at the store, in the home. No matter where we're at, let our light shine. Also, as we've seen, it's a joy to see the light from the sun shine. When it gets cold I wasn't expecting twenty-some odd degrees this morning when we walked out of the hotel room and got into the car. It was a little bit cold I wasn't expecting it to be, I said, Dan, it's 39 degrees, it's going to be warm. I get out at the rest stop and the wind's blowing and my ears are cold Polish people have big ears. I can't help it. They're just cold, man. I'm like felt like Dumbo and my ears were freezing. But boy, you see the sun shine. And the sun starts to shine on your face and you start to feel the warmth. Or as we were in the car. The sun hits that windshield and the inside of the car starts to heat up. Feels a whole lot better than 23 degrees When we see the sun, we rejoice. You know when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, there's just something joyful in the heart of the person that God allows to witness to that person. or is the one that leads that person to the Lord. There's a joy in that person's heart. But there's also joy in the what? The presence of the angels in heaven over one sinner that repents and trusts Christ as Savior. Man, there's rejoicing that goes on when the sun shines. There ought to be rejoicing going on in our life. And don't we want to rejoice? I guess there's two different ways to look at it. I guess we can be maybe some people take, I don't know, they like being not happy. You know, they just like being glum and gloom. There's just something about being happy. And I'm not talking about a fake happy, a fake smile, but things that really Cause happiness, man. We're gonna have a grandchild. I'm happy. Now I don't want to act too weird or anything, but but I'm happy. They're happy. When we had our children. Five of them. My wife's how many did you have? Five? I'm sure there were times when your wife was carrying a baby that she wasn't happy. She she got sick all the time. And it kind of lessened with each one, but that first one, Joy, I don't know what she was. But Lisa would get sick and I'd take her to work to drop her off or she would drive and she was, was it when you were teaching? And we'd be driving down the highway, pull over. And you could see her, that's all she had was toast and tea. Pull over on the highway, open the door. Okay, I feel better, let's go. Every morning. But you know what, even though that feeling, even though that that nausea kind of with that first chat and then it left She was still happy. She knew there was a child. She knew there were there was a blessing involved. And sometimes we're not going to feel the greatest. Sometimes we're just not going to feel all that great. But guess what? Man, we get to shine for the Lord Jesus Christ. We get to be used of him. He gave his life. He died on the cross so that we can be saved And he affords me the opportunity to be a blessing. He affords me the opportunity to let my light shine. He affords me the opportunity to help this light, to help the light of the gospel to shine around the world. I can pray for my missionaries. I can see that prayer answered. Just like prayer was answered for Hunt Valley Baptist Church when this building was purchased and the things were done here. And just listening to the stories, it's exciting. But you know when when the missionaries put different prayer requests on their letters and you see them and you pray for them and then that prayer gets answered, that's a blessing because you can say, I prayed for that. It's nothing about us. We just went to the Lord on their behalf, and God answered that prayer. It's a joy. Because when the sun's departed, darkness prevails. We've got a lot of darkness in this world. But boy, when we let our light shine, it works against that darkness. See, because there's coming a day when the sun's no longer going to shine. And by that I mean we're going to die. Or the rapture is going to take place. I'm looking forward for that. I'm looking forward to the rapture taking place, and I'd rather that than die. But Either way, there's going to come a time when I'm not going to be able to share the gospel anymore. Can't do it in heaven. Everyone's saved. Jesus Christ is the light in heaven. There's no more need for lights in heaven. And I'll be living forever with the light. Are you talking about rejoicing? When you see the light, I'll be rejoicing in heaven because I get to see my Savior. I know there's loved ones that I want to see in heaven, but there's no one better I want to see than Jesus Christ. And he says, Hey, let the light of my gospel shine. Let it shine in your home. Let it shine in your church as you perform the different ministries. Let it shine around the world with the missionaries that you support. Or if God's leading you, if God's calling you. Saying, Lord, here am I, send me. Use me, Lord, however you see fit. And you can let your light shine. Are we letting our light shine? Are we allowing the gospel of Jesus Christ to be seen in our homes, in our church, around the world? The Lord would have.