Turn your Bibles to Philippians chapter number three. Philippians chapter number three. We are once again this evening looking into the pages of Scripture where we see the admonition, the encouragement. Where one saint calls a fellow saint to a higher walk. Where he says, let us fight this battle together. Let us stand together. Let us accomplish this thing in the power of God's might. With that very statement, let us there's the idea of unity. There's the idea of an agreed-upon purpose, a set forth goal. As one encourages the other to take part in this or that. Tonight I want you to see where Paul is talking to the church of Philippi, and he says to them, let us Be thus minded. Look in verse number 15, chapter number 3, verse number 15. Follow along as we read verse 15 and 16, where we see the thought for the seed. He says, Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same thing In his book, Pearl's Points in Parables, F. E. Marsh relates this incident. He says that I asked a student what three things he most wished for. He said, Give me books, health, and quiet, and I care for nothing more. I asked a miser, and he cried, Money, money, money I asked a pauper, and from him he replied, bread, bread, bread. I asked the drunkard on the street, and he called loudly, booze, booze, booze. I asked the multitude around me, and there lifted up from them a confused cry in which I heard words of wealth, fame, and pleasure. Then I asked The Christian. And he replied, All that I wish for can be met in Christ. As he spoke, I asked him to elaborate upon his statement in He said this. I greatly desire three things. First, I desire that I may be found in Christ. Secondly, I desire that I may be like Christ And thirdly, I desire one day to be with Christ. For all that I desire can be found in Christ. Beloved, we have the admonition before us this evening. Let us be thus minded We look at this passage of scripture and I want to kind of just dissect these few verses and give you some thoughts that I've been able to glean from them and challenge us as a church I've enjoyed these studies, these areas of encouragement. Every one of these Laddus that we've looked at have been different. Everyone's been in a different segment, a different look at the Christian life, a different admonition. And tonight is that way. I mean, it's amazing to me what I've learned as I studied this, and I want to pass on to you this evening. First of all, I want you to see that there's a desire here for perfection. There's a desire for perfection. He says, let us therefore as many as be perfect. Now perfection is simple. I know we look at the idea of perfection of course and we say that's hard. I mean how could anybody be actually be perfect and and To achieve or strive for perfection, that's difficult. But really, when we're talking what we're talking about here in a biblical sense is really not that difficult. We aren't looking at sinless perfection. We of course don't believe in sinless perfection. That's not what the verse is saying, that you could live your life without sin. C. H. Spurgeon was preaching at a in a meeting one time and And as he was preaching, the fellow pastor preached before him got up and expounded upon the fact that man could be sinless, that man could reach this Sinless perfection. C. H. Spurgeon didn't correct him there in front of everybody, but the next morning, when they got up and they were eating breakfast, Brother Spurgeon uh grabbed a pitcher of milk. And dumped it on the guy's head. When the guy lost his cool, uh got very upset, displayed his anger for Having this milk jumped on his head, Spurgeon said, sinless perfection debunked. We cannot achieve sinless perfection. We know that that's not what this is talking about. This is talking about completeness of character. J. Bernie McGee said it like this, as many as be perfect, what that means, I think I may illustrate with my orange trees. I have three orange trees that are located in my backyard and they're bearing fruit this time of year. Many of these oranges are still green, but for this particular time of year, they're perfect. They're perfect. What we're dealing with here is maturity. If you come and see me in a month, and these oranges are still green They're no longer perfect. They're perfect in the stage of growth that they're currently supposed to be in. He went on and said, I might illustrate it another way. Suppose you had a relative who had a 17-month-old baby, and that baby was a perfect baby. Very hard to articulate words, but could say dada and mama. Dada. But not much else. You would look at the baby and say the baby was perfect But if you came to see your relative in seventeen years, and that seventeen year old could still only say Dada and Mama. You would say there's a problem. There's not a progression. You see, the baby was perfect because there was a maturity there that was expected And that baby was progressing as should be. So that is what the Bible is talking about when it's talking about perfection. It is maturity, it is growth. Perfection, maturity has signs. Not only is it simple to attain, but there are signs that let us know it takes place. Just as you can observe a child, and you wouldn't expect from a five-year-old that what you would expect from a 15-year-old. Or from a 15-year-old, that which you'd expect from a 30-year-old. There are some things in their life that begin to take place that you recognize their maturity. They begin to take responsibility, they begin to take ownership, they begin to be able to communicate, they begin to be able to handle things. Well, the same should be true in the Christian life. There should be some growth and there should be some signs, there should be some evidences that you are being Perfected. There's many signs that we could look at and talk about. But there is obviously growth that takes place. The sign of maturity is evidenced by growth. The sign of maturity is evidenced by humility in the Christian, by the display of charity in our life. Beloved, trust me, the closer one gets to Christ, the more wrong he will feel. What I'm saying is the more right you get, the closer you get to Christ, the more wrong you feel For a plate that has one blemish on it stands out glaringly, does it That one thing. Now a plate that's all filthy and all dirty. Nothing really is dirty, and not nothing really stands out. But beloved, as we get more and more right, it is in fact our closeness and our proximity to God that would make us say, woe is me, I am unclean. I am undone. So we're not striving for sinless perfection, but for maturity. To be at the place that God would expect us to be at our level of growth. Everybody's at a different level. Praise God, you're not expected to be at somebody else's level. But is there in your heart a desire? For perfection, a desire for maturity. Beloved, we are To seek after. Perfection should be sought. We should look for it. We should want it. We're to press on. There is to be in the mind Of every believer, that pressing forward, that pushing on for God is to be ever present for the Christian. No man has achieved perfection yet. But we ought to be being perfected. We ought to be improving We ought to be pressing on the upward way, new heights, gaining every day. We say it like this at Hunt Valley Baptist Church: God is not as concerned with where you are as with where you're go. Are you pursuing after perfection in your life? Are you headed towards God and what God wants for you? Beloved, it's not about how far you come. But what there is still to do. I mean, yes, pat yourself on the back and be encouraged and excited about what you've what you've accomplished. When the children of Israel crossed the Jordan River, God told them to set up a memorial. Hey, look at what God has done for you. Look at what you've accomplished thus far. But he didn't tell them to stop there. This is not where their journey ended. There was still the whole Canaan land. It was supposed to be gained for them because it was promised to them, right? And for the Christian, we can't look at what we've overcome and stop and say, well, look at what I've overcome, look at what I've gained, look how far I've been. But Looking on, pressing on to the mark for the prize of the high calling of God The man who is striving for the Lord is accomplishing that for which he was apprehended of Christ. And in that he is perfect, no matter how imperfect he is. Does that make sense? When I had that thought, I thought that's amazing. I can be perfect if I'm doing what God wants me to do. As I strive for Him, and as I do accomplish God's will, yes, I'm imperfect. But in this that I am pursuing after God, I am mature, I am perfect, I am accomplishing what God has for me to accomplish. It is in the very striving after perfection That every believer should be as we follow the author and the finish of our faith We are continually made more perfect in Him, more complete in Him. It is in fact the surety that we are not yet perfect that constrains us to press on towards the mark. We still have work to do. We're never to be satisfied with how far we've been, but always looking forward. So, beloved, we see that there's a desire for perfection. Then I want you to see that there's a demand for participation. A demand for participation. He says, be thus minded. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. Now, everyone who would be perfect, that is, everyone who would desire or want to be perfect must be Thus minded. There's a demand for participation in this. Now there are foundational truths that should Be central to our beliefs that are of utmost importance. They must be objects of our desire. They must be the heartbeat of our focus They must be what we as Christians uh hold dear and we don't waver on. There's things and we could spend the balance of the message here dealing with those truths and those f foundational things, the the blood atonement and And the virgin birth and salvation by grace in Him alone, and we could go through these foundational truths, which we know are true. However, tonight I want to take this a little bit different direction and look at the idea, that word where he says, be thus minded. And I could not help but think just one chapter earlier in the book that we're looking at right now, he says, let this mind be in you. And as I think about the fact we should be thus minded, I think we ought to have the mind of Christ. That should be something that we as God's people all have in common that we have the mind of Christ. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought of not Robert to be equal with God. made himself of no reputation, but took upon himself the form of a servant and became obedient unto death, even in the death of the cross. I know I left out some stuff for those of you that were quoting that with We ought to have the mind of Christ. Be thus minded. I would propose to you that if we are all going to be thus minded It is the mind of Christ we would have. So what is it? What are the characteristics of the mind of Christ? I began doing a study in the Word of God. There's many things that we could look at, but I have a few for you that This evening that I would like us to consider. We're not told to have a good mind. We're not told to have a sharp mind, a disciplined mind. We're told to have the mind of Christ. The mind of Christ First of all, I want you to realize that the mind of Christ was spiritual. The mind of Christ was spiritual. He was God in the flesh. I think that pretty much sums it up. As far as spiritual, he was not carnal, he was not fleshly. He had a spiritual mind. Beloved, without Christ, you're dead in your trespasses and sins. Without Christ, you don't have the ability to have a spiritual mind. But when we're saved by the blood of the Lamb, when our sins are washed and we've been forgiven and brought into the family of God We were given the power to have the mind of Christ, to have a spiritual mind. It is in and through Christ that we have life. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. So the mind of the Christian is one that will be spiritual. Romans 8, verse number 6 says, For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life. It is through Jesus Christ that we are given life. And as we are spiritually minded like Christ, we have life. Spiritual life, a spiritual mind. But to be carnally minded is to go back to when we were dead in our trespasses and sins. Now I'm not alluding to or referencing losing of your salvation. That's taken care of. But you're going back to acting like and living like when you were dead. To be carnally mighty is death. It will kill you spiritually. You'll lose all the ability to have and hold a spiritual thought. Some of the reasons why church is so utterly and completely boring is because you're not spiritually minded. You're carnally minded, and the only thing that you can get any enjoyment out of is something that will feed your flesh. Something that will feed the carnal man. If we are spiritually minded, we soak up the things of God. Am I right? That's the way it is. We are to be spiritually minded if we're going to have the mind of Christ. That's what Romans 12:2 says. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That is what Philippians 4:8 is talking about. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true and honest and just and pure and lovely and of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. So we're to have the mind of Christ. The mind of Christ was spiritual. He had a spiritual mind. Not only that, Christ had a selfless, a selfless mind. He says, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself a no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant. was made in the likeness of men. You see, he had a selfless mind. He gave up his position His rightful position at the right hand of the Father. His rightful position in heaven. He gave up his rights and came down He had a selfless mind. That's so contrary to the way most people think today, even Christians Because we all want our rights. But he gave up his rights. He gave up his position and he became a servant. Do you have a servant-hearted mind? Are you looking for what you can do for others, or are you looking for what others can do for you Brother, I don't know if it's because your your kids are bored or if they have a servant-hearted mind, but I say to his kids about every twice a day, they come up and ask, hey, you got anything I could do They're asking for work, not for they're saying, you got any jobs? Can I help you do anything faster? You got any jobs I can do? Servant-hearted. Praise God for that. We ought to have the mind of Christ. Christ was servant-hearted. You know, he volunteered. It says he gave himself. He made himself of no reputation. He made himself. He volunteered. He says, hey, I want to help. I want to do this. He came down to earth because He was willing. He was available. As you read through the Gospels, you see how often Christ Was available for the multitude. How he served others. He came to minister, not to be ministered unto. He listened and stopped and was available to the tax collector. He was available to the fishermen. He was available to the harlot. He was available to the multitude. This was the mind of Christ. He had a servant-hearted mind. He gave up his position, and he also gave up his own pleasure. In Romans 15, verse number 3, he says, for even Christ pleased not himself. He pleased not himself. Again, this is so contrary to the way we think today. Because everything that we do or everything we want is about how w what pleases us. What makes me happy? Beloved, as Christians, we've got to fight against that. We've got to push against it and say it's not about what makes me happy I'm going to have a servant-hearted mind. That means it's not about what I'm concerned with, but what about you're concerned with. And how can I help you? How can I meet your needs? How can I make you more comfortable? How can I meet a need in your life? This was the mind of Christ. He was selfless, gave himself to us. He gave up his pleasures. We're to live that way. Romans 15, verse number 2 says, let every one of us please his neighbor. For his good to edification. Let every one of us please his neighbor. Not please himself. And why? For the good of his edification. We please our neighbor, why, so that he might be edified. The mind of Christ was also submissive. And being found and fashioned as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He was submissive. Submission begins with humility. He humbled himself. And was submissive. That's where it starts. Humility is a state of mind that is the opposite of haughtiness, arrogance, or pride. Philippians 2, verse number 3 says, Let nothing be done to your strife for vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, in lowliness of mind, in humility, let each esteem others better than themselves. Christ humbled himself, was obedient. A clear view of God's greatness will lead us to a proper view of ourself. Submission is displayed by obedience. Submission is developed in the heart of a person that's humility, that's humble As we ask God and we become more and more humble, we become more and more submissive. But you understand talk is cheap. And if one would say, Oh, yeah, I'll I'll do what you want. But then not do it. And another one says, No, I don't want to do that, but then does it. You remember that happening in the Bible somewhere? You see, which one was obedient? Not the one that just said, oh yeah, I'll do it, I'll do it, and then then just refuses to do it, doesn't do it. But the one who said, Oh no, I don't want to do it, but then does it you see, submission is displayed by our obedience. He became obedient unto death, even the death Jesus wanted nothing more than to do the will of the Father. Jesus said unto him, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish The Christ-like mind will be obedient to the Father. Now we're only two points into this, and I have several more Just guys are awful quiet tonight. Everybody's sitting there. We're just soaking it up. It's it's soaking deep and so rich you just just letting it set in, right? I I I enjoyed this study. It was so it just was it it fed my soul. And I hope that's what it's doing for you tonight. I hope that you're not just getting lost in it and just waiting for it to get done. We've got a few more points here with regard to To this passage, as we just dissect it here, I want you to see that there's a discerning of problems. There's a discerning of problems. He says, and if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. I was going to use the word ploimic. I didn't use it because it's not a word we use today in Not something that everybody would know what means, but the definition of it is a controversial argument as one against someone's opinion or doctrine You see, he says, if anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. The fact of the matter is, there are some who are otherwise minded. Our admonition tonight is let us be thus minded. Let us be unified. Let us move together in one accord. accomplishing these great things for God and if we set Christ as the focus and we have Christ's mind then we will be thus minded. But there is opportunity and places in which There are some who are otherwise-minded. Now, I think for us to get to the place where we are otherwise-minded is almost inevitable. Because we all come from different backgrounds. We all come from different places. We all are dealing with different things and facing different challenges. So there are sure to be differences of opinions. We could go back to just the issue that I brought up in the beginning with regards to perfection. And there are some who would say that you can be sinless. And of course, we believe the Bible doesn't teach that. If a man say he has no sin, what does the Bible call him? A liar. And the truth is not in him. So we don't believe in sinless perfection, but there are sometimes people come, they're otherwise minded It's inevitable with men from different lives who've come to this place by different walks. However, beloved, when we depart from our walk And begin to walk with Christ, it is inevitable that we would end up at the same place. What we must do is be thus minded. We must put off what is causing us to be otherwise minded and be thus minded, be focusing on Christ. How do men end up otherwise-minded? Sometimes they end up otherwise-minded because they're past and what they're not ready to let go of. Maybe they're looking back at Egypt and saying, boy, it was nice when when we could have leeks and onions. But we're not supposed to be looking back there. We're supposed to be looking forward. But they might be otherwise minded because that's holding their focus. Some are otherwise minded because of distractions, distractions in this life. We're supposed to be focused on the things of God and pressing on the upward way and new heights we're gaining every day. But if I'm distracted and and looking over here We're not going to come to the same conclusion about what's important, about what we ought to be focused on, about where we ought to be going. Sometimes we're otherwise minded because we're weary, we're tired. We just get to the point where we say, man, I don't know if it's worth all that effort. I don't know if it's worth all the work. I'm not sure we really want to do all this. So what happens, beloved, when we are otherwise minded? How do we overcome it? The amazing thing here is God tells us. He said, if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this to you. God's going to reveal it to you. Any Christian that has a sincere heart, God will reveal it to him. That he is otherwise-minded and he's not lined up with Christ. Anybody that has that sincere heart John 7, verse number 17 says, if any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. They say you're going to know. You want to do the will of God, you're going to know. God will reveal it to you. Men can teach you truths. But only God can reveal spiritual things to the heart of the believer. Because the natural man, this is foolishness. To the natural man, this makes no sense. Sense. We can't understand it. But with the Spirit of God, He will reveal to us what we should know and how we should believe, what we should be doing. Man is to earnestly set his heart to study the Word of God, that God may reveal to him the spiritual truths therein. The things of God are hid from the wise, but they're made very clear to babes. He will guide us into all truth. There's also a description of procurement here. He says, Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained. Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, can I ask you tonight, have you gained any ground for God? In your life, have you accomplished something for God? Have you gained some victory over something in your life? Have you let some things go? Or have you started doing something that God wanted you to start doing? Have you gained any ground for God? Anybody? Amen. Well, let me encourage you tonight. Keep that ground. Keep that ground. Don't go back on that. You've already attained that. You've already gained victory there. You've already accomplished that in your life. Keep going. Don't go back. We want to maintain a no-backsliding zone. We don't want to go back. We've attained this for God. We've accomplished this for God. Like a like a mother who washed her little boy, got them all clean, and said, now please don't get dirty. Until after church. Please stay clean at least until bedtime. She's saying, I've got you all washed up. Don't go back in the mud. And Jesus Christ who washes our sins away by his shed blood He looks at us and says, hey, you've gained this ground. You've got cleaned up in this area. You started doing this for me. You've attained this. Hey, don't go back Don't go back. Don't go back to what you were. Backsliding, beloved, doesn't start when we Start doing bad, backsliding starts when we stop doing good. The sin is not only being where you should not be But it is not being where you should be. There's people online tonight watching the service There's a great number of people here in the service for a Thursday night in the midst of COVID. Great number here, and a number of people watching. But do you know what if there's people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that this evening are not watching or present when they could be, they've lost some ground. They've lost some ground for God. As God reveals unto us light, by his grace, gives us victory in our life We've got to keep that ground. We lose ground when we get careless. We lose ground when we get callous. We lose ground when we stop pressing on. Anytime you quit moving forward, you start sliding back. There's not really any neutral ground. That's why the themes at Hunt Valley Baptist Church tend to be around this idea of pressing on, of pushing forward, of gaining new ground of keeping on, keeping on for God. I don't know about you, but I need the encouragement. I need the encouragement to just press on to keep going in the face of hardship to keep going in the face of trial, to keep going when face of Satan and his attacks on my life. I need somebody to be pushing me to higher ground. We don't want to lose the ground we've gained for God. You've attained that whereunto we've already attained. Listen, hold it for God. And we see that there's directions here for peace. He says, let us walk by the same rule, let us mine. The same thing. Beloved, can two walk together except they be agreed? No. We're going to have unity and peace in the house of God and in the family of God. We've got to be thus-minded. We've got to walk by the same rule. We've got to mind the same things. Hey, we've got to forget. Forgetting those things Things which are behind, and pressing on to that which is before, to the prize, of the calling in Christ Jesus Let us mind the same thing. When we do, we'll have conduct that is consistent with our commitment. Let us mind the same thing. Beloved, admonitions enough Is let us be thus minded. Let us have the mind of Christ. And I guarantee you, if we have the mind of Christ, we'll be Unified, we'll be going the same direction, and we'll be accomplishing great things for God. Let us be thus minded. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and eyes closed. I want to ask the pianist to come and to play a moment of invitation as we ask. Have you gained any ground for God that maybe you've let go? Maybe you started doing something for God and you kind of got a little bit lax in it and you stopped You you you you gave it up, you quit. Or maybe you gave up something for Christ six months ago, a year ago, but you you started doing it again. You already gained that ground for God and somehow you've let it go. Listen, get it back tonight. Get it back tonight. Don't let Satan have that ground. Get it back tonight. Lord, I pray you'd be with your people. You would help us to be thus minded, that we would have the mind of Christ. Lord, we'll thank you. Thank you. Jesus' name. Amen. If God spoke to your heart as a piano is played, you talk to your Lord. Respond to him. Do what he wants you to do Do you have a servant's heart? Do you have a spiritual mind or a Final money. I want to ask Pastor Gus to come. We're gonna do our prayer time right now. You can be seated. Pastor Gustav, you can just have somebody uh just pick one of the men to pray over those this evening uh and dismiss it. Evangelist Randy Starr was talking to him this week and he was in severe pain. Uh and he went to several doctors.