Turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter number six this evening. A very familiar text. I have been preaching on the Luddus that are found in the scriptures back in 2016. I preached on one of the let us not. There's about 12 of them in the scriptures. I don't know how many of them I'm going to hit, but tonight we're going to deal with a very familiar one, a let us not. found in the scriptures and I just want to encourage the church family this evening. Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 9. Would you read it to together with me? Lift up your voice. Galatians 6 verse 9. And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. The thought tonight is let us not be weary in well-doing. Let us not be weary in well-doing. You know, of course, that the book of Galatia was written to the region of Galatia. It consisted of a number of churches and different areas. The people of Galatia were a people that were given to change. They had a tendency to want to start something get going on it and then much like a child they would get distracted. They had ADD, right? The tension deficit disorder. They They couldn't keep keep on keep focused. They they would see another thing they wanted to get involved in and maybe it was a good thing, maybe it was an exciting thing, maybe it was something worth doing. The problem came is that they would leave what they were already doing. And go do this. And then after a certain amount of time, you know, sanguines are sometimes like that. They They just, you know, jump go and go and and go to the next thing. You know, as God's people, we shouldn't be that way. We should be willing to finish a task. Be willing to carry it through to the end. And sadly, our culture today fosters this kind of a heart, this kind of a mentality this throw away society, the get the newest and the best, and and we've always got to be involved in the next best thing and Church has taken on kind of a spirit or a mindset of a smorgasbord and what is the church offering and do they have the right programs to capture and keep my attention? And is is the the next best thing is the next we're so excited about this and we've got to be careful that we don't cultivate that in our children and we don't allow that to be in our own hearts. Because the fact of the matter is, is a lot of life really is just oh hum. A lot of life really is just doing the same thing that you did yesterday. That is just the facts of life. You get out of bed and you go to the refrigerator and you grab Whatever it is you like to have, you get that every day that it you know, not necessarily you don't eat the exact same thing every day You know, but you're eating some type of cereal because it's quick and easy or whatever your preference is, and you go to work, you go to come home, you you you live life, and the fact is it's just kind of a ho-hum That's why we go on vacation because we get to experience something new. Because you get to see a new area, you get to, you know, maybe try a new restaurant, and that's kind of fun. But that's not life Life is just doing what you're supposed to do because you're supposed to do it. And you get out of bed and you do what you're supposed to do today because you're supposed to do it. Every single day is not going to be new and exciting, right? Amen. Well that's the way it is. Have you ever felt like getting in a car and just driving away? I mean just well one Day in New York City, the transit authority could not find one of their buses. Both the bus and the driver were nowhere to be found. Actually, they searched high and low for ten days, and it was on the tenth day that they found bus and driver in Miami, Florida. When they approached him and asked him, What are you doing? And and he's like, I was so fed up with the cold weather. I was so tired of cantankerous passengers I was so sick of my family. At the end of my work day, instead of driving back to the hub, I just pointed the bus south and wondered how far I could get. I just drove and drove and drove. I ended up in Miami since I've been enjoying the sun and surf for ten days. You ever feel like doing that? Just getting away? Just giving a get throwing in the towel, just heading out? The fact of the matter is, is everyone feels like that at times. We all get to the place where we just like, oh boy, if I could just get have you ever prayed for a tornado because that would be better than what you're dealing with right now? You know, like if some catastrophe would come, at least it would change things. Well, beloved, we've been given here this admonition. Let us not be weary in well-doing. So first we see the admonition given to us, let us not Be weary in well-doing. Beloved, first of all, there's a presumption here. There's a presumption that you are involved in well-doing. Let us not be weary in well-doing. So there is, he's presuming that he's talking to the church. He's presuming he's talking to a group of people that are indeed involved in and participating in some level of well-doing. Now you might be tired But I hope that you're tired because of well doing. There's a whole lot of people that are tired come Friday night or come Monday morning. Reason they hate Monday so much is because they've spent their whole weekend involved in doing things that has made them weary. And now they've got to pull themselves out of bed to go to work. And they don't want to because they're weary. Why? Because they've been involved in things they shouldn't have been doing all week. Beloved, I would much rather be weary being faithful than being foolish. There's a presumption here that you're involved in well-doing, that you are doing what is right, what is God that God God wants you to do The word weary here in Thayer's definition, Bible definitions, says it's to be utterly spiritless. Have you ever lost your spirit to move, to discontinue? Lost the spirit? Lost the will just to stay in the fight? You just lost the desire to do what you know God wants you to do. You lost the desire to continue to be faithful in whatever God has called you to. Everybody reaches that at some point. That's why so many people play the lottery. Because they're looking for an escape From what they have to do every day. They just want to find maybe some chance that they could just get this and just get away from or get out of their ho hum life. There is a presumption that you're involved in doing what is right. And I hope you are Doing well, then there's the admonition. Don't be weary in that. Everybody participates in this. Can I encourage you tonight to be weary in the well-doing? As I knew the context of what I was speaking on this evening and we watched the video and talked about the challenges of uh that Brother Sam faces out there On the mission field, hey, don't be weary in well doing. There's challenges that you're going to face. There's heartaches you're going to come to. There's walls that are going to get in the way. It's going to be hard to learn the language. Extremely frustrating when your kids pick it up so fast. And you're you you're you're wondering, man, what I remember when we were in India with uh Brother Pratt and uh several times because he has services there in three different languages on on a Sunday and he speaks in all those languages but when I was preaching he didn't interpret for me. His fifteen year old son interpreted. Because his son could speak Punjabi a lot better than he could, because kids pick it up. There's going to be struggles, but don't be weary in your faithfulness Don't be weary in the well-doing, that faithfulness that we've all been called to. It's moreover required of a steward that a man be found faithful. Just be faithful. I know it's you know Thursday night's been a long day and you don't feel like coming to the church house. And you think, man, Pastor's going to get up there and he's half asleep and he's going to bore us out of his mind. He's going to open the scripture and preach some passage that we've already heard and we're going to go to church. And I I just don't feel like it today I know that that's what you face because you're human, and the devil comes and tells you to stay home, to go home, to do whatever, because it's been a long day. I'm saying don't be weary in your faithfulness Just do what we're supposed to do. I mean every service can't be uh fireworks and and gunsmoke. I mean sometimes God reaches down from the portals of heaven and he grips your heart and he tugs on it so strong you walk away saying, Man, that was powerful, man that was good, praise God for his house. But every service is not going to be that way. Sometimes you gotta come to church just because that's where you're supposed to be. And when you're faithful to do what God wants you to do and you get in God's house and you're where God wants you, then you're there for that service that God has a plan to reach down and get a hold of you. But it is certainly the work of Satan to try and get you to stay home on that very night. On that very night that you need the message, and that very night the passage is going to be opened up to you and you're gonna see the scripture in a new light. God's gonna speak to you and you stay at home. Don't be weary in well doing. Be faithful in your walk with God. I know when you get out of bed in the morning you're tired and Reading the scriptures is a struggle to stay awake and to try and pray through the prayer list and to try and walk with God. And sometimes you get up and you think, I don't even remember what I read. Wait a minute. What what we read, I mean you you get up and you think, boy, that was a waste. It's never a waste. It's never a waste. Don't let Satan put that in your mind and say, oh, this is not accomplishing anything. This isn't doing anything. You're just wasting You ought to just go about your day because this didn't help you at all. Satan will put that all in there, but you need to be faithful in well-doing. Be faithful in your Bible reading and your prayer time. We're to pray without ceasing. Beloved, if you can't remember the last time you sat down and had a good time of prayer, it's been too long. It's been too long. You need to be faithful in your giving to God. Give, and it shall be given unto you with good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over. Hey, it's a good thing to do. It's it's well doing to be faithful in your giving. But I know sometimes it's hard to be faithful. I know sometimes that the the the money short The expense is exceeding the income and you look at it and you try and evaluate and you say, I'm not sure how this is going to work You can trust God. You can trust God. It's when you step on the water that you see the mirror When you give when there's a whole bunch of surplus, you're not testing God. God said, try me, then trust me. And when you do what you know God wants you to do when it's not convenient and when it's not easy and when it doesn't look like it's going to work, God comes through in a miraculous way and he builds your faith You get to say, wow, look what God did. And he does things that we could go we could spend the rest of the night telling stories. about the miraculous way in which God provides and how He makes the 90% or the 80% or the 70% go further than the 100% when you just are faithful to do what God asks you to do with regards to giving Don't be weary in well-doing, Christian. It seems like this year, in the face of COVID and all of the struggle and coming into church with a mask on and limited numbers and there's not as many people here and it's not as exciting a as when the church house is full and the singing is not as loud and it's not as bombastic and there's not as much energy as there is when there's more people and You know, it's not a lot of people are staying home anyway. I'm just going to stay home too. No, beloved. Don't do that. Be faithful. Be faithful, do what God wants you to do. And listen, there are those that are at home and they are high risk. There's people in our church battling cancer. For them to get any sickness, let alone COVID, could be a death sentence. And we understand And I'm not getting on to them tonight. There's people faithfully watching our services, every single service. They're part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and we're glad to have them. Amen. Brother Ayler came in this week and he says, Pastor, I just was wondering. He says, I'm concerned because our Constitution says if you haven't been in church in six months, you're not a member anymore. I said, brother, your your membership is safe. We know you're part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church and you and your wife are faithfully watching and And and he says, Pastor, I feel so bad. I I haven't been able to serve as an usher and I haven't been able to help in the sound booth and I I feel so bad I I'm not here. And I said, That's the heart that makes you part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church Yes, we know you can't be here, but you love the people here and you're praying for the people here and we're praying for you and although you're not present, you're present. And we understand that, but beloved, as I said last week or before, if you can be here, you should be here. This is God's house, and we need to be faithful in well-doing. There's a misconception today that all of life should be fun or pleasant, and if it's not, then you shouldn't have to do it. I mean there's a misconception that life should be fun or pleasant and if it's not you shouldn't have to do it. How many people have you heard talk about their job? Well I just don't enjoy it. Who cares? It's a job. It's where you're supposed to be working every day. That's what you do. You're supposed to do it and you do it every day and you do it faithfully. I mean how many church members have you ever heard say something like, and not maybe not exactly, but something like, well, I stopped giving because I didn't want to be doing it just out of duty. Why not? See, it's that misconception that everything should be fun and enjoyable and exciting, or else we don't do it. I've heard people say, well I left her because I didn't love her anymore. I left her because there wasn't that same spark that was there when we got married. You see this applies to every area of our lives today. We got a misconception. Duty is out the window. Duty is irrelevant. It's just whether you enjoy it or not. Whether you find it fun, whether you find it stimulating to you. But beloved, we're not to be weary and well-doing. We're to keep doing what we're supposed to do because we're supposed to do it. That's what God calls us to. Maybe you don't feel like being married. Well tough luck. You are married. And by the way, you can get the feeling back if you put a little work into it. You put as much effort into to loving your mate as you do thinking about some hussy down at work, and uh you'll get the relationship back. You'll get the love back. Let's not be weary in fighting against sin. Satan sure gives us lots of opportunities to sin and sometimes I don't know about you. I'm just sick of fighting. That's one of the joys I'm looking towards getting to heaven, is I don't have to fight this old flesh anymore. I don't have to deal with this sin. I mean that's the easy way out. Lord, just take me home because I am sick of this fighting. I'm sick of having to say no. I'm sick of having to struggle against the battle, against the flesh, but hey We can't give up. We can't quit. We've got to keep on fighting because it's right and because it pleases God and because it makes us a powerful witness in this world. We've got to fight against sin. Boy, devil wants to discourage you and get you to quit and stop the fight. He likes to use past sins to discourage you. He likes to pull those up and bring them back and say, oh look, you can't make it as a Christian. You did this and you did that and you did this. Listen, if we confess our sin, he is faithful to us. And just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You can get victory and live a victorious Christian life, and God wants you to. The problem is that Satan's getting you to go out and dig that thing up over and over again. I remember hearing a story about a young boy who was about nine years old and he felt he was called to preach like his daddy, who was a preacher. And he he was called to preach, and so he went And uh he wanted to practice and well they came outside and one day they went out on their porch and their cat had passed away. He thought, well, preachers have to perform funerals. I'll perform a funeral. So he got a box and he was going to put the cat in there. The only thing is the cat's tail was a little stiff at this point and it wouldn't fit in the box. So he just cut a hole and left the tail In the funeral procession he picked up the box and they went from the front yard to the backyard. And uh he had some strings laid out and they they lowered the casket down, you know, the little shoebox he had used, lowered it down into the ground, they buried it, he said a few words. Problem is the tail's cat sticking out of the box was sticking out of the ground So the next day he thought, well, I need to practice. Cat's still here. So he went out and he grabbed that tail and pulled it up by the ground. Went back and had another ceremony. He did this every day for a week or more, till one time when he grabbed a hold of the tail to pull it up, nothing came up. The thing is, Christian, is you've gone and you've put that sin under the blood, but Satan keeps bringing it back up and you're laying it out and having a little ceremony before God again and God's saying, What sin are you talking about? What sin are you talking about? That's gone. It's under the blood. You need to stop letting Satan discourage you about what's past and get our focus on tomorrow because tomorrow hasn't happened yet. You haven't sinned one time yet tomorrow. You haven't put one blood on tomorrow's page yet. You haven't thought one thought you shouldn't have. You haven't gone or said one thing you shouldn't have said yet. Tomorrow is still clean. And if we fight against sin today, we can be clean tomorrow. Listen, you need to be not be weary in the ministry that God has called you to. Colossians 4:17 says, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord. Take heed to the ministry, whatever it is, whatever area of ministry you have. Don't be weary. Listen, I know that weariness is inevitable. It feels like we've for a lot of our ministries we've been on this extended vacation. We want to get things back. We want to get back to having choir. We want to get back to having all the normal ministries and the services here at church. But whatever area of ministry you have, don't be weary. Don't think, oh, I want to go and get involved in something else. I've done this long enough. We just need people to be faithful. Just to be faithful, to keep on, keeping on. Don't be weary in well-doing whatever God has called you to. Let's not be weary in witnessing. The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that wineth souls is wise. Anthony said it on Sunday, one life will soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. I still remember as a young man One of my first opportunities to preach the Word of God, I was studying hard. But I couldn't find my text versed in the Bible I went to my dad and I said, Dad, where does this say only one life will still be last, only one son for Christ will last? He's like, son? That's a real good statement, but it ain't in the scriptures. That's not that's not Bible. I'm like, well it ought to be. I I I that was my text. That's what I wanted to preach Beloved, only what we do for God and witnessing and reaching this world is the only thing that's going to matter when it's all said and done. The majority of our ho-hum life, the majority of our day after day, is not going to make one bit of difference on eternity. Only what's done for Christ. Let's not be weary in well doing. Why? Because we have an assurance given to us here. An assurance from God, a promise directly from Him, He says, For in due season we shall reap. In due season you shall reap. It's a promise from God. The unchangeable laws of the harvest will be manifest in your life That's a fact. It's going to happen. Don't be weary in well-doing, because in due season you will reap You'll reap if you just do it, if you just keep doing it, if you just keep doing it, if you just keep doing it, you will reap. God says that it's a promise from Him, and it's an unchangeable law of sowing and reaping. And if we just keep doing it, we will reap. And beloved, that is good news. That is good news. This promise that God has given us to reap. A lot of times Christians don't get to see that great fruit because they don't just keep going. They're just not faithful enough. They want to give up, quit, move, go somewhere else, start over, do something different, get involved in a different ministry. It's longevity that you see great fruit. This missionary is sitting down here, been on the mission field, as you say, 31 years? 38 years. Longevity. He he has had the privilege of seeing fruit. In the last eight years compounded and multiplied that he would have never seen had he given up at 30. You know, I don't even know his story, but I know the promise from God is true. But I think if I gave him some time, he could stand up and talk about it. He could tell us what God has done and how things are multiplied over time if you just are faithful to keep going and keep doing and keep don't be weary It's a promise from God. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain. It's not in vain. Sometimes you're wearied, sometimes it doesn't seem like it's accomplishing much, sometimes it doesn't look like it's that profitable or that fruitful or making that much difference. But beloved, if we'll just keep on doing it for God. God promises you'll reap. It's a promise from him. You'll reap. We see here the prevarication with regards to this assurance. Not only do we have a promise from God, but the prevarication. Now I were I learned what that word prevarication means when I was a uh early teen uh because I learned a little saying that stuck with me ever since then. And the saying is this: if you in any way insinuate that I prevaricate, I'll have the painful necessity to horizontalate your perpendicularity. Now Yeah. Okay, uh I'll define that for you later because it's not pertinent to the message. Uh but I learned that as a kid and what all those words meant and I thought it was funny, but if you're not sure what prevarication means it's Me is to tell a lie, to be untruthful. What I want you to see is that there's some of the Galatians were deceiving themselves. If you back up just a little bit, Galatians 6. 7 says this: be not deceived God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. You see, Satan would want to lie to you and tell you it's not it doesn't matter. It's not doesn't count. That that you're not you what you're doing is not making a difference. The effort that you're expending is not worth it. The money you're giving is going down a hole and it doesn't seem like it's making any difference, but beloved, that Satan is lying to you. Or sometimes we deceive ourselves as these the Galatians did. But God is not mocked Whatsoever man soweth that shall he also reap. You will reap if you are faithful, if you keep on going. Don't let Satan deceive you tonight. Satan tries to deceive you by getting you to trust your feelings instead of trust the scripture. Feelings come and go, but faith remains. Sometimes we feel like it, sometimes we don't. But you just be faithful. Don't be weary. That's what builds a church. That's what God can use. I praise God for the members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that have made this a part of their life, this faithfulness, this continuing, this. This not being weary, because I know everybody gets weary. We have to, with God's power, fight against that. Don't give up, don't quit, just keep going. I want you to see the arrangement. He says, if we faint not. You see, there's the qualifier there, the agreement that's given to us. He said, hey, you're going to reap if you faint not. If you don't quit, if you don't give up, you will reap. When you're raising your kids, I see back here, Matt and Tiffany, there you know, Miss Mo. Sarah. Yeah, these these folks with the younger children, sometimes you were just thinking what in the world these kids oh right Sam like these kids are they ever gonna get it Is it ever going to sink in? How many times do I have to discipline them? How many times do I have to show them this isn't right? This is right, this is what we do, this is what you don't do, and you think it's not worth it Don't be weary. Don't give up, don't throw in the towel, mom or dad, because listen, you you will reap if you faint not, and down the road when your kids rise up and call you blessed and you see the fruit of that faithfulness and the fruit of that continued discipline, that fruit of the continued training. It's worth it. There's a possibility that's given to us here. It is possible that some faint. Some might faint The question is, can you read the signs? You see, beloved, when you're physically tired, you're wore out and you go to bed. I mean you get to the point you just say, all right, I've had enough. I'm going to sleep. You know, when you got company over, the old line, you guys stay as long as you want, but I'm going to bed. And you just you're done. You're wore out. And you know when you're physically hungry, you know the signs. You say, man, I'm hungry and I gotta get something to eat. Man, I'm starting to feel weak. I gotta get something to eat. Oh, a headache starting to set in. I gotta get something to eat. You see all these signs, and finally you you acknowledge it and you say, boy, I'm stopping. I'm gonna get something to eat. Why is it, beloved, as Christians, we don't see the sign Of our spiritual anemia. We don't see how weak we're getting. We don't see the need We don't see the struggle we're facing. We don't feel that that that separation from God, the the the the spiritual spirituality that's waning, the strength that's no longer there. And beloved, if we allow the faint heart to remain for very long, we will end up fainting out of the race. You've got to deal with it. When you see the signs, you've got to get back in the word. You've got to get back with God. You've got to get back in church. You've got to get around good Christians that'll encourage you. The day's gonna come and we stand before God, and He's gonna tell us what we could have had. If we hadn't been faint. What you could have accomplished, what could have been done, if we hadn't given up. But if we faint not, we will reap. The priority, beloved, is that we only have a limited amount of time. You see, you get You get weary and it feels like the days are long, but can you believe it's September of twenty twenty already? Uh I mean how how time flies, how uh the days seem long but the years pass quick. What I'm saying is we've only got a limited amount of time, beloved. Look at verse number 10, Galatians 6 there in verse number 10. He says, as we have therefore opportunity. Let us do good unto all men, especially them of the household of faith. In the context of this sowing and reaping, we see this verse where he says, As we therefore As we have, therefore, opportunity. You see, an opportunity is a limited window. An opportunity is a segment of time. It's a something presented and it's going to pass. We can't be weary in well-doing because the opportunity to do it is going to be gone. The opportunity to be faithful with your kids is going to be gone. The opportunity to invest in your marriage and your relationship is gone. The opportunity to be a witness to somebody on a train is going to pass. And that's gone. Never to come again. The opportunity is there and it's gone. There's a priority that's got to be put in our lives to be involved in well-doing and not to give up because the opportunity is going to pass. It's a limited, unique supply, but everybody has the opportunity. We've got to be faithful. We've got to be well-doing. We will reap if we faint not. Let it not be said of any of us here, as it was of those of Galatia, ye did run well. But you fainted. You did run well, but you gave up. There was a time when you were gung-ho, where you were doing it. You were all about it. But you got weary. I just want to encourage you in the power of God tonight with His with His word. Don't be weary in well-doing.