That would help me an awful lot and I would appreciate it. Uh just by way of announcement as we introduced Sunday night is going to be Master Club's closing program Tonight is the very last night of Master Clubs. The kids are downstairs preparing and getting ready for that. It's an opportunity we get to see them come up and present some of the verses and the things that they We've learned. The kids are excited about this being the last night, but they're also disappointed because they want master clubs to keep going, but on the last night they get to have fun and games and eat snaps. And all that, so they're excited about that, but they wish it was keep going. Even my kids were talking today. They're like, Man, I wish today wasn't the last day, uh just until next year, but it's been good for them, they've enjoyed it. And uh we're looking forward to the summer activities, the things that take place where we master club ends, but we have much going on throughout the summer that the kids are part of. as well. So turn your Bibles to the book of Hebrews, chapter number 12. We hear in our text verse are going to deal with another one of the let us that are found in the book of Hebrews and surely as we've attacked this subject uh you had to have known that at some point we would have gotten to this to this verse. Probably one of the most familiar verses in the book of Hebrews, if not in all the Bible, to those that have been in church for some period of time, but in Hebrews chapter 12, verse number 1, he says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is Awful lot in that verse right there and much that we could deal with. I'm going to take just that very first, let us there, let us lay aside every weight. And just deal with that first one. This familiar passage of scripture, this admonition. I'm not going to be giving you anything new tonight. Some people, oh, I've heard about this already. Uh it won't be anything new, but hopefully it'll remind us of the importance of the weights that sometimes we get used to carrying around in this life. And we need to to be all that we can be for God, we need to be willing and ready to lay aside those weights. I want the principles tonight to affect our lives. This text starts out with that word, that that joining word, wherefore And you know from your Bible study that when you see the word wherefore, you should look to see what it's there for. And uh why is it there? That's a connecting word, it's a conclusion It's almost as if he was saying, so in conclusion, let me and then he says what he's going to say. So he's wrapping up a thought, maybe all of Hebrews up to this point. But certainly At very least, he's wrapping up chapter number 11. Now, Hebrews chapter number 11 is what chapter of the Bible? The the the chapter of faith, the hall of faith, the list of those that we know were faithful. He says, By faith, Abel, by faith, Enoch, by faith Noah, by faith, Abraham, by faith, Isaac, by faith, Jacob, by faith, Joseph, by faith Moses, by faith uh the harlot Rahab. By faith, over and over again in this chapter, and we get down to verse number 38, and an amazing thing is said about these people in this chapter of the Bible. He says, of whom the world was not worthy. Can you imagine to have that said about you? Of whom the world was not worthy. I mean, the the people that you associated with, the the people that you impacted in your life, for for the for God Himself to declare that They weren't worthy. For the level of faith and the spirituality and the godly character that you had, they weren't worthy. That's what God said about these people And then he starts out in chapter twelve and he says, Wherefore, he's saying, because of, or in conclusion, because of all of this that we have Seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, the cloud of witnesses which we just heard about in chapter number 11, those many people that had great faith, let us lay aside every weight. Lay aside every weight. Those that went on before us, this great cloud of witnesses I remember when I was five years old, we left the house in Wisconsin, got in the car, and drove to Crossett, Arkansas. And we were driving all that way because my dad's dad had passed away of a heart attack. He uh at fifty-eight years old had a heart attack and passed away. I had no idea how young that was. He was grandpa to me, so I thought he was an old man. But that's not old, is it? No, not at all. So uh he was 58 and he passed away of a heart attack And we were on our way to the funeral, and I remember like it was yesterday, I was sitting in the backseat of the car, and Dad talked to us about the fact that Grandpa has joined the great cloud of witnesses. And he took that and he took it one step further for us kids, the grandkids. He said, Now kids, you know, now grandpa's up in heaven and grandpa sees what you do. He's a great he's in the great cloud of witnesses and he sees what you do and you don't want grandpa to be disappointed, do you? You don't want grandpa to see all them bad things you're doing. And uh so I don't know if that's actually biblical or not, but I do remember in my mind thinking Grandpa's gonna see me do this? Oh no, you know uh that that grandpa's beholding the evil and the good. I don't think they have perfect knowledge like Christ, but uh not yet anyway. Uh when we get to heaven, I don't know what all they can see see, but we are very clearly the principles taught that there's this cloud of witnesses up there. There's uh this group that beholds what we see. You know, uh J. Vernon McGee in uh his book talks uh about Hebrews, talks about this fact and uh he recalled a personal testimony that he had when he was uh going to a particular football game. There was a a well known coach there. well known around the world as a college game and uh this football coach was known for having this one guy on his team, this one man on his team that was really not that good of a player. He actually in four years of college never played in a game. This this young man uh was known because of his faithfulness to practice. He was the first man to practice and he was the last man to leave. Every single practice he gave it a hundred and ten percent. He worked as hard as he could, but he just wasn't quite good enough to play in the world. And again, people knew that this man had a good relationship with his father. His father lived right there by the school, and often they would see him and his father walking arm in arm, just deep in conversation. on the campus. Well it was this young man's senior year and he was there in college and they they were the college year was winding down. It was after sometime after Christmas, maybe around spring break, and they had found out that this young young man's dad had died, whom they were very, very close. They they called the coach and said, you're probably the closest faculty member to to this young man. Would you please be the person to inform him that his dad had passed away? And he said he would. And he he met with a young man and told him that his dad had passed away. Well, the very next day at practice, as usual, this young man was there. And he practiced and gave it a hundred and ten percent, just like he always did every other day before. They got to the end of their season, it was the last game that they were gonna get to play and the the game was almost over. There wasn't a whole lot of game left. But the boy came up and and And he said, coach, I'm a senior. This is the last game of the year, the last opportunity. I've been here every day of practice, and I know I'm not that good, but would you let me play just a little bit And he says, coach, would you let me, please? And the coach, not long before having told him about his dad that passed away, he said, I'll let you play him. He let the boy go in and play, and the boy played unbelievably. Almost a transformation in in the skills that they saw in practice. to what was on the field. He played a phenomenal game. He was just going to leave him in there, you know, for one inning or two innings, but he ended up leaving him in for the rest of the game. And at the end of the game, he called the boy over. And he says, what got into you? What happened? And he says, Well you see, coach, my dad is well, he was blind. And today's the first day that my dad was ever able to see me play. That's what made the difference. And because there's this great cloud of witnesses that's gone on before us, they are It's amazing to me that when we take the pages of Scripture, it is though we are in the stands. It is though we are looking down on the field and we're seeing them run their race. We have their story of Abraham and of Isaac and of Joseph and of Enoch and we see their faith and we get to behold what they did. And now they are in the great cloud of witnesses and they're beholding what we do. And the author says, because we're compassed about with this great cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight. And he says, lay aside every sin, and we're not going to really get into the sin tonight. All of us have besetting sin. All of us have things that we have a tendency to give into. Or chase after. Sometimes it's not even something that this sin that confronts us or attacks us out of the clear blue, and oh my goodness, I don't know where that came from. It's a besetting sin that we go after. And we certainly need to set those aside, but I'm not going to deal with that this evening. The question tonight is not whether it is right or wrong. The question is, will it help me run? Or will it hinder me in my run for Christ? The sin we know that's wrong, and we know we've got to set it aside. That sin is there, and and there's no question as to whether we should put that aside. But many times Christians want to justify the weight. And say, oh, it's not that bad. Oh, it doesn't really matter. Is it going to help you or is it going to hinder you? Is it going to keep you from doing the best things? Like staying home from church to listen to or to watch preaching. There's certainly nothing wrong with watching preaching or listening to a message online or or or on your uh device. But it's keeping you from the best thing. Being in God's house. So sometimes there's some ways that that maybe even be good things. But they're keeping us from the best things. These weights, although they might not knock you out of the race, they're going to keep you from running well the race that you're supposed to. What happens many times in this Christian life is we get to the place as mature Christians we have learned how to run with the weight. We've learned how to do it. We've become very skilled runners with weight. We just get used to it. We can handle it. After all, I'm still in church. I'm still a Christian. I'm still reading my Bible. I can run with this weight. It's okay. Just get used to running with the weight. And what happens a lot of times. Is a young Christian who's just gotten saved. They start coming to church and they start setting aside some of the sin. And then they start seeing that there's some things that maybe aren't sin, but they're just they're just waits. And they decide, oh, you know what? I'm gonna put that down. And they pass up the more mature, much older Christians in the church that have been saved for a long time. But we've got comfortable running with our weights. And these young Christians passed us like we're standing still. Because they just want to run to the best of their ability for God. They haven't learned how to justify the weight yet And they're just going after God and saying, Oh, okay, that's what I'm supposed to do. Amen. I'll do it. Let's go. Let's go. Let's do that. Okay, great. They haven't got as refined and defined and diplomatic as us more mature Christians. Who've learned how to run with the weight. He says, lay aside that weight. It can be a right thing at the wrong time. Um I think of a young Christian that I knew who used to meet for practice to practice the trumpet on Thursday nights. He was a young Christian. His he was actually Wednesday nights because we had church out Wednesday night, but he was a young Christian, got saved, and started growing the Lord. And actually music was his life. He played in the St. Jill's Symphony. And they would meet for practice on Wednesday nights. And as a young Christian, he said, I I need to be in church on Wednesdays. So he told the symphony, I can't practice on Wednesdays. They're like, Well, you can't, you're not gonna be able to play in the symphony if you can't meet and practice. And he says, Well then I can't play in the symphony. Because that is a distraction from what's most important for me. I it's a weight. And if I want to be all that God wants me to be, I mean he probably hadn't been saved for two years when he made that decision. The list of things goes on and on that could be things that distract us or that are weights. But we need to give them up for Christ. As we start to grow, we'll want to What happens usually is the more mature Christian that's learned how to run with his weights. That's learned how to keep going as a Christian, even though he's got all this baggage, is somebody that loves him. Maybe a friend, maybe a father, maybe a pastor will say, hey, I'm worried about you. I just see this little thing here that concerns me And they'll say, well who are you? What what what are you? What why are you talking to me about nowhere in the Bible does it say that I can't do this And we want to justify the weight. We want to say, God never said that I had to do that. Show me in the Bible where God said I had to do that. Hey, I'm not just saying I'm not saying you have to do it. I'm just saying it might be good. And you know what? It doesn't take a whole lot of wisdom Let's say Pastor Gus and I were going to run a race. And him and I were going to run a race and I picked this chair up right before we started. There is nobody in here that lacks the wisdom to know that this is an impedance to my race. That this is gonna disturb me. That this is gonna make it hard. And it's gonna be a lot uh easier for Gus to come in second. Nobody I but I'm saying is it's not that hard when you see somebody running with weight to know that that's gonna impede their progress. Yet somehow we think that when somebody wants to point out the weight we might be carrying, that they feel they're super spiritual or they feel they're got a a handle on the Spirit of God and that they're so holy and and we're so rebellious and wrong. It's just a weight. And we need to be willing to let that go. So what are we going to do? Let me give you quickly how to let go of those weights. Lay aside every weight. First the first step is we need to define the weight. You need to define the weight. You know the first thing to admitting uh first thing to know when you have a problem is admitting you have a problem. The first thing to overcoming it is saying that it is a problem, there is some weight here. And instead of justifying it, we define it. Whatever that weight is in your life. You need to define it. Say, this is a weight for me. And some things that might be a weight for you might not be a weight for somebody else I'll give you an example. I worked at Walmart when I was in college, and I found that to be a heavy weight for me. There were two reasons. Now I'm gonna tell on myself here. Uh two reasons. One is it was in Valpo and there was Valpo University there and a whole bunch of girls from Valpo University would come into Walmart very scantly clad And it was very hard for me as a young man in Bible college trying to l you know honor God to keep a pure mind in Walmart with looking at that kind of stuff all the time. And the second thing was all day long they played rock music. Now for some that might not bother them. For me, as a boy, as a teenager, I listened to rock music. Without mom and dad knowing. Dad would have tanned my hide if he had known I was listening to rock music I was listening to rock music. The problem is is I knew all those songs. So I'm in Bible college trying to please God, trying to honor the Lord, not listening to rock music any other time, but I would come home from work singing that junk. There's nothing wrong with working at Walmart and in that environment there's some people that don't they don't know that music or that whatever they could do it and it doesn't doesn't but that to me Man, it was a spiritual battle for me all the time. And I said, God, I need a different job. I need something that I can, that I don't have to be in this kind of environment. Now I could give you several stories about how God met the need and provided for me in a great way, made it very clear that I made the right decision and so on, but it was a wait, nothing wrong with it. But it was a weight that held me down. You need to define what's a weight for you. Ask God. God will show you what your weight is. He'll show you in your devotion time. You'll read something and God will impress upon your heart. That's you. He'll show you by the comments your family or friends make. Or by the preaching of the Word of God. When you're asking God and you want to know what a weight is, Lord, is there any weights in my life? Is there anything that I'm not even saying, God, is there sin and and and wickedness I need to get out of my life, but is there anything slowing me down, Lord? From being all that I can be for you, God will show you. This last week I watched a little thing on uh the fastest car, the fastest SUV. In the world. It's a Toyota Land Cruiser. Went 230 miles an hour. Now, I thought, well, that's interesting. So I looked at it. And I actually don't think they can call it a Toyota Land Cruiser. Because they took a Toyota Land Cruiser. They stripped it down, I mean all the way down to his frame. They cut its frame up, lowered it by like a foot. Rebuilt the frame, put a supercharged engine in the thing, put NOS gas in it, put sports uh you know racing wheels on it, and they gutted the inside. Now, is there anything wrong with the second row of seats? No. But they wanted the fastest land cruiser. So they threw the second row of seats out. They threw the spare tire out. It's the strip down. Now the frame was a very sleek looking black Land Cruiser. But that's the only thing that looked like that was part of a land cruiser. What am I saying? If they wanted to go fast, they made it light. They they threw everything else out. Things that weren't anything wrong with them. But if they wanted to be the fastest land cruiser, there were some things that were weight that they didn't want in there. And there's things in our lives that are like that. Don't fight against it. When the Holy Spirit shows it to you, when he knocks on your heart's door, don't say, But that's not sin. If you want to be all that you can be for God and accomplish all that you can accomplish for God, it's not sin. But it's going to hinder you. You're you cannot accomplish like this what you could without it. There's no doubt. There's no question Define the weight. All men have their own weights. And I have a lot of weights here in a whole section that we could preach on, though different weights that people might have, but let me just give them to you quickly. There's some people the weight is no focus. They're easily distracted. They're just r running to and fro. They they they looking at every possible magazine article and every news God doesn't want us to be Some uh have the weight of the flesh and we could spend a long time there, this flesh that's uh holding us back, that's keeping us We've got to put the flesh down. That's something we have to do on a regular basis. Our flesh rises up and climbs on, and that's part of us. And daily we gotta say, okay, flesh, you're not gonna hold me back. I know you want to sleep, but I need to be reading my Bible. I know you don't want to give out the gospel, but I need to be a witness. The flesh is going to kill me. keep us from accomplishing all that God wants us to accomplish. We've got to put that down. Some uh have a problem listening to false teachers. Listening to false teachers and embracing or listening to this this doctrine. Just this week I met with a man uh young man, 37 years old. Young is getting older and older all the time. He he was thirty-seven years old, him and his wife and and uh little two-month-old babies probably gonna be coming to church here in the next couple weeks But uh talk to him specifically about listening to false teachers. He'd been listening to Joel Olstein, and I said, you know, the problem with him is not necessarily what he says, but what he doesn't say It's all the stuff he doesn't talk about, the stuff that he leaves out. And uh you're not getting the whole counsel of God when you're listening to that. And uh he's planned to come to church with his wife. He's moving to the area here. And uh from Liberia. So in a few weeks here, hopefully we'll see him in church. But false teachers. Uh some people some of the weights we have are our friends. Friends. You know, peer pressure can be an awesome thing. We as people, I don't care how old you get, you care what people think. You care how people are going to perceive you. You care how it's going to look And the problem is when we have the wrong friends, the peer pressure is to do the wrong things. When we have the right friends, the peer pressure is to do the right things. That's the amazing thing about a church family and having a church family as your friends. spending time with them because the pressure on you is not to go towards the devil, the world, or the flesh. The pressure on you is to go towards God. And that's what we should want. So if there's some friends that might be putting some pressure the wrong way, that might be a weight that's keeping you from being all God wants you to be. Sometimes the pursuit of finances. There's nothing wrong with money and we could teach a whole lesson on money right here, but the pursuit or love of money we know is wrong. And we get we've got to provide for our own and we know that. And there's nothing wrong with providing for our own. But the pursuit of that and to to get to the place where we're consumed by it and to have the next thing, uh there's so much we could talk about here. Sometimes families or or parents, they want their kids to have so much That they lose their kids trying to give their kids something instead of working a little less and just spending time with their kids. The pursuit of finances. And sometimes people use their family as a weight as well And we should not do that. You know, I believe family is important, is of utmost importance. But God said it himself What are you supposed to do to your brother, your mother, your sister? Well, you love them, but they says, if a man hateth not, His brother. He's talking about in comparison to your love for Christ. If you if you're putting family before God, that's a weight. You need to get it in the right balance. the right perspective. So then we need to discard the wait. Three things. Got five minutes, I'll be done. Discard the wait purposefully Everything that was ever accomplished was done when somebody decided to do it. I'm not disregarding the power of the Holy Spirit and God working in our lives. I've got points on that But it starts with you in your heart purposing, like Daniel of old, he purposed in his heart that he wouldn't defile himself with the king's meat. You've got a purpose in your heart saying, This is a wait, I'm not going to do it anymore. This is a wait, I'm going to start this or stop that. Don't get distracted. You've set a purpose in your heart, then go do it. Don't let things get in your way. Don't pass by temptation. Purpose in your heart, you know, if you're going to overcome or stop doing any bad habit, you can't make provision for the flesh. You don't go on a diet and bring home a dozen donuts and leave them in the fridge for yourself I mean you you get rid of that temptation. So starve starve the bad habit and and feed the good one, right? You discard the weight purposefully. It starts out with purpose, then prayerfully. Seek God's help. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Get God's help on the situation. Walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. A lot of we are doers as Christians. We like doing things. A lot of times we turn that verse around. Walk in the spirit, you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. We think, well, if I'm not fulfilling the lust of the flesh, I'll walk in the Spirit. That's not what the verse says. Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Those things that you want to let go that you're working so hard to let go or to stop or that habit you're trying to break Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Sometimes as Christians we get that backwards and we try to beat the lust of the flesh ourselves so that we can walk in the spirit. Well, we need to walk in the Spirit and let God help us with that. Prayerfully. And then publicly. Iron sharpeneth iron. I'm not saying get up in front of the church and say, okay, from now on I'm not going to or whatever. But you ought to have some close friends that you can share that with and say, hey, would you could I be accountable to you? When I was in college, I used to run uh three to five days a week And we would run three to five laps around the lake. The lake was seven tenths of a mile and it was all uphill. No, I'm just kidding. It went up and it came back down. It went up and it came back down. But we would run ev every week. I had a friend that I ran with. And there were many days that I was feeling energetic and I was feeling godly and full of character and discipline and I was ready to run. But there was just as many days that I didn't want to run. And I'd be in my room and I would be studying or sleeping and he would come in and say, hey, it's time to run. And I'd say, nope, not today. And he'd say, Yeah, we said we were going to run on Tuesday. We're going to run today. And I'd say, man. And he'd say, Come on, let's go. Let's go. Come on. And he would encourage me for three years. We ran faithfully. Why? I would have never kept it up myself. But because I had a friend who was there with me, helping me. So get somebody to help you to overcome that habit or that temptation, to discard that weight publicly, do it. Then develop the wisdom. The last point here, develop the wisdom. You need to put off, and then you need to put on good practices. In Colossians 3, 8 through 10, he says, but now ye also put off all these. Anger, wrath, malice, blaspheme, filthy communications of your mouth, lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds, and have put on the new man, which is renewed, and knowledge after the image of Christ He created him. Develop the wisdom to do what's right. Put on the new man. Do what you know God wants you to do. Put off the old, put on the new. Developing new habits takes a tremendous amount of work. Let me give you this last thing. In the uh seven skills of highly effective people. The author of that book said in breaking in breaking habits, it's like a shuttle that's going to the moon. About 80% of its fuel, 80% of the effort extended Takes place in the first couple miles. Once it breaks through the atmosphere, it takes very little energy. To keep it on its trajectory. I mean I don't know how many miles it is to the moon. Does anybody know? Okay, so the first I think it's like seven miles, eight miles, whatever it is to get out of the atmosphere, takes like eighty percent. The four hundred and fifty, the rest of the way is is just a very little fuel The same thing on breaking habits in our life, making changes. That initial effort is going to be substantial, but it does get easier. It does get better. And to keep on the right trajectory, once you get through, once you break through that that first little bit, with God's help, then to sustain that makes big it's It gets much, much easier. Let's uh stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to be together. We ask you, Lord, that you would help us to lay aside the weights. Things that in our lives that aren't even sin that we would look at and say, but but God didn't say I had to quit this. But Lord, they're slowing us down. They're keeping us from being all that you want us to be. And Lord, I pray you would give us discernment as Christians and wisdom to know what those weights are. Each individual person might have different weights, but Lord, I pray that you would Give us that and give us the heart and desire to lay them aside that we might run, Lord, the race that you've set before us. We ask us in Jesus' name, Amen. The piano is just gonna play. You do what God wants you to do.