Alright, you're in Psalms 95. So verse number six, Psalms ninety-five and verse number six, the Bible says, O come. Let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker. I'm not going to address these two let us in different messages. They they could be addressed separately, but I'm going to summarize both of these together in the act of worship, kneeling. And worshiping. So we're tonight going to look at the idea of let us worship. Would you pray and ask God to speak to you as I present the message this evening? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, God, that you give me clarity of thought, liberty to preach. Lord, we pray that you would uh take the weights of the world and the uh heartaches that we are carrying at this time and allow them to step aside and allow our hearts and minds to focus for a few minutes on The Word of God that you might speak to us, show us the importance of this truth that we as God's people are to endeavor to worship. Not just in the modern culture and the way that the world views worship services today, but to have a heart of worship And adoration of God and who He is and that it ought to bring about change in our lives. And Lord, we pray you use this thought this evening in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. For sadly, I'm sorry, sadly for many, if you can't tell, my mind is uh being drawn several directions here, but sadly For many, the act of worship today has been reduced to the exercise of pragmatism. It really has come down to what do I like? What works? What draws the most people? What is the most engaging? What do we enjoy? What feels good? We have on one hand those which might be considered old timers. They would be called You know, the old-time religionists, the fundamentalists, the those hardliners, you have that group that's on one hand so stuck on the rituals. They gather for three songs an offering and some preaching and they're dismissed, but the services don't have any life. The thing, everything is so liturgical that there is no Holy Spirit moving among the people. There is no power in the services. It's As dead as can be. And then on the other hand, you have those that are seeking for something new. They're looking for a new way to reach a new generation. This crowd that's based in emotionalism and they perform these very emotional services and they try and put on a a show. It's a very polished program. Everybody that enters the pulpit is well prepared and Whether they're singing a special or reading the scripture or whatever they're doing, it's really more about a performance than about worshiping God. The fact of the matter is, I read this week an article sent to me by Bob Humphreys about millennials who were looking They said, stop trying to entertain us. If we want to go to a concert, we'll go to a concert. If we wanted to go to a movie, we would go see a movie. Stop trying to dramatize everything and produce everything and make church something it's not. We want to gather to worship We want to see people that love God and that are coming together to worship God. Worship is the coming together of God and man Which is an amazing thing when you think about it. The coming together of God and man. It is honor and adoration directed from us towards God. A. W. Tozer and his unique way of expressing himself said this, talking about God and worship. He said, God gave to man a harp. And said, Here, above all the creatures that I have made and created, I have given you the largest harp. I have put more strings in your instruments, and I have given you a wider range than I have given any other creature. You can worship me in a manner that no other creature can. And when man sinned, he took that instrument and threw it down in the mud. And there it has lain for centuries, become rusted, broken, unstrung. And man today, instead of playing a harp like the angels and singing and worship to God in all of his activities His ego-centered centered turns this upon himself. He sulks, he swears, he laughs, and he sings, but it is all without joy, because it is all without worship. Worship really is important and central to the Christian And to Christian living. Worshiping God. I would give you several points tonight and I have a lot of ground to cover. I'm going to try and move quickly through this so that we can get through it all. I c I easily have enough to to make this two messages. Maybe I'll skip over some of it, but first of all I want you to see the conflict of worship. There becomes a conflict in worship when men gather and they worship the wrong God. Or when men of their own hearts and own desires worship the wrong God. Exodus chapter 20 and verse number three, of course, says thou Shall have no other gods before me. You know the story of the children of Israel who began to worship a golden calf, and of course, thousands of them were killed because of worshiping a golden calf. The intellectual today worships his own mind, and the humanist worships the creation over the creator. The successful man worships his own money or his own success. Job said, If I have made gold my hope, or if I have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence If I have rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand hath gotten much. If I beheld the sun when it shined and the moon walking in brightness And my heart hath been secretly enticed to my mouth, and hath kissed my hand. This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge, for I should have denied the God. that is above. He said, if I worshiped what I can gain with my own hands And I and I walk through life and I don't see the sun and I don't see the moon. I enjoy them but I don't see the God that created them and the God that provided for me and the God that gave me all that I have and if I walk through life And don't acknowledge that. That is a sin that should be judged by the judge. He recognizes that, and man should not worship his success. Many Baptists come to the place where they worship Baptist doctrine It becomes about adhering to a particular set of rules. We've got in our minds that the Baptists are the only ones whom God blesses anymore We've got in our minds that unless it has Baptist in the name, it can't be godly. It can't have anything to do with God, and God can't bless it. Although most of the people that we read after and that we are educated by were not Baptists. But for some reason in our mind we think that today, unless it has Baptists on it, it can't be blessed of God. Now I'm a Baptist and I I believe that w as uh our goal and desire is to stick as close to the scriptures as we can and I believe today that as a as a church and as an organization that we do that. We we strive to follow the word of God. And I think that that's important But we should not be stuck on worshiping the Baptist or Baptist doctrine. As if that is the be-all-end-all. You know, Charles Finney wasn't a Baptist. Charles Wesley wasn't a Baptist. Billy Sunday wasn't even a local church A. W. Tozer was a Christian Missionary Alliance. R. A. Troy and Jonathan Edwards were Congregationalist. I mean we could we could go down the the line there's many people that we read and God blessed them and many souls were saved and they didn't have the name Baptist in front of them. We've got to be careful. Today we've Got to the place where we're so stuck on dotting the I's and crossing the T's that we stopped thinking about God, who is the purpose and the reason for it all. We're doing right and right is good. We should do right. We don't put right aside But beloved, I wonder is there much difference between the Baptist who has all of his doctrine right? And the Pharisee who was doing all the right, but didn't even see Christ who was right in front of him. They rejected and they denied Christ, who was right there. They didn't worship the one who it was all about. And please, I'm not saying you know me that I believe the book, and I believe that right is right, and we do right and we should do right. But we don't worship that. We need to worship God. Christ started the church, he loved the church, he gave himself for it, but the church is not what saves. The Bible says, therefore, if any man be in the church, in Christ, he is in It's not the Baptist, although I think we have a great church. I'm glad to have the name Baptist on the front of it But we don't worship that. And by the way, we don't worship Baptist leaders either, leaders in the Baptist organization or any other organization. Too many Christians are busy as well worshiping the blessings of God. Instead of the God of the blessings. We are seeing and beholding all that God is doing for us Us and we look at that and we worship the blessings of God instead of the God of the blessing. This is a conflict in worship. This is not what God wants You know what? As much as I appreciate the Word of God, and you know that I believe in the King James Bible. And it's the inspired, infallible Word of God preserved for us today As much as I believe that, we don't worship the Bible either. We worship the God of the Bible. This is valuable and his words are precious. But let me ask you, what would my wife think if she wrote me a love letter and I ignored her And just looked at the letter. What I'm saying is we need to get to know God, and we know God through His Word, and His Word is valuable. But there are some who are so focused as a ministry, and I don't believe our church is, I think we teach it, but there are some that are so focused on the King James only issue. That this becomes what they're worshiping. I'm just warning us as a church that it needs to be about God. It comes, conflict comes when you worship God the wrong way. God has and always will judge those who worship him incorrectly Not everything offered to God in sincerity is pleasing to him. Romans chapter 10, verse 1 through 3 says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer for God for Israel is that they might be saved For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. They had a zeal for God, but they didn't have knowledge of God. For being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about establishing their own righteousness, having not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. They were ignorant of God. They were ignorant of what God wanted. They're establishing their own righteousness. And there is a plethora of that today. But beloved, no matter how sincere you are, if it's not what God said, if it's not what God wants, It's not worship. It's not pleasing to him. You know, Cain tried to establish his own worship. God, he knew what he was supposed to do, but he brought of the fruit of the ground instead of what he was supposed to bring And you say, well, he brought his best fruit. But that's not what God told him to do. We've got to bring what God said to bring. We worship God the way he wants to be worshipped, what he said we should do and how he said we should do it. Nadab and Abayu offered strange fire. God doesn't accept strange fire. No matter how sincere it was offered. And I believe there are some very sincere people in churches today. They love God and they want to worship God. But may they have never been told the truth. I think of Miss Kim, who's downstairs right now working with the young people, but I remember her talking to me about how she had gotten saved, but she was in the Catholic Church. And she was still in the Catholic Church, but she was saved, and she knew she was saved, but she never knew any different. And she was trying to worship God. But she got in the book and desired to know God, and God led her Brought her out of that. She began to have zeal for God according to knowledge. You can learn. Sometimes we can offer the right things insincerely. We know John 4. 24, God is spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. But the church of Laodicea, although it was faithful and true, they were dead. Revelation 3, verse 15-16 says, I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm, neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. What descriptive language that God's given us there? About where and how God values our heart when we gather for worship How God values our spirit and what we're thinking when we come to Him. And even though we may be doing the right things but out of the wrong heart. Sometimes we let things get in the way of our worship, and let me just throw these out quickly. Sometimes our activities on Saturday night make it so that we can't worship On Sunday morning. I say we come to the house of God so tired and wore out that we can't stay awake for the service. Sunday morning stress sometimes pushes any possibility of of spiritual food in church out the window. The stress of getting ready because we didn't plan right, because we didn't organize, because we didn't get You know, just getting ready in the morning, getting the kids all out the door and all that, all that Sunday morning stress, and you finally make it to church, and it takes an hour just to settle down. Well that by then we're just about done. And so sometimes that stress that that we allow in our lives because of a lack of planning or because of lack of preparation, whatever it might be, it makes it hard for us to actually worship God when we cut gather together. A week filled with entertainment leaves no room in our heart or mind for worship. Sometimes distractions in the service make it hard to worship God in spirit. That's why we as a church work hard to minimize the distractions. That's why the ushers work hard to keep the distractions out. Now I know right now we're in COVID and You know, we don't have nurseries and the kids sometimes are in here and we're we're dealing with that, and that's okay. But as a rule, you know, we want to minimize distractions, and I don't I don't have time to get into how to do that. But I want you to know that there is conflict in worship, but what is the coronation? of worship. What is the crowning individual? In our text he says, O come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord. Our Maker. He is King. He is creator. He is the one that we worship. We worship God and Him alone. Exodus 20, verses 2 through 5 says, I am the Lord thy God. which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any griven image or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above or in earth beneath, or that is in the water, or under the earth, thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me. God, we are to worship God. He is. The crown, the focus of our worship. Worship began in the book of Genesis, and when man began to Forget to worship when man lifted up the words of Satan over the words of God, man fell into sin. Worship of God was instructed throughout the whole Bible. The tabernacle was set up specifically for worship All of its, and I don't have time to teach on the tabernacle, but all of its pieces of furniture and where they were placed and the organization of it was all laid out for worship. The tabernacle was set in the center of the camp. With all of the tribes surrounded it, focusing that worship was to be central to our lives. And we get all the way down to the book of Revelation and we find that the culmination of history will end up with us spending eternity worshiping. God. We're going to worship Him. Beloved, the disciples said once, Lord, teach us to pray. We need to ask to learn how to pray, but I think we might also need to say, Lord, teach us to worship. Teach us to worship worship. In my study and my reading for for this, I read one author who is a pastor and he said, I think that If I was ever actually in a service that was real worship, I wouldn't know what to do. I don't know there's a pastor I would know how to lead a church in a service of real worship of God. He went on to list several areas of deficiency. And this is a man who's just being honest about where he's at and saying, How do you worship God? How do you really gather and worship him? With that heart and mind and spirit, it's not enough to know the creeds, one must know Christ. One author put it this way: it is in the process of being worshipped that God communicates his presence. It is in the process of being worshiped that God communicates his presence to men, and we gather in church And so many times we come in carrying the weights of the world and we come in doing what whatever we we had on our schedule and as soon as church is over we've got to go do this and we've got to get that and We come in and we sit in church and we evaluate the temperature and the condition and I'm not commenting on anybody who thinks it's hot in here right now. I'm just saying we we we we uh you know critique the specials and and Evaluate the preacher and how he does. And we get up and we go out, but have we experienced any worship? We pray and we ask God, Lord, would you meet with us today? But it is in the process of worship that God makes Himself known to us. And if we haven't experienced or put ourselves into any worship, sometimes we look to the pastor. To bring God's power. To bring the message and just to make heaven swing low and to and fill the place with God's Shekinah glory that we could walk out, move like never before. And I believe the man of God should be prepared and ready and prayed up and ought to preach and do his best. But I think for that really to happen has less to do with the man of God than it does with us individually. And our spirit of worship. We don't need more gimmicks and more programs as a church. We need worship. Baptists have become so busy doing that they've left off being. Someone said worship is the occupation of the heart. Not with its needs, not even with its blessings, but with God. The occupation of the heart. With God. Another said, Worship is the uprising of a heart that knows God, the Father, as the giver, the Son as the Savior, and the Holy Spirit as the indweller. We know, beloved, that when a searching heart comes into the presence of God, worship. Is the result. In Matthew 2, that most familiar story of the birth of Jesus, he's just saying Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and come what? To worship him. In verse number 11, he says, And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child and Mary's mother and fell down and worshipped him. But then they said, that verse goes on, it says, And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. You see, beloved, true worship cost. True worship cost. There is a cost to worship. It involves giving. As we see right here, they worshiped him and they opened unto him Their treasures. And the fact is, is most biblical accounts that have to do with worship also in some facet or capacity also include giving. Wherein Whirsby said, we must worship God because He is worthy of our worship, not because we worship in order that we might get something. If we look upon worship only as a means of getting something from God rather than giving something to God, then we make God our servant. Instead of our Lord. And the elements of our worship become a cheap formula for self-gratification. That's powerful. So many times we come in, and even the experience, what we would call the experience of worship, what people are looking for is for them They're looking for an experience. They're looking for an emotional high. They're looking for a move that they can walk out and feel different. They're looking for something like that instead of Worshiping God for Him. And Wearsby says, when we look at God and worship Him Even in a matter of just trying to get an experience, we make him our servant instead of our master. It costs denying yourself. Spurgeon said, you will never glory in God till first God has killed your glorying in self. Only when we deny ourselves can we come to the place that we are ready and to worship Him. We must surrender to Him. Without surrender, there is no true worship. He is the King and I'm the subject. He's the owner and I'm the servant. He's the teacher, I'm the student. He's the commander and I'm the soldier. Do you see a pattern from those descriptions of the Christian? And he's the leader. Revelation 7, verse number 11 says, And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders, and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces and worshipped God. Worship really is surrendering, doing what God wants. The first time you see worship in the Word of God is in Genesis 22, verse number 5, when Abraham obeyed God, submitted to God, and took his son, his only son Isaac. To sacrifice him. Worship is obedience to God. Could I talk to you for a couple minutes about the collective of worship? When we gather together in God's house. Now I know worship takes place on the individual level. Worship takes place in your heart and in your mind and as an individual. It's something that takes place in the heart of man, not necessarily in a building. However Christ loved the church and gave himself for it, and it is by God's plan that man would gather together in a building, in a place, in a location, under a tent. The church would gather And come together to worship Him. It is part of God's plan for us as a church that we collect of leaves. Gather together. That is an encouragement to others. Where two or three are gathered together, there am I in the midst of them. It is God's plan, God's design. We should not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. And coming to church should be a place where we are drawn into God's presence, and it is a place where we can worship Him. When you come to the church, is your heart and mind ready and looking to worship Him? True worship doesn't need to be worked up. It doesn't need to be pumped up. I watched a video with my kids. I don't know, maybe a week ago or so uh in our family devotions, and I was just showing them this church service. Where the goal was to get everybody pumped up. And they sang one song, and the one song lasted 12 and a half minutes. And it got more and more energetic, more and more intensive. The guy singing the song was So interactive with the audience. Come on, everybody, everybody, come on, everybody, everybody, come on, everybody, stand, clap your hands, everybody, everybody, clap your hands This I mean twelve and a half minutes of this By the time he was done, he was literally sweating profusely. And there was four or five background singers on the stage with him. Twelve and a half minutes, all this geared to to get everybody pumped, to experience something. But true worship doesn't need that. To know God. To see God. When we gather together in corporate worship, when we gather together as a church. It should be the highlight of our week. We sing, pray, and read the scriptures. All in worship of God, not in recognition of man or man's talents. But to bring adoration and recognition of our Lord and Savior. Weirsby in his book, Real Worship, said, What happens when we gather He said, we congregate every time a church assembles on the Lord's Day to worship him and give witness that Jesus is alive We celebrate. The heart of worship is lifting our heart to God, an expression of the one who loved us and in a thanksgiving for that. We commemorate in all of the elements of worship. We remember what God has done for us. We communicate through the preaching and the singing. We communicate these truths unto God. We contemplate and worship, we meditate on the plan and the purpose of God for our lives. And we consecrate. We give our time, our money, our talents, and ourselves To God. That's what real worship is. We come now to what I have titled the conclusion. As then what is the result? What is the reason? Would you turn to Exodus chapter 34? Exodus thirty four. Look down in verse number twenty eight. We see here the story of Moses when he went up from the mountain in the presence of God. He says here, and when he went there with the Lord forty days and forty nights, he did neither eat bread nor drink water. When he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant and the ten commandments. And it came to pass when Moses came down from the Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mount that Moses wished not that the The skin of his face shone while he talked with him. You see, Moses was changed When he was in the presence of God. It was visible on his face, it was evident, and we could look through the scriptures, and I have other examples written down here. Jacob when he wrestled with God. Christians that turned when they came to the presence of God. But the true purpose, the goal, the conclusion, as we gather together and we worship Him and honor and adoration, the reason is That it would change us. We pray it. Lord, may we not go out the same as we came in. Lord, would you speak to my heart today and change me? That's the goal of worship. The conclusion of it. That God would change us. And He wants to change us Into the image of his son. Consecrate us, make us more holy, and useful servants for him Would you bow with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, dear God, you would be with us. Lord, this idea of worship. I don't know how Effectively I communicated the importance of it. That our hearts, God, when we gather in church, should be here to worship you for you, for your honor. And this is a focus, a central part of us as Christians, and we don't need programs and we don't need more entertainment in the church and we don't need louder music or Or even better preachers, God, we need more of your presence. We need to come into God's house and know that you're there, that we are with you. worshiping you in spirit and truth. I pray God that you would help us as a church, as Hunt Valley Baptist Church, to not be focused on the song or not be focused on the special or even the message, but to be focused on you and long to worship you. Lord, teach us to worship you. In Jesus name, Amen