Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number 13, verse number 13. Romans 13, 13, where we see the text for tonight as I'm going to preach this evening and the title, Let Us. Walk honestly. Let us walk honestly. As I began this study, I looked at this verse and I jumped right into it. I began preparing notes. I began writing down definitions. And I looked at this and I said, Hey, we've got to walk honestly. It means you shouldn't be a liar, amen. And I wrote down the definition, a verbal falsehood, a lying tongue. Paul wrote this letter there to uh to the In the Ephesians he said, Wherefore put away lying and speak every man truth with his neighbor, uh for we are members one of another. And in Psalms chapter one hundred and twenty, verse number two he says, Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips and from the deceit Deceitful tongue. And certainly we need to be delivered from such men. Amen. However, David here was talking about himself and saying, deliver me. Take from me lying lifts and take this, deliver me from this, Lord. And David was dealing with himself and As I began to study and really look at the text, I began to understand what it was dealing with. And I want to give you some insight into that. If you're there, Romans 13, verse number 13 out of He says, Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife. and in beans. We, of course, over the last couple of weeks have uh looked at this passage. And we have seen, first of all, that we are to uh put off, we're not to be walking in darkness, and that we let us put on the armor of light. And then he says, let us walk honestly. A continuation of the thought that was given to us as we've studied and looked at previously. When you look at the Word of God and you see the idea of walk, many times the context of the passage gives you insight and understanding into what it's talking about. It gives you you're able to grasp that it's dealing with more than just moving forward at a slow pace. It's dealing more dealing with more than just traveling at a walk instead of a run. I think that you understand that the Bible, when it talks about or uses the term walk, many, many times it's talking about our conduct. It's talking about how we live, how we act. What we portray, such as we are to walk uprightly in Proverbs chapter 2, and verse number 7. He that layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous He is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. In Romans 6, we see that as Christians, we're to walk in newness of life. So it's talking about your conduct, walk in newness of life. That's supposed to be typical of a Christian. In Galatians 5. 16, this I say, then walk in the Spirit. And not in the flesh. We're to walk in the Spirit. We know that we're to walk by faith. So all through the New Testament and even the Old Testament, there is the picture given of traveling a direction that our conduct is typified or pictured as a walk. We're to walk worthy of the Lord. Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 10. And we're to walk in the light as he is in the light. 1 John 1, 7. And we are to walk in the light, not in darkness. Romans chapter 13. That's talking about dealing with our conduct. We could go on and on through the Bible, verse after verse after verse, context after context, as soon as I mentioned them, your mind, like all of these I've listed. Anybody that's been in church at any time. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. All of those things came to mind. And we could go on and on to how the Bible describes our conduct. as walk, but I believe that you get and understand the idea that uh what it's talking about is our behavior. The idea of walking honestly certainly applies to our speech as well, but not only to our speech. For what is a greater lie? Something you say? Or how you live? As we consider this term honestly, there's a twofold definition here when you're really looking at the Greek. It means decorously. That decorum, you walk with decorum, that means uprightly. That means that you're walking with proper conduct. That which is becoming of a Christian. And then it literally has the meaning of genuine, sincerely, that you are what you say you are, that you are who you portray to be. We're to walk honestly as in the day. You understand, beloved, as children of light, we're to walk honestly. As children of day, that means Not hidden. Not hiding. Not hiding what we're doing. We're supposed to be get it out in the open. Sometimes your kids will want to go do something and they want to do it in the other room. And you say, why? Uh why can't you do that in here? Well mm-hmm We know why, because you know you're not supposed to be doing it. That's why. You know you that's not not acceptable behavior. You're not you know you're not supposed to be participating in that or or acting that way. And they understand that and they know it, so they want to go somewhere else and hide it. They don't want it to be out in the open. But as children of light, we're to walk honestly, the idea is Everybody can see it. This is the way it is. This is who I am. This is what God has made me. This is I'm living to the best of my ability as a Christian. It should be part of the Christian's wardrobe, as we said, to put on the armor of light. So what we're really dealing with here is hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. When we're saying let us walk honestly, we're saying let us not be hypocrites. Let us not be hypocrites. As we pray, as we begin the message, I would like to pray now and ask God to speak to our hearts, give me liberty, and uh put aside the distractions of the day, and may God speak to us through this. Let's pray. Lord, I come to you right now, and Lord, you know the struggle in my own heart. Even as we begin this evening, Lord, dealing with these matters that I know there's many different And I pray God that you would be with the church family That you would help us to value and appreciate what is most important in the love of Christ and the ministering to His His people and to the lost and Lord I pray that you would help us as a church to be able to do so. As we this evening look into this uh context of this passage and apply it to our lives to walk honestly, I pray God that you would help us to evaluate Our own hearts, not to consider and to think about somebody else that we might know who fits in this category, but apply it to our own lives and see, Lord, how Honestly, we are walking. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's sad that for too long the accusation heralded churches for their abundance of hypocrites Is all too true. It's sad that that is the fact. However, true or not, it is no reason for anyone to reject Christ. Or to stop living for God themselves. The truth of the Word of God is true if everyone who ever lived was a hypocrite. It doesn't matter. If every person who ever proclaimed the name of Christ lived as a hypocrite, you don't have to. And the argument that, well, aft they don't do it, so I don't have to do it, doesn't hold water with God. The biblical truths that are put forth in the Word of God are there and they are true, whether anybody else practices them or not. And so we should, as individuals, purpose in our heart to walk as God would desire us to walk. We should desire to have our walk match our talk. A rather pompous deacon was endeavoring to impress this young class of boys on the importance of living as a Christian, he says to his pupil. Tell me, why do people call me a Christian? Children sat there with that typical dumbfounded look on their face for a few minutes. And then one of his classmates said, maybe because they don't know you. Oops. That was not what the teacher was wanting That wasn't the direction he was hoping the class would go. They you know. Uh we've got to be careful and make sure that our walk matches our talk. One of the clearest examples of hypocrite in the word of God is Ananias and Sapphira. In Acts chapter 5 and verses 1 through 11, you have the story there, and I believe most of you are familiar with the story, but there was a certain man named Ananias with Sapphira, his wife, sold his possessions. and kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said, Ananias, Why has Satan filled thy heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and keep back part of the price of the land? You see, it's not just that they lied. But the idea that they wanted to appear to be something they weren't. That is the epitome of hypocrisy. The goal that they had was they wanted to look like something better than they were. There was nothing wrong with them keeping back some of what they had given. It was their property. Nothing wrong with that. But the problem was when they wanted to give it, but appear like they were giving it all when they weren't. A burly man visited the pastor's home and he asked to see the minister's wife, a woman who was well known for her charitableness in the community. Madame, he said, in a heartbroken voice, could I please take a moment and draw your attention to the terrible plight of a poor family in this very district? Ma'am, the father is dead. There, the mother, too ill to work, with her nine children, are starving. And they're about to be turned out into the cold. If they're unable to pay their rent of $400, they're going to be put on the street. Could you find it in your heart to do something for them? And the sympathetic, well-known humanitarian said, oh, I would love to, sir. Could I please ask, who are you? And through tears and handkerchief, he said, I'm the landlord. Wanting to be a peer as something that he was not. You see, Ananias and Sapphira wanted people to think that they had the love for God and the love that for the people that Barnabas had. You see a very similar passage, just go back in Acts chapter 4, where it says that Androas by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas. Which is being interpreted, the son of consolation, a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. And Ananias and Sapphira saw that and said, Whoa, we could do that. Look at the praise that he got, look at the accolades he got, look at how people uh you know Said thank you to him or whatever it was. Whatever motivated them to do that, they thought we want to be recognized that way. But they didn't want to give it all. They wanted to hold some of it back. The word hypocrisy from the Greek literally means to play act, to pretense. The hypocrite is a person who attempts to live two lives simultaneously. The public person is an act, it's a pretense. The real person is lived out in private in many cases. That real person is found out eventually. In many cases, that's where we get everybody in church reciprocity, because too many of God's people are living two different lives Listen to how the Word of God and Christ describes hypocrites in Mark chapter 7 and verse number 63. He answered and he said unto them, Well hath Isaiah prophesied of you hypocrites. He says, Isaiah's prophesied about you So if you turn over to Isaiah and you want to see what Isaiah said about hypocrites, he said in Isaiah chapter 29, verse number 13, he said, This people honoreth me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. So Jesus Christ Himself said, Isaiah said it right when he said, You do lip service, but you're not living it. That's what Jesus said. Isaiah said it correctly when he said it that way. He goes on and says, Howbeit in vain do they worship me? Teaching for doctrines, the commandments of men, for laying aside the commandments of God, and holding the tradition of men as washing of pots and cuffs and many other such like things. He says you're doing all these things, the traditions of men, you're doing all this stuff because you want to be seen of men. It has nothing to do with your relationship with Christ. All their actions were to be recognized for men. But not before God. Beloved hypocrisy dishonors God and it disorients men. As we are listening to the Update this afternoon from Johnny O on re-opening up churches. He said, This patchwork of opening across our state Creates confusion. And so we as a county are going to come into guidel into agreement with the guidelines that the governor released. He acknowledged the fact that all these counties doing different things however they want to do it is confusing everybody. And he says, so we want to do it this way. Well beloved hypocrisy dishonors God and it disorients men in Romans chapter 2, verses 23 and 24. He says, Thou that makest thy boast of the law, though breaking the law, dishonorest thou God. You boast of the law. You say, boy, the law, and yet you break it and you dishonor God. He says, For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you. And how much how true is that? How many have you talked to, witnessed to, and that comment came out, well the church is full of hypocrites? Well, there's so many hypocrites down there. Everybody now they all say it but they don't believe it, or they don't practice it, or whatever. That that hey, it dishonors God when we as God's people are not living what we say we're living. When we are not living honestly before God. So if we are going to live honestly, then we must do several things. Let me give you these. Things this evening. First of all, you're going to live honestly before God. You're going to not be a hypocrite. You need to live with a clear conscience. We have dealt with this in recent days a number of times, living with a clear conscience. You've got to have a conscience, beloved, in 2 Corinthians 8. 21, providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. Not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. I mean I don't know how cle how much clearer it could get. How we act in front of men matters. What we do that the world sees it matters. And I you say, well I know God looks look on the heart. Yes, he does. But the world looks at you And they see you and they see how you act and where you go and what you participate in and whether you lose your temper or whether you fly off the handle or or whether you curse or whether you are talking about the latest dirty movie. The world sees that. And you say, but my heart's right with God. The world is looking at how you're acting. And the two aren't lining up. You've got to have a clear conscience before God and men. In Acts, he says, herein do I exercise myself to always have a conscience void of offense towards God. towards men. What a challenge to live with a conscience void of offense before God and man And man. Paul expended a great amount of effort and energy to do so. He says, Herein do I exercise my I expend this effort, I expend this energy, I exercise myself to be sure that I'm living without a with a conscience void of offense before God and man. Your conscience, of course, is that what you're aware of. Your trained conscience by being in the Word of God and void of offense is that you're not causing others to stumble. This last week on uh well earlier this week I guess Memorial Day family and I with a few others went hiking and we were hiking through over by Loch Raven Reservoir, I think, and that E region and we're hiking along and more than once there was a root or a rock in the trail that I almost tripped over. I mean it just you know it it you know the older you get the more those things matter and I'm like man I I didn't realize I had such a problem picking my feet up because I kept tripping over these things. I'm like, I I can't look I can't look and enjoy the creation out here and how beautiful it is because I gotta look down or I'll end up on my face And and because there's stuff in the trail that in my mind shouldn't be there. I won't talk about how I got off the trail once or twice, but you know, it it's like this is the trail, it should be smooth, it should be nice. Well that's what this is talking about, void of offense. means you don't have something there that doesn't belong there. You don't have something there that would cause other people to stumber, stumble, and trip. Paul refused to just look good He wanted to be good. He wanted to be good. And that means he wanted to walk honestly. He wanted to walk honestly. So ask yourself, am I satisfied with just looking good as a Christian? In the eyes of others, even though I know I'm not Am I satisfied with just putting on this pretense with looking like what is acceptable in the realms or the circles that I'm in Or do I truly have a desire in a heart to honor God above all else? And is what others think of me consistent with who I am. Is what others think of me consistent with who I am? I wonder Ask yourself that. Have you put on errors? Have you acted like a much better Christian than you really are for others? Listen, the solution is not well, I don't want to be a hypocrite, so I'm just gonna everybody knows that I'm a drunkard. That's not the solution. The solution is not, oh, I don't want to be a hypocrite, so I just ain't gonna go to church. No, you need to do what God wants you to do and live it and be it. Be what God wants you to be. Do what God wants you to do. Give up what God wants you to give up. Let go of what you shouldn't have in your life and start doing what you should have in your life The solution is is not, well, I'm not going to be a hypocrite, so I'll just be a reprobate. That's not the solution. The solution is to get right with God and live with a clear conscience. You've got to live with consistent convictions. with consistent conviction. And turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter 15. Psalms chapter 15, I want you to see these five verses There's a description here of how somebody's living honestly, walking honestly. Let us walk honestly. Well, in Psalms chapter 15. in verses one through five he says the psalm of David of the Lord who shall abide in the tabernacle who shall dwell in the holy hill he that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor, in whose eyes a vile person is Contemned, and but he honoreth them that fear the Lord, he that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not, he that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent, he that doeth these things Shall never be moved. Living your life with consistent conviction, Bible-based conviction, and practicing these things Day by day. So a Christian that's going to walk honestly, let me give you these five principles that are given to us here. He says, first of all, you're going to continue honorably. Verse number two, he says, He that walketh uprightly. He that walketh uprightly. That is the same idea of walking honestly. Being what you say you're going to be. He that walketh uprightly, you continue honorably, having proper decorum, living Correctly before men. Literally, it means that you have a life without blemish, a life without spot. Wow. That's a high standard. Oh, I've just got this spot over here, just that spot there. For the most part, I'm doing pretty good. Beloved, we're to be pure and clean. As a child of the light, is there anything in your life that you're hiding? As a child of the light, is there anything in your life that you're hiding? I know in your heart you know God knows. You know God sees it. There's no question in your mind that God is aware of it. So who are you hiding it from? Your mom or dad? Your brothers and your sisters? Your church family? That's the epitome of a hypocrite. If we're gonna be walking honestly, we're not gonna have anything in our life that we're hiding. That's tall order. Be honest with yourself and be honest with God. Is there anything you're hiding? You're going to continue honorably. He's going to communicate honestly. Verse number two again. He says, and he speaketh the truth in his heart. He speaketh the truth in his heart. You're going to communicate honestly. You know that you can lie to yourself? You can lie to yourself. You know Ananias and Sapphira, can you just picture them as they're getting this money together? You know what? I'll bet you Barnabas didn't turn it all in either. You see, usually people that live as a hypocrite believe everybody's doing that. That's just the way it is. I'll bet you Barnabas didn't turn all this in. And after all, I mean, it's our money. And what does it what does it matter? I mean we're not hurting anybody. Actually we're helping people because we are giving some of it. So so we can do that. But that wasn't being honest. That wasn't because they were wanting everybody to believe they were giving it all And you want everybody to believe you're fully committed to God. You want everybody to believe that you're not holding anything back or that you're surrendered and following the Lord, but you know in your heart you haven't walked with Him in weeks. Communicate honestly, even with yourself. Don't lie to yourself. When you have to justify in your own mind what you're doing. You're on your way to be living as a hypocrite. He controls his words, verse number three. He controls his words. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh a reproach against his neighbor. Listen, we sing, Oh, how I love Jesus And we don't control this? A Christian doesn't backbite, doesn't slander, doesn't lie, doesn't do evil, doesn't say hurtful things, critical things. Things that are not constructive, unhelpful. To take a reproach is to stand against somebody, to taunt, to ridicule. You know, have you ever had a friend, when we were kids we used to call them two-faced. You know, you had a friend that to their to their to their to your face, they were like your best buddy. But then you find out later that to some other friend they were saying that you were f you were, you know uh a thief or you were uh a cheat or you were ugly or whatever, you know, as a kid growing up, who knows, it might have been they said you had, you know, terrible hair. I I don't know. But y y that creates great offense. What it is, is being a hypocrite with regards to your friendships and your relationships. You need to control your words. Do your words match your actions You know the walk talk talk talk. Do your words match your actions? He contems evil and honors good. Verse number four He contemns evil and honors good, in whose eyes a vile person is condemned. But he honoreth them that fear the Lord Do you hate evil? That's what that word contem really means. Hate. Do you hate evil and love good? In our world today, many say they love God, but by their life, they love the world. And as Christians, we're not to love the world. That are in the world. We're to love God first and foremost. Do you? And lastly, uh he says here, he We see the last part of verse number four that he lives honestly even though it hurts. For my points here are uh so that they were alliterated, I was going to say he cusses heavily. But that one doesn't work. You see verse number four he says there, he sweareth to his own hurt. So he sweareth to his own hurt. Listen, he tells the truth, regardless of what it costs him. I read today a black police officer who stood up as a police officer and was condemning the actions of these mobs He was saying, listen, we value all life. And the actions of these mobs are not justified and they're wrong, and the actions of this police officer was wrong. But he said, I know that just because I'm black and just because I'm an officer I get ridiculed by my family and friends all the time because I'm an officer. But he said, I'm an officer. I'm gonna stand up for freedom. I'm gonna stand up for America and I'm gonna stand up for what's right. No officer is gonna do what's wrong in my presence and get away with it. And I sent him a note and said, Thank you for for standing and thank you for for your service for your community. I don't even know where he's an officer at, but this obviously this incident has gained national attention. And he said, I'm willing to stand up. Listen to you Live honestly even though it's going to cost you. He sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. Live honestly even though it's going to cost you If we're going to walk honestly, then we've got to live with consistent conviction. These have to be guiding principles of our lives that that guide us with everything we do. And then we need to live with constant correction. Constant correction I won't be long on this point, but here's what I want you to understand that if you stubble, if you stubble, yeah, some of you grow and stubble, amen. If you stumble, if you stumble, it does not a hypocrite make you. You need constant correction. What I'm saying is just because you slip, it doesn't make you a hypocrite. It means you fell and you've got to get right and you've got to correct your direction You've got to change the direction you're headed. There's a big difference between a sincere believer who falters A sincere who believer who who in a moment of weakness does something that he regrets and wants to get right with God and wants to go on for the Lord and continue to do right. And a sneaky believer who wants to continue to do wrong but hide it. That's the difference. The Christian who does not want to live as a hypocrite doesn't mean you don't ever make a mistake. Doesn't mean you don't ever fall. Doesn't mean you haven't messed up at some point. But when you do Your heart wrenches and and like David said, his heart smote him. And you say, Look, Lord, I'm sorry, and I want to get this right, and this is not what I want to be doing. You're not going to continue in that direction. Christian is not perfect, but they're a person trying to do their best. They're not hiding their blemishes, they're confessing, forsaking them. They're correcting them. When we do something wrong, we correct it. You know, I I've had to tell my wife sorry once. In in like the last twenty four hours probably. I had to say say sorry to my wife. Why? Because I did something that was not kind or that was not right. I mean I I I don't want to try and continue down that road. I want to correct it So to have a right relationship with her, well sometimes we falter and mess up and we've got to correct it with God. And somebody that wants to live as a hypocrite doesn't correct it. They just continue down that road and try and hide it. But somebody that wants to honor God and live to walk honestly, they're going to correct it. This is exactly what we say here in our mission statement, where we say God is not as concerned. with where you're at as he is with where you're going. What direction are you headed? I've said it often, every one of us have at times in our life found ourselves in a place where we did not I want to be. It was not our plan to be there. We did not realize that this is where we were going to end up, but don't stay there. What direction are you headed? Get your heart right with God. You know, are you being honest with yourself? Or is there something something that you need to correct. There was a captain of a ship one day scurrying across the deck quite fast and flustered and and obviously there was a problem and one of the passengers on the ship said, Captain, Captain, what what's the issue? And he says, you won't believe it. The rudder's broken. And the lady looked at him and says, Oh, that's down under the water. I don't think anybody's gonna notice. He's not going to be able to correct the direction of the ship. He's going to be adrift. He's not going to have the right direction. And beloved, when your rudder's broken You're not heading in the right direction. You have no way to correct the ship. And we need, as Christians, if we're gonna walk honestly, we've got to correct the ship sometimes Sometimes it gets off course. We understand that. Nobody's perfect. But if we're walking honestly, we're going to point it back where it needs to be. Confess and forsake the sin that took us that way It's true there are hypocrites within the church. Whether Christian or non-Christian, we have no doubt that we have all seen and known people living as a hypocrite You know, sometimes even the pastor preaches for the wrong reasons as a hypocrite According to the Apostle Paul in Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 15, he says, some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife. They're preaching for Christ as the hypocrite. However, to say that all Christians are hypocrites Or that all pastors are doing that certainly is not true. And regardless, we know that the truth of the Word of God is God is true regardless of who how other people are living. And as Christians, we should have a desire in our heart. To walk honestly. So, beloved, I challenge you this evening, let us walk honestly. Not as a hypocrite. But honestly before God. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you for the opportunity to be in your house. Lord, we are excited as a church to be able to come back together. to see the church family, to be able to greet one another and exhort one another, encourage one another. We pray, God, as we gather this coming, we can Lord the chief She would be honored, that she would be glorified, Lord. We pray that uh the the spirit in the church would be powerful, Lord, one that uh in which you would just be so pleased with, and Lord, that uh the church would be family would be so encouraged with and I pray God that you would work mightily. Lord, I know that uh nothing qur quenches the spirit like uh somebody who is saying one thing and doing another. And God, I pray that as Christians we would strive to walk honestly. I pray each and every one of us would yield our heart, be honest before you, and honest with ourselves, and answer the questions. Is there anything in our life we're hiding? Is there anything we don't want others to know? Is there anything that we are keeping secret that we're not being as children of light? We pray that you would hear us Help us to get that right so we could walk honestly. Before you in Jesus blessed thing