Uh and Titus I guess. I don't know how much uh how much watching Titus is doing, but hello Titus. Uh hopefully you're being good and uh having a good time with grandma and grandpa and all that. Uh but they're watching the service along with others, I'm sure, that are watching the service tonight and all those that are online. We want to welcome you to our service this evening. Now I hope you're not too disappointed, but I did let you know back in Thanksgiving That when we made it to Christmas, I was going to uh teach a lesson on Let Us Adore Him. Now we have been going through the Old Testament survey and we will get back to the Old Testament survey, but this is the uh Thursday night before uh Christmas and I have been planning this for a year so now is the service I get to preach the let us adore him. It fits in here You know, this is one of those things, though. You can turn your Bibles to Luke chapter two. We're going to be there, and then we're going to be over in Matthew chapter two. But uh this is one of those things that I was uh a little bit shocked about. You know, you hear things so often and so much um that you start to believe them to be Bible, like Bible truths. And I just thought this would make a wonderful message, and it did not until I began to study it out, I did not realize that let us adore him is not in the scriptures. Just letting you know that. It messed up my whole message because I'm preaching this this lettuce series, right, on on what the Bible tells us lettuce and I'm I'm like, that's not in the Bible? What in the world? That's gotta be in nope, it's not in the Bible. It's just a song. And we say it so much we we start to feel like like have you ever heard somebody say uh God works in mysterious ways You know, we hear that so much we feel like it's like it might be Bible, but it's not in the Bible. Now God does work in mysterious ways, but it's it's not biblical. It's a good principle, but it's not like Bible verse. But you're probably there and I'm not quite there yet. But in Luke chapter 2, turn down to verse number 15. Uh in Luke chapter two verse number fifteen. This will give us an introductory verse to our text tonight, and then we're going to move to Matthew chapter two. He says, in Luke chapter two, verse number fifteen, and it came to pass And the angels were gone away from them unto heaven. The shepherds said one to another, here it is, you see it, let us I found one, amen. So he said, let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see the thing. Which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. They said, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem. I think what they were saying, to paraphrase Is let us go adore him. Amen. That might be a stretch, but they were certainly wanting to find Jesus And uh so I've titled the message tonight, Let Us Adore Him, but uh the principle I believe is biblical, regardless of whether we find an actual verse that states that phrase, uh, that we should adore our Heavenly Father. Now turn to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 2. This is another place where we find the Christmas story, and we find here in Matthew chapter number 2 individuals That are coming to adore him. They're coming to see the place where Jesus lay Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12, he says, Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men. from the east to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he that is born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod, the king, had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him And when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, art not the least among the princes of Judah? For out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people, Israel Then Herod, when he had privileged, called the wise men and inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for When they heard when they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east, went before them until it came and stood over the young child. When they saw the star they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the house they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down and worshipped him And when they had opened their treasures they presented unto him gifts gold and frankincense and myrrh, and being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way. So we have here this story of Christmas. You know, there are many things in history that have changed the course of time. They have taken the course of mankind and altered it. There's things that have been defining points in history. There's things that have stood out as people look back and And they mark history or historians look at things and they say, well, the fall of Rome and when this took place and the city of Rome and the Roman Empire fell 476 A. D. When the first book was printed on the Gutenberg Press and that the change that that made and getting things available to the common man um when Columbus sailed the ocean blue in 1492. Something that changed the course of history and affected everything after that. The discovery of atomic energy in 1945. A man walking on the moon in 1969. Things in history that just by their taking place have altered the course of history for the rest of time. These events have certainly, in their grandeur, in these amazing accomplishments that men have seen to, have altered history, have impacted man. But nothing in history has impacted man like the birth of the baby Jesus There is nothing in this world that has made such a definitive difference and has touched so many lives or defined people more than the birth It is in fact the birth of this baby that has divided all of history into two segments Whether they believe in Christ or not, it is before Christ and A. D. or in the year of our Lord. Now they can change the names if they want, but for all time, our calendar itself is established based on the birth of this baby named Jesus. Harry Rezner, the late ABC and CBS journalist, once wrote this. Christmas moves beyond all logic. It must be either an entire falsehood or truly the truest thing in all the world It demands acceptance that God of all creation came to this world in the form of a baby. That premise itself is so shocking. That if it were not true, nothing in Christianity is true. The fact of the matter is, here, this journalist says this is the defining point for all Christianity. For either there is this ultimate truth that Jesus was God in the flesh and came and dwelt among us. Or else all of Christianity is false. This is the defining moment. This is the truth that goes beyond all truths. Our president, I don't know how many of you had the opportunity to hear the speech that he gave at the lighting of our national tree. where he unashamedly announced Jesus to be the Lord and Savior of mankind. Where he announced the the birth of this baby Jesus as someone who has impacted and changed the course of human history. He talked about how the birth of Jesus has affected every area of our lives, referencing the fact that it has truly affected art. Excuse me, how it's affected art, how it's affected um poetry, how it's affected I'm going to grab a mint here. Many areas of our life that we see today, the birth of Jesus, recognition of this and the difference it makes for all mankind. The truth is, the most important truth in all of history is the fact that Jesus was born. And as Christians, we've got to remind people of this point, what Christmas is all about. It's got to be something that we proclaim. And we don't let slip by. We've got to remind people. Winston Churchill once said, if you have an important point to make, don't be subtle. Don't be clever. Use a PAL driver. Hit it once. Hit it again. And then hit it a third time with a great whack. As Christians, we have got to hit it again. This I thank you. With this idea that we have such a strong commercialization of this Christmas season. Where the truth of the season is being overrun with the commercialization of it. As Christians, we must declare the tremendous truth, the nature of the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Here in our story that we read, there are three, by tradition, three, there are wise men who came to worship, to adore. Jesus, I think that's a good idea. I think this is a sign that you're getting older. I used to never need water. And it was a it was a long standing joke with me and my uh former pastor that I served as assistant pastor for for eight years, uh because 'cause he would never drink water. He said only old people need water. So so I don't know, maybe that's where I'm at. I need water. I don't know Thank you, John. But here what I want you to see that these wise men came in a journey. There's three principles I want to give you with the idea of let us adore him. First of all, they adored him in his presence. They adored him in his presence. He says, now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem. saying, Where is he that's born, King of the Jews? For we've seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. Now tradition tells us a lot of peculiar things about these wise men. We have, in tradition, come up with the idea that there's three. Because of the fact that there was three gifts that were given. Now the three gifts might have been carried by three groups of people. We really don't know. The Bible doesn't declare these things unto us, but they felt there was three gifts. They also believed that By tradition that these three men came from the area of Persia, because the Persian people at this time were very well known for their study of astrology. study of the stars and they probably had an understanding and may have been out star gazing when they saw the star in the east and maybe that's what drew them and at Persia could have been as much as a thousand miles that they had to travel depending upon what routes they took. Tradition tells us these things. There's actually a church in Coolidge, uh, Germany, uh that you could go to And if you pay a fee, you can go behind the church in a shrine that they have built, and there they have the remains of what they believe to be the three wise men. If you would like to see them, they're there. These things are just tradition, though. We don't know really, because the Bible does not definitive in these things, but we know that there were men that came from the East. To worship God. They came to worship this newborn king. You see, truth in the Bible here tells us they came seeking the child. They did what was necessary, not what was convenient. They traveled afar. They traveled maybe at night. They traveled maybe some some considerable distance over what might have been rough terrain. We don't know all of the details of their trip, but we do know that they set out to find this king. They set out to find the baby Jesus. They knew what they were looking for and they wanted to be in the presence of the King. They went after it. They spent whatever was necessary to spend. They invested whatever time was necessary to invest. They purposed in their heart, we're going to go see this king. The baby, Jesus. They came to adore him. They wanted to get into his presence. They wanted to be where he was. Just a baby. I mean, think about the faith and the belief that they had to have in the scriptures To see a star in the sky and say that's it. That's the star Let's go find this baby and bring him these gifts. And they traveled afar and they went and they knelt before a baby. Because he was God. They wanted to be in his presence. You know, we sometimes desire to be in the presence of God, but everything has to be just right. Everything's gotta be perfect, you know. We get up in the morning and oh I gotta have my coffee first or my mountain dew first. Gotta have that first. And and and you know, in my house we use a wood stove, so it's usually cold in the mornings and I gotta go light the wood stove first. Gotta get that cranking and and get that, you know, that heat going and get the stove going. And then you've got to get in the chair and and prop up your feet. And by then the coffee's cold. So you got to warm up the coffee. And everything's got to be just right for us to meet with Jesus. These men expended whatever is necessary to get in the presence of God. We're blessed today. We're blessed today because we can have the words of Jesus with us at any time. We can have the words of Jesus Himself with us and carry them on any number of devices or the actual printed page and read and get into the presence of Jesus at any place. But do we desire it? Do we want it? You know, we come into the church house and we want to get in the presence of God, but in the church house We've become so comfortable today. Things have been gotten so so uh consumer-based in our society that church is even that way. We come to the church house and everything has to be perfect for us to get in the presence of God. We've got to have just the right number of songs sung at the right level. It can't be too loud or it's annoying. It can't be too quiet or we didn't get to hear it And by the way, all of us have different levels of hearing, but we do have to meet everybody, right? And it can't be too cold because then I'm not comfortable, it can't be too hot, or else I'm gonna go to sleep The pew's got to be padded or else they're not very comfortable and I can't stay there very long. I mean how bad do we want to get in the presence of God? I think when you and I desire to get alone like Jacob of old and get a hold of God and say God I just want to be with you for a little while. God, I just want your presence for a little while. God, I just want to be in your presence and be with you I think our surroundings begin to fall away, and how comfortable you are starts to not matter so much And what becomes important is the fact that God is stirring our heart and God is speaking to us from heaven above through the pages of Scripture. And we sit there and rapt attention, not at the man speaking or preaching, but at God Almighty who is speaking to our hearts. And other things begin to fade. How bad do you want to get into the presence of God? We come to adore Him by getting into His presence and saying, I want to be with you. I want to meet you. I want to talk to you. I want to touch the presence of God and get into that place. How bad do you want to get into his presence? One Sunday morning there was a woman who was too sick to go to church, and her husband and her children went to church without her When they came home on Sunday afternoon, she looked at her husband and she said, What was Mildred wearing today? He said, I don't have any idea. She asked, Well, how are Victor and Betty getting along? He said, I didn't know they weren't getting along. He she said, well, what is Evelyn going to do about her son and what he did on Friday night? He's like, I don't have any idea what Evelyn's son did on Friday night. And she says, Oh Dave, why did you go to church anyway Why do we go to church? Why do we go to church? You know, telling the truth to ourselves about why we're here might help us get into the presence of God. Why do you go to church? I know, I understand that you can get in the presence of God anywhere. You see, that's the the blessed thing about the priesthood of the believer is we uh can come into the throne room of God no matter where we are, and you can have some amazing times, some of the most uh meaningful times with you and yourself alone there with God at your at your home in your place of study or in the car when you're just communing with God on on your way to work or to or from work. But I want you to understand that Jesus loved the church. He died and he gave himself for it. And there's something about gathering together with God's people, getting together in God's house. And the Bible says where two or three are gathered together, there I am in the midst of them. And you get together in God's house and you see let God speak to you. Why are you Going to church. You know it makes a real difference. It makes a real difference for the preacher. When there's a group of people that are hungry for the Word of God, it makes a huge difference. You know, I don't know if you've ever had the opportunity, the privilege, or the responsibility. to stand before a group of people and preach the truths of God's word. But there is a real difference between speaking to a group of people that have a desire to hear from heaven That are longing for God to speak to them, that have prayed and said, God, would you touch my heart today? Lord, I need to hear from you. And a group of people that are antagonistic There's a huge difference. A group of people that just want to look at it and surmise and evaluate, and a people that want to get a hold of God There's a massive difference when you're preaching to a group of people that are saved and desire to hear from God and a group of people that are lost. Preaching down at the mission is a big difference than preaching in Sunday school here at church, isn't it? I'll tell you it's a big difference You stand in a group of people like that where the majority of men probably are lost and don't have a relationship with God. The fact of the matter is you're standing there and you're doing spiritual warfare You can feel it when you're preaching the Word of God. You can feel the resistance. You can feel the antagonism. You can feel the frustration. And it's like you're trying to preach through that. And it's hard And the sad thing is, is there are churches where that is felt, where the man of God gets up and preach, and it's like he's preaching against a wall because the people aren't hungry, they don't desire it, they don't want to hear from heaven And I'll tell you what, it makes a difference for you if you said, God, I want to be in your presence. I want you to speak to me. It makes a difference when you come into God's house and and and the song service begins. And you got a proof group of people that love God and are singing praises to God from their heart. Out of joy and exulting. It might only be a joyful noise, it's maybe all you can get out. But you're just singing it out. It makes a difference. Somebody who comes up to pray and Lord, thank you today. That we get to be in church. And Lord, we certainly need you. Amen. And somebody that wants to hear from God. Now you don't have to have to get up and pray with all of these and thous and give three points in a poem and and pre and and and preach a message in your in your uh Prayer time, you don't need to do that, but there ought to be some excitement about you. There ought to be some some some uh happiness and some thrill. You know, we wonder why the the world doesn't want what we got Because we make it like it's a drudgery and a discouragement to go to church. I've got to go to church again I'll tell you what, the reason the world wants what the world has is because the world sells it like it's worth having. When we know what they have is false. When we know what they have doesn't give them any happiness. We know what the world has doesn't give any lasting peace. But they sell it like it does. But we're portraying a relationship with Christ like it has never done anything for us. We've got this season, this Christmas season, where we can exalt and adore the Lord, our Savior Jesus Christ, and we can do it before people. And we ought to show today Andrew made a face at Mom, Mary, and she said, What? And he said, That's not what I was saying. He they were talking about some peanut butter sandwich or something, and he didn't like that kind of peanut butter and he was making a face about the kind of peanut butter and she thought he was making a face at what she said. And she says, well when you're looking at me, you better tell your face what you're feeling. Because what your face said to me was not right. You aren't going to talk that way to your mother. Tell our faith what we're feeling. If God has done something for us, there ought to be some joy and some excitement and we ought to be thrilled about it. God has done so much for us. We need to close our ears to the commercialization and remember who it was. And what it means to us that He came. When we adore Him, it'll motivate us. As we adore Him, it'll inspire us. Anyone not excited about Christ and Christmas? is not excited about God ruling and reigning in their life. You see, Herod, Herod knew about Christ. But he wasn't excited about it, was it? Because he did not want him to rule and reign. He wanted to destroy him. He says, hey, go go go find this Jesus so I may come and worship him. And they were warned of an angel not to go tell him because they knew what uh uh the angels and God knew what Herod wanted to do He wanted to destroy them. If we adore him by entering into a fr his presence, we adore him on our knees or by praying. And when they were coming to the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother and fell down and worshipped him. You know, pride and apathy are the biggest enemies to worship. Pride and apathy, they will choke the life out of worship. Cold religion never satisfied anybody. They came and knelt at Jesus in You know, the the scribes and the Pharisees, Herod called them, said, Who is this that they're talking about? This Jesus, this this king of the Jews, who is that? And the scribes and Pharisees knew who it was. Oh well he's going to be born in Bethlehem That's what the that's what the book says. They knew exactly who it was, but they didn't go to him. They didn't worship him. They didn't get in his presence. We adore him in prayer. We adore him. With presents, with gifts, by giving to him. In verse number 11, he says, And when they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary's mother and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. You know, nobody has to motivate me to shop for my wife. Nobody has to motivate me to shop for my children. I'm always seeing things and I think, man, you know, Andrew would really like that, or oh wow, you know, Mary would really like that. Why? Because I love them Nobody has to try and encourage me to shop for them. You know, if we loved God just as much as we loved our families. Giving to God would never be a problem. But the fact of the matter is, as God said in Matthew 10:37, he that loveth father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy me. You see these gifts that they brought, they weren't just trinkets. They weren't courtesy trinkets like you might give somebody uh at a housewarming, come in and give 'em something to clutter up there for you. You know, I mean it's just it's etiquette, so you bring something, you know. No, these were valuable gifts that they gave. You know, Homar Card says, when you care enough to give what? The very best. Do you care enough to give the very best? To your Lord and Savior. Let me give you this. One Christmas a pastor received a telephone call from his principal. The principal called him and said, Pastor, he almost couldn't get it out because he was so broken. He's just burdened about this child. He said that he had a sixth grader come to him in the school The sixth grader came to him and he had a uh thing pinned on his shirt. A six year old, I'm sorry, a six year old and he had it pinned on his shirt. And and the shirt the this note pinned on this six year old shirt that was t that was all torn and and messed up and the note said I'm gonna Father so-and-so, you know, the boy's boy Johnny's dad, and I'm really sorry that I have to do this. I'm humbling myself to do this, but I love my son and You see, we've hit a really bad time. Last week, my wife, Johnny's mother, left us. And on Monday, I lost my job. We may, before the end of this season, lose the house. What I would like is if there's any way that you could provide one gift to my son so he could have a gift for Christmas. It would mean a lot. This principal called the pastor and relayed the story, and the pastor said, we can do that. The pastor got his own children and they went out to the grocery store and they picked up some groceries for these this family and they they went down to the to to the toy store and they walked down the toy aisle and he let each one of his kids pick a toy for this six year old boy, Johnny. They went back home and they wrapped these gifts up. And they went to the house and they knocked on this house, this house, this dilapidated old farmhouse, front door, not keeping much cold out at all. They knocked on the door, and to the door a man came, and Johnny's dad answered the door, and he saw the pastor there bearing gifts, and he started to cry. But the amazing thing was little Johnny, when he came to the door and he saw the pastor there. He walked right by the gifts. And he walked right up to the pastor and reached his hands out and he gave him a hug and he put his hug uh put a put his arms around his necks and he said, My teacher told me That you would come. My teacher said you would come. Thank you for coming. The principle for you and I tonight is that Johnny walked right by the gifts, what was given to him. And recognized who gave it. Jesus has done a lot for us. And we spend a lot of time thinking about the gifts At Christmas time, let's think about who gave it. It was God Who became flesh and dwelt among us. Let's adore him. It's every head, every head bowed, every eye closed. Dear Lord Jesus, I pray God you would allow this Christmas in a very special way our hearts to be drawn into your presence. That you would give us the ability to adore you, our Creator, God, who in the flesh sent his Son to dwell among us. The gift that you've given us and who sent it. Help us to adore you at this very time and to be a witness and a testimony for you as we do. In Jesus' name, Amen. I'm going to ask the pianist to play. And as she does, you can stand to your feet if you just take a moment of invitation if you would like to come and speak to the Lord. Get into his presence for a moment or two. Feel free to do that.