One church family that has sent in a update, uh just kind of given a a word uh while they're at home and what's happening and we're gonna read that and show their picture on Sunday. If there's anybody else that has an update that you would like to send in. Just a little brief word of testimony. You can do that via uh, you know, just send us a picture and a text, or you can record it on your phone or something like that and uh send that in and we will We will certainly make sure that it gets read and just kind of share that with the church family so that everybody can be updated on how things are going with you. Or you can use Facebook and those people that that are on there will be will stay up with you and what you had for lunch uh t today or whatever. Uh and such you can you can do that. I I I check Facebook on occasion, but I don't comment or add much to our page very often. I think the last time I added something was when I was in India. So it's been a been a little while. But uh you know, I know many people use that on a regular basis. Also I wanted to let you know that uh Pastor Begwell uh Well, he's not direct pastor anymore. I don't think of an evangelist, uh Mike Bagwell that we had here. He's preaching a revival this week, and he's preaching on the resurrection every night. Uh this week. And it is streamed live for uh people that would like to see it. And so do you happen to know what the website is? So if you go to drmikebagwell. org, you can uh check that stream out. I'm sure it'll be some very uh I've never listened to a message that Mike Bagwell preached that I didn't learn. So And so, you know, there's been messages that I've I've been challenged in, uh, that I've enjoyed. There's been messages that stirred my heart, but they're Whenever I hear Dr. Bagwell, I always learn something about the Word of God. And uh just he's really gifted in digging into the Word of God. word and uh I'm sure it will uh encourage your heart as we're here just a few days before Resurrection Sunday. Maybe you'll have opportunity you'd like to tune out Not tonight, not for the next um thirty-five minutes or so. Uh we'll wa we'll wait and then afterwards if the maybe he's in California and it's still to come, maybe you could catch it. Uh I don't know. where he's streaming from. But turn your Bibles to the book of Hosea. If you get to Daniel there, just turn a little bit further and you'll get to Hosea. Mm one of those small books there towards the end of the Old Testament. I feel like I'm in a little bit of a of a funk. I don't know if it's the weather outside or I mean I got plenty of sleep last night, so it's not that I don't have enough sleep. I just feel like I'm uh not Not all engaged for some reason. Moving a little only firing on four cylinders or something. I don't know. Just a little bit behind for some reason. I hope that. I can get through that and preach the message the way God would want it preached. But if you're in your Bibles to Hosea, I want you to see Hosea chapter 6 and verse number 1, where our text comes from this evening He says here, Hosea chapter 6, verse number 1: Come and let us return unto the Lord. For he hath torn and he will heal us. He hath smitten and he will bind us up. We have looked at and studied uh different passages of Scripture that deal with the admonition. the encouragement of another by these the phrase, let us, let us come boldly to the throne. throne of grace. Let us pray. Let us run. There's those admonitions all through the scriptures, and I have enjoyed reading through, I've read every passage of scripture in the Word of God that has this Those two words together. Some of them are completely irrelevant. They have nothing no no encouragement, no admonition, no just kind of part of a sentence. But I read it and uh have a number of these still that I will I'm looking forward to preaching, but as we are here just a few days before Resurrection Sunday, and where we are as a people, as a church, as a nation, I'm not going to apply this tonight to the nation because I believe if we want to see change in our nation it has to start with us. Has to start with the individual, has to start with the you know, I I read a good quote this week, somebody was griping and complaining about the wickedness in our nation and uh the the the that was out there and all of what's out there in the world and they said, you know, there's somebody said there there's always been wicked wickedness. A nation doesn't rise and fall because of the wickedness, or a nation rises and falls because of the Christians. And what they're doing. There's always going to be people that are living unrighteous, wicked lives. The problem is, is when God's people are living wicked and unrighteous lives. When God's people are no different than the world. Hosea was not called a weeping prophet. That title was given to another prophet in the Old Testament. In the name of Jeremiah. But Hosea spent a fair amount of time weeping. If you understand the message that takes place in Hosea, the five states of apostasy, the uh Illustration given to us by God about the relationship in this book between Hosea and his wife, and the relationship between God and his people. Hosea's contemporaries were Amos, Isaiah, and Micah. He prophesied during the days of Uzziah the king and Ahaz the king and Hezekiah. Now, Amos was a preacher of the judgment of God. If you read the book of Amos, it is a book about the coming judgment of God, and that God is a righteous God that does judge sin. Hosea does preach the judgment of God as well, but the focus, the emphasis in the heart of Hosea is that he is a God of mercy. God is a God of mercy. This book as a whole looks into the very home of Hosea. It lays out for us the relationship between Jose and his wife, and the tragedy of their home life becomes the example of the tragedy of the homeland. What was taking place with the nation. Just as Hosea's bride was unfaithful to him, so the people of God were unfaithful to God. And Hosea's heartache The heartache of his grief became the hope of his gospel that he preached to the people So I want to start, give you three points this evening. First of all, I want you to see the description. As I lay out for you, kind of describing and explaining to you, if you those of you that might be less familiar with the story, what takes place and And kind of set the stage, as it were, of the lesson that we have here, that's concluded with the admonition. Come, let us return unto the Lord. Come, let us return unto the Lord. And I have for you tonight that admonition. God's people, let us return unto the Lord. It doesn't matter if you're at home. Doesn't matter if you haven't been able to be in God's house for these several weeks now. We need to return to God. The spirituality that the people Once had had waned. They stopped worshiping the one true living God, the Almighty God. They literally According to the verbiage that's in the book of Hosea, they had prostituted themselves in service of other gods They had worshipped the golden calves of Bethel and Dan. They had offered sacrifices to the wicked gods of Baal and Astroth. It is said that young ladies Who had just reached the age where they could possibly even attempt this would give themselves in prostitution. To the wicked God of Ashrath in hopes of a promise of fertility. Quite possibly, this is the background that Gomer came from And why she was so willing to go back to it. First, I want you to notice that The prophet was talking to everybody. This passage, every commentator you read that reads verse number six believes and says that it should be connected with chapter number five. In that it's a thought that is continuing. It's kind of the conclusion of what takes place in chapter number five. So look back at the beginning of chapter five as we first note who he's talking to. He says, Hear ye this, O priest, and hearken ye house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king. For judgment is towards you because ye have been a snare on Mizfah and a net spread upon Tabor. He lists there three groups of people. He gives for us the priests, the princes, and the people. All of them. I want you to understand the message, O come, and let us return unto the Lord is a message for everyone. Every person, regardless of their walk of life, regardless of their status or their station or their position in life, whether they are a leader in a church or whether they are a leader in the government or they are an individual, a individual person, every single one of them was held personally responsible for their role in causing the people to go after other gods. The people couldn't say, well, the prophets or the priests are the ones that led us to do this They were still held responsible. But the priests were held responsible for leading the people that way. And the government officials were held responsible for allowing it all. Everybody, the role that they played was held responsible. It's a message to everyone. He he warned them. He warned them all through chapter number five, and we're not going to read it all, but look down in verse number 14 and verse number 15. He says For I will be unto Ephraim, as a lion, and as a young lion, to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away. I will take away, and none shall rescue him. I will go and return to my place till they acknowledge their offense. And seek my face. And in their affliction they will seek me early. In their affliction they will seek me early. Do you understand, beloved, that God is here saying, Listen Judgment is coming. I'm going to be as a lion. I'm going to come and I'm going to tear. I'm going to pull you away. I'm going to judge you, there's gonna be an affliction and in your hey if you don't do it before in the affliction you're gonna look up. In the affliction you're going to come back to me. God is there giving an ample warning to the people, but before he sends the affliction and I'm not going to get into the prophetic aspect of this book and what it's talking about in the history of Israel, because there is a whole nother aspect of that But as a practical application for you and I today, I want you to understand that affliction causes us to look up. And as a nation, we certainly have been afflicted. As a group of people, we certainly have been afflicted. And we should be looking up. But the problem is not that there's affliction out there or that the world is full of sin or that as a nation it's all the wickedness that has caused this to come. The problem is God's people have gone away. He says, as a matter of mercy, he says, Hey, here's a warning, but Oh Israel, come let us return. Let us return. We don't have to wait. Beloved, it saddens my heart when I think how apt we are, how prone we are to wander. I wish it wasn't so. I wish it wasn't so. I wish, as I thought and pondered on this the last few days, even in my own heart and my own life, I I just pleaded with God and said, I wish it wasn't so. I wish my heart didn't want to wander. I wish once I became committed, and once I was stirred, and once I was on fire, that there would be no desire to go back towards the old things I wish that my my heart would be set, that there would be no pole towards the world ever again. But beloved, we are prone to wander. I fear this time right now where we as a church are separated. Beloved, we are not A church is a called out assembly. I hope in your heart and mind, every one of you that are watching online right now are not satisfied with what you're getting through a stream. Because that is not church. We are striving to minister to your soul and to feed your spirit spiritually during this time, but It is not the same as God's plan for the church that Jesus Christ died for, that He gave Himself for, that is a group of people that are called out and assemble together. I look forward to and long for the time and we can assemble together. But I know Because I'm human just like you and I know what happens in a time like this where we can't gather together and you're at home and you're all casual and kicked back and you got your feet up and you're watching the service I mean, it's going to take a miracle from heaven, a lightning bolt from the sky to get your attention. I know that. Because you're not in God's house. Because there becomes a spirit of lackadaisical carelessness. It's I've been there. It's like we're on vacation. You know when you're on vacation you kind of let your hair down? Most people you get you get comfortable. You know, maybe you would get up in the morning when you're on your schedule and you've got your work schedule and you've got your pattern and you get up and you read the word of God and And you've got that plan and everything's right there. But when you're on vacation, it's like, man, I got all day to read the word. I'll get to that later. And then the day passes and you're like, well it's okay, I can read two days tomorrow because I mean we're on vac we're just on we're just relaxing. It's vacation time. What happens is we get comfortable and we begin to wander, but praise God, a vacation usually only lasts a week or ten twelve days or something. Now we've gone week after week after week and I'm afraid that God's people will begin to wander. Our hearts and minds, our dedication to God, our commitment to His house, our commitment to the things of God and pursuing God and doing what's right in our life will begin to wane. The heart of the Christian who is walking in the fear of the Lord may at times slip. We may let something in here or there. The fact is, beloved, is we do find pleasure in sin. Regardless of the fervency of our heart, at times Satan is able to slip in there. And there is pleasure in sin for a season. We begin to enjoy, to cherish those secret indulgences which aren't pleasing to God. But beloved, let me remind you that when that seed of sin is rooted in your life, it will bring forth death. Oh, it's just a small thing right now. Maybe nobody even knows about it. Maybe it's hidden in the background. Maybe it's just something of secret sin that you have in your life. That lust lies dormant in the heart of man. It sits in the shadows until a day when we are a little less vigilant than we might normally be. And it comes back. It comes back at times of indifference. Just like Gomer, who was loved and taken into the family by Hosea, who was cherished by him We have been loved and adopted into the family of God. Yet, like Gomer, after having experienced that love, after having three kids with Hosea. She began to long for her old life. She went back to her old lovers. Hosea's love for her caused him to seek her out To find her. He found her in chains on the auction block. And he once again sacrifices to buy her back. He pays the price when she's the one that sinned. Friend, that's where we are. We're prone to wander. We go back to that sin which puts us back in bondage, back in slavery, and the Savior, our Heavenly Father comes looking for where we are. Let me just remind you one fact about wandering is that when we wander, a little bit of wandering usually leads to greater wandering. A little way off the beaten path usually leads towards a long trip down that road. You know the statement that sin will take you further than you want to go and keep you longer than you wanted to stay and cost you more than you wanted to pay. You know the saying, well that's what I'm saying right now, is that when we tend to wander It it just as a matter of natural course of things we i it's not I mean hey you try and eat one chip out of a bag when you're on a diet. Just one chip. That's all I'm gonna eat. Well maybe three or four. Before you know it, you ate the whole bag. That's what happens when we allow just one little bit of sin in. I think about the example of David who should have gone to battle, but he didn't. Oh, that's a little thing. After all, he's earned it. But then he was not where he was supposed to be, and that opened the door for him to be able to see Bathsheba. And that sight turned to lust. And he called her to his house. Lied with her, and that led to calling the head of his men, one of his greatest warriors, back and having him killed. What I'm saying is when we're prone to wander, it doesn't it's not just a little bit, friend. We look at it and we think it's just this. Not that bad. I can handle it. I can still but it always leads to greater folly. First, one wanders from the work, the work of God Right. Oh, I I I'm too busy to get involved right now. I'm too busy to do anything for the Lord right now, but that's not I I mean I still love God and I'm gonna serve God and that's not I just I'm just gonna not I just can't be involved in the work right now. But then they wander from the worship. Right. Because now the worship of God is at odds with their current interest. And it was never their plan to leave the worship, but they allowed themselves to wander from the work and then they wander from the love of God. Until every relationship in their life is at odds with them. And they wonder how did I get here? How did I get to this place where I can't even get along with my closest friend or I can't even get along with my boss at work and I can't get along with my wife? How did I get here? What has happened? We've wandered so far from God. At first it's just perilousness, but it leads to those things which are far more perilous. Beloved, the chief purpose of chastisement is not the dispensation of God's wrath, but the development of restitution. God's goal here, he warned them in the end of chapter number five, he says, Hey, judgment's coming. Hey Wrath is coming. Oh, let us return unto the Lord. Return, because the goal is that you would return. God is not looking for an opportunity to judge you. God is not looking for an opportunity just to hit you over the head, to call you back into line, to get your attention. God wants to shower his love and grace and mercy on you, but you've got to return in order for that to happen. Even though they had gone after other gods, the one true and living God wanted them back more than anything. He longed to fellowship with them again, and he called them unto himself, just as he warns them of that sin. That sin that breaks the law, he also tells them how it breaks the heart of God. God will always deal with sin But if we would return to him, we could know his mercy. And that is why there is extended for us today an invitation. An invitation to return. Come, let us return unto the Lord. We're warned to flee the wrath that is to come on one hand, and we're urged to return to the Lord on the other. One man, as I was reading, was describing the judgment of God and said that God never judges his people with both hands. Because there is always one open, ready to receive the repentant heart. Might be one even knows about maybe nobody knows about what you've been doing. But you've drifted far away from God. Tonight there's no An invitation for you. First, you need to return to where you left. The invitation here is extended to the Christian, the one who once stood next to God, the one who at times had fire and zeal in their heart, but now they've grown cold and they've grown distant. That invitation is to the Christian, the one whose heart once was on fire. You're to return to the Lord. Beloved, I can't wait till we can get back in God's house. But this poll, this Statement, this request, this invitation is not let us return to church. Church helps us. Return to God. But you can return to God even if we cannot yet return to church. It's not a matter of returning to the work that you were doing. It's not a matter of returning to the giving that you were doing. It's not a matter of, oh, oh, I used to work on the bus route. I'm gonna start doing that again. You better not. Those things are a result of Returning to God. You better return to God. And God will once again start a fire in you and allow you to be able to begin to do the works that you once did. For faith without works is dead. God is a God of restitution because He is the God of resurrection He can and is willing to restore you if you would return. He is always ready to welcome you back. You can come back at every any time. I know that the devil, even now, in your heart and mind is saying, oh, you've failed so many times. Oh, you've messed up so many times. You've come back so many times. We know by the testimony of God that even in our lives, how many times we are to forgive one another, the example is set. Such that we should not be counting. There is no measure. And God has extended his love towards you and I. And I know we feel like failures because so many times We've had to come again and return and return. But beloved, the solution is death, and that is not what we want. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Separation from God, and you cannot lose your salvation, but you can be separated from fellowship with God. And there are so many Christians that are living in that state even though they're sitting in a pew. Even though they're walking in the house, even though they are carrying a Bible or maybe serving in a Sunday school class or working in junior church or serving on a bus route or distributing John and Romans. They're doing it all the while their heart is far from God. If you're going to return to God, you can come back at any time, in any place, in any way. God wants you to come, but I want you to understand that repentance is the requirement. Repentance is the requirement. You can't just decide, oh, I I'm going to come back, but I want to hold on to this. The example given to us here in Hosea is the example of a whore. You think about a woman that lives that lifestyle. You think about somebody that knows no shame. They know no shame. They just put it all out there. Everybody knows who and what they are, and they become proud of it. They have no shame, no embarrassment. Beloved, if we're gonna return to God, we gotta be at the place where we're ashamed of our sin. We realize and acknowledge the fact that we've sinned before an Almighty God and are in danger and deserve to be judged by him, but his mercy and grace will allow us to come into To return. If we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin. You cannot come as the Pharisee, proud and haughty. With what you think you're doing for God, you've got to come as the publican. Right. Humble and repentant. You can't just say, boy, I missed the fellowship with God, so I'm gonna move back into your presence, Lord. Not without dealing with the sin. You're not. Because God won't restore the fellowship until you fix the problem. You've got to renounce and reject that sin in your life. Right. In the back of every backslidden heart there's hope for restoration. There's been days, months, times in my life More numerous than I can count, where I knew in my heart I was backslidden. In the back of my heart there was hope that I could return to God. There is that longing. Look in verse number six. He says, Come and let us return unto the Lord. It says here, he hath torn. And he will heal us. He hath smitten, and he will bind us up. You see the compassion and the love of God in those statements. He hath torn. But he will heal the wound. He is smitten, but he will bind you up. God's chastisement is that you would return. And in his compassion and care, he will bind you up. If we're going to return, it's going to take determination. We have to come to the place where we realize we've been living in sin and we need to return to God. I'm not going to take the time to read it, but Psalms chapter 38, I would encourage you to read it, where you see the penitent heart of David and where he acknowledges and realizes his sin. He says, Bring to remembrance, O Lord. Rebuke me not of thy wrath. He says, I'm feeble, sore, broken. He acknowledges where he is at, and if we're going to come to God, we've got to get to the place where we're fully aware of our condition and we are determined to return. Amen. Beloved, until things get that bad, we usually just justify in our mind our sin. We usually just think, oh, it's not that bad. I can deal with it. As long as I can hide it, it's okay. Beloved, what happens when we truly get repentant before God? We don't even care who knows about it. Because we realize and acknowledge that the one that matters, our Almighty God, already knows about it. And nobody else really matters. It doesn't matter what somebody else thinks of me. And we get to the place where nothing's going to stop me. It doesn't matter who knows. It doesn't matter what it cost me. It doesn't matter what I have to do. I've got to return. I've got to come to God I've got to get to the altar. I've got to seek God's face. I've got to find a way to get back into God's presence. That's when we're determined to reach Him, and nothing's going to stop us. Yeah. There are some who are that kind of determined in their hobby. That kind of determined in their work, in their vocation, in their job, that kind of determined in their pursuit of their life. My family and I watched a true story of a young man this week who wanted to be a baseball player. He's 12 years old and He was not picked for the team. He was so discouraged and downhearted and his dad came in and said, You can you can play next year What you need to do is don't give up. You need to be determined. You practice every day between now and next year. You will be the best player on the team You don't give up. You just work that much harder. You didn't make the cut, but next year you won't make the cut. You'll be the cut. And he fired his son up. And and he said, so you start tomorrow morning. That next morning that boy was with his dad at like 4. 30 in the morning. We're starting. He's like, well, I was kind of talking figuratively. I was not really he's like we gotta do it and the boy did and he went and was put onto a team that had never won anything. And he took that team all the way to the World Series for Little League Baseball. Yeah. Why? Because he was determined. He practiced every day. Had that ball in his hand all the time. How determined are you to be with God? That boy get out of out of bed at four thirty in the morning to go out and throw the baseball. But we can't get out of bed to talk to God. Right. You know why? Because we don't care to. Right. Beloved, I have a burden for the family of God right now I fear Satan is going to try and get a foothold in the lives of God's people during these days when we can't gather as a church, where we can't admonish and encourage one another. another in person. Just today I was texting Brother Matt Sensis, our missionary. He said, Brother, is there anything I can pray for you about? And Without hesitation, I said, pray that God's people will remain vigilant. That they'll be sober. Because there's a roaring lion. out to destroy you. He encouraged me and said that he would. I ask you tonight, Christian Have you wandered? Have you gotten relaxed? Have you gotten a little bit just a little careless since we haven't been meeting since You know, just drift it a little bit. I mean, I'm not saying you're out in sin. I'm not saying you're being wicked or doing things wrong, but I'm saying the fire is gone. Could I ask you, would you Return unto the Lord tonight. play a moment of invitation here on the piano and don't tune out don't turn the stream off don't get up and leave the living room This is not a matter of just doing your duty tonight. Just fulfilling your responsibilities you watch church I'm asking God to move on the heart of God's people that He would stir us. And I ask you if you would take a minute and just say, just ask God, God, have I drifted? Have I wandered? I want to return to you tonight.