All right. Want to get into the Word of God this evening. You can turn to Galatians chapter number five. Galatians chapter number five. We are getting to the end of our Let Us series. Uh some of you might be saying No, thank thank you. Uh I d I don't know, I've enjoyed it and uh to me it's been wonderful because they they vary so much. Uh it's not like we're hitting the same topic. They they every one of them Is different and goes a different direction and it encourages us into a new a new path. And the topic before us today is such that every believer That's ever walked on earth has faced this challenge in some way. Has to deal with this thought that we're going to deal with this evening. And as soon as we think that we've achieved some measure of victory with regards to it in our own heart, there again it arises. And we yet again have to deal with it. Look in Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 26. Galatians 5 and verse 26 is the text for this evening where we find one of the let us not. That adding to the list here. He says, let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. The title for this evening is Let Us Not Desire Glory. The scriptures puts in that word vain glory there, vainglory, and we're going to talk about that a little bit, but In the context of this passage of Scripture, you know Galatians chapter 5 is dealing with the fruit of the Spirit And the spirit-filled life that we're to live a life that is filled with the Spirit, and we're to walk not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. But to fulfill that which God would want us to fulfill. He says immediately after that Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another and envying one another. Right after the admonition to walk in the Spirit, right after the uh completion of of Dealing with the fruit of the Spirit and what's going to be present in a Christian's life. And I think he's basically saying, hey, here's how you be successful as a Christian. But let's not get too proud of our success. I think that's what he's saying here. He said, but let us not be desirous of vainglory. And boy, what a masterful work of Satan when the children of God begin to glory in doing right. When we begin to glory in Walking in the Spirit, which is something that we don't do in and of ourselves. It's given to us by God. It's not something that we accomplish on our own. We know that there's a call for us to Glory in some other things. Paul clearly gives to us the admission the admonition and Just the next chapter in Galatians 6, 14 says, But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we should not glory in our own uh victories, but in what Christ does in and through us and So tonight I want to encourage us to be reminded of the fact that we're not to be desirous of this Vainglory. First of all, I want you to think about or ponder with me the fingerprint of vainglory. What is the defining mark? What is that thing that you could look at and say that is definitely Vainglory. What is the definition of it as you were? Well, vainglory is something that's common to all men. It's something that we all deal with. First of all, the scripture tells us there hath no temptation taken you, but such is common to man. Amen. Everybody deals with the temptations that Satan brings into our lives, and this is one of them that he would bring in to every one of us. As we begin to be successful as a Christian. Satan wants us to come and start, man, I'm really doing good. I'm getting this Christian thing down. I'm I'm pretty I'm pretty successful. at this. I really understand. Boy, I sure can get a lot out of the scriptures, man. I'm just really gifted at drawing from the Word of God those rich deep truths that feed the soul. You know what I'm saying? I mean we just start God begins to work in us and all of a sudden we start getting full of us It's something that's common to all men, young and old alike, small and great, from every walk of life. You know, it doesn't matter. You could go to the most backwards village in the world And you will find men and women there who are desirous of vainglory. From your standpoint, you come into that little village and you would think they have nothing to glory in here This little uh hole in the wall place where these people are living in in dirt huts and thatched roofs and no windows and doors and hardly have food to put on the table, yet there still becomes a hierarchy here. There. There becomes kind of a desirous of vainglory, and there's certain things that they're recognized for and they strive to achieve. Do you know today the number one aspiration of 10 to 12 year old children is It's not riches. It's not financial security. It's fame. They want their Instagram photo to get a million hits. They want their YouTube posts to go viral. It's the number one desire of 10 to 12 year olds today is that 15 minutes of fame. To be recognized, to be seen, to be looked at with awe In one in twelve, twenty-two to thirty-seven-year-olds say they would disown their own family if they would be guaranteed fame. One in twelve, twenty-two to thirty-seven year olds, said they would literally just they they could do without their family. The desire for vainglory is something that is in the heart of man. And just because we got saved And because we've reached some level of sanctification, doesn't mean that part of the old flesh isn't there still. It is still there. And every one of us deal with it. We have that human pride that literally is the root of it. The one who indulges in vainglory has forgotten, from whom all things come. You see, that's we start to get prideful in our own accomplishments, not realizing or remembering That every accomplishment is made available or possible because of God. 1 Corinthians 15, verse number 10 says, but by the grace of God. I am what I am. Recognizing that, realizing that. And and when we start to feel or or certain sense that we are getting desirous of vain glory, we need to be reminded, like Paul, that but for the grace of God I am what I am. It's not me, but Christ that worketh in me How dare we glory in our faith that was given to us by God? Not something that we did on our own. All we have and are is because of God. It was accomplished. And through him. This idea of vain glory, a driving desire to be recognized or praised for some accomplishment You want to be noticed, you want to be recognized, you want to be seen for having accomplished this or having done that or having succeeded at this or that. You you desire that and and if you didn't get thanked or you didn't get praised or nobody recognized you Does it leave you in your heart thinking, man? Nobody thanked me, nobody saw me. That desire that's there. Matthew chapter 6 and verse number 5, he says, And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogue. And in the corners of the streets that they may be what? Remember? Seen of men Seen of men. Their goal was not to get a hold of God. Their goal was not to see God do miraculous things in their midst. Their goal was that the men literally vainglory That they would be seen of men. It's vain because what did that accomplish? It accomplished nothing. Friend, when we gather in church here, if we stand up before the church and get the privilege to sing, or we get the privilege to open in prayer, or to pray for the offering, or to play the piano, or the instruments. Beloved, we have got to fight against the desire for vainglory because if it's just that we are seen of men, it has accomplished nothing. We stand up here and pray and ask God to meet with us and to challenge us and to do a work in the service. And if it's just so that the men that are present here can hear how eloquently we can talk to the Lord. We didn't even talk to God and God's not going to do it. It's vain glory. It accomplishes nothing. It does nothing for us. Vain literally means empty or meaningless. I mean how empty and meaningless is the glory of men anyway. I mean when we really think about it. John 5. 44 says, How can ye believe which receive honor one of another, and seek not the honor that cometh from God alone? He says, how ca how is this that you would seek honor from one for another, but not honor from God? You know, man's glory is so fleeting. It's easy come, easy go. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't accomplish anything. You think about the praise of men. One will brag on the opulent beauty of a place, while another praises the simplicity of their One will boast that they belong to this church or that, while another boasts that they belong to nothing. One will boast how he can eat. So much. And other will boast about how they eat so little. What I'm saying is we could go through the list, we could go down the list and bring up any topic you want, and there's people on both sides of it. It just happens to be what people feel like talking about at that time, and yet we desire for that to prop us up To have the praise of men. And what we should desire is to be acceptable in the sight of God. Psalm Psalms 19, verse number 14, said that the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. Amen. We should desire to be acceptable in God's sight. Not so much that we would be acceptable in the sight of men, not so much that men would praise us for uh what we've accomplished as Christians or how well we do at this or that, but that God would be pleased. As I think about displaying vainglory in our life, uh the desire for vainglory, how does it reveal itself in our lives? Well here's something. Anytime we put up a front for the recognition or the praise of others. You know, we all like to look our best, do our best, put our best foot forward. That type of thing, but it becomes a consuming desire where we don't want anybody to see us with a hair out of place. Praise the Lord. I don't have that problem. We get to the point where we just everything has to be just so and boy if anybody dropped by and the house wasn't just right They might think that you weren't the perfect homekeeper. And when everybody knows That the house is not perfect 24 hours a day, seven days a week, especially with four kids in the house. Yet we want to protect our image, don't we? Maybe it's just me. You know a very prevalent place today that you see this desire for vainglory is called Facebook. Where people post these images of their life. Here is my life. One little picture of one little segment of your life that's glamorized, that's we're having this the most amazing meal Like you and your family bask in this every evening. And you know it's been years since you went to a restaurant restaurant that night. You know what I I'm just saying it's it's we put out the best image and everybody look at me and look what I get to do or look where I'm at or or And listen, there's not it's not sinful to share with our friends and family and say, here's what's going on, and but there you understand there is that kind of imagery where we want to put the best pictures up None of you ladies are rolling over in the morning, getting out of bed, and just going, click. Me at 6. 05, just letting you know. Just letting you see the real me. No, you're not doing that. You know, you wait till everything's just right, till the makeup's right, you set the lighting just right, and you you know, here it is, and and oh this is me, look at the meal I've made That desire for vain glory. It feeds our pride. You know, sometimes vain glory can be seen in parents and The motivation for why they're disciplining their kids. Because Are we disciplining them because we understand this is a character flaw and if this isn't fixed, it's going to hurt them. They need to address this. Or are we disciplining them because Because they're making us look bad in front of other adults. You know how you can tell the difference? When you let them get away with it at home when nobody else is around? And you don't take care of it, but when you're at church and somebody else sees them act that way, your motivation for taking care of that problem is wrong. The only reason you're disciplining them is because somebody else saw it and that makes you look bad. And you're worried about how you look, not the character of your child When the care for the child is what matters, you take care of it at home. That's not to say your kids won't ever do something stupid in front of anybody. other people. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. They are going to do that. And they're going to embarrass you. But we have to control that desire in our heart. I'm gonna kill that kid. Why? Because he just made me look like a bad parent. What is the motivation? It reveals our heart's desire. Do we want that vainglory? What do others think of me? Vainglory is what do others think of me. Pride is what I think of myself. And we desire the vainglory because of the pride that we have. So what is this what is the fruit? What is the fruit of this? Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. Beloved, desiring vainglory causes us to live a lie. This is one of the main motivations for hypocrisy. We want people to think that we are hyperspiritual We put up this front, this lie, this this mirage of who we are in front of people at the church We have this desire for that image. And so we live as hypocrites because we know in our heart this is not us. We know in our heart this is Not what's real in our heart, but we put up this front because why? Because we want to be recognized as spiritual, we want to be recognized as godly, we want to be recognized as somebody that walks with the Lord or has their devotions or has a Bible or knows the scriptures, whatever it might be. And it's that desire for vainglory that causes us to begin to live a lie, to promote this hypocrisy in our lives I know my heart. Therefore, I'm going to work to keep others from seeing my heart. Desiring vainglory ultimately will cost you relationships. Because it causes you to keep people Listen, I I'm not Stepping on anybody's I I I am stepping on some toes, but I I'm not I don't want to be hateful or mean, I want to help you. And You see, when we desire vainglory so much that we are keeping this front up, that we keep people at a Distance because we don't want them to see the real us. We don't want them to know what we really are. And therefore we can't let them in We can't be ourselves. We can't just be open. We can't just be transparent. We have to be on guard. Because the real us is not what we are portraying, and therefore we are keeping everybody in our life at a distance. Listen, I've I've had people that would not want me to come to their house. No, Pastor, I'll meet you somewhere. Where do you where do you want to meet? Why Because that is too close for them. They have to keep me at a distance And it's not just me. It's others. Listen, beloved, the motivation here is not to just let everybody see our sin. The motivation is if there's something in our life life that's not right that should be changed. We need to change it. And it's the desire for vainglory that causes us to put up this front, that causes us to keep people at a distance that we can't Let people in. We have to have our guard on. We can't just be ourselves and be open with each other. We've crafted this image and we've got to protect it. False or not, I know that if you get too close to me, you're going to see the truth. Therefore, I must remain distant. I know you all had relationships like this. Where people that you desired to try and get close to and it seemed like every time you reach this point and it's like I guess they don't want to let me in. They don't they gotta keep me out, or maybe even in our own heart. We've done that I'll throw this out there. Sometimes that happens because of previous hurts, not because of Something somebody's hiding, but because they've been hurt greatly in the past and they they are just they guard themselves because of that, that that does happen. There'd be warning to you, husbands and wives, when you hurt your mate, you understand that they're going to be putting up a a guard against that hurt from happening again. And that puts a level between you and her that shouldn't be there. And let's say for instance We can use John and Stephanie because they're just getting married and they haven't had any problems yet. They're still on the honeymoon, right? Let's say John is careless with his mouth and He jokingly in front of others degrades his wife. He wasn't thinking anything of it, but that hurt her Now she's going to be careful how much she opens up to him about things that are important to her because she doesn't want what's important to her being taken and blabbed about around the church. And he might not even realize it, but she's starting to distance herself from him. So you've got to be careful about that, because that's another cause for that distance responsibility. But what we're dealing with tonight is the vainglory, the desiring of vainglory. It causes us to live at a distance from each other. That's a fruit from it. And you've got to be careful when you see that happening, it's vainglory that causes that. It causes you to reject what God is trying to do in your own heart In John 12, verse 42 and 43, he says, Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also, many believed on him. But listen to the reason why they did not turn to him. Nevertheless, among the chief rulers also many believed on him, but because of the Pharisees. They did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue. They believed on Christ. But because of the image that they had before the Pharisees, because of what other men thought of them, they did not turn to Christ. And beloved, I want you to understand that Satan uses this to keep people from turning to Christ to this day. Many, many times, the motivation, the reason that somebody won't turn to Christ and trust the Lord as their Savior is because of what is my family going to think? What are my friends going to think? What am I going to do? Now that's dealing with the loss, but listen, let's bring it close to home for you and I. Many times I know this because for the majority of my life I sat where you all are sitting this evening. Many times the Holy Spirit of God comes and knocks on your heart's door. touches your heart about something and you think I ought to go down to that altar and pray. But then Satan comes and says, but somebody in the church is going to think that you have that problem if you go pray right now. Oh, you can just pray later. You can just pray on your own. You can just pray in your seat. You don't have to go to the altar. You don't have to make that decision right now. You can do that later. What's somebody else going to think if you go pray right now? I know Satan does that. They're gonna think you have this problem. They're gonna think this is your issue. They're gonna think, what is somebody gonna think? Uh How many testimonies have we heard in this church about a Christian or, let me say, somebody who was attending church for a lot of years, and they had come to the conclusion that they weren't saved? But they didn't make the decision for Christ for a long time because why? Because everybody thought I was already saved. And what are they going to think if I stand up and tell them I wasn't saved? Right? Do you understand it's vainglory that puts that in the heart of men? Let us not be desirous of vainglory, the fruit of this, beloved, it's costly. It causes us to live a lie. It causes us to live at a distance from our relationships. It causes us not, or to re- it causes us to reject what Christ is trying to do in our own heart. How do you recognize vain glory in your in yourself? Other than the things that I've pointed out or talked about thus far, let me just throw out a few questions or a few statements and And you evaluate in your own heart, is this me? Am I desirous of vainglory? Let me ask you this. Or ask yourself this, am I intimidated around certain people? What would cause us to be intimidated around somebody else Our evaluation or expectation or or of them is that somehow they're superior? Or that we don't quite measure up, or that somehow we're not as gifted, or whatever it might be, and we're desirous of that main glory, we're desirous of being recognized in that group or that class or whatever it is And we get intimidated because we're not. When I'm criticized, do I get angry and defensive? Do I get angry and defensive Does the praise of men or lack of it have a direct correlation to my motivation? Am I more motivated to do something because men praised me? Or if people don't praise me, am I less motivated? I'm not going to bother doing it. You see, what is your motivation? What is your heart's desire? Do we want to please men or please God? Do you make your decisions based on what people think or on what is right or wrong? You see, one that's desirous of vainglory would make his decision on how it's going to be perceived. What will these people think about this or that? Will you be honest with yourself when you get dressed to go to an event Do you get dressed so that you look good or to represent Christ? When you post that picture online, do you post it that others will be impressed with you or your skill or your abilities? When you communicate with family and friends, do you represent Yourself or Christ? Are you a representative of yourself or Christ? Are you you might be like one model that I read about Juan Isidore Castella. He created full page Gucci perfume ads of himself. Okay, he created the ad, took the photos, did the editing, produced the ad, posing as an ad agency. For Gucci, he had the ad put in several magazines. So he did it all of it all himself. He was his own agent. Nobody was the wiser until the accounting department at Gucci got the bill for the ads. Because he had nothing to do with Gucci. Testing, are you an agent for yourself? Who are you trying to make look good when you criticize someone else? This is one of the things I really try and work on with the kids. It really doesn't make you look any better when you knock someone someone else down. It doesn't make you any bigger. But that's our mindset. Who are you trying to make look good when you complain about someone? When you're stating somebody's deficiencies or shortcomings. I wonder. See the motivation for vainglory is what causes us to do that. The last thing let me give you how do you fight against this How do you fight against it? It's something we all deal with. It rises back up, we get it under control, and it'll come back. It's something that we've got to continually as Christians face and to fight. If you're going to fight against this desire for vainglory in your life, first of all, you've got to remember the biblical truths that God hates pride. Proverbs 617. Six things that saw Lord Hey J. Seven is an abomination unto him. The first is a proud book. God resisteth the proud. We want God's help. We want God's favor. We want God's blessing on our life. But God's very clear, He resisteth. Resist the proud. We need to mortify the flesh. Romans 8. 13 says, For if ye Live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. We know it's the old flesh that desires that glory, as the old flesh that wants that recognition When we're walking in the Spirit, our our goal is to deflect it all to God. Our goal is to just deflect it to God. And any ability God's given to us is for His honor and glory. And we're not out to try and absorb that and to take it in, but to deflect it to the Lord. Remember the biblical truths there. Remember that all I am is because of God. That God is the one that's done this work in me. Everything that I am, every ability we have, every strength we have. is because of God. God's allowed us to attain this level of whatever it is, whatever strength you might have, whatever ability or gift of God that you you've got It's because of God. His grace working in us. And then remember what the opposite of vainglory is Some very familiar passage of scripture in Philippians 2, verses 3 through 8. He says, Let nothing be done through strife or what? Vainglory. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. And then you have here a very clear picture of what the opposite of vainglory is, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem others better than themselves. That's hard to do. Are we looking for somebody else's glory? When somebody else is recognized or praised, does it bother you? Do you think nobody's ever thought that about me? Or nobody ever said I did a good job? Why do they get praised? That's vain glories Motivation for those thoughts. Let each esteem others better than themselves, and Christ is the ultimate example of that. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not Robert to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant. The likeness of man, and being found in the fashionness of man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. This is the opposite of vainglory. That's lowliness of mind Esteeming others better than ourselves, following the example that Christ gave us. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Let us not be desirous of vain glory. Lord, we come to you tonight. We're grateful for Your word. Lord, this is something that every one of us deals with. Lord, there's not one person in here that if they're honest before you Could say that they don't deal with the desire for vainglory. Lord, we need truly the Spirit of God to give us the strength to mortify the flesh. To help us to walk in the Spirit, to help us be what we need to be as Christians, and not seek to be praised of man or to have this glory. be recognized ourselves, but to truly deflect and live to bring honor and glory to you and to esteem others better than ourselves. Lord would you help us with that? We ask in Jesus' name. Amen