Is write down the extra ones and be ready to just just follow along. A lot of what we're looking at will come from Galatians chapter 5. If you know your Bible You know probably where we're where we're headed as we're getting in the latter half of chapter, Galatians chapter 5. If I said 22 23. Um you should know that we're talking there about the fruit of the Spirit. Now that's not where our text comes this evening. You know I've been preaching on and teaching on Thursday nights these last few weeks on the Let Us series. The admonition in the scriptures to let us. So tonight's thought is let us walk in the spirit. And it comes from verse number 25, Galatians chapter 5, and verse number 25. He says, if we live in the spirit, Let us also walk in the Spirit. If we live in the Spirit, that is, we are made alive by the Spirit of God, if we have been given eternal life by the Spirit of God. and thereby we are living our lives, then let us walk daily in the Spirit of God. Now, what does it mean to walk in the Spirit of God? What does it mean, this idea to be filled with the Spirit of God? This is one of the topics in the scriptures that is grossly misunderstood. Grossly messed up. It is a doctrine that's in the Word of God, but today this teaching around the Holy Spirit is. in falsely interpreted in many ways and applied in many ways that aren't true. There's lots of teaching out there that goes contrary to what the Word of God says You understand there's no biblical precedent or principle given to us in the Word of God about the majority of the teachings around the Holy Spirit that are propagated today. I think churches like ours, including me, I probably don't teach on the Holy Spirit enough So that God's people really have an understanding and they can really grasp and know what the work of the Holy Spirit is in the life of a Christian, and they're easily caught up in This these false teachings. Partly it's my fault, our fault as leaders, as pastors, by not teaching enough. Where people they know sound doctrine in this area, and when they hear false doctrine, they're able to stand against it So tonight I want to talk to you about this idea of walking in the Spirit, and there's no way that I could uh by any means give you a full encompassing lesson tonight on the Holy Spirit and and the ministry of the Holy Spirit and who he is and all all the that that it entails. But I'm going to touch on a few things just to kind of lay a foundation. And when we get to our last point tonight, that's going to be really the heart of the message, but we've got to lay some groundwork for you. And first of all, Those that are filled or indwelled with the Holy Spirit, you must be saved. You've got to be saved to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 9 says, But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. Now, if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. When you're saved, the Holy Spirit comes to dwell in you. The Holy Spirit dwells in your life He is there. You get all of the Holy Spirit at that time. If you have the Spirit of God dwelling in you, then it we should be Filled with the Holy Spirit. Now I'm putting that word filled in quotes. It's a biblical term, and I shouldn't have to, but a lot of times we have a misconception Because of the idea of being filled. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 18, verse 18 says, and be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled With the Spirit. So we are to be filled, but a lot of times because our minds think so literally, we have a hard time grasping. Well, what does that mean? How do I get filled? And the idea of many young Christians is, well, when am I going to get the rest of the Holy Spirit? I mean, I got saved and I know the Holy Spirit came to dwell in me, but when do I get the rest of them? Yeah. Well I said that him a little bit emphasized because I want you to understand the Holy Spirit is a person. You have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And you should not think that at salvation you got just his arm. Or you got just his legs. You understand, if you understand the principle and you know that he is a person, you should understand that at the moment of salvation, when he comes to dwell in you, you get all of him. You you have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, and in fact you have all of the Holy Spirit that you're ever going to get. I know you're disappointed. Man, I thought I was gonna get a lot more of them. No. And those of you that have been in church s like this sometime, you understand that you don't get more of the Holy Spirit. What happens over time? is the Holy Spirit gets more of you. That is what we're working towards because at salvation we get all of the Holy Spirit. But then as we yield to him and as we surrender to him and as he points things out in our lives and we slowly start giving over to him, the Holy Spirit gets more. more of us. We've all heard the statement that D. Al Moody uh was said or or was said to him. I can't recall right now, but he said uh God is yet to see what the world is yet to see what God could do with a man who was 100% totally surrendered to him. And he said, by God's grace, I'll be that man. What he is saying is god the world is yet to see what God could do with an individual that the Holy Spirit had all of. Everything was in the power and and direction and leadership of the Holy Spirit. There was nothing that we were holding back. Now, Pastor Derek gave me a great illustration talking about this today and the idea or the contrast between a lady who has a home. That's her home. That's her dwelling. She's in the house. And when you walk in the house, you can see her handiwork in every room of the house. She's keeping the whole of the house clean and she has her pictures of her family on the walls and you have all all through the house everywhere you go you see how she's touched it she's influenced it it's her home But then the lady gets a little older and you see where maybe she gets moved into an assisted living facility. Well now she's in that building But there's a lot of that building that she hasn't touched. There's a lot of that building that's not influenced by her. You have to go into that one particular room where she is And you look at that room and you say, oh, this is where she dwells. And you see, beloved, what happens to us as Christians many times, we get saved, we get all of the Holy Spirit, but we take him and we put him into a little part of our life. Sunday morning. Sunday night. That's your spot, Holy Spirit. We lock him away in that compartment of our life, and the rest of our life is ours. And if somebody was to come and to observe our life and they could look into it as it were as the illustration gets carried out into every room of our life, how many rooms would they see that the Holy Spirit had influence? Where would we be allowing him to give complete direction or where would we be controlling I want you to think about several principles as we go through tonight. First of all, the blessing of the Holy Spirit. I'm not going to spend long here, but I just want to encourage you with the fact that the Holy Spirit is a gift given to us by God. I just can't imagine going through life, even as a Christian, without the ministry of the Holy Spirit in my life. Without him serving as that comforter that dwells inside, that's there in the hours of the of night, that's there in the hour of trial that's there in every situation, that's there, convicting when sin is in our life and encouraging when we're trying to do right, the ministry of the Holy Spirit given to us. Because why? Because Jesus was going to be taken away. And he was not going to be here, but he's going to send another in his place. And so we have the Holy Spirit that's given to us the blessing of the Holy Spirit's ministry in our life. The Holy Spirit is the one that leads us into all truth. As you read the Word of God, it is the Holy Spirit that opens up these pages and makes them understandable to the Christian. That applies the truths in the Word of God to our life. The more yielded you are to the Holy Spirit as you're reading the Word of God, the more the Word of God will impact you directly. It is the ministry of the Holy Spirit that guides us into all truth. It is, the Holy Spirit has a ministry of a spirit of liberty, according to Romans chapter 8, verse number 2. He is the spirit of truth, John 14, 17. Just write these references down. He is the spirit of power and love and a sound mind 2 Timothy 7, verse number 1. I'm sorry, 1, verse number 7. 2 Timothy 1, 7. He is the spirit of holiness, Romans chapter 1 and verse number 4. He is the spirit of wisdom, Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 17. The Holy Spirit, the blessing of the Holy Spirit. Praise God and thank God tonight for the Holy Spirit that is ours. If you're saved and on your way to heaven, you've trusted Jesus Christ tonight, you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you. You should be thankful for that. Now in Galatians chapter number five, I want you to see that there's also a battle that takes place in the life of the Christian with the Spirit. It's a never ending battle that takes place. Look in Ephesians chapter five and verse number seventeen. The Bible says here for the flesh Lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary the one to the other. So that ye cannot do the things that you would. Beloved, there's a battle between the flesh and the spirit That takes place in the life of every Christian. One of the signs or the things that you can look at in your life to say, well, am I really saved? Does is there a battle in your life between the flesh and the spirit? Right. Do you experience that That battle, that struggle, that internal uh struggle that takes place when we're not yielded to the Spirit, and the Spirit would like us to be yielded, and that flesh wants to do this, but the spirit says no and you say to the spirit I'm gonna do this and the flesh says no do you experience that battle that's a good sign that you know you've been saved The Holy Spirit is in your heart. You see, our flesh is under the influence of sin But our spirit is under the influence of the spirit. Our spirit, little s, is under the influence of the spirit, capital S. The Spirit of God is influencing Our life. And these two are in constant war one with the other. They cannot and will not live peaceably with each other There is a lot of teaching today that would lead someone to believe that they can coexist. That somehow we can bring the world into the church and that the Spirit of God would be content to dwell with the sin of the world. But that is not biblical, friend. It is only these two war against each other, and they cannot and will not coexist in the same place without a struggle. It's a battleground that's in the will of man. And beloved, you and I are the generals. We're the general. We are the one that decides who is going to win the battle. You say, oh no, I can't win the battle, or no, though, the spirit's gonna lose, or no, though the flesh is gonna lose. We decide. It is up to us to determine who's gonna win. Are we going to yield to the spirit? Or are we going to satisfy the flesh? What are we going to do? That's up to us. We are in control of the battleground. You have to choose to yield to the Spirit. Romans chapter 6 and verse number 16. Romans 6, verse 16 says, Know ye not? That to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. You decide. Who do you want to obey? Are you going to continue to feed the flesh? Yield to the flesh, do what you want to do in your flesh. I know that it feels good. There is no doubt that it feels good to satisfy the flesh, but that pleasure of sin for a season is very short-lived. The true joy and satisfaction and thrill is when we put down the flesh and we yield to the Spirit and do what the Spirit wants us to do, and in that we have lasting joy. We have lasting satisfaction, lasting happiness. The experience of victory in the Christian lives, man, I am on the winning side. The reason so many Christians can't sing that with any vigor is because they're not on the winning side and they haven't been for a long time. Because they've continually allowed their flesh to rule their life. Instead of walking in the Spirit, instead of living their life yielded to the Spirit. The spirit does not and will not take control of your life. I'm not going to spend very long here, but I want you to understand that that goes contrary to a lot of false teaching today. You see, when you're under the influence of the Spirit, you do not lose control. You gain control. You exercise and use more control when you're under the influence Of the Spirit. Contrary to a lot of things like these laughing revivals and being slain in the Spirit and overcome with speech that you can't control and just comes out. And I am not making fun of or belittling people that believe these things. I believe they've had some experiences. I believe they've been falsely taught, not according to the scriptures. They're sincere in their practice. But let me encourage you if you're listening today to search the scriptures. To use wisdom and let the Holy Spirit guide you unto all truth. That the Holy Spirit will not bring you to a place where you lose control, but where you gain control. We lose control when we yield when we surrender and yield ourselves to the flesh. Look if you're in Galatians chapter number five. We're not going to take time to read read all of these, but you see here Every Christian has the potential in them to live in sin. If you yield yourselves to obey the flesh, there is given for us here a list of sin that's quite extensive and really gross. In our estimation and our evaluation, and I know we like to put classifications on sin, and we like to say, well, this is down here and it's okay, and this is up here, but but but look at these sins. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, liceviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variances, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revilings. Hey, every Christian is capable of doing these things. You say, well, I could never commit adultery. I could never murder. The Holy Spirit of God, by God's direction, put these things together and said, listen, you yield yourself to the flesh, this is the result. You put down the flesh and only yield to the spirit. He goes on and gives us the results of that. Real Rogers once said, God made man a little lower than the angels And man's been getting a little lower ever since. Why? Because we yield to the flesh. But if we will stop surrendering to the flesh and start yielding to the spirit, start winning that battle. Start winning the battle, Christian. We have the potential to live in the Spirit where we could experience love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. God has put all those things inside the power of the Christian to do if we will live in the Spirit, if we will walk in the Spirit So I want you to see tonight the bowing to the Spirit. As we bow our heart, our will to the Spirit of God. What is it to walk in the Spirit? Really, it's a bowing. It's a submitting our will. It's yielding day by day. To the Spirit, giving influence or control of our life over to the Spirit of God. Now here's another thing where people get caught up in this They don't understand it because they haven't practiced it. And there is an idea, well, there's this. You know, this spiritual spookiness that, oh, you're directed by the Spirit of God. Woo. It's not that way, friend. It's not that way. You can see God's direction in your life so clearly when you are used to doing it. He's not going to use his will to overpower you, but will use the spirit to empower you to walk in his Will. He fills us only as we submit to him. If I said this, man, that guy was just filled with anger. Would you think that was spooky? Who he was filled with anger. No, he allowed anger to take control. He allowed anger to take control into his life. And you wouldn't think that was spooky. You wouldn't think there's anything weird about that. Like, oh, obviously, he he look what he did What about this? There's some people that are filled with fear right now. They're filled with fear. And they're allowing that to control their life. They're not getting out of their house They're keeping everybody at a distance. They're practicing social distancing to the extreme, like unclean, stay away. You know, they're there why? Because fear. They're allowing that fear to control every part of their life right now. They're filled with fear. I'm not what I want you to understand is that we don't think of that as spooky. Sometimes there's young men and young ladies that are filled with love. They're just in love. And they just cannot think straight. I mean they they're going to work, but their mind ain't on work. They're at church and their mind ain't in church. I mean everything is this they're in love and every part of life is focused around that and man it is just I mean love everywhere They're just in love. Oh, it's so much fun to watch young couples like that just in love. You know, they're filled with love. It's controlling them. That's what we're talking about with the Holy Spirit when it fills us is we start to allow it to control the Holy Spirit, and I don't like calling it it because it's this person, we start to allow him. The Holy Spirit. It's not an entity, it's not a spooky thing out here, not a presence or an essence. It's a person. The person of the Holy Spirit fills us, and He wants to lead us. And we Can be filled with Him when we yield ourselves to Him. There's a story of a little boy who was flying a kite on a windy day. And uh the kite kept rising up into the sky and kept rising up into the sky and he keeps letting it out. Man, that kite's flying good. And he got to the boy or the boy could just barely see that kite up there in the sky. I mean he almost couldn't see it. Well an older like an older guy came by and saw this kid pulling on a string and His eyes were probably worse than mine. And he looks up and he didn't see anything up in the sky. He couldn't see that kite. And he looks up there and says, Son What you doing? He says I'm flying my kite. He says, I don't see anything up there. How do you know it's up there? He says, I feel the pole on the string. I know it's still pulling. I know it's still flying. And Christian, that's what we have when we yield to the Spirit of God, we feel that pull We feel that battle raging in our heart to yield to the flesh or yield to the spirit. Do you feel the pull, Christian, of the Holy Spirit drawing you? Paul gives us an example in Ephesians chapter number five that I quoted already. Be not drunk with wine where it's in excess, but be Filled with the Spirit. He's presenting here the well-known fact that when someone is under the influence of alcohol, They are under the control of the alcohol. They act differently. They do things they would not have done had they not been under the control of alcohol. Alcohol affects everybody differently. Some people they drink alcohol and they get real mellow. They get all just they just love everybody. It's all real nice and just sweet as can be. And then other people they get under the the control of alcohol and they get really angry. They get really fierce. I mean everything makes them mad and they they they get into fights and And and what it is, is they're controlled by the alcohol. So as a Christian, when they're under the influence of the Holy Spirit, they act differently. Right. A person under the influence of alcohol, there's a word that they use like if you get pulled over by the police and you are under the influence. They say you were driving. Does anybody know the word? With an eye? Impaired. They were driving impaired. They were under the influence of alcohol. They were driving impaired. But beloved, when Christians are under the influence of alcohol, We're not driving impaired. We're driving improved. We're driving improved. When we are under the, you see your discernment, your judgment gets impaired. When you you're under the influence of alcohol. Your judgment is impaired. You don't have good judgment. You know, my friend growing up. His dad is a little Mexican fellow and his dad was an alcoholic. And they would he he would drink all their money and they would have to move every few months Living in hotels, living on the street, living in little bitty shacks, very rough. But his dad would get drinking and and Jaime would go in and Say, hey dad, got any money? So part of their problem is probably high me. Because when dad was when his dad was drinking, his dad would be like, oh yeah, son. Sure you're my son and and you oughta have the best of everything. And he'll pull out money and and he would give him all whatever money he had. He gave it all to his son. His son would go spend it. He's like, I like it when Dad's drunk. I get lots of money. He was judgment was impaired. Wasn't thinking straight. We see when Christians, when we're under the influence of the Spirit, our judgment is impaired. It's improved. We don't do the stupid things that we would do if we weren't under the direction of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes people make the dumbest decisions. And it is so obvious they are not under the direction of the Holy Spirit. Right. Because there's no way the Holy Spirit directed somebody to do this. And I know we like to spiritualize it, us Christians, but we spiritualize everything. I prayed about it. God wants me to do this when we know in our heart we did not. Yeah. That it's what we want. You see, our judgment improves when we're under The influence of the Spirit of God. I want to give you some indications that you're walking in the Spirit. That's the title tonight, Let Us Walk in the Spirit. We've got a secondary outline. This was all introduction. I told you we needed to hurry This is all introduction. I'm going to give you another whole a whole nother outline now. What are some indications that you're walking in the Spirit? What happens when we as Christians begin to walk in the Spirit? I'll try and walk through these pretty quickly. No pun intended. I didn't realize I was going to say that. All right, indications that you're walking in the spirit. First of all, walk implies fellowship. Amos tells us, can two walk together except they be agreed? No, they can't. If we're walking with the Spirit, we're having fellowship with the Spirit. With the Spirit. In verse number 16, Galatians 5, verse number 16, if you're spirit, if you're there still, he says, This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That's the the difference. You see, when we're walking with the Spirit, we're having fellowship with the Spirit, and you won't fulfill, you won't do what the flesh wants you to do. You've got fellowship with the Spirit. As you yield your life to the leading of the Spirit of God, you stop doing what the flesh wants you. you to do. As soon as we do what the flesh wants to do, we've broken broken fellowship with the Spirit. We're no longer walking with the Spirit. Walking also includes the fruit of the Spirit in this chapter, verse number 22 and 23. The fruit of the Spirit. And we we recently have taught an entire lesson, entire series on the fruit of the Spirit where we looked at every one of those fruits. And one of the key principles that I really tried to get across as we taught this Was the idea that our goal is not to try and produce love in our life, not to try and produce gentleness or meekness or temperance? The goal is to walk in the Spirit. And the natural byproduct, the fruit that will be produced in our life is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. That will be produced. It it'll just happen. You say, boy, I wish I was more loving. Are you walking in the Spirit? Yeah. That'll happen. Amen Boy, I wish I had more temperance. More self-control. Are you walking in the spirit? Just focus as a Christian to walk in the Spirit of God, to yield your life to the Spirit of God, and you will get the fruit of the Spirit will be produced in your life as a byproduct of that. It includes the fruit of the Spirit. Walking in the Spirit influences your direction. I think about my wife and I, if we were on a walk You know, we might be walking down a street somewhere, and I gotta stay inside the uh my my window here, uh, but if uh we were walking down the street And I began to just cut across the street. I just kind of I wouldn't have to say to her, um, hey, we're gonna start stepping this direction. We're we're gonna start making our way over to the curb and then We're gonna step off the curb and we're gonna kind of begin to cross the street because I want to go over there and get ice cream. I wouldn't have to explain all that. All I have to do is start walking this way and she'll be with me. Or she decides, oh, I I would like to go down here. And she wouldn't have to explain all this. She could just start walking that direction and I would go with her. We're walking together. It it it influences our direction of our life. And that's the thing, Christians, we need to yield to the Spirit of God and let it let it influence our life. The disciples and The Apostle Paul in this passage of scripture that's called the Macedonian call, and I'm not going to take all the time to read it, but you understand when they wanted to go down to uh Galatia and to the region there that the Holy Spirit forbid them. And then they wanted to go over here and and the Holy Spirit forgive forbid them. They they wanted to go over here and the Holy Spirit forbid them. No, the Holy Spirit was saying no no no no. Why? Because there's a Macedonian call. There's so many Macedonians that says, would you come over and help us? This is where I want you to go. The Holy Spirit gives direction in our lives. In the world of technology back, this is many years ago now, it's hard to believe how time flies. Actually, in Reader's Digest in 2005. So this is a long time ago. But there was a technology in 2005 called HSS, and that is hypersonic sound. The inventor, Elwood, known as Woody Norris, engineered sound waves to travel like a laser beam. They could focus sound waves up to 150 feet. And he could point them at somebody 150 feet away and give them clear, precise directions on what to do. and a person standing next to them could not hear at all, but the person standing in line with that hypersonic sound wave would be able to hear clearly as if they were standing right next to the engine. individual. They could focus that sound and as long as you were standing in line, if the person if the individual stepped over like this No longer could hear the sound, could no longer hear any direction. He was outside the direction, outside the line where he would receive direction. And Christian, that's what happens to a lot of us. We're like, boy, I wish I was led by the Spirit in my life. The problem is too many of us are over here. We're living our life satisfying the flesh instead of living and yielding to the spirit. When we live and yield to the spirit, We're in line. And it's easy for the Spirit of God to give us direction, to show us where to go, to tell us what to do, to direct our life, because we're in line. We can't expect to be getting direction when we step outside the zone of communication. We've got to walk in obedience to the Word of God. Colossians 3, verse number 16. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing. In Ephesians chapter number four, we're not going to read that chapter. You ought to read Ephesians chapter 4. That's the change chapter. That's the chapter where you'll see over and over again put off. And put on. Put off and put on. There's things that we as Christians are supposed to put off and things that we're supposed to be putting on. The Word of God, we've got to live our life in obedience to the Word of God if we want to be directed by the Spirit. We've got to live our life in obedience to the will of God. Romans 8, verses 1 through 5, he says, Now therefore is no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death For what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit the things of the Spirit. We've got to obey the will of God. Do the will of God. When we decide that's I don't want to do that We immediately shut off the direction of the Holy Spirit in our life. We can continue over here to pray. We can continue over here to uh to talk to God, and we can continue to come to church. But the Holy Spirit has given us direction over here. God has led us our life over here. He said, This is what I want you to do. We've said no, but we still want to be spiritual, so we still do our spiritual rituals. But we have refused to follow the will of God or the word of God. And the Holy Spirit cannot direct us over here. Oh, we can we can look spiritual, we can continue to do our rituals, just like the Pharisees who continue to sacrifice all of these sacrifices and make all these sacrifices unto God, and God says he's weary of it. Why don't you just obey me? God says, obey. We step back over here in line. Wow. Direction. Direction from the Spirit of God. You're aware of His presence and you're enabled by His power when you are in line with Him. Walking in the Spirit impacts others. Walking in the Spirit impacts others. What does it mean to walk in the Spirit? It means you your life's going to impact other people. In Acts chapter 6, we see a man there by the name of Stephen, whose life impacted others. I just thought he was impacted by others as well. That's not very good though. If you know the story of Stephen, he was stoned. He he was impacted. But his life impacted other people. That's what the Christians' life is when we're following the Spirit, when we're doing what the Spirit of God wants us to do. Uh I'm not I I don't have it open, um but I want you to see this. Stephen walked in the spirit and others saw. I'm gonna turn to that passage of scripture in in Acts chapter six. I want to read this this verse to you. I'll be there in just a second. You probably could turn there faster than me because I turn slow. Drives my my wife nuts. Chapter 6 and verse number 8. Others saw his life. Look, he says, and Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people. You see, his life empowered by the Spirit of God, people saw that difference in his life. The wonders he did, the miracles he did, what he was doing in his life, they said, this is not Stephen. There's something else empowering him to do this. I want you to see also that others saw the wisdom that he had. Look in chapter 6 and verse number 10. And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake. Let me ask you, when you speak, do people see wisdom? Or do they see foolishness? Do they see wisdom? Not that you're trying to show how smart you are or how much life experience you've got, but I want you to understand it's a result of walking in the Spirit. Wisdom will come out and people will recognize it. They'll say, man, that guy has a lot of wisdom. Where does wisdom come from? It comes from God. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. It comes from God and from walking in the Spirit. That's where we get wisdom. Wisdom for the decisions in our life, wisdom for what we communicate and give to others. how we give advice to others. That wisdom, biblical wisdom, comes from God. Do people see that in you? That's what it means to walk in the Spirit. Walking in the Spirit imparts spiritual sight If you're in Ephesians chapter, I mean if you're in Acts there, you can look at Acts chapter 7 and verse number 54 through 56. That's pretty amazing truth here. And I'm finishing with this because of what we're in right now. The trial we're in, the struggle we're in in this country, the battle we're facing. But in verse 54 and verse 56, he says, when they heard these things, They were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth. But he being full of the Holy Ghost Looked up steadfastly into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing on the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing on the right hand. What I want you to understand is When you're walking in the Spirit, even in the midst of a trial, even in the midst of a test, even in the midst of COVID-19, you will have spiritual sight and you will be able to see God working. You'll be able to see the glory of God being manifest, lives being changed, things being done, God still is on the throne. Those people, Christian or not, who are living over here, who are walking in the flesh and doing their own thing, they're like, oh no, what's gonna happen? What am I gonna do? This is so crazy. This is an unprecedented change in our life. This guy over here says, man, look at what God's doing. Look at how good powerful God is. Look how good God is. It gives you spiritual sight when you're walking in the Spirit. You see God in the midst of hardship. I encourage you tonight, Christian. Let us walk in the Spirit. Let us walk in the Spirit I'm going to have the pianist come and play a moment of invitation. Walking in the Spirit of God. This is what we're supposed to be doing, Christians. And it's a daily battle. We have to daily yield We presently have all the Holy Spirit we're going to give, but the Holy Spirit doesn't have all of us. We have to continually yield to Him and say, I want to walk in His Spirit. I want to let the Holy Spirit have direction in my life. I want to yield to Him. I don't want to resist. I don't want to grieve him. Would you yield to the Spirit today? Start even right now and do what God wants you to do. you say Lord I want to walk with you yielding to you yielding to your word