We are going to look at the lettuce this evening. Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12. Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12. Ladies, thank you so much for that song, for using your talent and even this peculiar setting, uh singing when you're not sure who's out there or how many people might be listening if there is anybody listening at all. So I tell the church family I said I don't I could be preaching nobody, but I don't know. But I'm gonna get up and do it I'm going to prepare like I'm preaching to 5,000, and uh we'll pray and study like it, you know, depends on me, and pray like it all depends on God. Amen. Well, tonight you see in Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12, it says, The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness And let us put on the armor of light. Now, some weeks ago I preached a message on let us put on the armor of light. And I did so, I dealt with that because I was already studying light and its uh uh the connotations of it in the scriptures and I kinda was motivated that direction and And uh I you say, well, we're kinda, Pastor, you're giving it to us backwards. Uh you're giving us the the you know, you gave us the last half first and and now you're backing up to the first half and You know, maybe that's so. However, I want you to understand that this is two sides of the same coin. That uh the action of one will necessitate the other. It's a natural process through which if you begin to or decide that you would like to start putting on light. Putting on the armor of light, the natural byproduct is that darkness is going to go away. That you will be putting off darkness The problem with so many Christians today, the struggle that so many Christians are having, is that they are putting on light Yet they're trying to hold on to darkness. They're quite literally fighting against That natural process through which, as we as Christians try and put on the armor of light, we begin to start to walk in the light of the Word of God and we begin to desire God's blessings on our life, we begin to pursue after God, yet we're trying to hold on to the darkness. That creates a war in your members. It creates a battleground that is quite tiresome. It's quite laborious. I use big words. One of the my favorite words is arduous. I use big words and my wife laughs at me at the when I when I she's like, ooh, that was a big one. And uh, you know, trying trying to increase my vocabulary. But uh that's what happens. Christians are fighting this daily battle where they're trying to put on light, yet hold on to the darkness. And that's not how God made us. Yet there are some who are trying to cast off darkness And they've yet to put on light. There's some in the world who are trying to turn over a new leaf. They're trying to be a better person. They're trying endeavoring to do good. Yet they're doing it all in the power of their own flesh because they don't have Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. They don't have him. John 8, 12 says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world, and he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. So there are those that are endeavoring to do good, to walk in light, but they don't have Jesus Christ yet. Tonight I want you to see how this two sides of the same coin takes place in the admonition this evening. To let us cast off the works of darkness. And I want you to see, first of all, if we're going to cast off the works of darkness, that it takes Action. It takes action. He says in verse number 11 of Romans chapter 13, and verse number 11, he says, and that knowing the time That now it's high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than when we believe. It takes action. There's an urgency here in Paul's request. I can picture him maybe coming upon a fellow soldier who's still asleep. He's he he he comes into the tent and there's a fellow soldier who's still asleep and he's unaware of the battle, he's unaware of the danger he's in, he's unaware of the impetting impending harm And he shakes him awake and he says, Hey, it's time to wake up. It's time to do something. It's time to hey, the battle's at hand, the time of Christ's return, the time of our resurrection, that time is closer now than it's ever been. We can't remain asleep. We can't remain idle. We can't remain in this state. Beloved, are you saved tonight with asleep? Asleep He calls to him. He says, Awake out of thy sleep. Time is short. The night is gone. It's time to wake up. I ask you this evening, how long have you been saved? How long have you professed to know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? If you would, in your mind, think of that. One year, ten years, forty years, seventy years? In that number of years that you have in your mind for you yourself, could I ask you, what have you done for Jesus? Have you been saved and been walking in light for all this time and yet to do something for God? Yet to do something that matters for eternity? Sometimes I come home late in the afternoon, or maybe for lunch, and I'll walk into the house and I have five kids, and my children will still be in their pajamas. And I'll ask them, how long have you been awake? Oh, we we got up at you know eight they're supposed to be out of bed at seven. That's the rule. How long have you been awake? Oh we've been and you know of course they're him hauling around. Well we you know and then I'll say and what have you done today? What have you accomplished? I mean I come in and you're sitting on the couch still in your pajamas. The perception is that you've just woke up. Now you could talk to me about what you've done, but what it looks like is you're still asleep. Christian Jesus Christ is calling to you and he's saying, Wake up! It's high time that we get involved. It's high time that we do something that matters for eternity. You've been saved for years and years and years. But would you do a real heart check and say, What have I done for the cause of Christ? What have I done for Jesus? It's time, beloved, that we do something. As the songwriter said, I wonder: have I done my best for Jesus, who died upon a cool tree? To think of his great sacrifice on Calvary, I know my Lord expects the best of me. How many are the losses That I have lifted? How many are the chained that I've helped to free? I wonder, have I done my best for Jesus, who has done so much for me? The hours that I have wasted are so many, the hours I've spent for Christ so few. Because of all my lack of love for Jesus, I wonder, is his heart breaking too? I wonder, have I cared enough for others? Or have I let them die alone? I might have helped a wanderer to the Savior. The seed of precious life I might have sown. No longer will I stay within the valley, I'll climb to the mountain heights above. The world is dying now for want of someone to tell them of The question tonight is: what have you done for Jesus? It takes action. It's high time It's time to awake out of our sleep, out of our slumber. We cannot continue this way. It takes action. It also takes an awakening Awareness. If we're going to put off the works of darkness, it takes an awareness, first of all, it takes an awareness of your position. Your position in Jesus Christ. A man without Christ, beloved, is walking in darkness. The Bible tells us that very clearly in John 12, verse number 46. He says, I am come a light into the world that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. The lost man abides in darkness. Without Jesus Christ, he does not have the light of Christ in him. I am the light of the world, he said. And without him you have not Christ. You've got to know your position. Are you in Christ or do you not have Christ? A man with Christ is not to walk. If you say, Yes, Pastor Caleb, I know that I'm saved tonight. I know that I'm on my way to heaven. I know that Jesus died for me, and I've trusted him and him alone for my salvation. And I say, Praise God for that But I ask you, if you're aware of that position, then are you aware of the fact that we're not supposed to walk in darkness? John, 1 John 1 and verse 6 says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Our position should tell us that we're not to walk in darkness. Yet we try and hold on to it. We're saved and brought into that glorious light, but still that darkness remains. As I thought about it today, I thought, you know, we're embarking on spring and It's kind of like a cold that hangs on. It's that cold that hangs on and spring breaks forth and the flowers come in and they they begin to bloom and and the summer warmth of the sun is starting to come out and and you feel all that and yet you still got this cold hanging on and you're like Man, I wish this cold would just go away. I wish this cold would just let go. I mean, it just won't quit. It just won't stop. And the same beloved Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit that dwells in you, is saying, Man, I wish you would just let go of that darkness. Yet he's holding on to it. Holding on to it. What believer is there who has not felt this They know the joy of salvation. They know the thrill of walking with Jesus. But still, there's a gloom. Still, there's a darkness in their life. Beloved, they can't even enjoy all of the glorious things that God has for them. Because everything has a dark shadow over it God wants you to experience what's called the abundant life, and He wants you to know that and to have it, and He has it for you, and all the things that God has and wants for you, that they're there But you can't see them because they're darkened because of the sin that you're holding on to. What a struggle. I think of the Apostle Paul, and I know we're dealing with Paul in the matter of salvation there in Acts chapter 9. Where Christ was trying to draw him to himself. And ultimately Christ had to shine a light from heaven so bright it knocked Paul down and blinded his eyes. And what did he say to him? He said to him, Paul, is it hard for thee to kick against the bricks? I've been trying to draw you, trying to draw you, trying to get you to see. And yet ye still are kicking against the bricks. Beloved, I think Christians many times are that way. All the glorious things that God has for us to enjoy. in the Christian life are there, but we don't even see them because we're hanging on to this darkness. We're hanging on To some sin, and we we can't even enjoy and know all of the glorious things that God has for us because we choose rather to hang on to this. It takes an awful Awareness of our picture of our position. We need to be aware also of God's picture. There's a very clear picture given to us in the scripture. Between light and darkness. What is this picture of darkness that God has given us? It's not being able to see. It's, as I said, being blinded. It's like when you turn the lights off in a room and you can't see the other side of the room. It's darkness has filled your life. 1 John 2 and verse number 11, he says, But he that hateth his brother is in darkness and walketh in darkness. And knoweth not whither he goeth, because the darkness hath blinded his eyes. It's literally looking at and talking about the idea of being blinded and unable to see. You, of course, know and understand that it's a metaphor for evil, for sin, for wickedness that's in the life of a believer And let me remind you that sin practiced is practiced first in the cover of darkness. It's practiced first in the cover of darkness. And only after a time is it allowed to come out into the light. John chapter 3, verse number 19, and this is the condemnation that light is Come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light. Why? Because their deeds are evil. Darkness is first, sorry, sin is first practiced In darkness. And beloved, if you think in the world today, the sin that is prevalent The sin that is pushed, the sin that it out that is out there is vile, is wicked, is ungodly. If you are shocked, as you should be by the wickedness of this world and what is touted to be acceptable and okay, what is put forth as perfectly fine. In the world today, if that which is lifted up and praised and put out in public today is okay, let me shock you. As you consider the fact that what happens in secret is a hundred times worse. If you think about the debauchery that's out in the world, it's prevalent, that's in the light. Beloved, what's taking place in the darkness of this world is a hundred times worse. Because sin is practiced in darkness a long time before it's ever allowed to come into the light. The works of darkness, we can see them everywhere in the world Oh, we look around the world today and we see how bad it is. Beloved, I'm not going to take any time and talk about the condition of the world and the evil and the things that are out there. I'm going to bring it right to home and say we can see. The evil that's in our own heart. That's prevalent in our own lives. As we hold on to that bitterness. Saved by the blood of Jesus Christ, on your way to heaven, and you won't let go of some previous hurt or offense. You've got some anger built up or uncontrolled temper that you have that you won't let go. You've got a critical spirit about others around you. You create and cause division You've got lust that you can't get victory over. You've got an evil desire in your heart that you don't want to let go. You're holding on to that darkness, whatever it is, and it's destroying the light that God wants you to have in your life The Bible says in our passage here, it talks about not in riotous, not in drunkenness, not in chambering, not in wantonness, not in strife, not in envying. A list here of sins that brings darkness to men. The fact is that these are the works of darkness, but let me remind you, beloved, from whence the The Bible is very clear about where this comes from. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wants to be Wicked. The Bible tells you in Matthew 15, 9, for out of the heart proceedeth evil thought, murderings, adulterings, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. All of this comes from the heart. And if we, beloved, are going to put off darkness We've got to be aware of our position. Are we in Jesus Christ? Do you have the power of God to help you with this process? If you are, then we're not to have uh any We need to be aware of the picture that God has given us and understand the difference between light and darkness. And we need to know the principles of the Word of God. That teach us and show us what those are. There's so much in the Word of God about darkness. It is the character of God that darkness cannot exist in Him. 1 John 1 and verse number 5, he says, This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness. So if we're going to be like Christ, that means there can be no darkness in us. No darkness at all For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. God condemns Darkness. We learn about darkness and how to cast it out of our life by three areas. Let me give you this first through the studying of the Word of God. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. You want to know what's darkness? What to get out of your life? Get in the Word of God. You learn what is darkness and what to get out of your life through the preaching of the Word of God. First Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 21. For after that in the wisdom of God the world By wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. By the foolishness of preaching. And beloved, you can learn through friendships with other godly men and women. The Bible tells us that iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. Don't get upset when you have a friend come and say, Boy, you shouldn't have that in your life. What? Who are you to tell me? He's a friend. He's a friend trying to help you get the darkness out. He realizes that it's destroying and stealing the light that you could have. Iron sharpeneth iron, and praise God for a friend. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. Beloved, you learn about what darkness to take out by listening, getting into the Word of God, listening to the preaching. Of the Word of God and getting around godly friends that admonish you through the Word of God. Then it takes an amendment It takes an amendment. We've got to make a change. The Bible tells us here we're to cast off the works of darkness. It's such an easy directive, yet for some reason seems to be nigh unto impossible for most believers. Lest you think yourself weak. The Apostle Paul himself said, the things that I would, I do not. And the things that I would not, I do. So beloved, this is not a battle that's new to you or to anybody else, but it's an admonition in the scriptures given to us since the New Testament that we are to cast off the works of darkness. We've got a purpose in our heart that we're going to do, that we're going to amend our ways God is calling for us here. In Jeremiah chapter 26, verse number 13, he says, Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of the Lord your God. Amend your ways. Cast off the works of darkness. Stop doing those things. Stop holding on to that darkness. This leaves no room for question or wondering what it's about. Beloved, everything that is darkness. Is to be cast off. Is to be put away. We're to stop doing it. We're to cast off the works of darkness. Too many Christians are trying to participate in the works of darkness, be involved in the works of darkness Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then they Sunday come into the house of God and try and put on the armor of light. And this has created a battle for them in their soul that they say, Man I don't know why everybody loves this Christian stuff so much. I don't know what these people are talking about, the joy of the Lord. I don't understand it. Because they're still holding Everything that has no place in the light needs to be put off. Let me say it this way. Everything that is not comfortable in the presence of the sun needs to be put off. This is not just putting on something new on top of what we're already wearing. You don't get up in the morning and put your day Clothes on top of your pajamas. To follow through with the illustration here, he says, it's high time to awake out of sleep. He's saying that the night is far spent, the day is come. I mean, we need to get up. And he's describing for us here, and I've taught on the armor of light already, but the idea is that, hey, what you're wearing to bed. Is not sufficient for what comes through the day. You don't wear your pajamas to go out and dig a ditch. You dress accordingly to do what it is that God has called you to do, and here he gives us a picture of the calling when he says, put on the armor of light. He's letting you know, beloved, that when you get up, you're supposed to cast off the works of darkness. You're supposed to take those things that you had in part of your life before, that you had on before, put those off and put on the armor of light because this Christian life is a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. For some reason, men resist the amendment. But beloved, that is at the heart of Christianity. Jay Parsons said, if faith does not purify, it is fictional. If faith does not purify, it is fiction. Men resist the amendment of their ways because they're more comfortable in darkness. Men find solace in darkness. I think of it much like this if you've ever been involved in a prison ministry and you've listen to the retrition statistics of those that have been in prison and they come back? It's almost heartbreaking. But you'll have those that work in the prison say These men have been here so long, they find comfort in somebody else telling them when to go to bed. When to get up, it's time to eat, here's what you're gonna eat. They they have no freedoms at all, but that's where they have found comfort. That's where where they're at home. And when they get out, they don't know what to do and they can't function and they don't know how to. So they they go and they commit a crime on purpose to be put back in jail. Where they're comfortable. And Christian, too many of us have gotten comfortable in the dark. And we keep going back to that comfortable place. Instead of asking God for strength to get out of it and to stay out. Only when men are truly Convicted of what takes place in darkness, will they get out of it? This is quite literally repentance in action Jesus said, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Repentance is Turning 180 degrees. Repentance is putting off the works of darkness and putting on the armor of light. You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praise of God. of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Beloved, that's what God has called us to. In Corinthians, Paul was talking, and he says, I rejoice now, not that you were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. Because I'm happy, not that you felt conviction, not that you felt pain, not that you were sorrowful, but that you were sorrowful to repentance. To do what God wanted you to do. And beloved, one of the challenges of preaching these many weeks to a camera instead of to God's church. Is I fear many of you are sitting at home in the comfort of your living room in the midst of all the distractions. And you are not getting what God wants you to get, and you're not making the decisions that God wants you to make. You're letting the distractions around the house keep you from hearing the message of the Word of God. Beloved, I'm not happy that you feel sorrow, but I can tell you enough Thrills a pastor like seeing God work in the hearts of Christians. When they make decisions for Him and they grow, they take steps for Christ. Instead of resisting the amendment, They amend their ways because of God's working in their heart through the preaching of the Word of God. So I ask you tonight. My beloved, are you, have you put off the works of darkness? Have you found yourself wandering back towards them and picking them up again? We're called, let us put off the works of darkness, and if we're going to, it takes action. We can't just sit by. We've got to be aware of our position. Of the picture and the principles of the Word of God, and we've got to amend our ways. We've got to make that change. Put off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to preach your word. Lord, this message especially is one that calls for action. It calls for your people to make a decision. For them to determine in their hearts to no longer abide in darkness, but to step into the light and to put off the works of darkness that they've been participating in in and and to make a decision for you. And I pray God that you would bind the gates of hell, that you would hold Satan away and allow your people to respond to your spirit now, even in their respective homes, all over, Lord, I pray they would respond. and do what you have for them to do, making the right decision for you and for your honor and glory. In Jesus' name. Amen