Turn your Bibles to Colossians chapter number three. As I give you other scriptures tonight, I want you to keep your fingers in Colossians chapter number three because we're going to dive into this passage a little bit deeper this evening. And we will be looking back at this and referencing it several times throughout the evening. And so I want you to keep your finger there, even if you end up turning to other locations. I want you to get from this passage all that we'll be looking at as well, so don't just turn away. Um This morning we dealt with the first part or the first message that I preached abroad on our call to serenity. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called In one body and be ye thankful. We're called, beloved, to a life of serenity. We're called to let this peace reign in our hearts and This morning in the service we had the privilege of expounding upon the source of that peace, and we know that that is God And really spent some time dealing with and developing the fact that you've got to at first get make peace with God before you'll ever experience or have the peace of God and That specifically was done because there are those that listened, that uh that listen to our stream that maybe they have yet To trust Jesus as their Lord and Savior. Maybe they have yet to have settled that and wanted to spend the time necessary to explain how we're born at enity with God, but only in and through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross is our peace, is that wall broken down, and that enity removed when we accept the sacrifice of Jesus. On the cross. And then we dealt with the submission of that given to us in a verse is let. Let. We've got to let the peace of God rule in our heart. That's what we're supposed to do, beloved. Let it rule. And we dealt with the selection, the fact that we as God's people are called to this. This is what we're supposed to have. We're supposed to have peace in our heart. We're supposed to be people of peace and let that peace rule. As I studied this, I knew I would not have sufficient time to deal with it all in one service and so I plan to take a little bit more tonight. I probably won't keep you long. But we want to dig a little bit deeper this evening. We want to take this and apply it a little stronger to the Christian. What does it mean for you and I that we're called to this peace? Could I ask you this evening, as a Christian, is your life characterized by peace? Would somebody that knew you would they say, oh yeah, I would say their life is characterized by peace. They have a calmness about them. They have peace about them. Are you always stressed to the guilt? Are you always got so much pressure you're not sure what you're going to do? You've always got more to do than you can get done. There's all kinds of stress in your home and your family and and and you know the noise level in your home is unbearable. You know, I I think about the privilege of growing up in a Christian home and We often had people come and live with us because they were kicked out of their own home or Because of problems that took place, we even had had whole families, more than once, whole families came and lived in our house because they lost their place to live And I can't tell you how many times growing up sitting with people in our home where they they just said Man, I just like being here. It's just so nice. I I I wish our home was like this. What they're saying is I wish wish we had this kind of peace, this kind of harmony in our home. Our home is stressful. And folks, the Christian home shouldn't be that way The Christian home shouldn't be that way. That's not what God wants for us. Is your life characterized by peace, or is it typical of the stress and anxiety of the world? What do you think? To make this part of our lives, to make this important. It's a call. God calls us to peace. And if there's something in our lives that's stealing that peace, that's keeping there from being peace. We need to get to the bottom of it. Figure out what it is and remove that out of our life. If there's one particular thing in your home that is causing a problem, Wouldn't it be worth peace just to get rid of it? Whatever it might be, if there's something in your home, maybe maybe I love to play golf. And I do enjoy golf, but praise the Lord, my wife doesn't care. But let's say I love to play golf, and Mary just was angry about me playing golf. There's nothing wrong with me playing golf. But listen, if it caused there to be a lack of peace in my home, I would give up golf in a heartbeat. It's a stupid game. Why would I sacrifice peace in my home for something like that? Yet Families do it constantly where he has his rights or she has her rights and bless God their mate has to just live with it or or or get over it or whatever they want We're supposed to be people of peace. Preach an entire message, and I'm not, as far as I know, I'm not repeating any of that. Back in, I believe, May of 2017, entitled Pursue Peace. We're supposed to be pursuing peace. As we briefly talk to you tonight, I'm going to give you three more points about peace. First of all, I want to give you the solution. The solution. In Isaiah chapter 26, verse 3 and 4, he says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. Trust in God because He's got everlasting strength. But what does it say there? Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Perfect peace. Who who is it? The one whose mind is stayed on thee I I am kind of a systematic person. I like to break things down into lists and I like to have the one, two, three. And if you do this, this is how you're gonna get here. And if you if you if you accomplish this, this is how you get there. And sometimes in our Christian lives w I think we like to do that too. Even in my preaching, I I I try and break it down to a systematic, hey, if you dot these I's and you cross these T's You'll be successful. If you dot these I's or cross these T's, you can have peace. But what I want you to understand, beloved, is the peace that we're talking about here is not so much about what we do. As it is about the relationship that we have with Jesus. Your mind is to be stayed on Him. You see, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Love, joy, peace. It the fruit of the Spirit, and I'm not, I'm not gonna teach uh uh any of the lesson that I taught in Sunday school on the fruit of the Spirit and dealing specifically with peace in the Christian's life Except to say this one thing, you understand, and I hope it should be drilled into your heart and mind by this point, that the fruit of the Spirit Is that we don't we're we're not out trying to conjure up or or or build this peace somehow As our mind is stayed on Jesus Christ, and as we are doing his will in our life, as we are following after God, that relationship, the byproduct. The fruit of the Spirit. As you walk in the Spirit, you are given peace. The fruit of the Spirit is peace. It just it's it's gonna happen because of walking in the Spirit. It's not a matter of uh do this, do this, do this, do this, and you'll you'll have peace. Now there's some principles I'm gonna give you tonight But they're all secondary to this principle. Walking in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit, and you'll have peace. You'll have peace. It gives you confidence in your life. I want you to know that this is a present reality. Sometimes Christians I think that they think, oh, well, I know when I get to heaven, it's all going to be okay. I know when I get to heaven, there's going to be Peace. I won't have to deal with all this stress and all these burdens and all these problems. This is a present reality that we're called to. It's peace that God wants for us today, right now, here in this life, in the midst of whatever trial you're facing. In the middle of whatever storm there might be, God has the power to stand on the vow and say, peace, be still. And the winds and the waves will obey his will. God can give you that peace even in the midst of a storm. It's a present reality that we should have if we are walking in the Spirit. Is walk in the spirit. Keep your mind stayed on him I want you to see the sustaining, secondly, here in our text. We're going to go past verse number 15, Colossians 3. We're going to read 15, and I want I want you to see in context a little bit deeper, a little bit further. He says, And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye're called in one body, and be ye thankful And whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. You sustain this peace in your life by doing the will of God By surrendering to whatever God has for you to do. We talked about this in Sunday school. I can do all things through Christ. Which strengtheneth me. And that, of course, is not a blank check. It's not a I can do whatever I want. I can accomplish anything I desire, but I can do all things inside of the whatsoever that God has given us. Inside of what God's will would be for us. And beloved, there is nothing in the world that'll steal your peace faster than sin. Nothing in the world that will rob you of your peace when what you had is a beautiful relationship with God and You're walking with him and you're talking with him. We could go to the Garden of Eden and we see there Adam and think of the peace that Eden has all of these generations and years later is still the picture of perfect peace. But that peace was stolen at the moment sin entered And Adam didn't have peace anymore. He went and hid. God said to Adam, where art thou? Because there was sin in his heart. Because he had done that which he knew God did not want him to do. Beloved. We've got to surrender to the will of God and do what God wants us to do, and thereby sustain the peace that God has granted and given to us so freely. One of the reasons so many Christians don't have peace is because they have sin. And they are choosing the sin over the peace of God. And most of them know it. They've made a conscious decision. They've decided to do that instead of have peace with God David, my brother, used to say this If the peace of God rules in your heart, the will of God will rule in your life If you're going to have the peace of God ruling in your heart, then the will of God is ruling in your life. Because when we disregard the will of God, the peace of God goes with it. You can't say, oh, I want this peace. I want that that serenity that a Christian is supposed to have. But I don't want to do what you want me to do, Lord. You can't run from God and expect God's peace at the same time. That should make perfect sense. We've got to surrender to God's will. One man Said it this way, with eager heart and will on fire. I fought to win my great desire. Peace shall be mine, I said, but life grew bitter in the weary strife. My soul was tried, and my pride was wounded deep. To heaven I cried, God grant me peace, or I must die. The dumb stars glittered, no reply Broken at last, I bowed my head, forgetting myself, and said, Whatever comes, his will be done. And at that moment, peace. was one. When we surrender to God. Do what God wants. He says, and whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Doing God's will. You sustain that peace in your life by doing God's will. You also sustain that peace by studying God's Word. Look in verse number sixteen. He says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. At the same time, we're supposed to be letting the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Making this part of your life, having the word of God that you're dwelling upon. What is Psalms 119, 165? The first part of 119, 165. Great peace. Have they which love thy law? Great peace have they, which love thy law. Do you love the Word of God? Are you in the Word of God? Is the Word of God part of your life? Are you faithfully studying and reading the Word of God each day? To sustain that peace in your life, that's what you need to do. To sustain that peace, we also spend time time in supplication, in praying. He says in Philippians chapter four, verses six and seven, the familiar verses, he says, Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made made known unto God? That be careful as to worry, to fret, to be concerned? No. And let the peace of God which passeth all understanding Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You see, sustain that peace, you've got to get to the place where you're able to Carry it all to the Lord in prayer. You've got to get to the place where you can leave your heavy burden at the cross. As Christians, we have burdens. As Christians, we deal with struggles. As Christians, we at times get into the storm But how do you have peace in that storm? You develop the ability through a life of prayer where you're talking to the Lord, where you've got to the place where you can go to the cross and leave your heavy burden there. Where you can lay it down and give it to God and say, okay, Lord, I'm done fretting over this, I'm done worrying about this, I'm done stressing about this, Lord. I'm going to give it to you. It's in your hands. And trusting God with it. We've got to get to the place where it's a habit of our life. And as we maintain that right relationship with God, coming to the cross and leaving our heavy burden And I want you to see, lastly, the satisfaction that is ours as believers. There's some benefits of not. There's some benefits of allowing the peace to reign in our heart, of fulfilling this call to serenity. He says in Psalms 119 and 165, great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Well, the first benefit, the first satisfaction I think we enjoy because of the peace ruling in our hearts, is that you don't live offended. I've told you before that the reason I learned that verse is because my dad quoted it to me over and over and over as a child. Because I had a temper and I would get offended and I would get mad about something and I would haul off and hit something or kick something or throw something or just Do whatever I could to express that anger. And my dad would look at me and say, Son, great peace have they which love thy law and nothing Shall offend them. Nothing shall offend them. You know what a joy to be able to live our life unoffended You don't have to deal with that. You've got peace. You're not getting offended. You you see the the the challenge is the other side. What a hard way to live your life. Offended at everything. What a hard way to live. Everything's about you. Every statement made was somehow used to gouge you. Every, you know, look, I mean, offended about everything. People can't drop by and bring you food because somehow you're insinuating that you're poor and can't feed yourself People can't not drop by because if they do that, they don't care. I mean you just live offended. That's a very hard way to live But if the peace of God is in your heart, you're not living that way. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. You don't have to live offended. Look back at our text. We're going to back up a little bit now and look a little bit earlier in the text. And again, get a little more context for the key passage that we're, our theme versed here, but back up to verse number 12. He says, put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts. In context, here he's saying if the peace of God is going to rule in your heart, you've got to be forbearing. You've got to be forgiving. You have got to stop getting offended. You have got to allow the peace of God to rule in your heart. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. You've got to stop getting bent out of shape over whatever I know that in your heart you perceive it to be something big. Something great. You know, in the grand scheme of things, most of what we deal with is little to nothing. I picture a child who can hardly be consoled because his ice cream fell off his cone onto the ground and Mom and dad are trying to get him to understand that it's okay and you'll at some point have some other uh some other ice cream. By the way, you should not walk into the store and go buy him some ice cream if he doesn't get himself under control. Don't reward his bad attitude You need to get them to understand and see that's not the end of the world. It's just spilt ice cream. You're gonna have more ice cream. And as adults, we look at that and we think, you know, it's kind of humorous. It's kind of It's kind of funny that that is so traumatic to this child. He lost some ice cream. Don't you think God looks down at us and sees us adults in some of the stuff that we're so bent out of shape and and and so full of anxiety and fear over and God's looking and he's saying in the grand scheme of things that's really not much Child, that's really not anything to be concerned about. I mean, really, when you take life as a whole and you consider what could happen or what would happen, or I mean, just it's really nothing, my child. Would you let God speak to you that way? Would you let God console you with whatever it is that you're dealing with as God's child we are to be Forbearing. We're to be forgiving. We're to not be getting offended. And the other side of this It's amazing, not only if we let the peace rule in our hearts, do we not get offended, but if we have peace, we won't be offensive You say, oh, Pastor Caleb, where do you get that? Well, Proverbs chapter 16 and verse number 7. Proverbs 16, verse number 7 says, When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies. To be at peace with him. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh his enemies to be at peace with him. I don't know. I just think about it like this. Have you ever come across a friend or a family member that was just on Cloud9? I mean they just they just had the greatest news. I mean y they were so excited whether that was they they got a raise or maybe that girl that he's been so interested in finally showed some interest. Or or they finally, you know, they they've got things scheduled, they're going to have a date finally, and they're on cloud nine, and and and basically they look at you and say, There's nothing you can do to bother me today I mean the sky is blue and the birds are singing and everything is fine. I mean, they're just so happy. That joy, that peace, it spreads to others. And the opposite takes place. So many times people project on others. Their turmoil. They project on others their hateful, irritable, short-tempered spirits. Sometimes they're just flat out, hard to live with And why? Because of the lack of peace in their own heart. They don't have peace in their own heart, and they're projecting that turmoil. On everybody around them. And everybody around them is dealing with all that instead of projecting that peace of God on people around them It's not that you won't ever make a mistake. It's not that you won't ever accidentally say something or do something that somebody finds offensive But God says, when a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. I believe there's twofold reason for this. One is because Because when you have the peace of God, you're sharing that and you're working hard to not be offensive But when you make a mistake or when you do offend somebody, God said he makes his enemies be at peace with you that His the the those that would be enemies, they go, ah, it's all right. Don't worry about it. It'll be okay Why? Because your ways are pleasing God. Beloved, as Christians, we are called to serenity. We're called to allow peace to be part of our lives. This is so important for Christians to be peace, to be at peace, to be at peace with God, to maintain peace in our hearts. Tonight we talked about the solution. Maintaining a right relationship with God, having your mind stayed on Him The fruit of the Spirit. The byproduct of walking in the Spirit and doing what God wants you to do. Sustain that peace in your heart. Sustain it by staying in the scripture. By learning how to supplicate and talk to your talk to your Lord, and by surrendering to the will of God, whatever God wants, you surrender. And then you get the satisfaction. Satisfaction of that peace ruling in your heart day by day. You don't deal with the stress and the turmoil of the world. You're not offended by much at all. So the Bible says, nothing. Shall offend them. And the peace that you have will spread to others. You won't be offensive to others as well. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for tonight. Thank you for these truths from your Word of God. I pray, Lord, that your church Your people would see the importance of this in their life. That we would answer the call to surrender. That we wouldn't let the devil get us all tied up in knots, that we wouldn't let the pressures of this world bring us to a point where we don't know or experience the peace of God. We would spend time with you and develop a habit and learn how to cast our care upon you, for you careth for us. Lord, I pray you'd be a part of every Christian's life, and that every home here, every Christian represented by Hunt Valley Baptist Church would be characterized by a home of peace. A Christian whose life is full of peace. And we'll thank you, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.