Would use the message and give clarity in a presentation of it, and I certainly covet and am grateful for your prayers. Well This week I was doing a little bit of studying on uh the pastorate, the position that I hold and and just wanting to gain whatever wisdom I can and they were talking about preaching and you know filling the pulpit of course is a big responsibility of the job of the pastor. And uh they said that you should uh Spurgeon used to say that uh He would just find the text and then he would soak himself in it till he was just saturated. And then he would allow the text to soak into him and just mulling it over and mulling it over and uh spending that time and under this point they were saying saying that you should know your message so well you could preach it without notes. And I thought, wow, I got a long way to go. And tonight I sent my notes to print at 615, so I'm wondering when am I supposed to memorize this? I'm not sure, but I certainly covet your prayers as uh we prepare and ask God to speak to us. Um I have thoroughly enjoyed the study that uh I've been doing and the Lord's allowed me to bring on let us. And we've looked at let us pray and uh you know let us uh hold fast to the truths that uh we've seen. God has give given us that one ahead of time. And uh tonight, turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 10. Back in Hebrews chapter 10, where we've seen the other texts that we've looked at. uh with regards to this uh thought of what the Christian admonition is here to let us and in Hebrews chapter ten verse number twenty four now this phrase is found all throughout the Bible and I don't know how many of them Uh I will get to preach, but uh I've certainly enjoyed the study I've done this far. Hebrews chapter ten, verse number twenty-four, the Bible says, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love. and good works. And let us consider one another. This is the admonition given to us, and as we consider this phrase that we're seeing in multiple places, I believe it actually is It's uh thirteen times, I think, in the book of Hebrews alone, this phrase, let us. Um as I've studied for this, I I've contemplated or thought about the fact that this is not really a command This is not a, you know, this is an admonition, a strong recommendation. This is a, you know, almost a spirit of, hey, come on, let's Let's do this. Let's be a part of this. But it's not a command. And in in light of that, I wanted us to be aware of the fact that God is not going to force us to do any of this. It is something that is given to us by way of encouragement, by way of admonition to say, be a part of this, this would be good for you. As I thought about the relationship between a parent and a child, I thought of my kids, and it's not even like that, because if I told one of my kids Hey, uh take care of this or do this, then they really don't have too much choice in the matter. They need to get it done. But as I considered it, I thought, you know what, it might be a little more like the relationship between a much older son. and his dad. You see, if my dad came to town and he said to me, he says, hey son, would you be willing to help me get this done? Would you help me get this fixed on the campus? Or would you help me get this loaded? He's not telling me, hey, get over here and load this. But he's giving me his desire and he's asking that of me and me because of my love for him and realizing how indebted I am. I I I'm saying, yeah, gladly. I'll I'll be glad to do that. And I take his recommendation uh with a little bit of authority in that he is dead. And although he's just asked You know, his wish is my command. Uh I kind of need to do it. And although I could tell him, you know what, Dad, can I help you with that a little bit later? I've got to get run out here and do this first. First, and he would say, Sure. There's a little bit of room there, but I want you to just think about the fact that God does not force us to do these things. It's because we love him that we would be motivated to do these things. The book of Hebrews was written to Jewish Christians, those who had come out of the Jewish faith, Judaism. Where they were relying on the law to get them to heaven. These people had come out of the Jewish faith, out of Judaism out of relying on the law and had trusted Jesus Christ as the Messiah and believed in him. And in light of that, they were experiencing some persecution. And persecution tends to weigh on individuals. It weighs on people. And there were some who were Weak or even considering leaving the faith. I just want you to have in context the passage of scripture that we're dealing with as we look at what this admonition that is being written here by what I believe is Paul to these cr y young Christians. Look just in the beginning of this chapter as we just want to just put it into context, thinking about the fact that he is writing this to Jewish Christians. that have come out of Jewish Judaism. He says in verse number one, for the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things can never, with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually make the comers thereunto perfect. He's reminding them of the law. These people lived under the law. And he's saying, hey, the law and all the sacrifices that you did, it could never bring you under the law. to perfection. And all through the book of Hebrews, if you read that, Jesus Christ and his supremacy is played out over and over and over again. He compares Jesus to Moses and he says, Moses, uh, although he was great, he was just the house, not the builder of the house Wouldn't you praise the builder of the house more than the house? And he compares them unto Moses. He compares Jesus unto the angels. He compares Jesus unto the law. And he's continually reminding you the Jewish Christians of where they're at. Look down in verse number 9. He says, Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first. And he may uh that he may establish the second. He took away the law so that he could establish the second, and that's Jesus Christ, by the which we By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest standeth daily ministering And offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin, Forever sat down on the right hand of God. Again, you can see who He is, who He's talking to. You can see He's drawing this picture for them and in light of this and all the supremacy of God and all that they get, we see the context of what it is we're dealing with here. The admonition, first of all, that we saw in verse number 22 that we looked at uh another week. He says, let us draw near with a true heart. Hey, you have now the ability, the veil has been rent. You can come into the presence of God. You don't need a priest to come and offer sacrifices for you In light of that, let us draw near. Don't stay at a distance. God wants you close. And we spend some time looking at that, but that admonition, in light of the context of who he's talking to, Has really hit home in my heart. Let us draw near to God. We've got that privilege and the power to do so. So let us do it And then he says, again, looking at the fact that these Jewish Christians were under attack, being ridiculed, criticized, ostracized He says, let us hold fast to those things. Hey, hold fast to that profession. Don't let go of it. I know you're being attacked. I know you're being criticized. I know you're being shunned. But hold fast to the truths that you have. And then tonight he says, let us consider one another. These first two make a tremendous amount of sense in light of the context But the third one here seems almost a little anticlimactic. Or a little uh Like it doesn't really fit in light of the context of the scripture, but he says, let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. So I want you to see here tonight the charge. The charge. The charge is that we would consider one another. This could go a lot of directions from here, from right here. From this point, I I could have taken this a lot of different ways and uh I I I'm excited tonight about what the scripture is going to show us. Um I thought about it could just be a message on others. Others, Lord, others, let this my motto be that while I kneel and pray, my prayers will be for others. others. My dad quoted that uh so many times when I was a kid, I never forgot it. Uh he just said it many times preaching. And it It's it's one of those things that, you know, I thought was Bible. I heard it so many times I thought it was in the Bible. Uh my first message that I wanted to preach, um I asked I was studying and studying and studying and I wanted to I was preaching a message in our church when I was a young man and um I couldn't find the verse I wanted. And of course Dad he knows all about the scriptures, so I went to him and I said, Dad, where in the Bible does it say only one life will soon be passed and only what's done for Christ will last. He's like, well son that's a good saying but that's not in the Bible. I'm like, what? That is Bible! I've heard that preached so many times. That's Bible. I found out it wasn't in the scriptures. But uh it's still good, still biblical in in its presentation, but I didn't have a message then. I had to find something else So um but we hear these things taught tonight. What we want to know is that it he says here to consider. Consider one another. This means to observe fully, according to Strong's, to observe fully. to watch, to observe one another, to consider one another. This is obviously not in And the means of uh of observing one another in God's not encouraging the activity of a busybody here. going on for the sake of gossip. He gives us the reason for it, which we'll get to, but we are to observe one another. Another, to see one another, to look at, according to the 1828 dictionary, it means to sit close by, to set a mind or an eye to To view or examine with attention, we are supposed to be looking at each other Observing one another, considering one another. Look with me, if you would, at the other text. I want you to get the grasp how important this word is. The only other place in Hebrews you find this word. Look back in Hebrews chapter three. In Hebrews chapter 3, we find this word consider. In Hebrews chapter 3, verse number 1, he says, wherefore, holy brethren, partakers Of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our profession, Christ Jesus. He is the apostle. He is the high priest. Christ Jesus. He tells them they are to consider Jesus. And we hear that and we of course we would say definitely we ought to consider Jesus. I mean think about what Jesus did for us. Think about what he means to us and the difference he's made in our lives and all the changes that have been brought about and whoa we ought to consider Christ And amen. We ought to. But he uses the same word and tells us to consider one another. What I'm saying tonight is that it when we come into the church house, it's not just a passive thing. You come into church and you sit down and in your heart and in your mind, you of course, I hope you're here that the Word of God might speak to you and that you would grow thereby. But that's not all there is to it. We're to come together considering one another. Consider one another. That is to give careful consideration to another. This takes some real effort on the part of the believer to get to know other people in this room. It doesn't happen by accident. It doesn't happen without taking some time and some effort to do it. Now we are privileged here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church at this time to have a relatively what I would call small, close-knit church family. But do you realize that as God blesses the church and brings more people into the church, that it will take more effort to consider one another? There are people that come to church here on Sunday morning that you don't even know their name And they have been coming here for that's right, Harry. The Bible says to consider one another. That takes effort. Now, if we were a congregation of seven, ten, fifteen, twenty. That would be very easy to really get to know each other. Too much of a good thing is too much, right? We would get to know each other really good. But as the church grows, it takes more effort. But the admonition is still there that we are to be considering one another in the church house. We are to do this. Why? What is the challenge here? What is the charge? We're to do this to provoke unto love and to good works. We are to provoke unto love and good works. Now love is a disposition. It's not an emotional feely uh sentimentality type thing. It's not a Hallmark greeting card. What it is, we're to provoke unto love, and that is a position from which we act and live out our lives. As Christians, we ought to serve out of love. As Christians, we ought to love God. As Christians, we ought to give out of love. It is the position from which we as Christians do what it is we do. The love of Christ hath constrained us. That's why we do it. And we are to provoke one another to have that type of love and to good works. To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. We are to provoke one another to good works. You know, this provoking Pervoke one another. That word's kind of strong. Provoke. You know, we look at it many times, I think, in a negative sense To provoke, like Andrew can provoke his little brother. You know, we provoke, but it can just as easily be in a positive sense We can provoke somebody to love and good works in a positive way, like motivating them to do what's right. Encouraging them to do what's right. Giving them some type of motivation that they would see the need for it. It doesn't have to be discouraging, it can be encouraging. But the Bible says here, first of all, to consider one another. For this purpose, to provoke to love and good works. You know, Andrew knows how to provoke his little brother I mean, he knows what buttons to push. He has considered that at infinitum To no end. He knows what to do, and I tell Timothy or or or Caleb, I'll say, you know, he wouldn't do that to you if it didn't bother you Because he w he wouldn't get very much fun out of it if it didn't bother you. But you let it bother you, so he does it over and over again. Well why does he keep doing that? I said if you were in control of yourself he would quit. Now He needs to quit anyway, and we'll deal with him in a minute. But you need to be in control of yourself. What am I saying? I'm saying Andrew has considered his little brother enough to know what pushes his buttons. Do you know in the church Christians well enough to know how to provoke them to love and good works? That's what God is telling us to do. Consider each other enough. Some people might need to be told, hey, you need to be here. Some people might need to be just encouraged. You know, God loves you. And I'll tell you what, we sure miss you at church. You need to know who it is you're talking to and what it takes to provoke them to love and good works. That doesn't happen without considering each other. Without spending that time getting to know each other a little bit. This is done. Like a husband is supposed to dwell with his wife according to knowledge. You're supposed to know. I mean, if it just drives your wife up the wall that you don't close the door when you leave You know that. And so you close the door when you leave. Hopefully. If you want a decent, comfortable marriage, you know, you you you know that's gonna irritate her. You dwell with her according to knowledge. And you know that bothers her, so you close the door. Well, the same goes in the church family. We're supposed to know each other. The Bible says consider one another, to look at. To give intent, to understand, to know that we can provoke each other to love and good works. This is done through loving rebuke. Faithful are the wounds of a friend Sometimes some people just need to be told. But it's not just a matter of going around and and you're the uh church bulletin for everybody or whatever and you're gonna go around and tell everybody where they're wrong. No. Have you considered them? Do you know them? Do you do you have you got their heart? Nobody cares how much you know until they know how much you care. Have you considered them enough to be able to share with them and help encourage them to these things of love and good works? It's done through a loving rebuke. And it's done through lasting example. Lasting example. You know the old saying, your walk talks louder than your talk talks. You know what's going to happen. You're going to tell somebody they ought to be in church, and the first Sunday that you are not here. Is a Sunday they come and they ask me, where is so-and-so? Um Now, many of you are very good at communicating, and that's one of the reasons why it's good to communicate with the leadership of the church You've invited people to church and it's not a matter of, you know, uh we're gonna be checking up on you, but when they come and they ask, I can say, oh, you know what, he is sick as a dog today. I know he would be here, but he let me know yesterday he is just trust me you don't want to see them today. Or I could say, you know what, he's got a thing with his family and they're down in Texas today. Or whatever it might be. But When you and I teach by our example, more than any other thing, what you do. What you say, how you act, where you are at, what you participate in, and what you don't participate in. You lead And teach by your example, by living, lasting example. This is how we provoke one another to love and to good work. What is the context of this? As in where does this happen? Look in our verse here, our text verse, verse number 2 twenty four, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. What is the very next verse? A very familiar verse, but in context it tells us where this provoking is supposed to take place The provoking is supposed to take place, not forsaking the assembly of yourselves of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, is supposed to take place in the church house. It's supposed to take place when and where you come together. So this is where we're supposed to observe one another. This is where we're supposed to provoke one another to love and to good works. In the church house, it takes place in this place that God has designated as the church. And we are not supposed to forsake that. What God has given us. This word forsake is very strong. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Jesus Christ on the cross said those words. It is the same type of word here, forsaken. There's a measure of betrayal there. There's a measure of deserting and of leaving. God is admonishing us and telling us, forsake not. You know, and in context here of these Jewish people who were being uh uh attacked and ostracized and and receiving some forms of persecution for trusting Jesus Christ and maybe the gathering together when they gather together their friends and family would give them a hard time for going and being part of that. New thing, the new church, and you're going to believe in that? What? And they're giving him a hard time. And he says, Forsake not the assembly of yourselves together. Don't forsake it. Don't betray it. You know, there's many levels of of forsaking. Some would forsake it outright and go away and just never come. But there are those who would take it a little more nonchalantly and carelessly, and well, it's okay if I hit and miss. I'm just gonna I'm just gonna forsake it for this service or that service. I believe that we ought to be here. I believe you ought to be in God's house. The scripture says the assembling of yourselves together. So it would not be a sin for us to cancel a Thursday night service. Or, like at Christmas time, we're going to have a Sunday morning service, but as a church, we're not going to have a Sunday evening service. But if we did, you should come and be a part of it. But we're not sinning as a church. We're not going against God because we've canceled the service. Oh no. Wicked. People, uh, that's not the case. But when we have service, we should come together. Assembling of yourselves together is a matter of something Minutes. We need to gather together. This is when this is supposed to take place. But do you know there is another level of forsaking that takes place? And that is some who, although they are still here in the pew, In their heart have already forsaken. You see, they're not going to take any time to consider one another. They're not going to take any time to get to know anybody else in the church house. They're going to come in right beforehand. They're going to sit down and be here, and they're going to leave right afterwards. They're going to in a marginal way listen to the message that's preached. They're on their way to total forsaking. But in their heart they've forsaken already. They're not gone. And the prayer is that God would get a hold of their heart and draw them back. And I don't know where you are tonight, hopefully you're not in that state or in that place. But if you are, God wants you to come back to the place where you haven't forsaken the assembly of yourselves together. This happens when we come together in the church house. I've got so much I want to give you. Turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. I'm going to have to fly through this part. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Just back just a little bit. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 14 through 18, when we start to consider one another in the church house, we're going to find a lot of different people. We know that we're not all the same. You're going to find some people in the church who are burdened. You're going to find some people in the church who are full of joy. The Bible tells us to rejoice with them that rejoice. And weep with them that weep. That's what we're supposed to do. You're going to find some Christians who are weak and maybe some who are strong. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 14 through 18, we're given here, and I've got to go quickly through this, but different types of people that are in the church. He says, Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly. Comfort the feeble-minded. Support the weak. Be patient toward all men See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. That verse that we read about giving thanks in context is talking about a large group, very group of people. In the church house. There are some people that are unruly. This comes from a military term, and it means they're out of formation. It means they won't get in line. They won't be they won't do what they're supposed to do. Well what does the Bible say you're supposed to do with an unruly person there in the text? What does it say to do? Pastor Gus got it. Anybody else? Warn. Warn. Warn them. We're we're not supposed to just come and love them. Supposed to just accept them. We're supposed to warn them. Hey, you're getting out of line. Hey, you're not doing what you should be doing. We want to be a help to you. You don't want to continue down that path. But we're supposed to what are we supposed to do for the feeble-minded? Comfort. Comfort the feeble-minded. Now that is uh the idea there is not weak minded as in Maybe a little simple. The feeble-minded means faint at heart. Feeble-minded, like they don't have a lot of of get up and go left. They're just tired. They're wore out. They're faint of heart. We're supposed to comfort those who are feeble-minded. Maybe the trials of life have gotten so heavy that they just they're a little bit faint. Comfort them. God tells us what to do. Those that are weak. We're supposed to support the weak, whether they're weak physically or whether they're weak spiritually. You're going to have some people in the church house who are weak We're supposed to support them. They don't have the strength maybe to stand like they should in the workplace or stand like they should out on the street when they're going to the mall or whatever. They need somebody to help support them to do right until they can stand on their own. That's what our job is. When we consider one another, we think about where they're at, what it is that's going on in their life, and how we can provoke them to love and good works. Be patient toward all men. That's a large group there. He didn't even like classify it, but he says there's a few people in the church that are going to try your patience. They're gonna they're gonna just be kind of they're gonna have that personality. Be patient towards them. Towards those in the church that maybe uh you know rub the fur the wrong way Be patient. And what an admonition that is, and certainly hard to follow through with. But that's what we're supposed to do with the different Christians or different Christians. Let me give you quickly the the course uh of action. This takes place how? We're to provoke The provoking of love and good works is done, is done through exhortation. In this verse we just read here, verse number 25, and I'm not in Hebrews anymore. All right. Sorry. Not forsaking the assembly of yourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another. This is done through exhortation. Now this word exhorting. is a the Greek word pericle, which comes from the word paraclete. Now how many of you recognize that word, paraclete? Many of you should. That's the idea that we have with the Holy Spirit. How the Holy Spirit comes alongside. He's a paraclete, he's with us. And we are to exhort one another to provoke to love and to good works. We're to provoke to love and good works by exhortation. Some people would think about exhortation as just a matter of telling somebody what they need to do. But this has in it the idea of coming alongside. Of saying, hey, you know what? You ought to be in church. God wants you to be in church. Can I come and pick you up? One is just telling, the other is exhorting. Exhorting, coming alongside, somehow helping to see that come to pass. Not just saying what it is, but being a part to help in the solution, coming alongside them Our consideration, the reason why. Why do we do all this? Not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more, what is the last phrase there? As you see the day approaching. Why? Because the day is coming when we won't have that opportunity anymore. The time is coming when we won't be able to gather together. The day is coming, the the judgment of the Lord is coming. And where people are at, whether they're weak Christians or whether they haven't yet trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, the opportunity to make a change will be passed. So, right now, while we have the chance, before the day comes, let's consider one another and provoke unto love and good works through exhortation. Coming alongside and helping one another. So, my challenge to you tonight is to go beyond yourself and invest in someone else Let me also say that you need to make yourself available to be invested in. Not looking for it like who's gonna take me to lunch today, you know, just hanging around waiting for somebody. Let's see Hey Brother Wayne, where are you going to lunch today? Boy, that would be nice to go to lunch there sometime, you know. Um not looking for somebody to invest in you But there are those who are the opposite. Where somebody would come and say, hey, could I come over to your house and visit with you on Tuesday night You say, oh, Tuesday nights aren't good. Well what night could we come over and and spend a little bit of time with you? Well, I don't know. Let me think about it and I'll get back with you someday. And that's been a year ago, and we're still waiting. We try again, obviously. We call back. Or, hey, can we can we go to lunch today? No, not today. I can't go to lunch today because you know what? I know it's not comfortable sometimes You want to go eat with the one person that you know, or or sit down with the people that you enjoy the most, and it takes a little bit of effort to sit with somebody you don't and try and get to know them and talk. But make yourself available. Somebody wants to spend some time with you and invest some time in you. Look at it as an opportunity for you to invest in them. That's the way I look at it. If anybody wants to spend time with me, I'm all for it. I don't know why they would, but if they did, I I'll say, hey Sure, let's do it. You want to come over? Well whatever. Uh last Sunday night we were getting it was getting late here and whoever else was standing around here I said, Hey you wanna come over and uh eat some food? I'm gonna go home right now and crank up the grill. So uh Miss Tierra and uh Tiffany and Anthony and uh well I invited Miss Amy but she rejected me so uh Whoever was around here, I said, Hey you want to come and eat? Just spend some time together. Just whatever whatever we can do. If they're willing, I'm willing. It's about spending time considering Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Lord, we love you. We are so grateful, God, for your goodness and Lord for the church that you've given us here. God, you've brought so many wonderful good people here. People with a heart that love you and they want to love each other. Lord, I pray that you would give us uh eyes to see, that we would see those that we go to church with week after week. And Lord, we would know them, that we would know those that are rejoicing and why they're rejoicing. We would see people in tears and know, Lord, why they're crying. What is it in their heart that's so heavy? And Lord, we do it for the purpose of provoking them to love and good works because a day is coming when there won't be any opportunity for that. Lord, we thank you for tonight's service. May you use this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know how God spoke to you, but the piano is going to play. If you want to use the altar, you come and do that.