I don't know. Um and last week I I've gotten so used to looking at this camera up here to try and engage those that are at home. uh that last week I kept forgetting because we re had the phone mounted down here and and I kept looking over that. When I saw the video later, uh it was quite awkward uh that you know so I'm just Sorry for all these changes. Uh, you know, the different means of logging on, especially for those that are around the country that don't get our email updates and that kind of stuff. Um, you know, you uh may You know, those other churches or those other people that try and log in and watch our services, it may make it very difficult for them when things aren't the same. And I apologize for that. But uh hopefully this evening you're you're able to watch the service and ready to get into the Word of God. I shan't be long tonight, I I hope. But have us has a thought for you from the Word of God. Turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter number five. Last week we looked at Galatians chapter number five. When I opened my notes here and saw the text, I thought, oh no I loaded last week's message onto my iPad and I have the wrong one just a minute ago. I I just we finished praying, I opened the thing and I looked down and the text verse says Galatians 5 25 and I'm like uh oh that was last week's message. But that is actually where I want to start tonight. It was last week's. We looked at the thought that if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. As Christians, we're to be walking in the Spirit. And if we're walking in the Spirit, we will be doing what tonight's message is. We will be involved in doing what Doing good. Turn one chapter over to Galatians chapter number six. Familiar passages here, Galatians chapter number six, if you you know verses six and seven very well Be not deceived, God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. That's how this passage opens. But look at verse number eight. He says, For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that stores of the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. You see, we're continuing this thought, this idea that we are to be walking in the Spirit. That we are to be living and allowing the Spirit of God to lead us in our lives. In verse number 9, he says, And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap If we faint not. Again, walk in the spirit. Don't walk in the flesh. Don't get weary. Keep on doing it. Because if you do it right, you're going to reap. Don't faint. Verse number 10, our text for this evening, he says, and as we have therefore opportunity. Let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith. The title of tonight's message is Let us Do good. Let us do good. Three simple thoughts for you, and we'll be done. You'll be able to go back to whatever it is you were doing. I was gonna say your video game, but probably most of you aren't doing that. A few younger people and a few people that haven't grown up yet that are stuck on those video games. Uh but I mean I'm not a I'm not going there. As we as we have therefore opportunity, let us do good I want you to see first of all tonight that every one of us has opportunity to do good. That implication is made here. He says, as we have therefore opportunity God has given us and made it possible for us to do good. There is opportunity for us to do good. That opportunity is available. It's there. Now, sometimes our opportunity That, you know, we think about opportunity as something that's positive. You don't usually think about I've got an opportunity to be sick. No, you don't say that. I got an opportunity for a raise. I got an opportunity for a job, or I got an opportunity to go do this, or I got an opportunity to ride a roller coaster or something fun. You know, you got it that's that's opportunity is something good Well, everybody has opportunity, and the opportunities vary. Sometimes we will have the opportunity to do something very large You'll have the opportunity to do something large for somebody else. It'll make a great difference in somebody's life, a big impact. And those things are fun to do. That time where you can, one of the privileges I have as a pastor is to be there for families in their hour of need. Some have said, well that's gotta be hard. It's gotta be a burden. It it is hard, but at the same time I count it a privilege because I get to be there and help them and hold them up and pray with them and encourage them through what is probably one of, if not the hardest, things that they've dealt with in their life. I look at that as an opportunity to be a pastor for them in that great time of need. But do you know that although occasionally in our life we might have the opportunity to do something large, you know most of the time the opportunities are little. They're little. It's just small acts of kindness. It's just what somebody might say a random act of kindness. Have you ever got a note that you didn't expect? Just a just a little note of encouragement. Well that was a blessing. Have you ever got a phone call or a text that you weren't expecting? Ever found some money in your mailbox? Wow. I mean you may be rolling in the dough, but you open your mailbox and there's some money in there you weren't counting on Man, that's a blessing. I mean that's that's neat. Look at that. Wow, I could use that for this. That can meet this need, or you know, it's really awesome when you've been praying for it and God brings it in. But most of the time it's just the small things that we do. Many times our ability to do something for others might even be limited. You know, you might only be a one-talent person. You might only have one talent as far as you look at, well, my opportunities aren't that many, or my RPTs aren't that big, because I'm just a kid. I'm just a a uh a teenager. Well have you told your mom or dad you love them recently? Have you written your mom or dad a note in appreciation and thank you for caring for you and loving you and putting up with you? Have you expressed that? There's an opportunity. It's just something small, but we can use the ability that we have. Don't wish that, man, if I only had that guy's talent. Or if I only had that girl's ability. Boy, if I could sing like her, man, I would be singing the most amazing songs. Or if I had his ability, I could do the most amazing things. All of the if I, if I, if I never did anything for anybody. What do you have? So you you don't have the ability to give $10,000 submissions. But can you give ten dollars to missions? You see, many times we look at other people and we think about their opportunity. Man Look at the opportunities they have to serve God, or look at the opportunities they have to do good. Man, look at they're they're just set up, man. They're just set up. If I was set up like that, yeah, but how are you set up? What ability do you have? Don't wish for somebody else's ability. Use the ability God has given you because God has given every one of us opportunity to do good. I'm faced every day with my own limitations as a pastor. Very often my ambition as a pastor far exceeds my ability. And I'm faced with the limits that I have. I see other pastors, I see other ministries, and I look and say, boy, I want to be able to do that. But when you're not a five-talented person, you can't do that. You know, sometimes I think we ought to thank God we're not a five-talent person. Because to whom much is given, much is required. God's blessed you greatly in given you great opportunity to do. You have a greater responsibility to do. Whatever your talent, whatever your ability is, use it. You might have a limited ability. You might have limited means. You might have very limited opportunity, but you have no idea how far-reaching that impact can be. My boys and I were going to climb the Grand Teton this year. They called and substantially raised the price, I think, because of COVID. They're trying to recoup all of their lost funds here. uh on me. Uh not all of them, but I you know, uh they increased the price beyond our means and I just said well we're not gonna be able to do that now but someday in the future we'll we'll climb the grand Together. So our plans were changed with regards to that. But I I recall climbing the Grand Tetons that you don't have to pack up all of your water. You take some for the first half of the first day or so, but then once you get up into the mountain, every once in a while you'll pass these really small springs. that are coming out of the rocks. And it's crystal clear water. And you can you can it's just the smallest little spring coming out. And the guides that go hike up there all the time You know, they they test this water. They know that the water's clean. They're like, yeah, you can fill up your jug right there. And it's just a small nobody hikes up there to go see that spring. Nobody it's just the smallest little spring coming out of the wall. I mean it takes if a whole family happened upon the spring at the same time, they couldn't all get a drink at the same time. They couldn't all fill up their jugs. They'd be there forever. It's just a small little spring. People don't travel to see that like they do the Niagara Falls. And somebody some people sometimes I think we compare ourselves, we look at somebody with a Niagara Falls ability and we say, wow, look at people, look at that. Look at that. I mean look at what all they can do. Look at this overflowing abundance of But what's amazing is that little spring that continues to flow 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year without fail. continues to just a little bit of water. Right. It never stops. You see the volume of water that's dispelled from that When you look at it, there i there is no comprehension of actually how much water has been supplied. There was be sufficient water to take care of a city because it just keeps on giving. And Christian, if we would stop looking at our limited ability and just seize every opportunity, we would have no idea how great of an impact. we could have on the world around us, on our loved ones, just taking the opportunities that God has given us to do good. Every opportunity should be grabbed. It could be seized. Take advantage of those opportunities. You know, you hate to miss a deal. You you I don't like missing a deal. Don't you hate it when you when you hear about a deal and you found out you missed it? It's like you'd almost rather not be told. Why'd you tell me? Like, hey, you missed it. Yeah, so why'd you tell me about it? I missed it. I mean, you we hate missing a deal. Listen, when you miss an opportunity, you miss the deal. That opportunity to do good might not be there tomorrow. That opportunity to do good might not be there later. It was right now. That opportunity to say that kind word has passed. That opportunity of expression of care or concern for a neighbor It's gone. That opportunity to praise the Lord is past. You say, boy, I missed it. And it truly is an opportunity as we see. Further down in the notes tonight, I want you to understand is an opportunity that you don't want to miss. Don't let it go by. Some people forego the opportunity. They rejected as it were, like those who walked by the man there on the Jericho Road. Didn't want to take care of him. Didn't want to help him. Some people forsake the opportunity, like Demas having forsaken and loved it loved this present world Some fumbled the opportunity, like David, when he wanted to bring back the Ark of the Covenant. He had an opportunity to do something good, but instead of doing it how God wanted it to be done, he thought, well, let's put it on a cart. Uzziah touched it and died. He fumbled the opportunity that God had given him. Some flee from the opportunity that God gives them, like Jonah. And God put forth and made an opportunity for him to do a great thing, a great opportunity, a large thing, and he he fled from it. I don't know what opportunities are available to you. We are in a challenging time. We're in a day when even the ability to do things for others is limited because People don't want to get too close. People don't wanna they they wanna not just social distance but like you know stay away unclean. I just want you to know, I mean sometimes people come to the church here, and I'm not sure if I should walk up to them, if I should leave a good amount of distance. or if I should walk up and shake their hand, I want you all to know that I'm not concerned about it at all. I am not worried about it at all. You can come up and I'll shake your hand, that's fine with me Now if you don't want to shake hands, I understand it's not a problem. I'm I just want you to know as far as you're coming up to me, not gonna bother me at all. You can come up and shake hands, you can say hello, you can get in my space within reason. Okay I do have uh the same amount of social distancing I had before this happened, which means I don't like you breathing on me, okay? Just keep a little bit of space there. I am an American after all, you know. I am not comfortable in the uh trains in India where everybody is like, you know, it's a train that fits a hundred people and they got two hundred and eighty of them p in the So you know how when you're coming up to me to respond. I mean I I if somebody comes to church I deal with it almost every day like I don't know should I should I leave the distance? Should I walk up and say hello? Should I shake their hand? I almost want to ask, okay, what do you want me to do? Uh and it's a little bit awkward, but I tend to err on the side of caution and give people their space, but uh I feel like I'm not even being friendly. So So we need to use whatever opportunity we have. Those chance meetings, a casual phone call, the kind words said to the mailman. A card written to a neighbor expressing neighborly concern. Your text to a friend, a happy birthday wish to an extended loved one, an opportunity to do good. An opportunity to be in church, to go to church. Or sit together as a family and stream the church service. Look for those opportunities. Pray for God to send those to you and that you would see them and seize them. You give someone a gift card, I don't know why you would, but you could give someone some chocolate. Seems to be a universal expression of care and concern. Chocolate. Uh no, chocolate's good. I'm just giving you a hard time. But say thank you. Show appreciation for what people have done for you. Help where you can is what I'm saying. Everyone has opportunities. The problem is as a society, we are too We are looking at our own life. And we just don't see the needs and and burdens of others at all. Let me give you an example. I had this message on my mind, and uh I I had the blessing of taking Bob Gamble to Home Depot. and helping him get some supplies and that was great. I was standing there with home with with Bob and he was on the phone checking on something and uh I was just waiting for him and a lady came up and she was loading some topsoil. And in my mind, I said, I ought to go load that for her. But of course I made an excuse, you know, I I don't want to leave Bob stand here. I mean after all I'm his eyes, right? I can't leave him standing alone in the store, so I can't go over there and help her. But I missed that opportunity. The rest of the rest of the time I'm taking Bob out to the store. I'm like, it would have been like five bags of I mean what a blessing that would have been to this lady you know I could have loaded that for her. Just let her know there's people that are watching. There's people that care. And I missed it. Do we see the opportunities? I want you to see, secondly, the amazing thing about our Lord is that everyone is rewarded for doing good. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. In verse number 9, for in due season you shall reap if you faint not. It is in this context that we find the admonition. Therefore, therefore, as ye have opportunity, let us do good. Beloved, I know that Most of the time the application with regards to sowing and reaping is you're gonna get it. It's coming boy. You showed your wild oats and now the hammer's gonna fall. I mean I know that's a normal implication and we We we walk around with a a measure of fear because of what we've done in the past and boy reaping's gonna come and we're begging for mercy and asking God for his grace and mercy on our lives because we know what we deserve and praise God for his mercy. But listen. This in context is not talking about what you've done that's wrong. In context, it's talking about what you've done that's good. Do good because you're gonna reap good. When you do good, you'll reap good. When we seize an opportunity to do good, you'll reap good in your life. Every minute of every day you are sowing. Have you seen the combines going down the the the field planting like twenty rows of corn at a time. You see them planting these long rows and they're just going down. As you drive by, you can look down those rows. I remember my dad telling stories about how the the goal was to get those roads as straight as you could, you know. You get them one, and they were old-time tractors back then, they weren't using these GPS-controlled combines. You know, but these long straight rows. But then you see the corn come up. It comes right down that row, right where that combine went. But you could almost look at your life and you know everywhere you're walking. You're leaving a row of seeds that you've planted. And hopefully it's good deeds that you've done Hopefully it's good things that you've done, that you have done good here, you've done good later, like that trickle of water that just runs out twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, you just have this nature about you about doing good. Every chance, every opportunity to do good. You know the principles about sowing and reaping. You reap after you sow, you reap the same kind uh what you sowed, and you reap more than you sowed. Everything you do that is good is a seed planted that's going to come up again. Today they're Have been several feel-good stories that are propagated that kind of have the idea or the term that you've sure you've all heard, the idea of pay it forward. Oh, I just paid it forward. They're calling it something else, but basically it's just sowing and reaping. It's just sowing and reaping. Somebody's done something good for me, I want to do something good for somebody else. And that sowing and reaping is a biblical principle that's true in everybody's life. So good, and you'll reap good. John Lawrence in his book, The Seven Laws of Harvest, said this: if a farmer knew no more about the principles of farming, then the average Christian does about producing spiritual harvest. He would never make it through the winter. What I'm saying is the farmer, if the farmer invested as much effort in planting his seed as the Christian does in planting good, The farmer would fail as a farmer. Christian, is it any wonder that we have so many Christians falling by the wayside? We are not investing any effort in planting good. One pastor said what we've done is we we we plant We sow wild seats, sea wild oats all week, and we come into the church house and pray for crop failure. That's what we do. Instead of sowing good. If you sow good over and over and over and over again, you'll reap good in your life You know, it's amazing that actually, because of God's blessing, we also reap when we haven't sowed. We also reap the good from others that that we haven't sown. It's not some effort that we made It's not seed that we planted, but we're getting the benefit and the blessing of it. Jesus himself said, and herein is that saying true in John 4. 37. seven. One soweth and another reapeth. I sent you to reap that wherein ye bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and ye were entered into their labors We get the benefit sometimes of other people that have sown good. We have reaped from their faithful sowing. Think about your own family. How many of you could talk about your mom and dad and say, man, my life today is greatly enhanced and blessed because of the faithful good sowing of my mom and dad? It wasn't me. I I don't have this blessing. I I didn't create this. I didn't come by this myself, but I I'm today living evidence to the fact that because my parents sowed faithfully good, uh I reap that blessing day by day. I mean you look at that and you think and it ought to provoke in us a heart of gratitude. Think about uh the freedoms that we enjoy in our country today. The freedoms we enjoy in our country day by day, beloved, are not freedoms that you and I ourselves have earned. The freedoms that were bought and paid for by people that sold years ago. People that fought in battle after battle that stood for truth and righteousness, that stood for freedom in America and liberty and the rights that we have guaranteed to us in the Constitution. That's why we have the freedoms we have today We get that great blessing. We get to enjoy it because of what somebody else has done. Beloved, not just our family or think about our freedom, but what about our very faith? Is not that the truest expression of reaping where we have not sown? For by grace are ye saved through faith, in that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. All we have in our faith in Jesus Christ is because of what Christ did on the cross. Not because of what I've done, but I reap that great blessing because of what was paid for me. I tell you that because that in itself, that truth, that abiding principle, should bring us to one conclusion, and that is we are required, it ought to behoove us that because what's been done for us and what we enjoy, it is our responsibility and our duty to do good. Yes, we're going to reap the benefit of it. That's a promise from God. But beloved, when we do good, you understand that others around us reap the benefit as well. Future generations, after we are dead and gone, will reap the benefits of a group of people that stood for truth and righteousness today. Some people that have the pleasure of enjoying what Hunt Valley Baptist Church is today Have stated to me that they feel like they've come in and they're getting to just be a part of all the blessing. That they didn't have to carry the burden way back in the beginning when it just started. And we were praying and asking God to give us enough money to possibly move out of the storefront and just looking for God to provide and taken up a love offering and every five thousand dollar uh increment that came in was such a blessing and look at what God did and wow we worked and labored together and people sacrificed and gaved and we we prayed and we fasted And we carried that time and God brought us through that. And we saw God do great things, but some people that have come since then have expressed their gratitude that they get the blessing of previous labor. Now beloved, if you're here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, understand it's our duty to keep it up. It's our responsibility to continue to carry the load, to continue to hold high the cross of Jesus. Jesus Christ to continue to fight for truth and righteousness and to continue to sacrifice for the Lord so that those that come next week or next year Or the year after that can come and say, Wow, look at what God's done here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I didn't labor for it, but I get to enjoy it. It's our responsibility That's why everyone should be doing good. Everyone should be doing that's what the Bible says. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good. That's the title of the message tonight, beloved. Let us Do good. Let us do good. Why? Because we owe it to those that have gone before us, because what Jesus Christ has done for us. God even rewards us for doing it. My This is not a suggestion to do good when it suits our fancy. When we're so inclined, when our self-interest wouldn't align with the task at hand. It is an admonition to do good at every opportunity provided by God. That means we have to stop living so much for ourselves. And ask God to help us to see others. Cotton Mather says the opportunity to go to do good The opportunity there is not you get to say, oh well Yeah, I'll do it. No, I won't. It should be on the heart of the Christian that God has given that. And it's my duty. It's my responsibility. It's my obligation. This is given to all men. All men. Let us do good unto all men. But then he says, especially those that are of the household of faith. You know, it's biblical to take care of A very similar passage to this in 1 Timothy 5, verse number 8. But if any prove not his own, and especially for those of his own house. If you don't provide for your own, or especially those of your own house, what does he say? You're worse than an infant That's strong. It's biblical to provide for your home first. We could apply that to the church, and we practice that here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We have people from all over Call Hunt Valley Baptist Church about needs. We say, man, we're sorry that you're in this situation. If you would like to come to a service here, following the service, we'll try and see what we can do to help you. We don't make any commitments. And obviously you don't see many of them show up. That's not what they want. But we explain that our responsibility first is to those that are in the church We have a limited amount of resources, and the resources that are available are first available to those that are part of this household of faith. That's biblical. We first take care of those who that God brought here and we worship together. This is their church. They're our part of our family. And if we don't take care of our family, we're worse than an infidel. We could take that out one step further, and I'm not gonna spend any time here, but that goes for our country as well. Right. It's not America's responsibility to take care of and provide for every other nation out there and their problems. I know we all want to have hearts that bleed, and we all want to, you know, have compassion on every need in every country and all of that. But common sense and biblical principle says you can't continue to put money out there when you don't have it. And some of the mess we're in is because for years and years and years now we've been pushing money out there, not even taking care of what is at home. That's biblical. Don't go weary in this labor of doing good. Be not weary in well-doing, for in due season you shall reap if you fail. Paint not. Don't grow weary, Christian. You know, I would much rather be tired for having done good. Than wore out for having lived in sin. Both will wear you out. You will come to the end of your day and put your head on the pillow worn out. But I would much rather have been worn out for having done good than having Lived a life of sin. Take the opportunity to do good. You know, we love the idea of taking money and investing it We love the idea where we take this money and we put it into this area or we invest it in this business or this company, and in a year it's gonna double. If that was the case, everybody would be sticking their money in there. Today, if you get a company and you put it in there in a year, it turns into 5% more That's a good investment. And we like the idea of getting a return on our investment. A return that's not even guaranteed. But beloved, this principle that we've given you tonight is guaranteed. It's guaranteed by God. If you take effort You know what? When you when you do something wrong, this is mostly for the young people that are watching. Most of the time when young people that are wa that uh do something wrong, they look around to make sure nobody's They look around to see if they got away with it. listen sometimes when you do good nobody saw right don't worry about it because you're not going to get away with it Because it's a promise from God. It's a promise from God. Beloved, that uh you're gonna reap. You sow good, you'll reap good. You can't do it incognito. You can't do it so God doesn't know. Now you can do it so others don't know, and I would Encourage you that that would probably be biblical. That would be biblical. You don't want to try and, hey, look what I'm doing, look what I'm doing, I'm uh okay, you have your reward. But uh, beloved, God knows. If nobody else knows that you did that good thing, God knows God knows. And you will reap. I could give you illustrations of my own life. That's one of the problems with the pastors. It's your life that you know. You know stories from yourself, but sometimes it comes across Bragging or praising and I don't want to go down that road. I want you to understand that God God knows and God will reward you. God will reward you for doing good I want to just say one other thing, and we're going to conclude tonight. How is Hunt Valley Baptist Church going to grow? How is Hunt Valley Baptist Church going to Continue to see the hand of God, God's blessing, and fruit here in the church. I believe that this principle given to us tonight is key to that. If God's people as a whole will seize opportunity, every opportunity, to do good What we're talking about is do right. It's not it's not just the expressions of concern and compassion and care for others. It's doing good. You know, in our lives, of course, we're supposed to put off sin. You know, a tree you see that see this the tree that doesn't bring forth fruit what does God say he'll do to it he'll hew it down. You see what he's saying is it's not that your tree is bringing forth bad fruit. Maybe you've stopped a lot of things that you shouldn't be doing. You've stopped bringing forth bad fruit a long time ago. That's good. But God says at that point, you're good for nothing. You should be bringing forth fruit. You should be doing good. It's not just that we stop doing bad, it's that we do good. And beloved, when we do good, God rewards. Can I have the pianists come tonight? We'll close with a word of prayer and a moment of invitation. As God gives you a door of opportunity, beloved, let's do good unto all men. For if we take that verse in James chapter 4, verse number 17, then we understand the only alternative is to Sin James four seventeen says to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. This is important. We need to do good. Let's do good. Lord, we ask you tonight that you would be with this moment of invitation that your people, God would respond, and have in their heart's desire the burden to do good in every opportunity that's brought our way. Lord, we could see so much fruit brought about by this, especially in a time like this where our world and our society is turned upside down. Down, and there's so much hate. What if they saw an expression of love and kindness from your people? Lord, I pray that you would help us to seize these opportunities to show love and concern. To this world that doesn't understand it. In Jesus' name. Amen. As pianist plays, if God spoke to your heart, you do what God wants you to do. Yield to him tonight.