2 Corinthians chapter 7. The topic of study before us this evening is not an easy one. It's not an easy one to preach, nor is it an easy one to listen to. It's not easy to preach because no man of God that stands behind a pulpit that attempts to preach a message like this ever Feels worthy. Ever feels that his life is in such a place that he could preach this and not be preaching to himself at the same time. And it's not easy to uh uh listen to because nobody likes their sin to be pointed out Nobody likes when the Holy Spirit comes down and puts his finger in our face as it were and says, Thou art the man. Nobody likes really to be called on the carpet to have the Word of God lay before us our iniquities. We don't enjoy that, but in 2 Corinthians chapter number 7, we see here, have therefore, having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us Cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Let us cleanse ourselves as the topic of study for this evening. Many times when the man of God gets up to preach, or when the Holy Spirit of God comes and touches our heart. We are like the Israelites who got upset at Moses. They got upset at Moses in Exodus chapter 14 and verse number 12. And they told him, Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt? Saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. For it had been better for us to serve in Egypt. Than that we should die in the wilderness. And I'll tell you what, how many times has that been the case where the man of God got up to preach the word of God and The Holy Spirit began to work, and the Christian says, Let us alone. Let me alone. Don't point out my sin. Don't talk to me about this. This is not what I wanted to hear tonight. This is not what I wanted to deal with. And oh beloved, how many Christians have taken a step of faith? How many Christians have have taken a step of belief and they've decided they were going to follow God and do what God wanted them to do? Do just like the Israelites did, and then old Satan came up, and Satan began to challenge them, and Satan began to cause problems in their life, and Satan began to raise Cain, and then all of a sudden The Christian says, man, it would have been better if I would have never taken a step for Jesus. It would have been better if I wouldn't have started tithing because now I lost my job It wouldn't have been better if I would have just kept living in sin because now I'm facing this challenge and I'm dealing with this battle. Am I right? Isn't that what Satan does? He does that to us when we take a step of faith, when we step out for God, when we say we're gonna do what God wants us to do, boy Satan comes up and challenges us and we're just like the Israelites. We say man it would have been better if I would have just stayed where I was I should have just just I was comfortable where I was, I stepped out for God, and now look what happened. But beloved, although we don't want to hear it, although it's hard to hear. That in itself is all the more reason that we should hear it. We don't want to be confronted with our complacency, and complacency is sin. We don't want to be confronted with our calloused hearts because we've grown comfortable in Egypt. And we say, Lord, let us alone. But beloved, we don't need to be left alone. We need the Spirit of God to come in and convict us of sin. We need the Spirit of God to come and to stir our hearts afresh and anew, to point out where we are in Egypt, to point out the comfortable situation we're sitting in or the callous heart we're living with. We need the Spirit of God to come and convict us of sin, beloved. We need a preacher to stand up and preach the word and encourage us to cleanse ourselves. To cleanse ourselves. So this evening, as I preach the message, let us cleanse ourselves, I ask God to speak to our hearts I ask God to stir us, to point out what needs to be cleansed. As we look at this verse, I first want you to consider the promise that's given to us. here, the promise that we see. He says, having therefore these promises, having therefore these promises. This passage of scripture here, verse number one, is obviously pointing back to something earlier. He says, having therefore these promises Well, what promises is he talking about? I mean what w what would he be pointing to? Well, he's pointing back to the chapter that's before this, and you know, of course, that the chapters and verses are not inspired of God. They were put in there for uh ease of organization and study and to be able to point out. Can you imagine? I was contemplating this on Sunday Sunday when Pastor Whitaker was preaching. Can you imagine if we had this entire book without chapter and verse? If I was trying to get you to turn to a page or get to a passage You know, over there in Kings where Elijah, come on, where Elijah. I mean, the chapter and verses really help, don't they? I mean, I couldn't imagine trying to preach without that. So it's convenient, but you know they're not ordained of God So this verse number one of chapter seven is actually a conclusion of a paragraph that began in chapter sixteen of verse number six. Look back there with me if you would. He says, and what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God hath said. I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and will be a father unto you. And ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. He has made these promises here Several promises that are listed that He has given to those that are the temple of the living God. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse number 16, he says, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God? That the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? Beloved, if you have had occasion in your life to realize that you were dead in your trespasses in sin, that you were in debt with a sin debt that you could not pay and realized that Jesus Christ came and died on the cross for you and paid your sin debt. If you accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior as a covering for the sin you had, then beloved, ye are the temple of the living God. That's what God's word tells us. The Holy Spirit comes to dwell in our heart, and he is there, and he's with us, and this promise is made to those that are the temple of the living God. This promise is made to those that walk a separated life. He says, wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. Those who come from and live a separated life. They don't take part in the wickedness that's around them. They don't practice the false teachings. As was prevalent and very prominent in Corinthian culture. There's an adoption today Of a practice that's not new. It was found all the way back in the scriptures. And the idea is that you have to be like them to win them. But I want you to know that that's false. You don't have to bring the culture into the church to win them to Jesus Christ. They like to say you've got to be culturally relevant. Listen, beloved, when a sinner comes to the end of himself When he realizes he's dead and he is trespassing and sin and he has no hope, he's not looking for something else that's just like him. He's looking for something real, something that'll transform his life, something that's different, that'll change him from what he is to what he needs to be, and the church is sinning against people when the church is what the world is. We're not supposed to be that way. We are supposed to be offering them something different. Something holy, something pure, something separated. It's a lie of the devil that many churches and people have bought into that somehow are cultural relevance It's gonna reach more people. We've been attempting it for a lot of years and I don't see it happening. The promises that he gives us here is he says he will receive you. That receive is not just like to welcome like somebody comes by your house and you say, oh yeah, come on in, and you welcome into the house. You've received Them into the house. But that word receive is much stronger, it's much greater than that. It means to take into one's favor. He'll receive you, to take in to his favor, boy I want to be in the favor of God. I want to be in favor of God. We have a promise here given to us That if we do as he commands and we are obedient to him, he will receive you. He'll take you into his favor. The worldly Christian, although he knows Christ, He is not received by God. He promises here, he says, he will be a father unto you That beloved is a close and loving relationship that's represented by the father, son, and daughter relationship. Not the kind of relationship that is available in the world and so many homes are dealing with so much struggle and turmoil, but the kind of relationship that you want to have Between a father and his son, between a father and his daughter. He says he will be a father to you. It's a close and loving relationship with him as father. The obedient child is taken into the Father's love and the Father's favor. He experiences rich and bountiful blessing and a closeness of relationship But beloved, the disobedient child experiences God's love in a different way. God says that whom he loveth he also chasteneth The disobedient child experiences the chastening hand of God. I would much rather be drawn into a loving relationship into favor, into bountiful blessing, than to be under the chastening hand of God. It's with an understanding of these promises that are given to us in chapter number six that we read verse number one of chapter seven. And Paul encourages the church and thereby encourages us that because these precious promises are available to us Let us cleanse ourselves. It's worth it to be clean because you have favor with God, you have a relationship with God, you have got a closeness, a communion with God, you've got blessings. From God. Let us cleanse ourselves. We must commit to purity because there is a problem in the world today. We live in a filthy world. We live in a dirty society. Beloved, I'm encouraged here that Paul places himself in this group. Paul says, let us cleanse ourselves. Paul includes himself in this group, and beloved, there's nobody that has attained There's nobody that has reached the point where they no longer need to cleanse themselves. There's nobody above or beyond this admonition to be clean and to live clean and to continue this commitment in their life. It is increasingly difficult to find anyone who lives a clean life today. Wickedness is promoted on every hand. Just as we as God's people are supposed to be committed to living a pure life, committed to purity. It seems as though the world is committed to filth. It's not just what happens. It seems as though they pursue it. They go after it. They promote it. It's mind-boggling how filth is promoted. This world in which we live in, and anywhere that you go, it's increasingly hard as a Christian. To maintain a clear mind, to maintain a pure heart, to be what we ought to be before God. It takes a personal commitment. It takes real effort. Paul told Timothy, his son in the faith, he says, flee also, youthful lust But follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. He told his son in the faith, Timothy, he says, flee those youthful lusts. Follow after righteousness. Follow after God. The world's going to be pulling you. The filth is going to be all around you, the dirty lifestyles that are promoted on every hand are something you're going to have to stand against, Timothy. And stand strong and follow God from a pure heart. Beloved, although God is the one that does the cleansing, it is the believer who must Must submit to be cleaned. Have you ever tried to give a dog a bath who wasn't interested in it Who didn't really want it. Beloved, sometimes that's the way it is for the Christian. When they're in church and they're sitting in the pew And the Holy Spirit has his hose just unloading on the Christian in the pew, and he's just sitting there squirming because he didn't want to bath today He didn't want to get clean today. This is not what he wanted. And God is not going to force you to do it. God is not just going to wash you because he wants you to be clean. We must submit to him. We must say, as the psalmist, Wash me, O Lord. Wash me As we find ourselves contaminated by the filth of this world, we must submit to the cleansing power of God to be made clean again. Just as Jesus watched the feet of the disciples. Do you remember Peter? In Peter's way. Oh no, no, no, you're not going to wash my feet. And Jesus says, if I don't wash your feet, you're not of me. He's like, oh, okay, well, watch the whole body. What Jesus was saying is, although you've been saved When you walk through this world, you still gotta be cleaned by Jesus. And you've got to submit to be clean See, Jesus didn't make Peter do it. He said, I want to wash you. But Peter had to submit to it. He had to say, Okay, Lord. They needed to be cleaned daily from the filthiness of the flesh and the spirit. It's a commitment that we must have in our heart to remain clean because this world is filthy. It's a process that we must complete. It's a step that we take, it's a process that we've got to here, he says, from all filthiness of the flesh. And the spirit from all filthiness of the flesh. Have you ever had to take a cold shower that you really didn't want to take? I mean, it's freezy cold and y and you're like, okay, well, I I'll wash my arm off, you know, and I washed my head and I wash my arm. And you're just kind of scrubbing a little bit here and there to get by because the water's cold and it's uncomfortable You're just not ready to get in and get it done. There's a lot of Christians like that. God is Saved our soul, but we've gotten filthy in this world and we're comfortable with the sin that we're taking part in. And we say, God, I I want to be right with you in this area. And I I want this to be clean, but this area over here I'm not ready to wash yet, Lord. This over here I'm not ready to give up yet, Lord. This area, don't don't wash that, God. I I I want to keep that And the Holy Spirit is poking you in your heart and saying, you need to get rid of this, you need to clean this up, you need to let me wash you clean. From all filthiness of the flesh. We cannot, beloved Expect to have God's power when we're not practicing godly purity. You can't You want God's direction for your life, you want God's blessing on your life, you want to see God's power on your life, and you're looking for the things that you see in other people or that you've heard about and Prayers being answered and blessing being bestowed on you, saying, Oh, I want that in my life. I want it. And God says, Then you've got to confess and forsake this. And you say, Oh, no. Not yet, Lord. We've got to give all filthiness of the flesh. You're a pretty good Christian. By anybody's standards. And maybe you're watching something on TV that You know you shouldn't watch. Maybe you're watching something that you you you think, well, it's really not that bad, and after all, it's just a few minutes of entertainment and it's okay. And there may be another Christian that would even say it's okay. But the Holy Spirit of God has poked you in your heart and said, that is not for you. Maybe you're playing a video game. Maybe you're playing one of these games on the Xbox or PS4 or computer and the music is not right. The language is not right. The conversation between the characters is not right. And you know it. And sometimes the Spirit of God convicts you and you turn it down. And you say, well, I'll play it, but I'll just leave it off. Except then the next time that you're interested or the battle is engaging or it's too much fun or you want to know what's going on, you turn it on, and then again you're listening to it over and over again Clean from all filthiness. Beloved, has the Spirit of God touched your heart when you were on the internet? Looking at something that you shouldn't be looking at. Reading something that you shouldn't be reading. The filthiness of the flesh. The filthiness of the Spirit. The filthiness of the Spirit is false teaching. There was a lot of false teaching that was prevalent in Corinth and Some of the church had adopted and taken in some of this false teaching. And where the filthiness of the flesh defiles the body, the filthiness of the spirit defiles the soul. And he's saying you're believing in some of this false doctrine. You're perverting the gospel with this false teaching. And you've got to put it away. You've got to get rid of all of it. It's a continual process that we know as sanctification. This is perfected holiness, not perfect holiness Through submission and the passage of time, as we yield to the Spirit of God, we slowly mature, we become more complete in Him. Not perfect, but more perfected, more mature, more complete in Christ. Although you're saved and you live in a filthy world, beloved, we are stuck in this old flesh. Yet, through the power of God and close obedience to his word, we are made perfect. Or more complete in him, perfected over time This is a putting away of all filthiness and following after him. It's a pursuit of true holiness. Understanding what holiness is It's the pursuit of holiness and putting away all the filth that this world has to offer. I wonder how many Christians are in pursuit of holiness. Holiness compared to how many are making excuses for their sin You can't tell me this is wrong. I didn't tell you anything. The Holy Spirit did. You can't say I shouldn't do this. Did the Holy Spirit Spirit convict you. There's some things that we need to do in the pursuit of holiness It's just a matter of submitting to God and doing what God wants us to do R. C. Sprohl said, and I quote, We are so accustomed to equating holiness with purity or with ethical purity Perfection, that we look for this idea where the word holy appears, when and how things are made holy when they're consecrated, when they're set apart into purity. They're to be used in a pure way. They are to reflect purity as well as simple apartness. Purity is not excluded from the idea of holy. It is contained within it. But the point we must remember is that the idea of holiness is never exhausted in the idea of purity. It includes purity, but is much more than that. It is purity transcended. It is transcendent purity What he's saying is that the purity that we should have in our life, the level of holiness we should have in our life Is not the idea of transcendent is to be above It's to be higher than. It is a level of holiness granted to us by God that is not attainable any other way. You see, beloved, it's not are you more holy than your neighbor It's not, are you more holy than somebody else in the church? But are you as holy as God wants you to be? And if the promises of God given to us in chapter sixteen are not enough to motivate us Maybe the fear of God will be, as He says, from all filthiness of the flesh and of the Spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear. Of God. As a believer, I understand and know who God is. I realize that He is a loving and compassionate God and trust Him completely. But I also know that he is a holy and a just God, and he must judge sin And I am living on borrowed time, testing, tempting my God when I'm living in presumptuous sin. He is a holy God, and He will judge sin. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Beloved, we've got to complete this process. It is possible for us to be clean. To get all filthiness out, to let it all go. The psalmist says in 119, verse number 9: Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? He asked the question, is it possible? Wherewithal? How? How can a young man cleanse his way? Is this something attainable? And he says, by taking heed thereto according to thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. He asked the question Question, can I be clean? How am I made clean? And the answer is found in the Word of God. The precepts of Scripture are powerful and they work in every situation. The answer is found here, as you see in this text, in personal commitment. As we said, it takes a commitment to purity. But he said With my whole heart have I sought thee. With my whole heart have I sought thee. Beloved, it takes a dedicated heart. It takes A personal commitment. It takes a desire to want to be clean. Many times the Christian fails not because he's unable to get the victory, but because he's unwilling to get the victory. He has not gained victory in his life, he's not been able to give up that sin, not because God does not have power available to him to get over that sin, but because he does not want to give up the sin. Because he desires it too much, because when you get right down to it, what he wants in his heart of hearts. The psalmist said, With my whole heart have I sought thee. With my whole heart, with every ounce of my being I'm seeking thee, Lord Too many of us seek God with a portion of our heart, and the other part of our heart is seeking after sin. It is possible to be clean, to be washed, to be cleansed of all filthiness, if we want it with our whole heart. He begs God, he says, let me not wander. With my whole heart have I sought thee, oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. He said, God, I want to be clean. With my whole heart I'm seeking you. With every ounce of my being, God, I'm seeking after you. And Lord, if there's something small in me, if there's a little bit of sin there, if there's if I get distracted and maybe I start heading down the wrong road, maybe I start turning the wrong way, God, would you pull me back? Don't let me wander from your commandments. Lord, keep me from that. Don't let me get drawn or enticed by my own lust. Lord, would you please convict me of sin and show me where I'm wrong and help me get right? It's possible to be clean if we want it with a whole heart It's going to take a commitment to the Word of God, hiding God's Word in your heart, memorize, meditate, and obey. But if you want it, it's possible. Beloved, the only way we will ever enjoy biblical happiness is through embracing biblical holiness. The admonition this evening is let us cleanse ourselves. With me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit, perfecting holiness in the faith. Fear of God. Dear Lord, I don't know how you spoke to any hearts. I know, Lord, you've stirred mine, that you've challenged me, that I've been challenged All day pondering these thoughts. And Lord, I pray that you'd be with us as a church family, that we would desire most of all to be holy. To be cleansed of all filthiness. And Lord, if you've stirred a heart this evening, I pray that they would yield to you. Follow you. Begin the process. Of being washed and made clean. In Jesus' name, Amen.