And so now, between now and the time that uh we get into the creation on July sixth, uh I'll be taking a few of these Thursday nights and giving you a few more of these. So in Hebrews chapter six uh if you're there. The one we're going to cover tonight is found in verse number one. Hebrews chapter six, verse number one. The Bible says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection. not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God. In the middle of that verse he says, let us go on unto perfection. So it's been some time since we've looked at this idea, the phrase led us in these New Testament passages The ha this phrase is found all throughout the Bible. I've really taken quite a bit of time and just read this phrase through the through the Old Testament and the New Testament. And there are many, many uh places where we are admonished to uh let us do something, let us do this, let us be part of this, let us accomplish this, let us do this. There's even places where the wicked would encourage you and say, let us do this, and it's not something you should do. And uh so on both sides you have the question put forth, the admonition put forth to accomplish something or to be a part of something or to do something, and the choice is up to you. So just the same here as in any other one that we looked at, that it is an admonition given to us by the writer here and that as Christians we should want to do But God's not going to make us do it. It's going to be a choice for us to decide whether we want to do that or not. Is that something that we desire to be a part of, or are we going to let that encouragement pass us by. Is that not going to be for us? This request that's given to us should be what we desire. We have seen in our study on this, we've seen several of these other requests like let us pray, let us draw near, let us hold fast. Let us consider one another. Let us fear. Let us labor. But tonight we're going to look at, let us go on unto perfection. Going on unto perfection. You know, the sad fact is that from the founding of the nation of Israel, God's people, for some reason, have always had a tendency to become complacent where they were at, to give in to uh satisfaction in their current state When God has always wanted his people to move forward, he's always wanted his people to be conquering, to be accomplishing. something for him, to be taking steps in their faith, to be moving forward for him, to be growing in their walk with him Yet so many times Christians are just like the Israelites and spend their days forty years wandering in the wilderness. When it's God's desire that they be conquering the Canaan land, that they have that great reward for their labor. Yet So many Christians are content to just stay back and not move on to perfection We were encouraged in Ecclesiastes 9, chapter 10, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. So tonight I hope or propose. That we with a new vigor decide to go on to perfection. Decide to do it with all of our might To move on to perfection. Of course, if you've been in church any length of time, you understand that the word perfection there is not mean perfect It means mature. It means growing to the point of maturity in your Christian walk. in your spiritual relationship with God. So first of all, as a stepping off point or as a as as giving us an understanding of this passage, I want to first uh give you the exposition uh of the first few verses here that this admonition is found within. It's the context of the passage. He says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection, not laying again the foundation of repentance. For the dead works and of faith toward God. You see, this passage encouraging them to move on to perfection, dealing with the idea of growth. uh is starts growth starts with the basic principles. It starts with the beginning. It starts with the foundation. The foundation that was laid, yes, we should build thereupon, but you've got to have the foundation. You've got to have the basics. You've got to have the beginning. And as he's giving us here in this text, he says that not laying again the foundation of repentance. He's saying we're not again, we're not talking about salvation over. We're not you know, getting saved a second time where there that that foundation has been laid. Salvation has been taken care of, but he says uh of repentance from dead works. He is talking here about the idea that the works that many did during that day would leave them dead, would leave them no satisfaction. And we understand that we serve God because He saved us, not in order that He might save us. Because works is dead Because works does not accomplish your salvation. We could never work enough to get it on our own. And so with that understanding The works that they were participating in, he's saying you need to know those works didn't get you salvation. Salvation was given as a free gift from God, and we're not relaying that foundation. Paul describes the different works that many people were involved in during that time. But he says instead it's faith towards God. Not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith towards God. That means trusting in Christ. Trusting in God. Having faith and just trusting Him. Trusting in the finished work that God did. Faith is produced in the heart of man by the Word of God. And faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God You say, I don't know, Pastor Caleb, my faith is weak, and I just don't have enough faith. Well, faith comes by hearing the Word of God. Are you in the Word of God? You know, a lot of times this as I've contemplated not this message, but just recently really thinking about the idea of faith and of praying in faith. And sometimes we think that if I don't pray and have enough faith, Then my prayer is not going to be answered. And that if I'm praying in my heart, I'm doubting, then my prayer is not going to be answered. And so we can even like the disciples, we can uh pray and ask God, Lord, help my unbelief. But as I thought about it, I thought, you know what? Just the act of the prayer itself is an exercise of faith that you have. Just the fact that you are bowing your head and in your heart you're saying, you know, I'm not sure I believe this, but The fact that you're bowing your head and you're saying, God, would you meet this need, or God would you heal this person, or God, would you give the doctor's wisdom to to help uh brother Henry through. And I'll tell you, Brother Henry had a a time, his heart surgery they went into on Tuesday morning didn't go that well. He's in the hospital uh all in in the ICU all all day He was his chest he ended up having to be open heart surgery and it was supposed to be microscopic. He was in the hospital all day. They left his chest open for almost twenty-four hours. Couldn't stop the bleeding on his heart, had to have transfusion after transfusion. He's stable right now and doing okay. But I'll tell you what, in an hour like that, when you pray You say, I don't know if I have faith that God's gonna heal him, but just the act of praying is saying, I believe God can do something. And that encouraged my heart because sometimes I've prayed and thought, you know, I don't have enough faith to see this happen. But just the act of praying is the exercise of faith. So he said having that faith toward God. He says the doctrine of baptism in verse number two of the doctrine of baptism He says, hey, this was the beginning and there was a that during that time there was many people that they exercised works. of different types of washing. They had ritual ritualistic washings that they had to do in order to step into a certain part of a building or in order to come in through a door or to be able to take partake of this or to do this. They had lots of rituals. That they observed. But he he's saying baptism is not a ritual. Baptism is a representation, it is a picture. Of the fact that I already have been washed. That's not very good English, is it? It's a picture of the fact that I've been washed. I'm not being baptized in order that I might be washed. It's a picture of that I've been washed by the blood of Jesus Christ. Then he says the laying out of hands of the doctrine of baptism and the laying on of hands. In the early church, laying on of hands was done for many different reasons. And he's saying these are basic things that you see, that you know, that you see are being uh taken part of in the in the church. And they had a laying on the hands in the early church. Jesus laid on hands people to heal the sick in many different places. He laid hands on people to bestow a great blessing upon them. The apostles imparted by the laying out of hands, imparted the Spirit of God in a miraculous way in several different places, and the church leaders Did a laying out of hands in the uh in the appointment of different offices or fulfilling of different services, much like we did here for the deacons. uh when we were going to have the service uh the initiation or the uh you know start of the deacon ministry here at at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, I met with the deacons and said it's um it's not It doesn't have to be one way or the other. I just wonder if you all would like us to have a service where we uh ordain you into this ministry to serve as a deacon. And uh we talked about it a couple of minutes and and I just made the comment, well in in the book of Acts, that's what they did. They had that ordination service and they had a laying on a hands and And they commissioned these men to that area of service. And Brother Wayne just put his hand down and he said, Well, that settles it then. I think we ought to do it. I mean that's what they didn't ask. Good enough for them, good enough for us. And I said, okay, then we'll do it. And we were kind of, this is the first time we've done it. And so I said, we're setting the pattern for Hunt Valley Baptist Church, you know, for the future, how new deacons will be brought into this position. And so, you know, we we said, Well, what we do now is probably the way that we'll do it for the future and he says, Well, let's let's do it. It's what they did in the book of Acts. Um And I said, I think it's a good idea. And so we did that, the laying out of hands. But he says, hey, you've seen this. These are beginning things. Then he talked about the resurrection of the dead in verse number two of the doctrine of baptism, the laying out of hands, the resurrection of the dead. This was a important point of the teaching and the preaching of the early church The early church preached the resurrection of Jesus Christ over and over and over again because he was the Lamb that came to shed his blood for the world, to save souls. and to seek and to save that which was lost. That's why he came. So the resurrection was a message that was preached over and over, a beginning, a foundational message. That people needed to understand in order to let go of the works, in order to let go of the the the old way of of ceremonial laws and and sacrificial uh systems And so on. We need to let go of that. Why? Because Jesus came, because of the resurrection. They preached the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And Jesus, not only was he the resurrection, but he was the hope of our resurrection because he resurrected. And then another main theme of early church preaching was eternal judgment. The last part of verse number two, they preached about eternal judgment. a main theme of their preaching. He said, these are foundational things. These are basic. These are just the beginning of Christianity. And to you're supposed to go on to perfection beyond these things. He was just giving them the foundation of it. And these people, they were enlightened. Uh they had tasted and had seen that the Lord was good. They had become partakers of the Holy Spirit of God when they got saved. Jesus came into their heart. The Holy Spirit came in to dwell and to be with them They saw God do great and mighty things. Yet, even though God came in and dwelt in their heart, even though they were saved, He was saying you need to go on to perfection beyond that. Not just the foundation, not just the basics. And he says, if they should, if they don't go on, what's going to happen? If somebody doesn't go on as a Christian, when we stop moving forward, we become stagnant When we stop taking steps for God, we become stagnant. And you know any pool of water that stops moving? You know, we cranked up the swimming pool over there on the property for the first time this year and you know when we took the cover off that water was nasty. I mean, green and all kinds of bugs and worms in there and frogs in there. I mean it was a regular pond. I mean we had who knows what was growing in there And several days of fishing things out of there. That's what happens with stagnant water. Water that's not moving. If you want to keep it fresh, you're supposed to run that pump for a few hours every day just to keep the water moving. Well Christians supposed to be moving, supposed to be growing, supposed to be taking steps for God. And when we stop doing that, we become stagnant. And we become a cesspool. of all the filth that starts to gather around us because we're not moving forward for God, and we start to get uh critical spirit We start to get cantankerous. We we start to get a little bit bitter. I mean, there's so many things that come into a person's life when they stop moving forward for God. He says you need to be careful about that. You should fear that. You see what he says in verse number three? He says, and this we will do if God permit. For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened He says, hey, they were once enlightened, they were once saved, and they've tasted of the heavenly gift. They were made partakers of the Holy Ghost. They tasted, they had a personal experience with God. They had the Holy Ghost come into their heart. And they tasted the good words of God and the powers of the words to come. If they shall, verse number six, if they shall fall away. To renew them again unto repentance. He's saying there could be a falling away. If we don't move forward, if we don't grow, if we weren't going forward for God, there comes a falling away. There's a falling away that's inevitable that's going to take place for somebody that's not moving forward. This is not talking about salvation, even though we see the word there If theirs shall fall away to a renewing them again unto repentance. Some would take this and say that this is talking about salvation, that these people lost their salvation and they got to come back and repent again. That there's a renewing of their repentance. We of course know because in scripture has to interpret scripture and you can't take one verse and build a doctrine. This is not talking about somebody losing their salvation. It's a falling away. It's what we would commonly call backsliding, getting away from God, and we need to repent. If we confess our sin, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin. and cleans us from all unrighteousness, it's coming back to God. But he says there in verse number 6, them again unto repentance, seen they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh. And put him to an open shame. This is a falling away that's to the point where they're not just sinning out of ignorance or sinning out of a mistake. There's a falling away that comes and it gets so far in a person's life that they openly shame their savior. I can think of a man who is in our church in Kansas. He ran a bus route. He knew the book. I mean it just about any reference that you started started quoting and and you got caught up uh with, he would he could finish it. He worked on the bus routes, served, served in that ministry, had a wife and five kids, and one on the way. And there started to be a falling away. And his wife started making excuses for him, like he couldn't make it to church on on Wednesday night or Thursday night, stopped coming out so winning during the week. Ultimately he said, Oh, I can't do the bus route anymore. Stop serving on the bus route. And everything's fine. Oh, we're doing fine. Yeah, praise the Lord. Everything's good. I just can't do that anymore. Okay And then Thursday nights, oh he's just not his wife said he's just not feeling good. Uh he's just at home and when he he was feeling fine. He's at home watching TV. Of falling away. Well, one week he fell away from her. He left her. Wife, five kids, and one on away. Never came back. She is still serving faithfully at Heritage. She has one of the one of those kids who's in college today. The kids are doing well. She's doing well. God blessed her in spite of that. But he just he left it all. We would see him at the at he was working at a at a at a bar, restaurant And we would see him and he had, you know, all the the image of the world all over him and he would say, Oh, I never believed any of that stuff. I was just doing it. He did believe it. But he had a falling away. And as Christians, we should be afraid of that coming. God's saying, when we stop moving forward, the inevitable result is we will start moving backwards. There's going to be a falling away. Unless I should be a castaway, the Apostle Paul says, hey, I've got to continue to move forward for God unless I end up being A castaway. Now let me give you a biblical example of this, I think, by the same author that we have here in the book of Hebrews. Turn uh to uh Philippians chapter 3. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. And in uh Philippians chapter three, verse number twelve. Familiar passage of scripture here, but we have Paul telling us about his effort and desire to keep moving forward for God. In verse number 12, he says, not as though I had already attained. So here's our biblical example of somebody that continues to move forward for God. The Apostle Paul starts right off and he says, not that I've attained. I mean, if there is ever anybody in the scriptures that we could look at and say, okay, he has made it to super Christian. He has made it to the level of uh you know he no longer has to worry about falling away. He he's doing great. What does the apostle Paul say? He says, not that I've attained. Not as though I have already attained, either with already what? Perfect. But I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which I am also apprehended of Christ Jesus. He says I haven't received it. I haven't reached super Christianity yet. All that I've done for God, and I'm not ready to say I can take it easy. I can stop moving forward. I haven't apprehended But I need to push forward for God. I need to, he says, either We're already perfect. He says, I haven't reached perfection, but I'm going to follow after that I may apprehend, for which also I am apprehended of Jesus Christ He goes on in verse number thirteen Brother, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things that are before. Paul, this great Christian is quick to say he hadn't attained. Nor has anybody else. None of us have attained. None of us have reached. We haven't reached a point where we can stop moving forward and say we're going to be okay Paul wanted to know Christ and be known as one that sought after Christ. Even after all he had accomplished for God, he still said, I haven't reached it yet, and I I want to know God more. I want to be closer to God. I want to accomplish more for God. After all that he did, I mean he he wrote the majority of the New Testament. He reached thousands of people with the gospel. He started so many churches. And after all that, he still humbly said, I've just begun, and there's so much more that I need in my relationship with Jesus Christ. Are you satisfied where you are? Have you reached the point of complacency? Complacency is to be satisfied with how things are. And to stop from making any attempt to get to what they might be You see, we we've become satisfied where we are. And oh, I know that things could be better, but complacency says, I'm not even going to attempt to get to there I'm just gonna stay here. It's a step further than just saying, oh, I'm satisfied. It's taking a stand against Taking another step. I should step to my right, right? Not to the left. It's is a stand against saying, you know what could be possible with God? Oh no, no. I don't want to go there. Because I'm satisfied where I'm in. That's where we reach complacency. Paul was not willing to do that. He said, I follow after Follow after Christ. With all that he had, he was going to follow after. In verse number 13, he repeats the fact that he had not attained, but that he would, if anything, if he was going to accomplish anything in this life, He was going to accomplish reaching for Christ. He says, brethren, I count not myself to apprehend him, but this one thing I do. He said, if I'm going to do anything in this life, if I'm going to accomplish anything. I'm gonna follow after God. I'm not gonna be sidetracked. I'm not gonna be discouraged. I'm not going to uh you know be distracted. I'm gonna follow after God. And I'm not going to be satisfied where I am, because I haven't attained yet. And he pushed on. Paul was pressing for the mark. Not what he wanted, but for the mark. What does he say in verse number 14? He says, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I just think it's neat that he pressed for the mark of the high calling of Jesus Christ. I look at that as a goal or a a uh uh a point which God set for him I pressed towards the mark. What God said, this is where you need to be. He said, I'm pressing towards that mark. It wasn't where he assumed, you know what, this is where Paul needs to be. No, he says, I press towards the mark that was set for me by God. Has God set a mark for you? And are you pressing towards that mark? He says, lastly, the encouragement here. We see the example. Then the encouragement he says, let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. Verse number fifteen. And if any if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. The Apostle Paul is saying, Hey. We need to be thus minded. The mark that God set for us, we need to push for that. Paul understood the fact that there were some babes in Christ. And there might be some people that were otherwise-minded. He says, hey, this is what God says we need to do. And he says, but you know what? If you're otherwise minded, that's okay. Because God is going to show you That this is the mark. If you want to see the mark The fact of the matter is, and I use this as illustration all the time, talking about husbands and wives, and the fact that you want to be closer to each other, go after God. Because as you seek God, You are gonna eventually end up in the same place. And this is what Paul was saying. He says, if you're otherwise minded, that's okay. Because if we are both seeking after God and what we want is what God wants of utmost importance, and that's what matters, and we're pressing towards that mark, and And nothing else really matters to us but pleasing an Almighty God and honoring and glorifying Him, then it doesn't matter if somebody is otherwise minded because ultimately we are going to be in the same place because we'll have the mind of God. Because we're pressing towards that mark. Because that's what we're seeking after. There are some who are babes in Christ or some who have not seen that yet. But that's okay. As long as they faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Continue to hear the Word of God. Continue to seek after what God wants for them. Then ultimately, one of two things is going to happen. Either we're going to change and go our own way, or we're going to get lined up with God. And do what God wants us to do. That is the inevitable result of following after Him. Of seeking him. He says, nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, verse number 16, nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind The same thing. Paul is stressing here the point that if we're seeking God, if we're pressing towards the mark together, then we're going to be following after the same thing. We're going to be following after the same thing. We're going to be doing what God wants us to do, and we're going to be on the same page. There's going to be unity among the brethren. Because We all desire to please him first and foremost. Not to please ourselves, not to reach our own conclusions, not to find our own ambitions, but that we might ultimately just learn line up with what God wants. And that is what matters most. So he says, go on to perfection. None of us have attained. There are some who might be otherwise minded. But if we continue to pursue after God, let God shape us and mold us into what He wants us to be. Then ultimately we will be on the same page. We will be walking the same rule and minding the same thing Harmony among the brother comes when we are moving on to perfection. Discord and problems come when we stop moving forward for God and become stagnant. So tonight let's purpose in our heart to move on. to perfection. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to be in your house. We thank you, God, for the opportunity to gather for prayer, to uphold and lift our brothers and sisters' burdens. concerns and cares in prayer to you. For the exercise of faith that we have, knowing that you're a God that hears us and you have the power to answer. We thank you, God, for the fact that although we many times in our own minds can get things one way or another, that Lord ultimately If our desire is to please you, then we will be in one accord. In our effort to please and honor and glorify you, I pray you would help us as a church To pursue after you, to follow after you, that we might move on to perfection. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. As the pianist plays, I would like you to stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed. I want to give you an opportunity at least if somebody needs to use the altar, we'll open the altar tonight and