But turn your Bibles to two passages of scriptures this evening. Two passages of scripture. I want you to get to Psalms chapter number four. Put your finger there and then turn over to Revelation chapter number nineteen. Psalms chapter four. Stick your finger in there, hold that for just a minute, and we're going to go to Revelation 19 and verse number 7, where we see our text for this evening. Revelation 19, 7. I was going to take a break from the Let Us series. I was going to move on to something else. I had an idea about man, I'll I'll preach this tonight and that'll be good. Uh course my dad's here. I could have had my dad preach here to certainly been willing to, but we have more uh missionaries and people coming through in the coming weeks. And I really felt like I needed to uh to speak this evening. Uh at least that's what God gave me peace to do. And as I was studying, I came across this this lettuce that's found in the scripture, so I'm gonna give you another one of the lettuce from our lettuce series. Uh and somebody years and years ago from the lettuce that are in Hebrews, they they said this is God's lettuce patch. Uh and so that's where I got the initial idea to preach on these was from that. It's an old sermon book published in like 1908. Wade or something like that, very, very old book I have, which deals with the lettuce that are in Hebrews. But uh I uh the idea is to just kind of go through the whole Bible and and preach So we find one in Revelation chapter nineteen and verse number seven here. He says, Let us be glad and rejoice And give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. Let us be glad and rejoice. And when I thought about this and read it, began to look at this, I just said, you know, this is what we need right now. In the middle of COVID, we need to be encouraged to be glad. Amen. Don't get mad, get glad. If there's anybody that has a purpose or a reason to put a smile on their faces or paint one on your mask, one or the other, uh, it's a Christian. Christians ought to be glad. That ought to be a spirit of ours. And here, of course, John, the writer here, tells us, let us be glad and rejoice. Give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife hath made herself ready. We're told to rejoice and give honor to God because this, the marriage supper of the Lamb, has finally come. Upon this, that glorious day of Christ. Majesty and glory, when the enemies of God are destroyed and the family of God is at home with him, he says, Let's rejoice. Now certainly if there's any time in the history of our life, of our eternity, that would be a time to rejoice. When we're gathered back together at the marriage supper of the Lamb, that amazing relationship between Christ and the church is being celebrated. That would be a time to rejoice. Says there that his wife hath made herself ready. That is, she's clothed in white linen, she's made herself pure and clean for the groom. Are you ready tonight? Are you ready for the marriage supper? Are you clean? Are you ready to meet Jesus? This occasion certainly is a time to be glad. But I would put to you this evening that even in the middle of COVID Christians can be glad. Even in the middle of whatever hardship or challenge that you face, Christians can be glad The call is given to us as believers to let us be glad. And you know what? Sometimes, you know, my dad, I've told you this before, he he likes to use this phrase and When I was a kid, it used to really get under my skin. Because he would always ask me this question when he knew I wasn't glad. He would look at me and he would say, Son, you got the victory? But the only reason he was asking me that is because he knew I didn't have the victory. It's written all over my face. I mean, I was fed up. I was upset. I was mad about whatever it was. And he would look at me and he'd say, son. Got the victory. And of course it's dad. You can't just yell no and kick something. You know, what are you gonna do? Yeah, oh well Not really, or or what I mean, no, I didn't have the victory, but Christians ought to have the victory. We are on the winning side. God is in control and He's still on the throne, even in the midst of whatever heartache or situation you're facing. Listen tonight, my head's not in the sand. I'm not saying that nothing's happening, that there isn't challenges that we're facing, that there's people. that are in danger of losing their jobs or they lost their job or or because of decrease in pay they're going to have to move or they're going to lose the place that they're living I know there's many challenges out there that people are dealing with. In fact, the first point we're going to look at tonight, as we study the idea of having a glad heart, is the fact that there is grief. There is grief. Now turn over to the book of Psalms, and I want you to see this. We're going to use Psalms as kind of a study in the idea of gladness, the glad heart that we should have as Christians. But there is grief. He says here in verses 1 and 2, this Psalm of David, he says, Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness. Thou hast enlarged me when I what was in distress He says, God, hear me. God, answer my prayer. Give me what I need. Expand my ability. Do what I need to do in the hour of my distress. Have mercy upon me. Hear my prayer, O Lord. I know that we face challenging times. I know that we have distress in our lives. There's days that are hard. There's days that are challenging. There's burdens that come upon us And every one of our burdens are different. That's one of the amazing things about a church family I praise God for the loving church family that's here and how that love has been shown and expressed and lived out in recent days at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But do you know a lot of times we have no idea what burden somebody else is carrying when they walk through the doors of the church Maybe they weren't as friendly to you as they were last week and you kind of like, well, wonder what's wrong with him. But you don't know what document they just got in their inbox. You don't know what phone call they just got from a doctor or what news they just received about a family member. You don't know what heartache or burden they happen to be carrying right now. Sometimes the burdens that the people in this room are carrying, if you knew, it would shock you. You would think, how in the world are they even in church? We we deal with grief. We deal with heartache. Verse number one, we see his cry there. He says, Hear me when I call. Hear my prayer, O Lord. He recognizes that he needed help from God in his time of distress. Have you been in a time of distress? Some of us, yeah, for 25 weeks now. I've been in distress I'm in distress every time I gotta put a mask on. Lord help me. Yeah, I know we have different levels of distress. You know, for some praying for a dog is foolish. Like why would we pray for a dog I will say there are some people that are inordinately attached to their pets. But they are And the fact is is for them that's like a child. And if something happened to that dog, they would be as broken as somebody that lost a child. For them, that's distress. We might look at a situation that Eli is dealing with, like the fact that his older sister is supposed to help him get homeschooled this year. He's in distress about this. We need to pray for him I mean, man, getting under the thumb of your older sister, that's gotta be bad. Whatever it is, but sometimes we look at other people's distress and we're like, what's the big deal? We talked about it on Sunday. Christ was a God of compassion. We need to have compassion. And see the burdens that other people are carrying and understand that they're there. And as we have prayer time, we pray for those things. We see his circumstances were bad. In verse number two, he says, Oh ye sons of men. This is the lost world. This is people that don't know God. They're not the sons of Israel. They're the sons of man. He says, how long will you turn my glory into shame? How long will ye love vanity and seek after leasing? This is vain empty things. He says, hey, he was under attack by others They took his glory and turned it to shame. The things that he was doing that were good, the things that he was doing that was trying to help And they were attacking him, and they're taking his glory and turning it to shame. Man, doesn't that happen in our world today? A lot. People do something good and it just gets twisted and turned around and they want to be shamed for it. Like going to church during COVID. Why why would you go to church during COVID while you just don't care about people? You don't love others. You just want people to get sick. You want to give everybody COVID. That is not true. There's nobody going to church that's going to the church for the purpose of spreading COVID. Now at Walmart last week there was a guy that the police were looking for because he was out hugging people and was saying, Congratulations, you just got COVID He was giving people COVID hugs. So he was at Walmart on purpose hugging people to give people COVID. But people in church aren't doing that, but it gets twisted and turned upside down, doesn't it? That's uh the circumstance he was dealing with. Well last night I don't know if you had the opportunity to watch the R and C, but there was a football player, Jack Brewer. He said, My mama always said, When the Lord starts blessing, the devil starts messing. Thought that was pretty good, n that's what happens. When you start doing right, the devil starts messing with you When you start going down the right track and wanting to serve God and do good, don't be surprised if somebody doesn't mock you, if somebody doesn't make fun of you, if somebody doesn't put you in distress. Because you're trying to do what's right. They mocked him, they made fun of him. Listen, there is a fact of grief, and I don't know what you're dealing with today, and we've tried to be a little lighter, but so I know there's people in here that are dealing with heavy burdens. Real matters of the heart and prayer that are needed. There is a fact of grief, but I want you to know as Christians that we can be glad, even in the middle of the day. of it. Excuse me. Look down in verse number seven. We see the foundation of gladness. He says in verse number 7, Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me dwell in safety. Isn't that verse so fitting for COVID? Is there just I mean I was studying this and I'm like, man, this is We need to be glad. Don't be sad. Stop being so stressed out. God puts gladness in your heart. More than in a time when the corn and their wine increased. What he's saying is, listen, I've got more gladness in my heart right now than when I was on top of the world When the money was coming in, the corn was increasing, things were going good, the sun was shining, everything was fine and dandy, sugar and spice and everything nice But I've got joy today. I've got gladness today. Why? Because God put it in my heart. And then look at that verse number eight there. Look how powerful he says. I will both lay me down in peace. And sleep. Whatever distress you're under, whatever weight or burden of that's in your heart that you're finding Finding it hard to rest. Understand God wants to give you gladness in your heart. He wants to give you peace and rest. He wants you to be able to lay your head down at night and sleep. Why? Because for thou, Lord only Maketh me dwell in safety. God is the one we rely upon. God is the one that makes you safe. You can lock yourself in a box and I don't remember who it was. I may I think it was Brother Taylor that was talking to me uh this From the time COVID started, there was a lady that locked herself in her house and she stayed there and never went outside, but then she got COVID. Was it from a family member? Yeah. From a family member that came to visit. I mean she was staying away from everybody. But she still got it You see, our safety comes from God. Now, you you know, like we said, be wise. God doesn't want you to be foolish. Don't don't just disregard it and say, hey, there's nothing out there, nobody's gonna get sick. We're just gonna go do whatever we want. There is an illness, but what is it that gives you that peace in your heart at night? Is it because you put hand sanitizer on I was just thinking about that comedian. I think it's I should not I'm not going to mention his name. He's not a bad guy. He's a Christian comedian. Um but he was talking about the hand sanitizer in churches, and this was years ago. He did this this little little tip raise your head if you've seen this where he talks about you put hand sanitizer on. And then and then you know the person comes in and they're carrying a baby and they're snot running down you're like oh yeah good to have you yeah okay yeah uh good yeah you want to go right that way Shhh, you know, it just it keeps getting worse and worse, more and more hand sanitizer. Are you do you feel safe because you're using a mask or because you're wearing a hand sanitizer or because you know God is your Savior and He's in control You could do all that and still get COVID. You're gonna be mad at God then? God, I was wearing my mask Listen, God's in control. And He knows. The foundation of our gladness doesn't come from our situation, from our circumstances. In Psalms 30, verse number 11, he says, Thou hast turned me from my mourning into dancing. Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness. He says, you've took off my sorrow, you've taken off my heartache, you've removed my pain, and you've strengthened me, you've girded me up, you've lifted me with gladness. It wasn't his wealth that was increasing, it was his gladness that was increasing. He had a time of rest even in the middle of his tests or his trials. This is not this gladness is not something that's worked up. It's not something you just work up inside and, oh yeah, I'm glad. I'm glad. You know, six cups of coffee later. I'm glad. That's not that's not it's not worked up. This is not a gladness that's doped up either. There's a lot of people today trying to control their gladness with dope. Different types of medication This is a gladness that's foundation comes from God, that's put in your heart, that allows you to go through a trial, that allows you to go through a test and an extreme burden, and still be glad of heart, because God put it there. Because God put it there. We see in verse number six that again he calls on God. He says, There be many that say Who will show us any good? Lord, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. He asked the question, who will show us any good? It's almost like sometimes Christians get to the place where they think God has lost track of them. Like, oh God, are you there? God, uh, do you realize what I'm going through? Do you see what I'm facing? Who's going to show us any good? There's a lot of Christians living with that kind of spirit. God bountifully blesses us beyond measure. And sometimes we get, because of something we're going through right now, we forget about all of his blessing. And we start to say, who will show us any good? Is anything nothing good ever happens to me? When it rains it pours and it's been pouring for months. It's bad and it's getting worse. We get that spirit because we're not curious. We allow it to grow in us. Who's going to show us any good? I want you to understand that the Lord hears you when you call on him. He says, Lord, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. He says, God, would you just shine your mercy, shine your light into my life. Because there are days when it's dark. There are times when we're low. Anybody that says any different is is just lying. There's times when we're low. We need God to shine his light into our life. And God will hear you when you call. I want you to see what I'm calling the furtherance of gladness. You say, okay, Pastor Caleb, we're supposed to have a glad heart, and the foundation is it comes from God. He puts it in us. Well, what do we do to cultivate that? What do we do to grow that? How do we have uh, you know, don't get mad, get glad. How do we do that? Let me give you a couple of things. In verse number four, he says, Stand in awe and sin not. Commune with your own heart upon your bed and be still. Selah. Verse five is offer the sacrifice of righteousness and put your trust in the the Lord. To further that glad heart, it takes communion with God. One has to live a clean life. He says, sin not Sin not. You want to have a glad heart? Have a clean heart. It's no wonder there are so many Christians that are miserable. Because they're walking around with so much guilt in their life and on their heart, they couldn't smile if they wanted to. The Christian life is so hard for them, and it's such a burden for them, and it's such a struggle for them. Why? Because they're living with guilt, that weight, and that burden. Because why? Because they don't want to give up the sin that would allow them to get clean. And they could have the joy of the Lord. It's there. It's available for anybody who wants it. But he says, hey, you've got to commute, you've got to stop and think about where you're at. You've got to be still. Sit, listen, be still with God for a little while. Think. Get clean. True communion with God only happens when we're clean. Just like David in Psalms 51, you remember that when he had sinned against God? But he wanted to get back to God. He says, restore unto me the joy of my salvation. And in Psalms 51, verse number 8. He says, Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice Some people are so heavy from the weight of God's chastisements that they're burdened. They're feeling broken. But all they got to do is come back to God. And he says you can rejoice. You can have that gladness It takes commitment as well. In verse number five, he says, offer the sacrifice. It takes commitment to make a sacrifice. It takes a a dedication. Offer the sacrifice of righteousness. So it's not just being clean, that's getting rid of things that we know we shouldn't do. do, but it's doing the righteous things that we know we should do. Doing what's right. He says, offer the sacrifice of righteousness and put your trust In the Lord. Listen, it's going to cost you to do right. Psalms 97, verse number 11 says, Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the rig The upright of heart. Light is sown for right for the righteous and gladness for the upright of heart. God sows light and gladness. For the heart that's right. That is doing what God wants him to do. We are to love right Righteousness. Where to love righteousness. Let me see here. I'm sorry, I did not put the reference down here. I believe it's in Hebrews. But he says, Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore God hath anointed thee. That's a rich verse. To love righteousness is more than just to to say, Oh yeah, I I like good things and yeah it's good for people. People to be kind and we should love one another, and to love righteousness is to be righteous, is to do righteousness. Can I ask you, do you love righteousness? Do you love it? Psalms 1 and verse number 2. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night So by that standard, do you love righteousness? In Psalms 122, verse number one, he said, I was glad when they said unto me Let us go into the house of the Lord. Do you love righteousness? Do you love it? Is it really, or is it something that's a duty? You just, well, I have to do this. And listen, praise God for those that are faithful out of duty. Because there's sometimes that duty is the only thing that's going to carry you through. Right. There's sometimes you feel like quitting but you just know it's not right to quit and so you're just gonna you're gonna do it because you're supposed to do it and you're good. There ought to be a love. The love of Christ constraineth us. There ought to be a love there that motivates us. And you gotta hate iniquity. Not just avoid it for the sake of looking good, but really hate iniquity. Do you hate it? Do you despise iniquity I was thinking about this idea of iniquity, and I don't know. We had Dr. Allison here to preach, and I think even in one of his messages here, he hit on on drinking alcohol. And usually when he gets on drinking alcohol in the message, he's pretty straightforward and pretty I mean he gets gets on it. I mean he hates it. And do you know why? Because it was part of his life when he was growing up. Because he dealt with it. Because it was in his family. And he saw firsthand the destruction that it causes. And you aren't going to convince him that, oh, it's just a social drink. Oh, it's okay. Show me in the Bible where it says I can't have a drink every now and again. I know we're not supposed to be drunk with wine, where it's excess. I know that, but I'm not drunk, I'm just drinking a little bit. You can't convince him of that because he hates it. And some people are offended because he hates it so much. But see, he saw firsthand the destruction that it causes. In families and in lives. So he preaches hard against alcohol. But do you hate iniquity like that? Or do you just, oh well I don't do it, but it doesn't bother me that much? It's okay. I I mean I I I'm not going to do it, but it's okay if you want to We're to hate iniquity. Because God hates iniquity. The Bible tells us of Job that He was a man who was perfect and upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. That means despised, hated, evil. If you want to have joy, if you want to have gladness in your heart, he tells us there in those two verses. Got a clean so you can commune with God and live a righteous life. And God says He will sow gladness in your heart It comes from him. And in the face of whatever turmoil you're dealing with, you can be glad. Because God has put it in your heart. And that's the joy of the Lord.