We've been looking at this idea of let us and I'm just more and more excited about this uh study that I've been doing. Uh I'm my number that I'm gonna be able to teach keeps growing. I think it's possible that when I'm all said and done I could actually have fifty-two lessons. based on the let us let us admonitions in the Word of God. It just depends on how in-depth I want to get and how much study I want to do. Amen. I really struggled with this one. It seemed to me as I picked the verse, I'm like, this will be so easy. And uh just battled with it and uh and I don't know why, um, you know, but I didn't didn't do do good with this one. Now I want you to get two passages of scripture if you would. Turn your Bibles to Isaiah. Isaiah chapter number fifty. We are here in the middle of the prophetic uh text that talks about Jesus Christ when he comes to earth when he He's going to sacrifice himself, when he's going to give himself a ransom for men. uh the prophetic telling of Jesus Christ. So if you're in Isaiah chapter fifty, then I want you to also get Philippians, just get your finger in Philippians. We're going to be there as we look at some secondary thoughts uh tonight. I believe every Christian is going to come to the place in their life where, and maybe multiple times, where they have to determine if they're going to stand for God or not. I think sometimes that decision to stand comes to a young man or young lady. It's a pivotal point It's a pivotal decision in their life where they decide, Am I gonna serve the God of my fathers? Is this gonna be real for me? Am I gonna do what God wants me to do or am I gonna go my own way? And that decision to stand for Christ and do what's right is a is a pivotal moment in their life. But I believe that it comes as well uh to many adults at different times in our lives things arise at at the workplace. I remember even as a teenager uh being invited to my first corporate Christmas party And when I found out, of course, that there was going to be alcohol and drinking and you know uh I I just said, hey, I I can't go. Now before you pat me on the back Uh my dad was a pastor and there's no way he would have let me go. I was a teen and really probably didn't have much of a choice in that. But I'm saying I know that in the workplace you all face things like this where You have to determine, okay, am I gonna make an issue out of this? Stand for God? Or am I gonna kind of skate under the wing and and you know just kind of float through and nobody's really gonna know that this is an issue for me because I don't want to stir the pot. I don't want them to know what I really believe. I'm gonna let it go And I'm not going to stand for God. Well, beloved, we have tonight an admonition. If you would look in Isaiah chapter 50 and verse number 8, he says, He is near that justifieth me. Who will contend with me? Let us stand together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me. Here tonight I am looking at this passage of scripture and he says, Let us stand together I want to give you a little bit of context. I want to explain this passage of scripture. So we're going to back up to the beginning and we're going to read a few verses. I'm just going to talk about some of this so you have an idea of what's going on here In verse number one he says, Thus saith the Lord, where is the bill of your mother's divorcement, whom I have put away, or which of my creditors it is Is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves And for your transgressions is your mother put away. Now many times in the Old Testament, when the Bible uses the word and talking about divorcement, it's A relationship between God and his people, which is what he's dealing with here. He's saying to them, you come unto me because I've put you away. He's saying, I've put you into captivity. And you come to me and you say, God, you've divorced us. And he says, where is the bill of divorcement Can you provide it? Can you show me a bill of divorcement? I haven't divorced you. I have not separated from you. I've put you away. Why? And then he tells them right there, because your sin. Because of the sin in your life, that's why I put you away. That's why you feel like you're divorced. And listen, we could stop here, but this is not the message tonight. A lot of times, Christians, your relationship with God is not what it should be. Has nothing to do with where God is. It's where you are. Because of the life that you're living, what's going on in in your life, and God's willing at any time for you to come unto Him He says, Wherefore when I came was there no man? When I called, was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all that I cannot redeem? Or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness, their fish stinketh because there is no water and drieth for thirst I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth with their covering. Here we're getting into now the prophetic statements. where Christ is talking about what's going to happen here when he gets to the cross. And if you remember at midday that the earth was clothed in blackness. The sky went dark because the Son of Man, God, was killed on the cross. He begins to talk about these things. He begins to Describe it. And it's amazing with chilly accuracy what he describes here as far as what takes place. Look at verse number six. He says, I gave my back to the smiters. My cheeks to them that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face from shame in spitting. Do you remember when Jesus went to the cross, his back was beaten, his beard was plucked out, he was spitten on? This is prophecy of what's going to happen. And yet we see it fulfilled in great detail when Christ goes to the cross. He says in verse number 7: For the Lord will help me. Therefore shall I not be confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed He is talking here in the midst of this cruci of what's going to happen at the crucifixion. And you remember over in Luke where he says again that he's got to go to Jerusalem. And he says he set his face as a flint. Even though he knew what was going to take place in Jerusalem, even though he knew what was going to happen when he got there. He said his place is a flint, and he went anyway. And the verbiage in this text here is amazing. He says, and I went with confidence. Not carelessly with an unknown future, but with confidence knowing that God was with me. He said, I'm not going to be ashamed. He says, I know in that day that God is there, and I will not be ashamed for having told you. Like sometimes maybe you've told somebody, oh yeah, John will be here at 2 o'clock. And 2 o'clock comes and goes. 2. 30 comes and goes, and then you're kind of Man, I'm sorry. I I usually he's not late. Usually he's here. You kind of feel bad. You're a little bit embarrassed. You told every everybody's waiting and you said he was going to be there. What he's saying is, I'm not going to be ashamed because I know God's going to be there. He will he will be there without a doubt. So much so that he he was he knew the presence of God so much that even on the cross In the moment of death, he says, unto thy hands I commend my spirit. All the way up to the moment of death, he says, knowing that that relationship was there, God was there, he says, I commend my spirit unto you. He says, why then should I be afraid? Why then should I be afraid? If God's going to be there, why should I be afraid? It's like that passage over in Romans, I believe it's chapter eight, he says, If God be for us, who can be against us. He said if God's if God's for me, if God's going to be there, then why should I be afraid? Why should I? He says there again, he says in our text this evening, he is near that justifieth me. He is near. Are you near to the one that justifies you? He is near that justifies me. What an amazing thought. He says, Who will contend with me? Let us stand together. Who is mine adversary? Let him come near unto me. He says this here, that word contend, you know, it could be read in a couple of ways. You could read it, Who will contend with me? me or who will contend with me? Who's going to contend against me, or who's going to contend with me? I believe in the context of the passage he's talking about, he says, Hey, on the cross I'm going to justify the law, I'm going to fulfill the law. I'm going to meet the requirements for the salvation of mankind. Is there anybody that can argue about that? Is there anybody that has anything that they can say? If you have something you can say, then go ahead and stand up. I think that's what he's saying. Is there anybody that wants to argue that point? He says, let him stand, let us stand together. Who is mine adversary? Let him come near unto me. He says, hey, you're my adversary. Come on. He says, You can bring your argument argument if you want, but look in the next verse. It's amazing. He says, Behold, the Lord God will help me. Who is he that shall condemn me? Lo, they shall wax old as a garment. The moth shall eat them up. So I believe in the context of this passage, what it's talking about is Christ is saying, listen, if you have an argument against my sacrifice on the cross, is it sufficiency for mankind? You can bring your argument. Stand up. Let's talk about it. But I want you to know that God's on my side And your argument's gonna be about as weak as an old cloth that the moths are consuming. That's his description here. That is the context of this passage of scripture, and I wanted to give you that so you would understand it, so you would see what this is dealing with. But I want to take this phrase that's given to us here and apply it to our lives. Reading that text the other way, as far as where he says. Not who will argue with me, but who will contend with me? Who will stand with me? Who will fight with me? Who will stand up? And he says, let us stand together And what an admonition given to us by Christ. This is prophetic, it's of course the author Isaiah, but Christ speaking here. The Messiah. He says, let's stand together. Well, you couldn't be standing with anybody better, could you? Couldn't have anybody better on your side. Let's stand together. Christ wants to stand with you Truly, we must, as Benjamin Franklin said, we must indeed all hang together, or we most assuredly Shall hang separately. So we've got to stand together. As I pondered this thought, even in today's world, I I thought about teaching on loyalty. thought about taking it down the path of loyalty and let's talk about how we've got to stay together in that regard and this world doesn't have any loyalty today. They just come and go. Tickle as the wind, and and but God didn't give liberty to do that. I believe the principle given to us in the Word of God to stand is all through the scriptures. The need for Christians to stand on truth and righteousness is going to grow exponentially as the wickedness of this world waxes worse and worse. And as we draw ever closer to the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, we need Christians who will see. And Ezekiel he said, I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. I wonder, would God find any men? And women willing to stand with him to make up the hedge? Would there be any willing to stand up for truth and righteousness to stand against the the popular opinion of the day, to stand against the politically expedient uh pattern of the day, but to stand up for what God would have to be truth and righteousness God's looking for someone who will stand. If we're going to stand, we need to stand together. On the Word of God. On the Word of God This idea of standing together, I want to try and give you a couple of thoughts with around that context tonight. If we're going to stand together, first of all, that means that we're going to strive. Strive together. If you have your finger in Philippians, turn there now to Philippians chapter Chapter number one. We're going to strive together. We're going to strive together in a unified mission. In Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 27, he says, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Hear that message. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. He says, stand together. Stand fast. Stand together. In what? In the message of the gospel, we have a unified message. We've got to be careful today that so many people, we're such an individualistic society. And everybody has their position. Everybody has what they want to say. Hey, it's been a lot of years since the news was about the news. The news is what the commentators that's why they're that's why they're called commentators now Because they just give their opinion. That's what it's about. Everybody has their opinion. And man has become so full of his own opinion. And we don't listen to anybody else's opinion. It's all about what we think and what we want and how we look at life. We're so individual. Individualistic today, we need to stand together in a unified message, understanding that this is the Word of God, not the Word of God. Men. And we are to look at the Word of God and follow and do what the Word of God says. Our message is to come from this Word of God and is to be carried forth to the world by us unified together. A message that becometh the gospel of Christ. He says, hey, whether I'm standing in front of you or whether I'm a long ways away, I'll hear of your unity. Of your one-mindedness, of your one objective that you have as a church, to get the gospel to a lost and dying world. Are you unified around that message? So many things that Christians fight about is complete and utter foolishness. It's not that important. We're going to spend an eternity together, and so many Christians can't even get along right now. Well, that's going to be rough going to be spending an eternity with them in the mansion right next door. So many things and you know only by pride cometh contention. We're to stand together in a unified message. Our message, our conversation, our testimony, he says, let your conversation be as becometh the gospel. Our testimony should be something that is in line with With getting the gospel to the world. And whether Paul was there or absent, it was supposed to be that way. David stood in the valley of Elah and he said, Is there not a cause? He said, We've got something to fight for here. We need to stand up. All of those other soldiers were sitting down, not willing to go fight for the cause of Christ. David didn't know what was going to happen with this giant, but he says, whatever happens, I've got to go fight, I've got to do something. You see, we stand with a unified message and we stand unafraid of the opposition. David didn't know what was going to happen, but he said, Is there not a cause? And he says, I, you, you come to me with sword and spirit, but I come to you in the name of the Lord. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood. They wouldn't bow the knee. They stood there and they they knew the result was to be in the fiery furnace. But they said, you know what? Our God is able to deliver us. But if not, we're still not going to bow You see, they were unified in their message, and they were unafraid of the opposition. This world is a vicious opposition against the church today. It used to be in a time where there was only those few people, or there was only if you got into a particular neighborhood, or there was just a few that would actually get vocal against the church. We're in a day when everybody's going to get vocal. The world is going to be vicious in their attack of the church. Are you willing to stand? Unafraid of the opposition. Because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. It doesn't matter what the world does or what they say, we're going to stand. Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherein Christ has made us free And be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. Stand fast, therefore. When you stand with Christ, there's no safer place to be What do you think of that? When they stood with Christ, they were into fire, but they were with Jesus. And not one fire, one one one little There's no safer place to be than to stand with Christ. We need to stand together with Christ. That means we're going to strive together as God's people with a unified message and unafraid of the opposition, they stood regardless of the consequences. It means also that we're going to suffer together. Look in Philippians chapter 1 again in verse number 29. He says, For unto you it is given In the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, we like that part, to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. He suffered. Paul, of course, went through a great amount of suffering in his life, and we as God's people, we really haven't been called to a life of bliss. We haven't been called to a life of untold blessing without harm, but we've really been called to a life of suffering for the name of Christ. And we suffer together. We rejoice with them that rejoice, and we weep with them that weep. I'm thankful for the many calls and texts and things that I have had over the last few days in response to people's expression of love for our family and uh for the passion of my grandmother, my mom's mom And you know, that's the way it's supposed to be. When one suffers, we all suffer. Well we're called to suffer. The sad thing is is sometimes Christians feel like they're suffering a lot Alone. It might not be the case, but sometimes they feel that way. We know, of course, the story of the prophet underneath the juniper tree there. I only I. And yet 7,000 hadn't bowed the knee. Sometimes it's because of our own, you know, we go lock ourselves in a corner and we say, nobody loves me. But sometimes it's because God's people have neglected to show their love. 2 Timothy 4, verse 16 to 17, he says, As my first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me. Me and strengthened me. If you feel like you're standing alone, like Paul did on this occasion, he's talking to Timothy, he says, every man forsook me But you know what, God, I don't hold that against them. Don't hold this to their charge. Because I know God's with When you stand with God, He's with you. And you can go through the fire. If you don't I hope you don't feel like you're The word of God gives you strength to stand. Ephesians chapter six, verses thirteen and fourteen says, Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to escape. Stand in the evil day, having done all the stands. Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth. The Word of God gives you strength to stand. You can't expect to stand in this wicked world without the strength of the word. Spending time in church gives you the strength to stand. The church should be united and standing together. You know, some people today like say, well, I can be a Christian without the church. I don't I don't need They like to call it organized religion. I just don't do that. Well, if you could live as God wanted you to live without the church, then why did God start the church? This wasn't supposed to be part of your life. If you were fully capable, possible, of just living your life and not don't need the church of God, then why did God start the church as one of the three institutions? institutions. Not only do we uh strive together and occasionally we have to suffer together, but we serve God together. We serve together. That's part of what we do in God's house. We come together and we serve In Philippians chapter 4, if you want to turn there to Philippians chapter 4, verses 1 through 3, he says, Therefore, my Brethren, dearly beloved, and long for my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. He says, I beseech you, Odysseus, and Sentikya, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. See, there were two ladies in the church here that had a disagreement I don't believe it's doctrinal, but that's something they didn't like. And he says, hey, I beseech you, will you be of the same mind? Verse number three, he says, and I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow. People striving and serving together, these yoke fellows, he says, help these women which labored with me in the gospel. He says, commit also, and with other my fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life He says, stand fast. Part of standing fast is laboring together, being yoke fellows, striving together, serving God together in God's house. Don't let your disagreements keep you from being and doing what God wants you to do in his house. Serve God together. This shouldn't get to the place where, oh Is is Miss Lisa gonna be there? Then I then then I can't come help. If Miss Lisa's gonna be there, I can't I can't do that. There should be nobody in God's house that that that you're like that. Oh uh I uh oh yeah, I'll come and help get the yard ready. Is Amy gonna be working on it? Oh well I I I can't I can't do that. I'll do something else, but I just can't work with Amy. Now I know she's hard to work with. I understand. But but you ought to be able to, for the cause of Christ, God's grace is sufficient, amen. You ought to be able to do it for Jesus. There shouldn't be anybody in God's house. We should be able to put our petty differences aside and be unified and serve God together in this common purpose, all of it ultimately to see the world saved with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Fly in a B pattern because the bird in the front, as he flaps his wings down, that gives lift to the bird behind them. And as they flap their wings down, that gives lift to the bird behind them. And they'll fly like that for a while, and if you study them, you'll notice that after a little while, the geese They switch locations. By doing this, they can travel up to 70% farther than if they were flying God put that design into them that they were to labor together to be able to do that. Beloved, God made us so we're supposed to be serving God together. Nobody should be out in front there all by himself all the time. Everybody should be serving and as we serve together, hey many man's many hands make light work. The labor of the ministry should not over be be too heavy for anybody because there are many people helping. Some people come and they they ought to say, Well I don't feel like I did much. Amen. That means there's lots of people serving. There's lots of people helping Instead of getting I've actually had people get mad. I came all the way to work party and I didn't do that much. Praise God, that means there's other people working. There's other people serving. We could all go home and you could do it all yourself. You could be at the church for 16 hours. Well, that's not what I want. Just be glad there's other people serving. That's how it's supposed to be. We're supposed to many hands make light work And I told you I was going to be done at 8 o'clock, and we're we're done. Let's stand together. That's what God wants us to do. Let's stand Stand together, first of all, with Christ. We've got to stand with Him. It does no good to stand in opposition to Him. We need to stand with Christ. And if we're with Christ, He's with us And we're with each other. Amen. Well, we come to you now. We thank you for this lesson on standing together. I pray God it was a help. It encouraged your people. Lord, I look forward to the day that we can get back together in church and strengthen each other. I pray, Lord, that you would bless us, and that we would be wise in the decisions that are made in the days to come. Lord, we thank you for your love. We pray that you'd go with us now and keep us safe till we come together again. Lord, we ask this all in Jesus' blessed name. Amen.