Here on out, I'm gonna ignore it. If you lose signal with the camera, please continue to listen uh to the word of God. Uh As we get into it here this evening. Turn your Bibles to the book of Psalms, chapter number 34. Psalms chapter number 34. We just crossed over into Psalms in our devotional as uh Uh Pastor Gus was mentioning here as we began, and the the fun thing about the Psalms is is not struggling to find something to uh to expound upon. It's it's figuring out what of the plethora of things that we could write a devotional on, that we should write a devotional on is really uh there's so much in the Psalms and in even in every chapter that's such a blessing and I'm sure you are uh excuse me, you are like myself and others that you just find so much strength and encouragement in in the pages uh uh of the Psalms. So there is for us here in this text, as I have been uh teaching now uh for some time uh actually intermittently since twenty sixteen. Uh I've been teaching on the Let Us series that I find in the Word of God. I think I'm up to eighteen different uh messages now and I probably have another ten to go before we conclude. I don't know that I'll continue them all in a row, uh, but we will uh continue to walk through the pages of scripture. And learn what we can. I want you to see our text for this evening where we get our title. He says here in Psalms 34 and verse number 3: Oh, magnify the Lord with me. And let us exalt his name together. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Tonight I've entitled this: Let us magnify the Lord. For indeed that is what exalting the name of the Lord is, is magnifying God. The thought Tonight comes from a passage of scripture that is unique. It's unique in that at the very beginning of it The start of this psalm, we're told not just the author, there are many passages of scripture that give us the author, uh, a psalm of David. But we're actually given the time or the purpose for the writing as well. Both of these are found in the first verse there. We know the author is David, and he, of course, is probably one of, if not, the most well-known Bible figure in the Word of God. And so I won't take any time to talk about David and and who he was, but the experience, the not just the author, but the occasion is given to us. And the occasion of this writing was a time when David was on the run from Saul. He flees into a land of strangers. He goes into the Philistine camp, a land that he didn't belong in, where he was just a pilgrim. And hopefully your mind's engaged. And And you'll put that nugget in the back of your mind for later application as we think about the idea that he is in a land that he doesn't belong in. David was running from Saul because Saul wanted to kill him. It's a time of hardship. It's a time of struggle for David. It's a time where he's in a land he shouldn't be. There he is trying to hide out from Saul, and wouldn't you know it? That a somebody recognizes him. Somebody sees him and says, That's David That's David. He's the one that's killed his ten thousands. Saul's killed his thousands. David's killed his ten thousands. Of us. I don't think that was what David wanted, for them to recognize him during this time. And not only that, they take him before King Abimelech. Now Abimelech was ruling in Gath. Gath is the hometown of Goliath. So I think David is kind of in a little bit of a pickle. He's got a problem here, and I'm sorry, I've got something in my throat. He's in a pickle. David goes before the king, and you can imagine what's in his mind. Well, this is it. It's all done now. The extended family of Goliath. We might have got his four brothers, but there's got to be somebody around that's holding the grudge, that's ready to just uh I'm done, I'm over David gets the brilliant idea in his mind to act like a lunatic To act like somebody that has lost his marbles. The Bible says to comfort the feeble-minded. And I guess there must have been a measure of That in that time where somebody that was not all there, they must have thought David got hit in the head one too many times He was in one too many battles because he has lost his mind. They must have regarded him as an annoyance, but not an adversary, at this point, because he was acting Like he was two bricks short of a load. He was acting a crazy man, and I don't know what all that entailed, but they certainly must have thought, boy, this guy is dim, but I don't think he's very dangerous. We can let him go. So David's objective was achieved. He was recognized as an imbecile, but not an invader. You know, he just, let's, let's just let him go. So David acted as a some kind of type of a quack, and then he eloquently magnifies the Lord. Even though, beloved, it was his own carelessness that put himself in this situation. It was God's compassion that brought him out of it. How many times has that been your story? How many times have you seen that, that your own carelessness has taken you to a place you shouldn't be, has taken you down a road you shouldn't have gone down, has ended you up in a situation that you look at it and say, Man, what a mess I've made. But then God in His compassion comes on the scene and delivers you magnificently. That is what happened for David. And he walked away from the situation, and he's like, I don't know exactly what it was, but I can't believe I'm still alive. And he wants to praise God. He wants to magnify the Lord. Now, beloved Matthew Henry cautions us. He says, we cannot make God greater or higher than he already is. But if we adore him as infinitely great and higher than the highest, he surely is pleased We c not by we cannot magnify him as we can't boast him or put him any higher than he already is, but if we by our Magnifying him in our minds and for other people lift him up in our perception with an understanding of how high he should be. God is pleased. The admonition here is let us, let us magnify the Lord. Let us do this together, beloved. Let us magnify the Lord together, for with each new voice, the blessing and the beauty of the magnification is made richer and fuller. Just as with the addition of each voice in an ensemble, the message is made stronger. The chords are made fuller. The music is made richer. I mean, how fun is it when you're listening to an ensemble that's gifted with the skill of harmony? and the first person's singing out and he's singing the lead and the the story's developing and and and the messages developing and then the second person that he comes in and and blends in so strong and maybe uh a lady on this side comes in and just adds that harmony from this side and And you have these voices coming together, blending together, and making a full and rich song. Well, beloved, when we come together in honor and praise of God, it makes it a very powerful and full message. So I want you to see this evening in this admonition here, let us magnify the Lord. First of all, I want you to see the requirement that is put upon us. The requirement that is put upon us. Look down in your Bibles. I hope at home, wherever you are, that you have your Bible, you have the text that you can look at. We're going to walk through this passage of scripture today And see the message that's for us, the requirement that's put upon us. He says in Psalms 34, verses 1 through 3, he says a psalm of David. When he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and he deward at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord. The humble shall hear thereof and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Now, beloved, I uh won't spend long on this point for I don't believe that I would need to expound eloquently upon the the the scriptures. I don't need to give exposition of different texts For you to understand the command that we are to magnify God. For there is in the scriptures too numerous verses to even list The command where we are as God's people to give honor and glory to God. We are not supposed to be living for our own honor. We are not supposed to be living to boast ourselves up, but we are supposed to be living to bring bring glory and honor to God. That is what the scriptures tell us. I shouldn't have to give you powerful illustrations from bygone days to help you see and understand the command that we've been given to magnify God. Could I help you with that tonight? All through, even just in the Psalms, Psalms 40, verse number 16, says, Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. The Lord be magnified. Everyone, if you have the pleasure of having enjoyed salvation, it should be something you say continually: the Lord be magnified. Psalms 35, verse number 27, says, Let them shout for joy and be glad that favor my righteous cause. Yea, let them say continually. Let the Lord be magnified. Let the Lord be magnified. Oh, that very familiar passage of scripture, that very familiar text, which says. In Psalms 148, praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights, praise him. All his angels. Praise ye him, all his host. Praise ye him, sun and moon. Praise him, all ye stars of light. Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded That they were created. You were created, friend, to bring honor and glory to God Everything God created in this world fulfills its responsibility before God. To honor and magnify God. It brings magnification to the Lord, honor to God. Psalms 107, verse number says. Psalm verse number eight says, Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Have you experienced the wonderful works of God? This says, oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness. You know, he says here, at all times At all times, in verse number one, he says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall be continually in my mouth. Praise the Lord at all times. I'm not saying, beloved, that we haven't endured or have an abundance of trial right now. That we've experienced an abundance of testing, that we have hardship in our life. But the problem comes, beloved, is when we If you could in your mind's eye with me picture a massive scale here on the stage. And in that scale on this side, we have all of our burdens. We have all of our challenges, we have all of our heartaches, and we're so good at nurturing those, and we keep building those up on this side of the scale, and sometimes As we keep these burdens coming, we think, oh, the weight of it is so great, it's so heavy, I can hardly bear it. But, beloved, what I want you to understand is the problem is we as Christians are to be magnifying God. And we have neglected to come over to this side of the scale. I'm not saying that there isn't any burdens over there, that there isn't any challenges over there or heartache that you've dealt with. But what I'm saying is we've neglected to count your blessings and name them one by one. If we as God people would come over to this side and count our blessings and Thank God for his provision and thank God for his protection and thank God for what he's done for us day after day after day after day and how he's met our needs and provided for us and blessed us and enriched us. and given us all that he has, if we would come over here and continually add to this side, I think that with a little bit of time we would recognize the fact that not that these burdens have been removed. But somehow, magically, they've been lifted. And the weight of them seems much less. Because the blessings on this side are so great. That is what magnifying God does for us, fulfilling this requirement of God does for us. So we see here a requirement put upon us. I want you to see the reason that is given before us here in this text. The reason before us. Beloved in our life, before our very eyes One but has to pause for a moment and think, and he cannot help but begin to praise God. You see, praise will never happen outside of a pondering heart. Unless you pause to remember And think about what God has done. But one who often ponders the wonder of it all will have praise continually on his lips. Praise continually on his lips. Beloved, it's like the young woman Who cannot help but speak about her love. The young woman who It doesn't matter how obscure or remote the conversation is or the topic, how far away it is, it just seems as though it always comes back to him. It's a story, it's a relationship, it's something that happens, it's something at work, it's something it doesn't matter what what the topic is, somehow the topic continually comes back to him It's all about him. To the annoyance of her friends and family, it seems as though the conversation can't be about anything else. But that's what I'm saying, beloved, because her mind and her heart is continually upon him, pondering him, her conversation from her mouth continually comes. Praise for him. And if we as God's people would think about and ponder and think upon what God has done for us, praise for him would be continually. On our mouth. It wouldn't matter how remote the conversation, how distant the topic, somehow it would come back to God. Because that is what we have been thinking upon. So I want you to see in our text here several things as we walk down through it. First of all, we see The reasons here for us to magnify him, reasons for us to praise him, first is because The prayer that God has given to us. In verse number four, he says, I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. Look down at verse number 15. In verse number 15, he says, the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. And his ears are open unto their cry. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, his ears are open, God's ears are open unto the cry of the righteous. What a privilege we have as God's people. What a reason to praise and honor God is the fact that we see a man here that needs deliverance, and he cries out for it, and God sends it. God delivers him from all his fears. The burdened heart is always driven to seek the Lord. He said, I sought the Lord. Have you been driven to seek the Lord? Have you been driven to find him? Hey, seek me and you'll find me. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. The burdened heart is always driven to seek the Lord, but praise God, He is there. His heart is always rewarded with a sympathetic response. He said, He delivered me. It's I think about a child's relationship with their mother. The mother is usually the more compassionate one, the more concerned one. The one who is there in that moment of crying out. And I think about a young man, a young girl, a child who cries out for mom and runs to her because something happened. It doesn't matter what the situation was, it doesn't matter what happened. All they know is they want to be with their mom and they they run and they are enveloped in her arms. All the pain they felt, all the fear they felt, is gone when mom wraps her arms around them. Why? Because they're embraced in her loving care and things are going to be okay. Beloved, we have the privilege of prayer and coming into the presence of God Himself. Listen, if you cannot testify tonight about the power of answered prayer, you're missing one of the true great realities that is uniquely Christian. The privilege to come to God and prayer and have God answer your request. Think about the magnificence of that. About the blessing that is. Whatever the minutest need we have, to the greatest burden we carry, we can bring it to the throne of grace, and God will answer you. What a privilege, what a reason to magnify God, for he allows us to come into his presence and bring our burdens to him. He gives us a full delivery. He delivered him, he says, from all my fears. You know, sometimes, many times, the fear of the unknown. Is often dreaded more than the distress of today. That's a large part of this whole COVID-19 problem, the fear of the unknown. There is so much they don't know. There's so much conjecture. There's so much what-ifs, there's so much of this could possibly happen, and what are we going to do ifs? And that fear of the unknown has driven us to this point. The fear of the unknown was far more hurtful. Than the distress of our present situation. Beloved God says he'll even deliver you from your fears. Now it doesn't even have to be the reality of a problem, but the fear of one. And God cares. And God will deliver you. We see here somebody uh looking for direction by way of application Look at verse number five. We see the path that is lighted by God. He says, they looked unto him and were lightened. And their faces were not ashamed. Now I want you to understand in direct interpretation what this is talking about is the idea that when they look to God Their countenance, their face was brightened. It was lightened. And they weren't ashamed of God. They were downtrodden, they were discouraged, they were burdened, but when they looked to God, their face was lightened. Because they were encouraged and they didn't have to be discouraged anymore. And you've seen your friends or family, and you look at them and you say, hey, what's wrong? Hey, why are you downhearted? And it's evident on their face that they have a burden Well, here I want you to see that their load was lifted when their head was lifted up to God. They looked to God. They looked heavenward. And it says their face was lightened. It was brightened. It was encouraged. It was strengthened. They were strengthened because they were looking at God. Psalms 25, verse number 2 says, O my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not my enemies triumph over me. This is a very fam, very familiar verse, but it also speaks to the same thing. He says in verse number five, they looked unto him and were lightened, and their faces. We're not ashamed. The psalmist in 25 says, Hey, Lord, help me through this. Don't let me be ashamed. Don't let me be discouraged downhearted. God, give me the victory. Help me through this. Don't let my enemies triumph over me. Don't let me be ashamed that I am a Christian. God help me through this. And their faces were lightened. We, of course, can apply this in a couple of ways. First, depression gives way to delight when you look in the eyes of God. And secondly, their path was lightened. They knew what to do when God directed them. Beloved, it's not a fleeting glance, but a fervent gaze in the eyes of our Lord that will lighten. That's a reason to praise God, to honor and magnify God. God. Look at verse number six and seven, we see protection provided by God. Protection provided by God. There's somebody here looking for defense, and God gives it. Psalms 34, verse 6 and 7, he says, The poor man cried. And the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamped round about them that fear him and delivereth them There is protection provided. The Christian has a measure of protection that we we can't explain. If you've been saved and committed and surrendered to the Lord for any length of time, you personally have experienced the protection of God. If you have not experienced and could not testify to how God has protected you, then I believe the situation is that you've failed to behold the goodness of God. of God. You're not seeing it for what it is. For I know without a doubt God's protected you. God gives protects his own. It was Christmas Eve of 1875, and Iris Sankey was traveling on a steamboat. down the Delaware River. He was recognized by some fellow travelers as that great hymn writer, and they implored him, would you please Sing us one of your songs, and he humbly declined and said, No, I I don't want to sing one of one of my songs. And and they they said, please, we want to hear you sing. We're so you know, would love to hear you sing one of your songs. And he said, I I I just can't, but I'd be willing to sing one of William Bradbury's hymns It is one of my favorites. Savior, like a shepherd, lead us. And he began to sing that song there for them. We are thine. Do thou befriend us? Be the guardian of our way. As he be finished, as he finished. There walked up to him a man from the shadows and said, Sir, did you ever serve in the Union Army? He said, Yes, I did. And he said, could you tell me, would you happen to have been on picket duty one extraordinarily bright moonlit night in eighteen sixty two. I mean it was a night that just the moon shone so bright. And Irishankey said, I did. He said, sir, I too was in the Army, only I was in the Confederate Army. I saw you that night standing at your post. I was in the shadows, and you were fully lit by that extraordinarily bright moon. I raised my gun To shoot you dead. I knew I could not miss. He said, but you began to sing that song you just sang right now. You began to sing those words, and I sat listening, and I thought, well, I'll let him finish his song, and then I'll shoot him dead. Why kill, why why end such a beautiful song? I sat listening to you, and as you sang stanza after stanza that song, I was called back. to my hometown and thought of my mother who prayed so fervently for me and the bringing the upbringing that I had and At the conclusion of your song, I tried to lift my rifle, but I simply could not. He would not rise. And I thought to myself, the Lord, who is able to save this man from certain death, must certainly be great and mighty God. He said, With that my arms fell limp at my side. Beloved, many times you might not know, beloved me encourage you to Recognize the fact that God protects us. It is a reason to magnify God. To magnify God because of His continual protection. I want you to see the pleasure that we get from God. The pleasure we get from God. In this familiar verse, we see somebody here that finds delight in him. He says in verse number eight, O Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. It's not Just rules, beloved. Christianity and walking with God and following God's will is not just a matter of rules. It's a relationship with your Heavenly Father. David says to those listening, he says, Hey, you doubt my praise? He says, Do you doubt? Do you think that maybe what I'm saying is an exaggeration? Do you think maybe the prayer that I have and the protection that I get from God, do you think these things maybe are far-fetched? Then he says, Oh taste and see that the Lord is good. He says, try it for yourself Try it for yourself, for beloved, truly, the only way to experience God is yourself. Only the man that has been pardoned Knows the joy of having his sins forgiven. We can testify to it, we can talk about it, we can praise God for it, but it is only When we experience it, that we can say the Lord is good. Do you have reason to magnify the Lord tonight? Have you tasted and seen that the Lord is good? Have you experienced answered prayer for yourself? Have you seen God's protection in your life? God's direction provided for you? I, for one, am thankful, beloved, that God gives us many things in this life to enjoy Pleasures that we get to experience. Not only do we see this somebody's delight here, as he's the pleasures given to him from God, but we see provision of God in verses nine through ten. We see here somebody looking for a donation. Lots of people looking for donations today. Amen. He says, Oh, fear the Lord, ye his saints. For there is no want to them that fear him. The young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want. Any good thing. Beloved David again is speaking here from experience. Just as he said in this verse, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. He's not just talking about something that is theologically correct. He is speaking of something that he's experienced. You understand in our text, David is on the run. David is running through the hills and the mountains for his life. I believe that he has actually probably stood on the edge of a bluff and looked down in a valley and probably saw a mother and her cubs. And saw them whining for want of food, and nothing for mom to get them. No food around for them to get. And he's probably picturing his mind's eye that time that he sat and watched them lions linger about and go hungry. But he says, Oh, my God has never left me wanting. He's never left me wanting. Is there not a reason to magnify the Lord, beloved? He watched over and over as God provided him, even in the text here, as God delivered him from one who would surely have killed him. Doctor Helen, a missionary to Zaire, told the following story. There was a mother at our mission station died after giving birth to her premature baby We tried so hard to improve the situation without an incubator, really, to keep the infant alive. There wasn't much hope, but we surely needed a hot water bottle, and the one we had was beyond repair. We knelt with the children that out that night and asked God for the baby. We asked as children lifted up their voice. One young girl prayed, Dear God, please send a water bottle today, for tomorrow will be too late, for our baby will then be dead And dear Lord, please send a doll for her sister so her sister will not feel so alone That afternoon, a large package arrived from England, and children watched eagerly as they opened the package, and much to their surprise, some very nice and beautiful clothing came out, but there was in there a hot water bottle. Immediately, the girl that had so earnestly prayed jumped up and began to dig down into the box. And she said, For surely, if God sent us a water bottle, then there's a baby down in here, too. And there was a baby doll for the sister. You see, the father knew what they had need of, even before they had For months in advance, those things were put into a box and sent to the field in preparation for that day. God's provision, beloved. God knows what you have need of Look at verse number 11. He says, Come ye children, hearken unto me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Beloved, could I encourage you, young people that are listening, to learn from the previous generation? Learn from your mom and dad. From your pastor, from the adults that are in the church. They've walked down some roads, they've experienced some things, and yes, your experience might be a little different. For no walks, no two walks are exactly the same. But they have learned some things, as David says here, Come, ye children, hearken unto me, and I will teach you to fear the Lord. I encourage you, young people, to learn from the generation that's gone before. They'll save you from having to experience and wear scars that should not be part of your life. I want you to see not only do we have a requirement given to us and reasons listed for us here in the text that we have to magnify God, but there's a recipe provided for us. a recipe provided for us. How do we magnify God? As Christians, I want you to understand, beloved, this should not just be lip service. We cannot just let it be lip service. It's not, it's not that. That in itself is not enough. Lest our praise be turned into an opportunity. For others to protest against God. We don't want to do that. Our lip service is not sufficient. We must live what we praise If you and I are going to magnify the Lord, we surely know how to do it. Let me ask you. Do you know how to shame the Lord? If you know how to shame the Lord, then you know how to magnify the Lord. Just do the opposite. Do the opposite. There is in the following verses of our text That condition laid forth for us. First of all, you need to control your tongue Verse number 13. Control your tongue. Think about what you're saying. Yes, we need to speak the right things We need to say the right things. We need to magnify the Lord with our tongue, but not just with our tongue. So much importance is put in on the tongue in the Word of God. Behold what a what a fire little matter kindleth. It it you have a la power of life and death are in the tongue. We need to control our tongue, Christian. That means we say things that praise and honor God, yes, but we've got to be careful not to say things that don't. Don't take the name of the Lord, your God, and Vile speech, crude humor. I was talking to our missionary Brother Pratt today. And I told him, I says, man, I was listening to a joke this week about India, and it was so funny. I said, I was ready to send it to you. And the guy closed the joke with something that was just a little bit crude. Just marginal. And I was so disappointed, because I knew you would have enjoyed this joke about India and and having spent so much time there, you would understand it. And I said, I I was ready to send it to you, but I I couldn't I was like so disappointed. I'm like, why do you have to end it like that? I mean, it wasn't wicked, it wasn't blasphemous, it was just crude. Christian, our conversation shouldn't be like that. We need to control our conversation. I could spend a long time on this point alone and encourage you to be careful with your children, how they talk. I know the world accepts everything, and it's fine for kids to be as vulgar as as can be, and it's funny, and they laugh at it, but don't let your kids talk like that. Christians shouldn't talk like that. They shouldn't be using the slang of the world. They shouldn't be uh embracing uh the the the vulgarness and and Discussing about bodily functions and bathroom habits and underclothes and all this stuff that becomes part of common jokes and conversations everywhere today That should not be part of a Christian's normal You it y there was a day that you were embarrassed when somebody talked about underclothes. Now it's common conversation. I mean, encourage you to be careful how you communicate because you want to magnify God, not the filth of this world. Control your tongue. Psalm 69 and verse number 30 says, I will praise the name of God with a song. I will magnify him with thanksgiving. Beloved, when we thank God publicly, we're magnifying God. Praise God, this is the day the Lord hath made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. You have the power to magnify God in the minds of people around you when you publicly thank God. for his goodness to you. Don't be ashamed of God, don't be embarrassed about it. Let the world know you're a Christian. Even on Facebook. And there's some of our church members that I'm proud of you. I've seen your Facebook page, and you're not ashamed of God. You're not ashamed to put scripture out there. You're not ashamed to praise the Lord and and And s quote scripture verses and do things like that where there's some church members that I can't even look at your Facebook page. Because of the filth that is promoted from the world. There's nothing on that page would let anybody know that you're a Christian. That's part of your conversation. That's part of what the world sees and how you're magnifying God or not. Then in verse number 14, we see that you're supposed to control your transactions. How you act, what you do day by day. As I said in the beginning of this point here, the recipe for magnifying God is not just lip service, it's not just what we You want to magnify God, control what you do, where you go, the activities that you take part in And then commit your time, beloved. Commit your time to thinking upon your great and mighty God Read, we're not going to take time to read it tonight, but you read Isaiah chapter 40 and consider God's self-sufficiency, his omnipotence, his omnipresence, his omniscience. Consider, if you would, the sovereignty of God and the incomparableness of God and the eternal nature of God. Consider the the immutable nature of God, how he is unchanging. Just read through Isaiah chapter 40 on your own time and think about how magnificent your God is Let me say this to you, beloved, if you don't have a if your problems drive you to fear, then your God is not magnificent enough. If your problems drive you to anxiety, then your God is not magnificent enough. I didn't say God is not magnificent enough, for He surely is. All of our magnification cannot raise him one ounce. One mo one inch. One little bit. We're not lifting him up of what we're doing when we ponder how great God is as we are in our mind's eye recognizing how powerful, how real, how true, how magnificent He really is. And as you face the problems of your life, if you find yourself driven to anxiety, driven to fear, could I implore you, could I encourage you to magnify God in your own mind to where you recognize who he is and how powerful he is and how small and minute and little our problems are in relation to how magnificent our God is That's what magnifying your God will do. Let us magnify the Lord. To magnify, beloved, is to make great or greater. To increase the apparent dimension of a body as a convex lens magnifies the bulk of a body to the eye. You've all been at the fair when you looked in that convex mirror, or you've looked through a convex uh uh lens and you've seen That just magically you somehow have gained two hundred pounds. That's what magnifying God does. In our eye, as we behold how great God is, He is magnified to make great or greater Our God. Now beloved, no matter where you are right now, will you remember these truth these two immutable truths, unchanging truths, found in verse number 15 and 16. The Bible says in verse number 15 and 16, the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. And his ears are open unto their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. These are unchanging truths. The eyes of God are on the righteous and ready to hear your cry And beloved, the face for the Lord is against them that do evil. That is the fact. Could I encourage you to magnify the Lord? Let us magnify the Lord. For homework this week I want you to read Isaiah chapter 40. I want you to read Luke chapter 1, verse number 46 through 56. Think about Mary there and how she purposed in her heart to magnify her God. I was talking to Pastor Derek this week and he said your reputation is what people think of you. Your testimony is what people think of your God. I wonder what is your testimony tonight? Have we sufficiently magnified God through our testimony? to a lost and dying world. What does the world think of our God? Let us magnify the Lord together Together. Dear Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you that you'd be with us and help us to spend some time and ponder and think about The great and mighty God we serve. So many times we limit your power by our finite minds and our inability To even comprehend how great you are. Lord, I pray that you would help us to magnify your name. In our own minds, in our own life, and that we live in such a way that you would be magnified before the world, that they would truly see a great and powerful God. that we serve. This world that mocks and laughs at you, Lord. I pray they would see a powerful God in us. In Jesus' name. Amen. The pianist plays if God's