So uh now we're gonna get into the word of God. Are you ready? Amen. Turn to Psalms chapter number ninety-five. Psalms ninety-five. We've been reading the word of God, and uh recently for our devotion as a church and reading through the Psalms and that's been it's been fun, uh challenging and uh also encouraging. Psalms is is an incredible Encouraging book for sure. And Psalms 95. Follow along with me as I read the read the text to you. It's just eleven verses. He says, Oh come and let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. For the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. In his hands are the deep places of the earth. And strength of the hills is his also, the sea is his, and he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. O come, let us worship and bow down, let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. Today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation, and as in the The day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. Forty years long was I grieved with this generation. And said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways, unto whom I swear in my wrath that they shall not enter I have for some time been teaching and dealing with the lettuce that are found in the Word of God. All through the Word of God, the principle of The admonition, the encouragement to let us. And actually, there are several in this passage which I will deal with in a late at a later date, but tonight we're going to look at what comes to us here in this very first passage phrase oh let us sing unto the lord oh come let us sing unto the lord just five days ago those of you that are reading our devotions and As a church and those of you that are reading the devotionals that are sent out from the staff, Pastor Gus wrote the devotional for this particular passage. And uh he of course dealt with what is the focus of this text, what is the prominent thought, and that is praising God in song. Uh he said in his devotional, and I read As I read this psalm, the opening words provide an invitation that is important for us to think about. The invitation says to come and sing. He goes on and talks about how that the singing is not supposed to be just solo. It's not something that we do all by ourselves or in a place when we're alone, although we should be singing to God when we're alone, but there also is I believe this psalm highlights this fact that the corporate chorus of God's people is an important element of worship And this morning I want to encourage you and challenge you with regards to this idea, the important element of song in our worship. Of having music and lifting our voice up and praising and honor of God. I am concerned when I look across the audience and I see God's people not participating. In the song service, like tonight I couldn't see any of you singing. There's a problem in our church Um no I know right now it's hard. I even told Pastor Gus. Now I I I have as a rule for I don't know if even you guys have noticed, but for probably the last year and a half I've told Pastor Gus at least one of the songs we sing Sing all the verses. Sing all the verses of at least one. I don't care which one we have on the list, but you sing all the verses. Well I've told them listen it's hard to sing with a mask on Just sing one of one and couple of the other. Let's let's it's hard to you know you're breathing your own air and trying to project and it's difficult, so let's keep it short, you know. And and I understand right now we're at a time where that's hard, and I'm certainly not dealing with it with regards to that. But I believe that the song service is an important part of the of our worship experience at church It is something that's necessary and needed. And I put a lot of thought into the song service. I'm always thinking about how I can make it exciting? How can I make it uplifting? How can I make it more encouraging? And uh in a godly and honoring, God-honoring way. Obviously, I could make it more exciting with an electric guitar. We could do that. That could be exciting, especially if I played it. That would be really exciting But I but that's not what we want to do, but how could we do it? What kind of I mean Pastor August will tell you sometimes we'll walk up on the platform and I'll tell him don't sing that song We need something more energetic. We need something that has some life in it. Let's sing just change it for something that you know. I said I don't care if we just sing victory in Jesus, but let's sing something that has some life. Everybody needs to wake up They're all sitting out there asleep. And so we'll change it right on the fly because we need something that that has life and energy. And I know there's a place for the doxology, but we ought not sing it every single service. Amen My I went to my grandmother's church in Crossett, Arkansas, a town of six thousand people, and we went to their small Southern Baptist church and anytime we were in town and every service Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Every service we stood up and sang it. And it it was so rote and so I mean No life in it just as dead as can be and the church was the same. Well we don't want that. We want life. Listen, the song service is important. The song service is that kindling. It's that stoking of the fire. It's that stirring of the heart. It's the part that prepares our heart to hear the Word of God preached. This is an important part of us that as we come together. Christopher Hogwood, a noted harpsichordist, a conductor, he was quoted on a national television program that went out on public television entitled What is Music? He said music is the use of sound to move the human soul. Now he's uh secularist. I mean he's not talking about uh spiritual matters there, but he understands the power of music. And God understands that, and God wants us to use music in worship because it does move the soul. Sometimes it's hard To get wet wood burning. You ever try and start a fire with wet wood? I mean it's almost doesn't matter how much kindling you use. that's just sitting there smoldering and sometimes God's people are just wet logs. I mean they I don't know what what we need to Matt, I appreciate your spirit, man. Matt, I appreciate the amens. I appreciate the life. And it wouldn't hurt some of the rest of you to to to wake up and and say amen and get involved and be excited about what God's doing in his We get excited at the ball game and and and you you yell at uh all kinds of other things, but in church we just sit there Listen, you're not more spiritual because you just sit there. I hope God does something in your heart and stirs you up, and there's something happening inside, and there's got to be a point where you almost just can't hold it anymore in anymore, and you just gotta say, Amen! God is good. Praise the Lord. I I hope there's something inside of you that's like that. There's much, beloved, that I want to give you with regard to the matter there, Max Exodus. this as I as I I coughed in front of one of the kids uh at at uh vacation bible school I have a mask on and stuff but he goes oh oh oh I'll give you three guesses what kid it was. He doesn't look like me, but he's got the same name as me. Um so where was I Um amen. That's right. Listen, I there's there's people in our church that know a lot more about music than I do. I I I really am quite ignorant when it comes to music and And you know, it's why it's hard to believe that I led the choir for a couple of years. Um but uh I you know, I was appreciate Pastor Gus taking that over and and he knows more about music but the there's many instrumentalists and there's people that could do a far better job with regards to talking about or looking at music. But uh we could even bring somebody in from outside to teach on music and he could Teach on music every night of the week for for a month and not touch on all the things that are pertinent and that are important with regards to this topic of music that we as God's people need to know and understand. understand. But this evening I want to look at this text and let this text guide our our discussion. There's a lot of other areas that I want to get into and I'm hoping to do uh uh a few messages on music for us as a church. Um but tonight we're just gonna walk through this text and see what God has for us, ask him to teach us this evening from the Word of God as we listen to this. What did Pastor Gus say? He said in his this provides an invitation. An invitation that, oh come, let us sing. The invitation to sing, let us sing First of all, if we're going to be singing, what kind of a spirit should we have? This is the direction we want to go as we're going to come together as we gather in God's house and we're going to lift up our voice in song There's a lot of aspects of music that we could talk about, and we'll get into those on other days, but tonight I just want to talk about our heart and how what should our heart be Like? What should our spirit be like as we get into singing for God? And first of all, we see that we ought to have a heart of joy. We ought to sing joyfully. He says, Oh, come and let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a what? Joyful noise. Amen. What you sing oughta flow out of a heart full of joy. There ought to be that joy down inside. And as you begin to sing about what God's doing, I mean, it ought to just stir up again. It ought to move you. It ought to bring you to a place where you've got to sing it out and praise his name, lifting up your voice in song from the joy that's inside. You're not able just to hold it down, not able to keep quiet, because man, that's good. Oh boy, it's great to sing about Jesus. And to praise his holy name. That joy inside comes, and you just want to sing. My dad tells a story about when he was in college and he was dating a young lady, and he just really loved this young lady. And he got the Dear John letter in his box right before he went to chapel. So he's reading on the way to chapel, he's reading this letter from the love of his life. What he thought was the love of his life. He's reading this letter and it's a Dear John letter and she's breaking up with him and he walks into chapel and he's sitting there and of course he's crushed and And ready to cry and so discouraged and despondent and downhearted and man, he just was at the very bottom of it all, but in chapel they began to sing and and and he didn't feel like singing. He was just sitting there just Upset and he didn't want to sing. Why you certainly don't want to sing when you're upset. And he's that they sang the first song and got all the way through it and and he didn't participate And they had a couple of announcements, and they said, Let's stand together, everybody stand, and we're gonna sing a song. And and they began singing again. And oh, about the second verse, he began humming along. He didn't really feel like it, but he's just humming along. And by the end of that song he was singing out and he was just the joy of the Lord coming into his heart that God was still in control, that God was on the throne, and he had a reason And a purpose. And he understood. And he didn't know why, but he knew and he could trust God. And God used that song service to minister to his soul before the preaching ever started. Hey, it ought to come from a joyful heart. And I know many of you receive great encouragement from that second word there. Make a joyful Noise. Amen. I've heard many people, hey, it just says joyful noise. Amen. We ought to do our best, and we shouldn't use that joyful noise as an excuse to get up and sing a special without preparing, without practicing. And putting forth our best effort. But listen, whatever your best effort is, if you've got a heart that's pure before God and that's singing from the joy of the Lord, and you're singing out, then amen Amen. It's not about who hears you. It's about who hears you. It's not about who's listening in the audience. It's about who's listening in heaven. Beloved, it's not about the quality of your voice, it's about the condition of your heart. What is the heart? What is your heart condition? We ought to sing joyfully unto the Lord. Not only that, our hearts should be singing from a heart of gratitude. We ought to sing gratefully. Verse number two says, Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Now I'm not going to spend long here because I want to deal with this in a in a message all of its own where he says, Let us Come with thanksgiving. And we'll deal with that all by itself. But as we look at it in light of this passage, we see here that we ought to have gratitude in our heart when we make a joyful noise unto Him. Listen, if there's anybody that has purpose or reason for gratitude, it's God's people. Regardless of what's going on in the world, regardless of what we're dealing dealing with, if there's anybody that has a reason To have joy in their heart. And anybody has reason to have uh to say thank you, it's God's people. God has been so good to us and blessed us so richly. We can have a heart of gratitude because God is a great God. He's a great God, isn't he? Amen. Praise the Lord. Look at verse number three for those of you that disagree. He says, For the Lord is a great God A great God. And a king. A great king above all gods. You know, there's a lot of people in this world that set up a lot of different gods. But there's only one true and living God, and he is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He's the God that sent his son to die on a cross and Three days later rose him raised him from the dead for you and I that we might have a savior whose name is Jesus. He's a great God. He's a great God that He would love and And send his son for us. He's a great God that he'll never leave us nor forsake us. He's a great God because He has great power. We see that He is strong. He's a strong God. Verse number four and five, he says, in His hand. Are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hill is his also. I mean, you think about how when you stand in the shadow of a great mountain. How small you feel. Think about the magnificence uh of that of that mountain and how much effort and work and and and And dynamite and all it would take for God's creation, man, to move that mountain, and God spoke it into existence. He's a strong God. They're in his hand. The sea is his and he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. Listen, beloved, every time we sing praises to God, we're singing praises and saying that God is stronger than our storm. God is stronger than whatever it is we're going through. He is a great God. He's a strong God. Tonight I'm thankful for a strong God. I'm thankful for a God that can minister to my soul, that can come and speak to my heart, that has ears to hear and hands to help. He is the creator of the world, the savior of my soul, and he knows my name. Amen. Praise God. I'm thankful tonight. When we sing, we ought to sing. sing with a heart of gratitude. We also ought to sing reverently. Reverently. Verse number six says, Oh come, let us worship. There's another one. Now you guys are getting some insight into some future Messages here. Let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. Listen. Have you ever wondered about where this idea of kneeling before God came from? When you get into the presence of the awesome, powerful, holy God, you can You can't help but show that level of subjection, that level of humility Where we kneel before God. It's sad today. It's sad today, Christian. There are a lot of Christians that come and they may kneel before God's people, as in they'll kneel down here and pray, but they're standing up in their heart. They'll say, God, I want your will, and they'll kneel here, but they'll stand up and go do what they want to do, not what God wants to do. When we sing in song, we ought to sing reverently, with a heart of worship. This point alone puts a kibash on Ninety-eight percent of CCM Contemporary Christian music. This is not the heart and the focus of this message tonight. But listen, just this idea that our our song in worship is supposed to be reverent. It's supposed to be reverent. Takes most of that and throws it away. And I know that you like it. You say, Pastor Caleb, how'd you know? I didn't know anybody knew. Because I like it. Pastor. You my flesh likes it. I enjoy listening to this or to that. You hear that in the flesh, it's appealing to the flesh. And we we try and make ourselves feel better and say, oh, but it has spiritual words, so I can listen to it Listen, this is not the focus of this message, and we'll take some time and dig deeper into this idea of CCM and how destructive it is to godly, God-fearing, God-honoring churches. But they those that promote CCM, they like to use Psalms 33. 3 where he says, Sing unto him a new song and play skillfully with a loud noise. Now, when we get to the loud part, there may be something there with regards to making the music music hearable. Listen, I tell the sound guys all the time, you you're not sitting up there to sit up there and listen to the service. The reason that you're there is to adjust the sound. So you've got to adjust the sound. If you're not going to be adjusting the sound, then we don't need anybody up there. And when somebody gets up to sing, you need to turn it up. They need to be able to it does no good for somebody to pray and to practice and get ready to sing a song, and then they come up and they sing, oh How I loved Jesus. Oh how I love okay. Now Now, I get onto the sound guys because they're not turning it up. It does no good if the people can't hear it. But listen, if you sing, hear it a Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and you're afraid of the mic, you might need to rethink your ministry. You need to people need it's it's an opportunity to minister to minister through music. It does no good if they can't hear you. And the sound guys can't turn it up if you're way back here. Oh, how I love Jesus. They can't overcome that distance without creating a bunch of rings. and feedback and all that. You've got to get close to the mic. Use it. That's what you're up here for, is to minister to music. Minister through through music to God's people. Listen, I know you're scared. I sit right here. You guys don't see this. But you know how many people that stand up here and sing that when I look at the back of their legs, they're going like this they're standing up here singing and their legs are shaking their skirts going like this I know you're scared. I understand that. And I I don't want to belittle that and I understand getting closer to the mic, and if you make a mistake, it's going to be accentuated. Listen. Sing for the honor or glory of God and let God use the results. Just get up and do your best and God will bless. Get up and sing out. Let God use you. Praise God. Sing. And it'll do wonders for the hearts of God's people. It'll speak to them. There's a whole nother aspect of that when we get to the loud part that we'll deal with when we're dealing with CCM because you go the other direction and there is a too loud. Okay You know this is the temple of the Holy Spirit. We're not supposed to damage the body, right? Okay, beyond a certain decibel, you start hurting people's eardrops We're not going to get into that. I've gone too far already. Listen, what they like to use is this idea, sing unto him a new song. They like to use that new song and say, hey, we've got to have some New songs. You got to do away with the old ones. Now listen, there's nothing wrong with a song if it's God honoring, even if it's new. You understand all of Fanny Crosby's songs were new at some point. You know, all the songs that we sing, that we say the old hymns of the faith, there was one day when they were written and they were new. So God uses people and He gives them a song in their heart and they're able to pin that. And God can use that, and there's nothing wrong with a new song. But the problem is, is what they like to do is they like to use that new song there. First of all, it takes it out of context. Because it's not talking about a new song like that. What it's talking about is the new song that's in your heart. As in the new life in Christ, a new relationship. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. New. Our new life is not supposed to be the same as our old life. And the problem is, is with CCM, what they try and do is they try and use the tools of the old life And bring them into the new life. That to me is crazy. It's crazy. That's not what God wants One reporter for the Milwaukee Journal defined CCM. He's not even a Christian. Doesn't even know what he's saying, really, with regards to biblical principle, but he said this. CCM is essentially rock music with the lyrics changed to protect the innocent. That's what he said. Just a journalist. According to U. S. News World Report, they describe the new trend of CCM as a form that weds Christian lyrics to pop styles for from folk to rock to heavy metal. They're bringing the old life and trying to put it in with the new. Once he CM Entertainer described her music as this I'm trying to be sexy in a godly way She was quoted in Christian Christianity Today magazine. That's like saying I'm trying to be drunk in a sober way. That just doesn't ha it's not possible. They don't go together. I'm trying to be sexy in a godly way. Read your Bible. That that doesn't happen. Time magazine described a well-known and popular CCM singer saying this about her music. With a hoarse shrug of pleasure, she pumps lust into all her arrangements This is what she puts into her music and there's a lot more that we could deal with. But listen is supposed to be worship. Not entertainment. It's supposed to be worship, not entertainment. The Bible says in Ephesians 5, 18 and 19, and be not drunk with With wine where it's excess, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. The sad thing is Today you there's so many churches that you cannot tell by looking at the stage, by looking at the the the worship service. If it's Sunday morning in church or Friday night at a Billy Irish Irish concert. You don't know. It's the same. And it ought not be. You know it's a modern day when we take the central appetites fueled by the flesh. And try and use that to express our faith. Listen, our song ought to be reverent. We sing It should be reverently. Let us move on, not just joyfully, gratefully, reverently, but let us sing proudly. Verse number seven says, For he is our God. And we are the people of his pastor. He is our God. Proud to be a child of God. Proud to be a Christian. Proud to say, I am a child of the king. Listen, the world's not at all ashamed of their music. The world is not at all ashamed of their wicked lifestyle. Why are Christians so ashamed to proclaim the truth? Why are we so ashamed to just say praise the Lord? Or man, didn't God give us a great day today? Or just sing, sing out, oh how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus. Jesus Hey they walk through the store singing all their filth they got it playing on at the at the corner where where every car for for three blocks can feel the rumble You know, they've got all that, they're not ashamed of it. Listen, uh just a little over a year ago when we took a trip down to take uh Alicia for her graduation, we were coming back and we stopped at a national park Somewhere between here and there. I think we were in North Carolina. And uh we went up on the top of a mountain and they had this pavilion, this building up there where you could go spend a bunch of And we were up there in this building. It was air conditioned. We were hanging out and the young people that were with us, they just started singing out. And I mean I was proud of him. Not ashamed to be a Christian. Not ashamed to sing about God. To sing about the love of God. Standing there, all these people coming and going. Before long there was a crowd gathered around and people videoing. I'm like, you guys are gonna be on YouTube. They're they're just singing out and we'd finish the song and a few people would clap and some people would leave and they would start a new song and and then a few people other people would come That's how we should be proud to be a Christian. Proud to be a Christian. They just I'll just throw this out because I need to move on, but y you know a lot of the CCM songs? You can't tell whether they're talking about Jesus or their boyfriend. Because they don't mention the name of God. They don't mention Jesus. They just talk about how loving He is. They just talk about how how they want to be close to him. They just saw. And if you know that that's what she's she's talking about, then maybe you could interpret it as she's talking about God. But if you don't know that, she would be talking about her lover. You see, they don't use that name because it's powerful and because that would limit their sales. Listen, we need to sing heartily as well, as our last point here, verse number 8 through 11. Heartily. Harden not your hearts as in the provocation, as in the day of temptation in the wilderness. He goes on here and he describes how God's people, that ungrateful and rebellious spirit, took over the hearts of the Israelites in the wilderness. And they provoked God's wrath. They provoked God to be angry, to be upset with them because their heart wasn't in the right place. Because they weren't following after God. He says, Hey You guys, you tempted me and you saw me. You saw what I could do. You saw my miracles. You saw how I could deliver you over and over and over again, and yet you still did not do what I asked you to do. They erred in their heart. Their heart was not right with God. Beloved, when your heart's not right with God, you find it hard to sing. When you're a long ways from home, you find it hard to really lift up your voice and sing victory in Jesus. The old rugged cross. Nothing between. I surrender all. You find it hard to sing those songs because your heart's not in it because your heart's in a different place because you've drifted far from God Beloved, how should our heart be as we lift our voice up in song in God's house or anywhere else? It ought to be joyfully. It ought to be gratefully, it ought to be reverently, it ought to be proudly, and it ought to be heartily Heartily as unto the Lord. That's what God wants us to do. Oh, come and let us sing. Let us sing. I hope God is always pleased and honored with the songs that are sung and the music that's sung at Hunt Valley Baptist Church That doesn't mean we have to get rid of the piano and the organ and we have to go to singing all docile songs of devotion. You can have some life, but where's your heart? Where's your heart