Tuesday night and Monday uh some people went up to the bus conference and that was some good good preaching and encouraging with the results to with our bus meeting. Ministry on Tuesday evening. It was a very enjoyable time, challenging uh spiritually and encouraging to keep on doing what God wants you to do. And we all The times need to be challenged to do that. Amen. Turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter ten. Hebrews chapter ten. At the bus conference, I Did get to meet Brother Ayler's brother. Uh I did not know he was in the area, but uh he came I was just introducing myself to people and uh this young uh sharp looking man uh said hello and uh introduced myself pastor clay botrell and he said I'm Scott Ayller and I I I just look he said, Yeah, my brother goes to your church and I said, Okay, all right, great. He says, Yeah, how's he doing? you know. Uh and so I let him know that Brother Ayler needed a lot of prayer. Uh but uh no, I of course told him the Aylers are doing well and he was excited to hear that. Um but he he's doing well. It was good to meet him, talk to him just briefly. But we had a good Now, in a in a couple of moments here in a little bit, I'm going to tell each and every one of you how close you are to God. I'm actually going to tell everybody else in the room how close you are to God. A few weeks ago, it's been two weeks ago, I think, I preached a message on praying, and I used as my textbook verse Zechariah 8. 21. And then the inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord. And I titled that message Let us pray, but as I began studying for that message, as I began And looking and preparing for that, I came across that phrase in the scripture a number of places, and uh was kind of struck by the Challenges that I found there, the admonitions and the exhortations that start with the phrase, let us And uh so I thought, you know, I'm gonna dig into those a little bit more after I prepared that message on prayer, and I thought, I wonder what other admonitions there are in Scriptures on let us do this. I'm not saying let us I'm saying let us. And uh uh so we're gonna look at that and I don't know if it'll take us through the end of the year here, but there are a number of them throughout the scriptures of challenges from the scriptures about what God uh exhortation gives an exhortation to us to do by opening with the phrase, let us. So tonight in Hebrews chapter 10, verse number 22, this verse here is our text verse for this evening and we're going to break this down, look at it a little bit, but in Hebrews 10, verse number 22, the Bible says, let us draw near with a true heart. In full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us draw near So tonight's message is titled that, Let Us Draw Near. Not only do we as people need to be praying people. But we need to be drawing near to God. How close are you to God? You tonight, right now, are as close to God as you You want to be. That's how close you are. You are as close to God right now as you want to be. You say, well, no, no, I want to be closer to God. You are as close to God as you want to be. Because it is up to us. Our nearness to God is a direct result of our desire and our want to to be near To be in his presence, to walk with him. So how close you are to him is up to you and up to me as individuals The tonight, the admonition is let us draw near to God. Certainly we could be encouraged and challenged this evening to that desire more to be in his presence. And I hope that that is the case. That you will be motivated to draw near to God through this. First of all, let me give you kind of an explanation of the passage of Scripture here and what we're doing dealing with. And in order to do that, I've got to give you a little bit of the context. so you understand where he's coming from. So chapter 10, let's back up and let's just read a few verses of chapter 10. We won't read it all for the sake of time, but maybe let's start with the first four verses. Then we'll skip some and and and just to get kind of it the context of this passage of scripture. The Bible says in chapter 10, for the law having a shadow of good things So the law was a shadow of what was gonna come, and not the very image of the thing can never, with those sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually He's saying, hey, by those people that offered sacrifice in Old Testament, year by year, after and after, all of that sacrifices could never make somebody perfect. Verse number two, for then would they not have ceased to be offered, because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sin. But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins year after year. Verse number four. For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away Sin. So we're talking about the actions and what the priests did, and how they had to continually come and offer sacrifices to cover sins because the blood of bulls and goats couldn't wash away the sin. The blood of bulls and goats couldn't take it away completely. It just would cover it for a time. So look down in verse number 8. He says, above when he said, sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and offerings for sin. Again, talking about the law. Verse number nine. Then said he Lo I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. That is talking about taking away the first law that he would ex establish the second, that is Jesus Christ who is come. He says verse number 10, by that which Will we are sanctified through the offering of the blood of Jesus Christ once and for all. And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering, oftentimes The same sacrifice which can never take away sin, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin, forever sat down on the right hand of God. Who is it that offered one sacrifice for sin forever? Jesus Christ. And after he offered that one sacrifice of sin forever, he went and sat down on the right hand of the Father, and that's where he is today, the one mediator between God and man. Jesus Christ. He is there. And he came that men might be saved through him. Now what we're looking at in verse number 22, he says, Let us draw near With a true heart and full assurance. He's saying, draw near unto God, unto Jesus Christ, this one that died for you, the one that forgave you of your sins He said, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed. with pure water. These references here are talking about the time back in the Old Testament when the prophets or the priests had to go and wash themselves. before they could present a sacrifice, before they could come into the presence of God, before they could draw near to God, they had to wash themselves They had to get clean. He says, in full assurance of faith. This starts with knowing That you're saved. Having the full assurance of faith. And I believe tonight that we are dealing with a crowd who knows that they're saved. And for the most part, I I've most of you I know your testimonies, and you uh for that reason we're not going to spend much time there, but drawing near to God starts with being saved. That's where you having full assurance that you're saved, you can start to draw near to God. The fact is there is never a greater gulf. Than the gulf that was fixed between the sinner and the Savior. This is a gulf that no man could breach on his own, no man could cover or span the tide of on his own. He needed Jesus Christ. And all the offerings of the bulls and the sacrifices and all these things that were offered couldn't breach that gap. It just helped cover it for a period of time. It was just a shadow of what was to come, and what was to come was Jesus Christ. Now The beauty of the gospel is that it displays this great gulf. It shows that great gulf that's fixed between the sinner and the savior. But then it gives the explanation of how to get across the Gulf, how to reach Jesus Christ. Having a full assurance With a true heart. Faith is not our faith is not full because of how much faith you have. Our faith is not full because you are strong in faith, but because of who your faith is in. And the foundation of faith is Jesus Christ. No other foundation can a man lay than is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Our faith is in a strong foundation. He says, having your hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. This is talking about the time when the priests had to go and wash themselves Maybe uh they you know the priests were given to their lives to serve the Lord. They were uh set aside. Their entire life was set apart. They were the Levites. It was their job. It was their life's calling. It was their mission to serve in the temple or the tabernacle. That was their job. Yet when they were going to go into the presence of God, when they were going to go into the Holy of Holies, they had to put, they had to go and wash themselves. They had to get clean clothes on. They had to prepare to come into the presence of God. That is what was required of them, even though they were already Dedicated or committed to serving God with their life. You and I are priests. We believe in the priesthood of the believer Now, if we are going to draw near to God today The the amazing thing is that we have the privilege to do so. If you think about the fact that in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve walked in the cool of the day with God. They drew near to God. They spent time with God. They were close to Him. They had fellowship and communion with Him. I mean it was a it was the perfect scenario. It was a perfect place. But sin entered into the world. And so death by sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. And so no longer could Adam and Eve come into the presence of God. They were cut off. They were kicked out of the garden. And they couldn't come into the presence of God anymore. Then the law was instituted some years later, and God giving them a way by which they could cover their sins with the offering of sacrifices and bull and goats, but still they couldn't come into the presence of God. Only the high priest could actually go into the presence of God, and then he could only do it once a year after he had washed himself and after he had prepared to do so. If you think about that, for all those years, even God's own people could not come into the presence of God. Yet you and I are commended. Exhorted to draw near unto God. God wants to be close to you God wants you to be in his presence. And we can access the throne and we can come into the presence of God, not because we are worthy, but because Jesus Is worthy. Because he covers our sin. You know, the amazing thing is, is the high priest Here, look back at me if you would, a couple of verses. Let's look at uh nineteen. Having therefore, brethren, boldness To enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, having therefore boldness. Now, I'm jumping ahead of myself here, but you know that we can have boldness to come into the presence of an Almighty God because of Jesus. You see, the high priest, I think that they still went into the presence of God with a little bit of fear and trembling Because if they were not worthy, they would drop dead. They had a rope tied to the high priest's ankles And they had bells on his robes so that when he went in there, if he stopped moving around for a while, they were like, oh He died. Pull him out. And they couldn't go in there and get him. They had to pull him out physically. Because he went into the presence of perfection, an Almighty God. Without being worthy. You and I are in ourselves never worthy. But we can come boldly to the throne of God, not because we're worthy or because we've kept the law or because we've done so well, but because Jesus is worthy. And his righteousness has been imputed unto us. That is amazing when you think about it. And God says, would you just come into my presence boldly? The fact is, if you and I are not coming into the presence of God, if we are not drawing near to God, We are holding the sacrifice that Jesus Christ gave us in contempt. It would be like me paying for Miss Lisa to eat dinner at Fogo de Chow I mean, awesome restaurant. If you go at dinner, actually I've never been at dinner, at lunch it's twenty five dollars a plate. And I bought this meal for her. And she didn't want to go. No, I don't want to do that. Whatever the reason is She may say, well, I don't feel worthy to eat in there. Or I I I'm too good to eat in there. Or what the reason is irrelevant. The sacrifice that I made to pay so that she could go, she's like, no, I don't want to do that And Jesus Christ paid the ultimate sacrifice so you and I could come into the presence of God. And we say, no, I don't want to do that. God help us. We need to desire and want to move into the presence of God and have a goal to try and do it. So let me give you some things about the means of access. the means of access. First of all, what it's not. It is not a physical act. None of us could ever build a tower of Babel, as it were, to try and get into the presence of God. You're not any closer to God unless you have a fear of flying when you're at thirty five thousand feet than you are when you're on the ground. I mean maybe if you're really afraid of flying When you're up in the air, you are close to Jesus. You are right there, walking with God, praying that you'll land safely. Uh but just the the altitude is not what puts you in the presence of God. It's not a physical thing that you can do The Bible tells us here that it is a new way. Verse number 19. He says, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. by a new and living way. It's a new way. New as opposed to the old way. You see, in order to come into the presence of God, the priests had to wash themselves. The priests had to do ceremonial things. The priests had to fulfill this and sacrifices had to be made. He had to bring the blood of goats and of animals. To be sacrificed. And it's not the old way. We can come into the presence of God without that today. It's a new way. It's new because it's new for every believer. It never gets old. It never expires or runs out. The blood of Jesus is just as available and just as powerful today as it was the day it was shed. It's never going to get old. It has been around for a lot of years, and the truth of it has been here. But it's never going to get old. The power of it is still there. It is the new way of coming into the presence of God. We can, by the blood of Jesus Christ, the one sacrifice that was given for all, we can come Come into the presence of God. It's a living way, he says here, the new and the living way, because Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and he is living. No longer does something have to die because the one sacrifice was made for you. you and I. No longer do we have to kill the blood of goats in order to get our sins forgiven. Every obstacle has been removed removed. He says here by the new, in verse number 20, by the new and a living way which he hath consecrated for us. Jesus consecrated this way. It's a consecrated way. It's a way that Jesus went before us. Jesus walked down this path before we did or will have to. He went to the grave and he rose victorious from it. He consecrated this path, this path into the presence of God for us. Not only once you see the means, but what about the manner of the approach? The manner of the approach. I told you here, first of all, that we come boldly I told you that already. We can come, our manner should be boldly. You think, oh, I'm not going to come boldly into the presence of God. You're never worthy of yourself. But God exhorts us to come boldly into His presence because it is the sacrifice of His Son that He sees, not us as individuals It is Jesus Christ and the righteousness of God that is imputed unto us, unlike those in the Old Testament. Who never had a right to be in the presence of God, who came with fear and apprehension To the Holy of Holies, just hoping that they were worthy, having done everything that the law commanded them to do. Have you read the law? It's kind of hard to keep all that. And they had to keep the law and do everything correct in order to be worthy to go into the Holy of Holies. I think they entered with some apprehension. It's like this when you're working on some electricity, Brother Joe, you're working on the electricity, and you're not sure if the power's off. You know, you you kind of you you grab the wires like this and you're like hold the plug and you know you don't want to touch anything and you're being very carefully But when you know there's no power, like the other end is unplugged or not hooked up yet, you just grab you're bold. You just grab the wires and you put them on there and you hook it up. There's no apprehension Because you know the situation. Well, we know the situation that Jesus Christ paid the price for us And gives us access to the throne, and we can come boldly, not because of us, but because of what Jesus did for us. If we come boldly into the presence, we ought to do that which God wants us to do You know, the priests had a job to do. When they went into the presence of God, they had a job to do. They had a task they were supposed to perform. And as Christians, God has given us a job to do, a task to perform, and we have the privilege to come boldly into the presence of God, and when we do so, we ought to yield and submit to the task that God wants us to do. You say, Pastor Caleb, what is that task? We've spent some time in recent days talking about the will of God, and there's God's general will that is available to all. And then he has a specific will for you, what God wants you to do. And we talked about how you're supposed to let the peace of God reign in your heart, knowing that you're doing what God wants you to do And you can get those CDs and talk about it. What's the task God wants me to do? If you're drawing near to God, He will be revealing that to you. He will be showing you what He wants for you. He says and having verse number let's see twenty by a new and a living way which he hath consecrated for us. Through the veil that is to say his flesh, and having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart. In full assurance of faith. Come with a true heart. That is a heart that's void of offense before God and man. A heart that's not looking for its own benefit or reward, but a true heart. Have you ever talked to somebody and you felt like the only reason they were you know you're standing there waiting for the question and it doesn't come and ultimately you say, okay, what do you want? Okay, you haven't talked to me in two years. You're calling me right now. What do you want? Well, I really need to borrow your car. Or wondering if I could stay at your house for okay, now we get to why you called. Um having a true heart is coming to God Without that, just saying, Lord, here I am. It's me. Again, I want to be in your presence, Lord, a true heart. Are you willing to suffer for the Lord? Are you willing to sacrifice? Are you willing to serve? When we serve, we're drawing close to God. There's been many a times that I was serving, whether that be at the church or whether I was out even just soul winning. Maybe soul winning. I've been out knocking doors and the whole night I I felt like, you know what, nothing was accomplished. We didn't get a good response at one door, and I'm going home. But do you know what was accomplished? There was something accomplished in here. Because I'm going home knowing I've pleased the Lord tonight. And I'm served, I've served him. And I've done what he wanted me to do. And whether anybody out there responded or not is not up to me. But there was a work done in my heart, and I was drawn closer to God for my service at that time. And when we serve God, we are drawing closer to Him. One man said this. He said, I pray with all of my heart that I would grow weary of everything else but communing with him That he would grow weary of everything else in life but communing with him. You come to God with a broken heart. He says, verse number 22, let us draw near with a true heart. You know, we know from other scriptures, Psalm 34. 18, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. Sometimes God is so hungry for our presence that He has to bring a broken heart to us So that we'll draw nigh unto him. But we don't have to wait till that time. We can come with a broken and a contrite spirit Without God happening to break us, and draw nigh unto God, get into his presence. Psalms 51, 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a c Contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Let me give you, lastly, here the motivation of application. The motivation of application. Why do we put this into our life? Why do we draw nigh unto God? Well, first and foremost, the Bible says, draw nigh unto God, and he will draw nigh unto you. We do it because it puts us in the presence of God. We get to be in the presence of God. Have you ever y you know we have these sometimes companies will have them or or people will have these match gift campaigns? Like if you give $100, we've got somebody that's going to match that and they'll give $100. You're getting double the benefit. Well, you know, when you start the process of drawing nigh to God, you're promised at least a matched benefit. You draw nigh unto God. He's going to draw nigh unto you. At least match the benefit, probably more than that, but you start the process towards God, you get the benefit of God starting to come towards you. What a thrilling thing. To be in the presence of an Almighty God. You get the benefit of being in his presence. If I told you tonight That tomorrow, if you come by the church, you're going to get the privilege of shaking President Obama's hand. You're going to get to talk to him personally. Now, whether you like President Obama's uh politics or not, he's the president of the strongest nation in the world And there is something about being in the presence of somebody like that. Very few, if any of you, would miss the opportunity. You shook the president's hand You know how many homes I've been into and people have showed me that they got a letter from the president, whether whoever it was President Nixon President, whoever, from how many ever years ago, they got a letter from the president because they submitted something or they did something. I mean three or four times. This is something that happened like 30 years ago. And they're like, oh, look, I got this letter from the president one time. It was important to them. And it would be important to us to be in the presence of a president. But we get the privilege of being in the presence of an Almighty God. Any time. But we don't walk around saying, hey, you know what I did this morning? I got to get into I got to get into In the presence of God this morning. Can you believe that? I got to see Jesus this morning. I mean, I was walking with him and talking with him in the cool of the day. Isn't that amazing? Look at let me show you what I what God told me this morning. I was with him. I was with him this morning. We get to be with him whenever we want. You're as close to God right now as you want to be. What does it mean to you to have that thrill and the ability to get into the presence of God? You get the benefit of being in God's presence. You know, Jacob got in God's presence and he was given a new name. There's so much preaching I could do right here. You want a new name, you want a new attitude, you want a new spirit, get in the presence of God. And God will change it. God will change it. Get in God's presence. Draw nigh to God, and he'll draw nigh unto you. Israel got into God's presence and they were given the Ten Commandments. David got into God's presence and he was forgiven of his sin. Daniel got into God's presence and he was delivered from the lions. Three Hebrew children got into God's presence and they were walking around in the fire. The church got into God's presence and they were given power. To do the work of the Lord. Let me give you this text. We're not going to take time to look there. Psalm 73 Psalm 73. You can read the whole thing. In verse number 3, it's talking about the prosperity of the wicked. And it goes through this whole chapter and talks about how the wicked are prospering. But in verse number 28, he says, but it's good for me to draw nigh unto God. It doesn't matter what else happens out in this world, it doesn't matter who prospers or who doesn't, what's good for me, what is a benefit to me, is to draw nigh unto God. When you're close to God, you better understand His purpose and His plan for you. When you're close to God, you pray in His will and certainly are more effective in your prayer. When you're close to God, you have peace in the time of trouble. You have joy in the time of service. The Bible says in Isaiah 55, 6 and 7, Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he may be. is near. The fact of the matter is, is that God won't always be near. If a Christian goes long enough rejecting the calling of God, rejecting grieving the Holy Spirit, the Bible says he's not going to continue to contend. With you. Like Apostle Paul, he said, How long are you going to kick against the pricks? If the Apostle Paul would have continued to reject God, God wouldn't continue Continue inevitably to call, don't put off responding to the spirit of of God and drawing nigh into his presence. Let me give you this other text. You can read it in your devotion. Psalms 27 verses 1 through 6. Psalms 27 verses 1 through 6. Peace in the time of trouble, joy in the time of heartache or the time of service, very clearly seen in those references. In Acts chapter 17, verses 22 to 27, Paul was stalking in the midst of Marshill, and he said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are two supers For as I passed by and beheld your devotion, I found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God. But you and I serve a known God. Let's not treat him like the unknown God. He doesn't have to be somebody way out there that we don't know, that we don't have a relationship with, that we're not close to. We can come into his presence and know him. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Let us draw near to God. Christians, that's what we need to be doing, drawing nearer to God. It's close to the fire that you feel the heat. heat that you feel the warmth. When you get close to it, you feel warm. It's close to the Father that you hear His voice. How close to God are you tonight? As the pianist plays, you do what God wants you to do.