Sunday before Christmas, I'm glad that you have purposed and uh m made a point to be here in the Lord's house I know some are are planning to travel for Christmas. Our family will be leaving tomorrow morning. We'll be gone for the week. We'll be back before next Sunday. But uh We'll be gone for the week, spending time with family, and uh that's always a joyous time for us. And I know hopefully each of you will get together with some of your family and friends and celebrate Christ's birth. But uh We want to remember what it's about. I usually, sometime in the first week or two of December, I almost always will bring some type of a message exhorting or encouraging the church family to be very cautious, uh to be fiscally responsible. uh when we come into this season and don't don't pull out the credit card and just buy a whole bunch of stuff and uh you know uh we want you to to make wise financial choices so that when you get to january you can be glad. instead of instead of sad in in when you see that credit card bill come in and I hope that m your Christmas shopping is is all done and that you get to relax for the next couple days And uh enjoy Christmas, but also I hope and pray that you uh were very responsible in your purchases and and that you are not putting yourself in a bad financial situation. uh it's hard to believe uh that there are people still paying off last Christmas. According to a study done uh published by Marketplace, published on November 29th Nearly fifty percent of all Americans are still paying debt from last year's Christmas. That shouldn't be. That is foolish. And uh, you know, it does not don't let the modern marketing machine drive your purchase. You you be wise and uh careful, and this may be a little, you know, a little too late at this point. We're not going to be speaking on this this morning. I hope that you're done, but Just be responsible, be careful in in what you're doing and what you're buying for Christmas. One guy had uh bought his wife a diamond ring. And his friend was kind of shocked, you know, at the you know, just wow. And uh he said, that that's phenomenal. That's that's amazing. He says, but I really thought that she wanted uh one of those four wheel drive vehicles. And he's like, She did, but where am I going to find a fake four-wheel drive vehicle? I don't know, so I I wouldn't encourage you necessarily to buy fake stuff, but maybe buy something a little bit cheaper, something that you can afford, uh, so that you won't have to be sad uh come January You know, the the greatest uh need of man was met by the greatest gift ever given. And that's what Christmas is all about. For society at large, Christmas is about Santa. And what a foolish thing for churches to be bringing Santa into Christmas. I've seen some presentations, some Christmas presentations that churches have put on and I mean you would think you were at Dolly World. And Santa is up there in his sleigh and you know saying, Ho, ho, ho, Merry Christmas. And you know what, when you're walking down the street and you hear that, that's fine. But listen, the church house of all places ought to be pointing to Jesus Christ. That's our job, our responsibility. And for any Christian who loves God, Christmas is not about Santa, it's about the Savior. It's about the Savior. As a young man, I wish I could say it was motivated by some act of wisdom, but when I went to college I determined uh to major in public speaking. It was not because I thought I was going to be a preacher. Actually I did not think I was going to be a preacher. The reason was is because it was the closest thing I could do to be done. That was the I had the least amount of credits to get if I did that, and that was the least amount of work in college, and so that was my motivation. Okay So sorry to put it so far down there for you, but that's that's the tr truth of the matter is it's like what's the easiest thing I can do and be done with this? And they said, well, if you major in public speaking with the credits you already have, this will get you get you out the soonest. And I said, Amen. I'm all about that. But one principle that I learned in public speaking was when you introduce a speaker to an audience It is vital that you establish their credentials, that you let the audience know why it is they should listen to the individual speaking. You should let the audience know what his skill set is, what his background is, what is it that makes him an authority on the topic being covered And so this morning, I want to introduce you to Jesus. Turn to your Bibles to the book of John. The book of John, chapter number one What is it about this babe in a manger? Why should all of mankind pause and listen and turn their hearts Towards every word spoken by Jesus. What is his authority? What is his credentials? What is his, what is the reason that it is so vitally important for us to pay attention to this babe in a manger. Well in first in John chapter 1, verse number 14. We have the forerunner of Jesus Christ here. He's introducing Jesus to the world and introducing Jesus to us this morning. And we see him in John chapter 1, verse number 14. He says, And the word was made flesh. And dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory and the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. He introduces the world to Jesus here, but before he says, okay, here he is. This is the one that I have been called to be the forerunner on, the one who is Shoelaces, I'm not worthy to lace up the one whom I am going to be telling you about. Before he introduces him, he gives some credentials Go back to the beginning of the chapter in verse number one. We're going to see what he says about this man named Jesus. And why we should be listening to him. First of all, we see in John chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, we see in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God, and all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Beloved, his first point is that God is over us. That God created this world. He created the universe. He created you and I, and thereby he has authority over you and I. Everybody should pause and hear the words of this man named Jesus because he is God over us. He has authority over us. He created us. And he says here from the very beginning, from the foundations of the earth, from the creation of man, Jesus was there. The Word, that Word that was made flesh and came and dwelt among us, that word was all the way back in the beginning, was the Word. Jesus Christ. He was there in the beginning. He is God. He's letting us know that from the very beginning, from the foundation, that Jesus was there with God. He was the creator of all things. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, he says, For by him were all things created that are in heaven. And that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. He was there. His authority, beloved, is that he is the creator. Each of you maybe have something that you made. This is the church's pulpit, but I I made it. But you you have something that maybe you crafted and you say, oh, well, that's mine. I made it from scratch. I bought the supplies. I I constructed it. I I I I fashioned it and and I made it. Well God made you. God created the Bible says you are fearfully and wonderfully made. And made in the image of God. God formed the first man out of the dust of the ground, and thereby every man after, by the very design of God. You were fearfully and wonderfully made, uniquely made. God made you. That's why we should pause and listen to Jesus, because he is God over us He has authority. Many beloved see this baby in a manger. But John says 4,000 years before he was a baby in a manger, he was God in heaven, the creator of the universe. Some say, well, I'm not sure that Jesus was God. If you're there in John, turn to chapter 10. We're going to be back to John 1 in a second. Look at John chapter 10. Just see what Jesus says here. In John 10, look down at verse number 27. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of, what's the next two words? My hand. Now pay attention to that. He says, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand Then, verse number 29, he says, My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of My father's hint, verse number thirty, I and my father are one. I'm not going to be teaching on the Trinity this morning. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, three that are unique in you know of themselves three persons of the Godhead and then they are all God and they're all individuals. But just saying this morning that the reason that we should pause and listen to the babe in a manger is because before he was a babe he was God in heaven He was the creator of the universe. He is one with God. I want you to see, secondly, go back to John chapter 1. We're going to look verse 4 and 5. John chapter 1, verses 4 and 5, we see God for us. Not only is God over us, but God is for us. In John chapter 1, verse 4 and 5, he says, In him was life, and this life was the light of men. And the light shined in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Not only has God created us and therefore has authority over us, but beloved God cares for us This is a demonstration of his affection for you and I. He has compassion for us He came to earth. You see, beloved, there was no reason that the light of the world, Jesus Christ, who said, I am the light of the world, there is no reason that he would have to come into a dark world. And let his light shine to draw men unto himself that he might provide salvation to the world. That he had no motivation for that, except God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. Beloved, the reason he came as a babe in a manger, knowing full well that he was one day gonna die on a cross. You know sometimes. You know the old saying, people don't care how much you know until they know how much you care? Love it, one of the reasons we should listen to that baby in a manger is because no one ever cared for me like Jesus. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. Boy, his compassion, his concern, his love for me It constrains me, the Apostle Paul says. It it ought to cause us to pause and consider and think about this babe. that he his affection for you and I, his love for you and I ought to motivate us to pause and listen and say, what is it that he has for us? Can I tell you this morning that he's on your side? Romans 8. 31 tells us, what should we say then? If God be for us, who can be a God God's on your side. God loves you this morning. He wants what's best for you. It is that love that moved him to come and be born in a manger. There's no greater declaration What does the Bible say? That uh My mind just went blank. Bible says lots of stuff, amen. Come on, now my my mind just went No man than this than a man lay down his life for his friend. Thank you. Great minds think alike. Those of you that are guests, that's my wife. She wrote the message, so she knows what it's supposed to be. I mean, beloved, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. We should pause and hear the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Why? Because he is God over us. Why? Because he is God for us. He loves us. This is who he is, this babe in a manger. Not only that, we see that he's God with us We're going to jump to verse number 14 and then we're going to back up and the verses in the middle in a second. But in verse number 14, we saw that introduction already that he says, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. This is God with us. This is his affirmation. This is his promise coming to realization. This is what he said. He's going to come. And he's going to provide a means through which sinful men can be restored into a right relationship with a holy God by accepting the shed blood of Jesus Christ, who gave himself for you and I. Boy. John says he came and he dwelt among us. You know, this would be like you and I. If if if one of you decided to become an ant and had the capacity or the ability to, you became an ant and dwelt among the ants. And the ants despised and rejected you. And then ultimately killed you. And even that illustration doesn't go all the way because you didn't create the ant. But God created us. And God came and dwelt among his creation. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. This is what God did. Matthew chapter 1, verse number 23, he says, Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is God with us. God with us. That's what Jesus did. That's what the babe in the manger is. It is God with us. Boy, he created it all and he humbled himself to be a part of it. You know, Don Wilson, I don't know how many of you have had the opportunity, but he has uh in his basement he has a train garden. And he's done a phenomenal job. It's a very beautiful, very well done train garden and you know, trains go around the tracks and got all these little villages and all this small stuff. Um I mean, what if he could become part of that world? If he could leave this world and live in that little bitty train garden. You say, man, that would be crazy. Why why would you do that? This entire world and all that we have, and as good a job as he's done with that, that train garden is like a four by eight sheet of plywood. That's where he's going to live the rest of his days. Why would he do that? That's what God did for us The creator of the universe. He made he if you've ever done any study on the on the size of the universe and done any reading on the magnitude of our universe alone. And there are so many universes they can't even figure out, they don't even know how many there are. And the magnitude and the size of it all, and you think, and then and then God came and dwelt among this little speck here. To be with us. Matthew Henry said, It is by the light of nature that we see God above us. It is by the light of the law that we see God against us. But it is by the light of the gospel that we see him as Emmanuel, God with us God with us. Lastly this morning, back up to verse number 10, we're going to see verse 10 through 13. And we see God in us. He says, He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not, but as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The power to become the sons of God. The Bible tells us clearly that when a man puts his faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ, his sins are forgiven. And God comes and dwells in him. What I would like to say, beloved, is this is God's announcement to the world. You see, Jesus came in the garden as the light of the world, and the angels sang and the stars shone. But now it's our job to let that light shine. To let Jesus' light shine through us. He has saved us. He's forgiven us of our sin. And it's our responsibility to let the light of God shine through us, announcing This baby Jesus and what Christmas is all about to all those that we have opportunity to speak to. Much of the world has completely forgotten the reason for the season, but as a believer, as a Christian, it is our job to carry the torch to lift high the cross of Jesus Christ and to point people to him that his light would continue to shine and it shines through you and I Because God, Jesus, is in us. That's how you have the power to live beyond your own capability. to do things that you wouldn't do and to stop doing things that you want to do. Paul Paul said that struggle is in every one of us. But when we're living in the Spirit and have the power of God in our life, you can be a victorious Christian Because God is in you. And when you do so, you're proclaiming victory to the world. And they see Jesus in you. I wonder this Christmas. Do they see Jesus or do they see you? Through this season, has man seen more of Caleb Patrell, or have they seen more of Jesus That's a pretty high calling for all of us. That men might see Jesus Christ through us because Jesus now lives in us John the Baptist said, I'm not that light, but I came to bear witness of the light. And you and I, that's our job, is to let the light shine through us to announce his birth, to announce What God has done for us to a lost and dying world that they might know the power to become the sons of God. As most of the world has completely forgotten about a baby lion and a manger. I I know some of you that are older, you remember I remember a time When almost every courthouse in the country had a manger scene setting on the on the front of the courthouse scene. It's been a lot of years since we've seen that. The world's forgotten about it. Boy, how much more we need to be pointing people to the reason. Pointing people to Jesus. Remembering. As we've exchanged these gifts this morning, it's quite amazing. To think about. Just this morning, somebody handed me this. The greatest gift and what it cost. He left the splendors of heaven to be born in a stable. He set aside his royal robe to be closed with grave clothes. Instead of hearing angels sing, holy, holy, holy, like They do in the halls of heaven, he would hear man cry, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. He set aside his royal crown to wear a crown of thorns. He gave his life That you and I might have life. Why should we listen to the words of this babe in a manger? Because he's God over us. Because his God is for us. He loves you this morning. Because he came as God with us. And if you have had the privilege of humbly bowing your head and confessing the fact that you're a sinner and have no means or capacity to pay for that your sin yourself, but you believe that Jesus came for you. And you believe his payment on an old rugged cross is sufficient to pay for your sin, you confess that God says at that moment your sins are forgiven. And you have God in us. That's why we should hear. Let me introduce you to Jesus. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?