But uh the Christmas offering officially started last week. I'm not sure if uh we had the Christmas offering envelopes out or not, but of course This year the Christmas offering is going to be going to uh help cover the cost of the lawyers, our current bill. I know a bill is not as exciting as um you know something new, a new lawnmower or putting a new deck somewhere or whatever. Some always going forward's a lot more exciting than taking care of something that needs done. But where we are where we are as a church, this is a a Real real need and would be financially beneficial to the church and help add some stability in the coming months if we can make a dent in this. And Lord willing, we'll be able to to recoup and recover this uh as we move forward. But uh I wanted to mention we're not going to, as we have the last couple years, had the privilege of sending a Christmas gift to our missionary We're not going to be doing that this year. Now, if there's any of you that want to give towards missions directly or send some type of gift to a particular missionary or to missions in general, you certainly can. You can put that in and it'll get sent uh however it was directed to a particular missionary or to missions in general. We'll we'll certainly make sure that happens. Um but the reason we're kind of postponing uh there's not money in the missions budget overall and we're kind of postponing because our theme for missions conference this coming year is going to be a hold the ropes conference And our goal is to try and do something special for all of our missionaries during that conference. Exactly what we'll be able to do, I'm not sure. We'll have to look at that, find out what as a church family family we were want to try and accomplish. But we're going to have our own missionaries in. We're not going to have any new missionaries come. We're going to have our own missionaries back. Several have been in contact with me. We're going to Skype with some missionaries each night. We're going to watch presentations from our current missionaries that we support and just try and get a renewed vision for the missionaries that we already have. that we are already supporting, that we're already hopefully holding the ropes for. We're back here holding the ropes for them, and that's going to be the theme for the conference. And in light of that, it It's just a couple of months away, you know, in March that we're going to be doing that. And so that's why we kind of made that change here at the Christmas time. Um but again, if you want to put something in towards missions at this this time, we'll definitely make sure that it gets there. But we're not going to do it as a church or from the mission's budget. So turn your Bibles to the book of Hebrews as we are looking at the These thoughts through the book of Hebrews and in the Bible on let us let us do this or that, whatever uh we are commended to in different places in the Bible. You know how you read something and you think, wow, I found something new. I found this amazing thought. And in my personal study and devotions time, I kind of kind of came across this idea of let us and I just I just got excited about it and I thought man this is really neat and so I started telling Pastor Derek about my met idea for a series of messages And he said, Oh yeah. He's like when I was a teenager I heard a pastor preach on God's lettuce patch. And uh it's God's lettuce patch. And he he preached a whole message on the the lettuce through the book of Hebrews. in my study I've certainly come across many other people who have uh uh presented or preached there's nothing new under the sun, you know that it doesn't matter. You think you came up with the you know this is just it and uh Oh well, somebody's already preached it, somebody's already seen it, God's dealt with somebody with regards to this. But I've certainly enjoyed it. It's been a good study for me. In Hebrews chapter four, verse number one, we find another let us, he says in Hebrews four, verse number one, let us therefore fear. Let us therefore fear. And I'm going to read the remainder of this verse. He says, Let us therefore fear, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest any of you should seem to come short of it. Let us fear. This text opens with giving us a admonition to fear. To fear. This goes uh a little bit against what we might normally think. I mean with verses that we are already familiar with, verses that we already know, we know that for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And we know that we are he said, be careful for nothing. That is to don't be so worrisome, don't be so concerned about things. And we know that God has given us in Romans 8. 15, for ye have not received the spirit of bondage again. to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry of a father. Just like we as a church family just a few minutes ago sat down and And uh cried out to God for the needs and concerns. He's saying you don't have to fear, you can call on God at any time. And what a thrill it is to gather as a church family and to to pray for the needs. You know, you've got a burden yourself and it means a whole lot to you and you're you're praying for that, but it's such a thrill to be able to share it with the church family and know that the rest of the church family is lifting that up as well in prayer and and praying praying for you in with regards to that concern in your life. And that's a benefit we have of a church family. But we don't have to fear because we can call out to God. Yet he says here, let us therefore Now, putting this in context, uh you understand that this book of Hebrews was written to what group of people? Who was he uh writing this to? We've talked about this last week or the week before, but what group of people? The Jewish people who had trusted Jesus Christ. They had come out of Judaism and had taken a stand for Christ and were at times considering maybe going back to that um and you see a continual contrast between Jesus and what those of the Judaism believed to be very important. And look back in chapter 3 The entire context of this thought, in verse number one we say of of chapter four, he says, Let us therefore fear lest the promise be left us entering into his rest. So in verse number one, he says, wherefore holy brethren. So we know he's talking about People that have trusted Jesus Christ, he's talking to the brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our profession, Jesus. Jesus Christ. So he says, think about Christ, who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house. For this man was continued worthy of more glory than Moses. Inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honor than the house. And he goes on through the through the remainder of chapter three there and talks about how Moses, how Christ is better than Moses. And listen, don't you don't want to go back to Judaism. Christ is better than Moses. He gave a a a stronger ministry than Moses. He accomplished more than Moses could ever accomplish. And yes, Moses was faithful. And Moses did what he should have done. When he was doing the responsibility that God had given him. But Christ is the one that gave him that responsibility. He is the creator of the house. He is the Lord of the house. And Moses, it says here was a servant in the house. House in a couple of verses from where we stopped reading there. So he's giving them that that contrast. Moses is better than Christ in what he did and how he did it. And he's much better in the rest that we get from him. If you read this, you can read through that in the context of it and see that he's saying, listen, you didn't have rest in Judaism. You didn't have rest back under the law But Jesus Christ will give you rest. Now let's read some of chapter 4 to see the other side. Again, this is all sandwiched together here. Verse chapter 3, verse 1 through chapter 4, verse number 4. 10 is all the context of this thought. So verse number 2 he says, For unto us was the gospel preached. Praise God, the gospel was preached unto us. As well as unto them. But the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. For we which have believed did enter into rest. As he said, as I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. What he's saying here, the works were finished from the foundation of the world. The work that Jesus Christ was going to do on the cross was already planned. It was already finished. God knew what was going to happen. All the people in the Old Testament looked forward. to the cross, one day when Jesus Christ would come and be the one sacrifice for all. And everybody since the cross, when Jesus Christ died on the cross, has looked back to the cross. That work is finished. And he's saying there that you've put your faith and trust in that. That's you you've got this rest. I have sworn unto my wrath, if thou shalt enter into my rest, that rest that God gives, it's done. You don't work for it. You can't earn it. You can't in some measure be good enough to get to heaven. The work has been done already by Jesus Christ. We rest in Jesus. Now we serve God and we're going to talk about that. We accomplish things for God. But not to get to heaven. That work is already done. Jesus did that work. And he says in verse number four, For he spake in a certain place on the seventh day on this wise, and God did rest. So when did God rest on the seventh day? When did God rest on the seventh day? After creation. Right. So he's talking all the way back in creation how God gave us a day of rest. God by example started the day of rest. Now we aren't under uh sabbatical law and we don't observe the Sabbath today as as a people But he's talking about the day of creation when God rested after he created this. And God did rest the seventh day from all his works. And in this place again if they shall enter into my rest, seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and them and they to whom it was first preached, entered not in because of what? Because of unbelief. So he's talking about this rest that was afforded to them. It was preached to them. It was given to them. And he says here in verse number six that they to whom it was first preached entered not. Because of unbelief. They didn't receive that rest. They didn't get that rest that God was offering them because of unbelief Again, verse number seven, again he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, Today, after so long a time as it is said, Today if ye will hear his voice, Harden not your heart. So again, several times in this verse he's saying, today is the day. Today is the day. If you'll hear it Harden not your heart. Don't put it off. Don't wait for another day. Now is the day of salvation. Don't harden your heart. Hear the message that's preached in the gospel today. For if Jesus hath given them rest, they would have not afterward have spoken of another day. Now he's talking here about Joshua and when they went into the Canaan land. There's a continual contrast here between him and and the people of God that were there on the brink of Canaan and going into the Canaan land. And when they went into the Canaan land, uh some thought they were gonna have rest. You know, we have the uh example and and sometimes songs that we sing talk about crossing over the Jordan as the end of life's door, the end of life's life, and we're gonna cross over the Jordan into Canaan land. and the picture of Canaan land as heaven. But you know by biblical example, that's not a very good picture of heaven, because Canaan land was a place of war, a place of battle. Uh they had they even lost some battles in Canaan. Now it was their promised land, but in biblical interpretation, Canaan is the peace and the rest and the prosperity that is promised to God's people. here on earth. And when I mean prosperity, I'm talking about spiritual prosperity and fulfilling and doing what God wants. I'm not talking about physical prosperity as some would preach Uh 'cause I'm still looking for that, amen. I don't know where that's we don't know where that's at. Uh but I don't see it in the Bible and God hasn't given it to me by example. But so I wanted you to have this context. So let's read verse number nine here and uh Then remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God, for he hath entered into his rest. He also has ceased from his own works, as God did from his. So a conclusion of this thought from verse chapter 3 Through chapter 4. But he says in that our challenge tonight is let us therefore fear. Now he's dealing with a very particular kind of fear here. Fear can be healthy. Fear can be healthy. There was a man, Mr. Del Wu, who was out fishing one day and he was attacked by a 400-pound bear. This bear attacked him and uh bit a chunk out of his arm, bit a chunk out of his skull, and uh this man, of course, you know, you read the magazines, and the magazines tell you that you're supposed to play dead, right? For a bear? Well he had read the wrong magazine. He he had read that his grand his grandmother had given him a magazine article that said something about how bears have really bad gag reflexes. And so this young man, when the bear came back at him again, he took his right arm, the one that wasn't bitten yet, and shoved it down the bear's throat. And it worked. The bear the bear gagged and didn't like that at all. And he he pushed the guy away and took off. So he was saved from that. Kind of uh crazy. Well there's uh another uh bear attack. I mean, you know uh uh what we're talking about here is that fair can be uh fear can be healthy and uh save you from from harm and And sometimes, you know, fearing a wild animal. Uh well, there's a man that wasn't very afraid of wild animals. His name was Gene Moe, and he was out in uh uh Kodiak, where's that at? Alaska. He's in Kodiak, Alaska, and he was out hunting. And a 750-pound bear came to him. He punched the bear in the nose and knocked the bear out cold. He pulled out his gun, his pistol, and shot him twice in the chest. That's how they knew it was seven hundred and fifty pound billets, but they came and got it. What's amazing is that this was a 68-year-old man collecting Social Security. Don't mess with him. But fear can be healthy. I mean it can keep you from harming yourself or from from a a child, you know, being afraid of fire or being afraid of falling or or so on. It can be healthy. The right kind of fear can be healthy. This last week I wanted to get some work done in my car and I called Brother Glover and said, Hey, I need to change the timing belt on my car. Would you mind Mind helping me. See, I've never done that before, but I had heard that he did one one. And I said, Would you mind helping me? And he's like, I don't know, you know. And I said, Well, let's do it. And so we we jumped into it, took it all apart, put the new timing belt on, and just uh the other night, uh not last Like the night before, um he's he's we're ready to start it up. And he's like, You want to pray? And I'm thinking I'm thinking, well, whatever we did is already done. I don't know if God I don't know if God's gonna undo our mess. Um Uh you know, I don't know. But we'll see. So we I we cranked it over and it started right up. And I said, now we can pray. Thank you, Jesus But I tell you what, we we took that on with fear and trembling. But do you know what that fear kept us from making a mistake? It was systematic. Okay, this book came off of right here. Move the part, put it back on. Okay, this book came off here. Systematic, every single piece. I mean we're gonna that fear what kept us from messing it up. Because we watched the YouTube videos and learned how to do this. And the YouTube videos, they said, now don't do this unless you know what you're doing, because you will be buying a new motor And so that puts some fear in us. But we got it done, praise God. That fear can be healthy, and that's what he's talking about here. A type of fear that would protect you He says, fear, we're supposed to fear things that will harm us. He's dealing with this fear. It's a caution, a vigilance. You know, all of those people that came out of Israel, out of all of the thousands and thousands, over six hundred thousand people that they believed came out of Israel. Egypt to go into the Canaan land. Only two of them went into the Canaan land. There's only two that made it. He's saying, have some fear, lest the promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. You see, six hundred thousand plus people had the promise of going into the Canaan land, but they came up short of it. Only two people made it. So he's saying fear coming up short of the promise that has been given unto you, have that kind of fear. Not like many Christians who today are content to live short of the promises of God. Content to live this side of what God wants to do in and through them, but live with a healthy dread, a healthy fear of not being all that God wants us to be. a fear of falling short of what God would want us to accomplish. I'm going to give you quickly three things that we are to fear. First, we're to fear missing the rest in His righteousness. missing the rest in his righteousness. All through this passage we see him talking about rest, having rest, having rest. And you can rest in his righteousness. In 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he says, For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We're ultimately talking about in this passage the rest that he's talking about. It starts with the rest of salvation. As I said, the work of salvation was done in Jesus Christ We don't have to work for salvation. You might in some measure think, I mean, how many of you have ever known somebody that uh came to church and was busy and active for a considerable amount of time and then all of a sudden disappeared? No longer going to church, no longer reading their Bible, no no longer any uh uh example of what somebody who's saved and knows Jesus Christ should be. And you begin to wonder. Now we can't know, and it's not for us to judge, it's God, but we begin to wonder, are they or were they ever saved? Because many people feel that the works that they are doing is somehow adding to their salvation. If they are somehow engaging and earning maybe a better spot or a better place, but the work of salvation is done. We can rest completely in that. The thief on the cross never did one work. Yet he was in heaven with Jesus that day We can rest in that, the rest in the salvation that comes from Jesus Christ, not from us, his righteousness. What would it be to lose your business? What would it be? How devastating would it be to lose your health or to lose your friend? Those would be drastic and terrible things. But compare that to losing your soul. What should I profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What he's saying here is fear coming up short. And we understand tonight that if any one of us were to try and get to heaven on our own, we would come up short. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. None of us could possibly be good enough to not come up short in the latter end in that day. But we can rest in the righteousness of Jesus Christ completely and fully, trusting in him and what he has done on the cross for us. For unto us was the gospel preached. In verse number two here he says, For unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them. But the word preached did not profit them Why didn't it profit them? Because it was not mixed with faith. It was not mixed with faith. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And we know that without faith it is impossible to be. Possible to please him. We've got to have faith, saving faith to believe and trust in Jesus Christ. Don't miss the work of salvation done by Jesus Christ. Don't miss that. Don't just come short of that. Have a fear of that, he said. Let us fear coming short of that. Now once you're saved, you've got that settled, and you don't have to fear anymore And I'm just taking uh for granted here we're we're dealing with a ther Thursday night crowd and uh you know by most everybody's testimony they have that settled. But listen, when you're at the place where Gene is right now When you're laying in a bed, just days or maybe hours away from waking up in heaven or hell You're gonna want to know for sure where you're resting. You're gonna want to have it settled You don't want to have any doubt. You don't want to wonder. You want to have it settled. Don't miss. Don't come up short. If you haven't had that settled, you ought to fear that tonight. Fear coming up short. Then we ought to fear missing the rest in His rule. Missing the rest in His rule. This is the first one was dealing with salvation, this is dealing with submission, A man that is ruled by this world or by the passions of this world, you know, today men are ruled by their own passions, by their own lust. They live their lives by their own desires and by their own wants. And they are literally slaves to that. Why do we have so many self-help programs out there? So many self-help books? Because all these people are slaves to their desires and they can't conquer themselves. They can't control themselves. They can't tell themselves no. So they eat themselves into obesity and then they sue McDonald's for selling Big Macs. Because they can't say no. Man is living by his lust and is just consumed by that And he's a slave to it. You take somebody who's a drinker or less smoker or addicted to this or to that, and what are they doing the whole time Man, I've been trying to quit this for years. I just hate this stuff. I don't like smelling like a smokestack all the time. This is ridiculous. It's gonna kill me. I know. This is so dumb. But I just can't quit, you know And they keep going. They're slaves to it. We can have rest from that by submitting to God. And letting Him rule in our lives. Those that live their life outside of God are a slave to themselves, to their own desires We can have rest from that by Jesus Christ. In Joshua 1. 13, he says, remember the world which Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you you saying, The Lord your God hath given you rest and hath given you this land. That rest. There is rest and peace in just yielding to God. The children of Israel could have had rest if they would have just yielded to God. He said, Hey, you remember, Joshua? You remember the word of the Lord? He said, I give you this land. All you had to do was go take it. But they didn't get to. They had to wander 40 years in a wilderness. Why? Because of unbelief. Because they did not have faith. In Deuteronomy chapter 3, verse number 20, he says, until the Lord have given you rest unto your brethren. as well as unto you, and until they also possess the land which the Lord your God hath given them beyond Jordan, and they shall return every man unto his possession, which I have given you What I'm saying is God has something he wants for us to do. And when we yield to him When we allow him to rule in our lives and we are submitted to him, we find that rest. It is in that that area that we get the greatest amount of peace and fulfillment and satisfaction in this life. When we rest in the ruling hand of God, letting Him lead us, letting Him direct us, instead of us wanting to direct ourselves, it was disobedience. That caused the rest of them to miss the Canaan land because they disobeyed what God said to do. They were left to wander and they came short Of getting into Canaan. Ephesians 1, verse number 3 says, Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessing in heavenly places. Christ. God wants to give us rest, and He's blessed us with that. But it takes following through. It takes faith. Yes, they didn't please him here because of faith, but it also takes following through. It takes following through and accomplishing what it is God wanted them to do. They had to accomplish that, right? They had to go into the promised land. They had to follow through. They had to cross the Jordan by faith, but they had to follow through with God's plan. And God's not going to do it for us. We yield to him and follow through. Let me give you the last one. Fear of missing the rest in his reward. The rest in his reward. This is what I'm applying to service. But God rewards those that serve Him. Ultimately, there's going to be a rest when we see the benefit, the blessing. That God gives those that serve Him. We can rest in that. Ultimately, the greatest reward is going to come, and I'm kind of skipping ahead here, but look in uh verse. Let me see here. Verse number nine. Verse number nine. He says, There remaineth therefore a rest. to the people of God. He had been talking about rest over and over and over again, all the way up through from verse number one to verse number eight. But then he says, There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. What rest is that that remaineth? Now look at verse number 10. The rest that remaineth is described in verse number 10. For he that is entered into his rest, he is also ceased from his own works, as God did from him. So when God on the seventh day had accomplished all that he wanted to with regards to creation, God never again started creating things. God created things in seven days. When he finished his work of creation, he rested. When we ultimately finish our work here on earth, that is the rest that remains for us. us. When our job here on earth is all done, Gene is but a few days or maybe a few hours from finishing his work. And he's going to enter into that final rest, the greatest reward that any could ever get. Being an eternity in heaven. When a thousand years have passed, we'll still have just begun. An eternity in heaven. Some people have said, Well, you know, a thousand years in heaven I I I think I might get bored. Well I don't think so, but the alternative is a thousand years in hell. I just can't fathom that. So we are given that reward if we and the Bible says here, he says, fear. Let us therefore fear that we would come up short. of that rest. That's every every head bowed and every eye closed. When life's battle is over, when all of our struggles are done Will you be resting in the righteousness that was done for you in Jesus Christ? Resting in the reward that He's going to give of heaven? And while we're here on earth, are you yielding to him? Stand to your feet with me. If you would, and as the pianist plays, I want to open the altars. If you want to speak to the Lord tonight