Joanna came in on Tuesday, so her first official service here with us and we appreciate them coming. Only been here a few days, but she's starting to be able to read me a little bit because I walk up and I said, Now you girls are ready for your testimony tonight. Right? And they didn't miss a beat. They're like, Yup, we're ready. So they mustn't know when I was kidding because uh they didn't miss a beat. They said, Oh yeah, we're ready Uh but uh no no testimony testimony tonight, but we'll see uh down the road what we might might testimony we might have. I want to let you all know, of course, we've announced it already and uh this This is the very last weekend for uh Miss Amy. She's leaving us and going to Africa. And so, you know, you d Gus is joking about trying to keep her here while Jo went and talked to her uh brother-in-law and tried to trade Miss Amy for two of us. For two of the pastors. He's like, if you let Miss Amy stay here, we'll send you Pastor Caleb and Pastor Derek, you know Well, he didn't want to go for that, I guess. So uh Miss Amy's still going and we're stuck here. Um but uh anyway she'll be leaving next week and so you know Well we've already taken up an offering and you guys have been very generous. Um but I just wanted to hopefully we'll have clear weather. I would I think it'd be good for us to have a watermelon fellowship after church Sunday night Just a time to say goodbye to her and fellowship a little bit. Right now it's a twenty percent chance of uh rain, so if that'll hold off, I mean we could do it in the fellowship hall, but it's much nicer with watermelon to do it out outside. Uh but either way we'll have a little fellowship here of some kind Sunday night after church, so you know how to plan with regards to that. Uh just letting you know. All right. Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Hebrews, chapter number twelve. You read that this morning if you're reading in the Bible program with us through the book and are studying Hebrews chapter number 12. Verse number one. Now, last week we were here, we were in this passage of scripture, and um we looked at one particular phrase, and that That was a challenge and a and a great study for me. But Hebrews chapter number twelve, verse number one says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight. That's what we looked at last week that let us there. Let us lay aside every weight. Well, in this same verse he says, and the sin which does so easily beset us And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. So tonight the title of the message is Let Us Run. Let us run. We've been taking time to look at the different let us that are found in the book of Hebrews, and I've found some others throughout the Bible that will be challenging if we get to those in Matthew. in Hosea and Isaiah and a few other passages of scripture throughout the Bible where there's some lettuce Thessalonians. that are found that we might look at. But tonight we're going to look at this let us run. Now in the Christian life, we're described as many things. We are likened unto several different things. We're likened unto a farmer. Talked about being Being a sower in the field and going out and sowing and and reaping and bringing in the harvest and those things. And so we're likened unto a farmer. We also are likened unto a builder, building on the foundation which which is laid by Jesus Christ. So we've been likened unto a farmer. We're also thought of or likened unto a soldier in many places. and in the battle and in the warfare that is this Christian life and putting on the whole armor of God and and that that likeness is given to the Christian in many places. But oftentimes you also find the likeness of an athlete You'll find the likeness of an athlete, a Christian described at or considered to be an athlete. Now, some of you might not feel that athletic tonight I know I don't feel that athletic after our Memorial Day events. Uh you know, I'm still feeling the pain from from those events that we we did there on Memorial Day. Certainly don't feel very athletic. But the Bible describes us as an athlete. And here the Bible says, let us run. Let us run. Many times in the Bible as an athlete you'll you'll You know, the Apostle Paul talks about us wrestling. He talks about us fighting. But here he tells us to run. This admonition for Christians is to run the race. Just a thought, and I won't spend much time here. I believe we're dealing with tonight a group of people that know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. But if you're going to run in a race, there's a starting point. There's a there's a starting line. There's a if you're gonna get in the race, you gotta start somewhere. Well for the Christian life, that starts at salvation And if you're going to be running in this race that God has for you to run as a Christian, you've got to get into the race, and that starts with salvation. But let me give you a few points tonight about the idea here behind let us run. First of all, I want you to see your run. Your run. I want you to understand that it's a run, that it's a race. God has put us here as Christians. and we have a race to run. It's not a leisurely stroll through the park. This Christian life is there's supposed to be something important that we are endeavoring to accomplish There's supposed to be something that motivates us beyond just casual Christianity and on to something important. The love of Christ constrains us, motivates us, moves us to be engaged in a run, to be running for the prize, to be pressing for the mark. Are you running tonight? Are you running in your Christian life? Are you letting your Christian life just come to you as a casual stroll through the park? There's a big difference in how you attack the Christian life if you do it as a runner. Or you do it just casually, passively, just getting through. This is not a casual stroll. It's a run. There's something important, something that must motivate us To go on Memorial Day, we were playing softball. And I was up to bat. I took the bat and I had in my mind's eye the Wheeze way out there, which is a sure home run. But the ball came to me very poorly pitched. And I swung and I hit a grounder that went right between first uh second base and first base. Where Pastor Gus was supposed to be. He's supposed to be on first base. He was not on first base. He was off the base, which put him in position to be able to catch my ball, to stop it. But that didn't bother me at all. Because now there's nobody on first base for him to throw the ball to. He has to get all the way back to first base to get me out. So all I have to do is get the first face before him. Right there in that moment, the world stops spinning. All of a sudden the cameras switched to his face. And you saw this look of determination and the realization that it was impossible. And then it switched to my face and you saw this determination and the realization that it could be done. And then in the background chariots of fire started playing. And in slow motion you saw taking off, running with all that I had. And Pastor Dus. From halfway between second base and first base, doing the same thing, running for all that he had towards first base. Now I could take time tonight and explain the science behind why Pastor Gus got there before me. But we don't have time to go into that. The moral of the story is we were motivated. There was something very important on the on the at stake here. There was something worth running for. There was something that was pushing me to try and get there before him, and he felt there's no way he's getting there before me. When we finished running I l I was I was waddling back to home base and Pastor uh uh Brother Glover looks over at me and he says, that was a battle. That we were motivated. Is there anything in your life, in your Christian life, that is so important that raises the stakes so high for you? That would motivate you to run in your race. To get beyond just casual walk for Christ. There are some things that are important in this Christian life. There's things that are at stake in this Christian life that should motivate us to run, to do more. We must be able to take all of life's interest. All of life's distractions, all of the things which we have in our life, and bring them to a point of focus which would be one driving purpose in our life. I think the Bible calls it seek ye first the Kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. When that driving force is our focus, we are motivated to run. Let me just throw this out. You can't run on empty. You can't run on empty. You know those runners, they carb up before they go in a race. They carb up. You think, oh, you know, you better not eat anything. 'Cause you're going to get sick. They carve up. They eat tons of carbs and they they they almost stuff themselves. You get all those carbs in there and heat the eat these high carb, high concentrated things. You can't run on empty. There's too many Christians trying to run on empty. And it's gonna cost you the race. It's going to cost you your race. And be not drunk with wine where it's in excess, but be filled with the Spirit. If we're going to be running in this Christian life as God wants us to run, we've got to be filled. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Acts chapter 2. You can't run on empty. So first of all, I want you to see that it's a run. Now I want you to see your race. Your race. You have a race to run. It is set before you just as sure as the markers set out the core the cross-country chorus that the cross-country runners run. You have a race to run. Have you seen around here when they have the bike races? They'll go and they'll spray paint on the road. Turn here, turn here, green going this way, you know, blue going that way. This is you gotta turn they mark it out They mark out where they're supposed to turn, exactly where they're supposed to go, in order to complete fairly or correctly the race that they are enlisted in. Well, you have a race that you've been enlisted in And God has just as clearly marked your way. It is your race that you have to run. Nobody else's. Second Timothy chapter 4, verse number 7 says, I fought a good fight, I have finished. What's the next word? Does anybody know? My You see, he had a race to run, and he ran his race. I finished my course. I finished what God set out for me. I don't have to run Paul's course. But I've got a course God has for me to run. And God has a chorus for you to run. Acts chapter 20, verse number 24. But none of these things move me, neither account I my life dear unto myself, that I might finish my chorus. With joy. Let me just throw it out there. Your run ought to be with joy There's too many Christians living their Christian life and going through the actions and they're saying, well, I'm running for God. And it's just this is a hard Christian life and woe is me, but I'm doing it for Jesus, okay, and I'm gonna make it. If I could just bury in there and there's too many Christians living down the bottom. It ought to be with joy. That we get to serve God. We've got a victorious Christian life if all he ever did was save our soul from an eternity in hell. We've got more than we deserve, and God has blessed us beyond measure, and it's it's it's just Unthinkable how much everyone in this room has been blessed. And we certainly face challenges, and I just recently dealt with that and talked to you about personally a discouragement in my life But we shouldn't be living there as Christians. We ought to just be able to spend a little time with our Savior, a little time with our Lord, and say, Oh, I've got a race to run, and God's been so good to me, and I'm so Excited that I get to do this, and I'm so pleased and thrilled that God chose me worthy to do this. And run your race with joy that God has for you. Doing what God wants you to do. You know, God didn't call you to go to the mission field for six months. That's Amy's race God hasn't called you to Pastor Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That's my race God hasn't called you to be an electrician. That's Joe's race. Too many Christians don't heed the scriptures that say don't compare yourselves among yourselves. You know, we look at one person or another and we look at what they're doing, or you know, let's say we get up and we say, Oh, uh I I read 22 chapters of the Bible today. I just feel that's what God wants me to do. But God hasn't called you to full-time Christian ministry. God hasn't called you to reading that many chapters in a day But God has some chapters He wants you to read. He's got some race for you to run, and you don't have to worry about anybody else's race or what God has called them to do. You're not accountable for that. But you've got a race. Your race that God wants you to run. And I praise God that we don't have to run anybody else's race. I praise God that I'm not called to do the things that many others have been called to do. I could never go to Estonia. I could never go to the Baffin Islands. I prayed, Lord, call me to the south, just because I wanted it warm. I wanted to be somewhere somewhere south of the Mason Dixon line. And Lord Lord answer my prayer Just barely, but we made it. God maybe hasn't called you to teach a class. You say I could never teach a class like them. That's okay. Don't feel like you have to. You just say, God, what's my race? It's your race. And you do what God wants you to do. Being led by Him. God hasn't called you to give a thousand dollars a week like Brad after he gets his new job. You say, I oh I can't do that. That's okay. God hasn't called you to do that. But He's called you to do something. You just have to do what you know God's called you to do. Sometimes I try I looked as a young man at other people and uh I there's nothing wrong with setting up uh a uh somebody to aspire to be like or to But especially as a young man, as I would see preachers or I would see people come up and give their testimony, and I would think in my mind, man, I want to have a testimony like that. But that's not my race. I couldn't have a testimony like that. I would probably crumble under the things that that person went through. That's not my race to run I need to be satisfied and fulfilled and victorious in the race that God wants me to run. And not worry about what somebody else is running. Because we're not supposed to compare ourselves among ourselves. You understand that in the Christian life, it's not Pastor Derek against me. It's not Brother Taylor against me, or Brother Wayne against me, or Brother Bob against me. I'll race Brother Bob. He's the only one in here out there. Not in a car, but uh on foot. In the Christian life, you know who you're racing against? You. You're racing against you. Because God has a race for you to run. He's got a place for you to go. He's got a pattern laid out and what he wants you to accomplish. And you've got to get to the end of your race, and you're racing against you. You, not anybody else. Your race is between you and God. It's your race. Are you running in it? You can't send a ghost runner in for ya. Pastor Derek hurt himself in the softball game. We sent in Timothy to run for him. Timothy ran for him and In the Christian life you can't do that. Even though there's some parents that try. There's some parents that choose to start to sit by the sidelines. They think, oh, my time's done. I'm just going to sit over here and take it easy and I'll send my kids to church. I'll send my kids to the activities, or I'll send my kids to participate, or I'll let my kids do that. But I'm not going to run anymore. We can't have any ghost runners. We've got a race to run individuals, and it doesn't change whether you're young or old or a man or a woman or whatever. God has a race for you to run And praise the Lord, we get to run it with joy. Now let me give you your resolution. He says here, wherefore, seeing also we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight in the sin which just so easily beset us and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. That word patience there means endurance. Your resistance to quitting. Your resistance to giving in, to giving up We all face times of hardship and of challenge, things of days that are that are stressful, days that we just feel like we we don't want to go on or we can't go on. But failure is not fatal. If you stumble you can get up. You can get back in the race. If you get discouraged or you get down, you can keep going if you just don't quit. If you just don't stop If you just say, I know I don't feel like it, but I know it's right, this is what I gotta do. And you do it, if you stay in the race, that's the only way you'll ever reach the finish line. What is your resolution to your your heart resolution to keep on going? What's it going to take to get you to stop running? You face a hard day. You face some criticism. Something doesn't go our way. We say, oh, I I'm done. We may not feel like it, but that's not an excuse. You know what an embarrassment it is for the cause of Christ and for the gospel, all of the Christians. Who once sat where you were sitting. And I don't mean right here in this church. I'm saying in churches like ours around the country, who once believed the book, who once uh followed after God, who once were in the race. And they're not anymore. What a shame that is. What an indictment on The cause of Christ and a reproach that is brought because of those who have quit. We must endure. We must keep on going because of the great cloud of witnesses that are mentioned there Not just the great cloud of witnesses that are up in heaven that are looking at us, but I think about the great cloud of witnesses that are around us, that see us running. You know, I I want to keep running because I don't want to disappoint Brother Wayne Morrow I want to keep running. I don't want to fall by the wayside and fall out of this race because I want Mr. Brad to have somebody to look to and say if he can keep going, I can keep going. I want to endure and keep on going through the hard days because I want to be here when the time comes when I'm ready to hand off the baton to Alicia. And Andrew, Timothy, and Caleb and Melissa. My father's son. I want to keep going. Because just like I got the baton from them, I want to be in the race still so that I can handle It off to them. And they've got somebody to look to and say, he's still going, I can still go. I want to keep going, I don't want to disappoint Bob Gamble. I don't want to create that kind of heartache and that burden in his life. The love and concern the church family has for me motivates me. Says you can't get give up. You can't quit. You can't stop. You've got to keep going. But there's people that watch you. And they look to you and they think, man, if Brother Bob Gamble can be here on a Thursday night, I can be there. If Brother Glover can drive all the way from North Carolina I'm guessing you came from North Carolina today. He if he can drive all the way from there and make it to church on Thursday night, then I can surely drive from home and make it there. You don't know what your Christian testimony and the race that you're running, how it might encourage the brethren in the church. And sometimes We we aren't good enough in letting people know the encouragement they are. And we're not we aren't sharing enough what God's doing in our hearts through our brothers and sisters in Christ. Maybe if some people knew how that they impacted you, it might encourage them to keep going when they don't feel like it. Lastly, I want to give you the reward, your reward. There is a reward if you run. This is an amazing thing about our Christian life. We get saved, and if we never got anything else, we got more than we deserve, and we get a comforter that And a friend that sticks closer than a brother, and we get a guide and a and a and a lamp through our feet and a guide through our life. We get if we're walking in God's will, we get the fulfillment and the satisfaction of knowing we're doing what God wants and knowing there's nothing else in this world that would make us any happier. We don't have to look any other place. We get all of that. And at the end, we get heaven. And to top it all off, we get our cake and we get to eat it too. We g we get rewarded. There's five crowns that the Bible talks about. But we're all going to be rewarded for the things done in our The things that you do for God, those things are going to last. You're going to be rewarded for the race that you run. Are you running for God? Or have you gotten little comfortable in the in the in the soft face. I hope as a church we're in a race and we're running for Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Lord, we thank you for tonight. We thank you, God, for your word and just this amazing verse that so motivates and so challenges us. Lord, there's many, many stories we could have told about those that endured in long races and those that held through to the end. But a story should not do more for us than just the channel. From your word, from our Heavenly Father, from our Savior, our Creator. Lord, I pray that we would be in running our race. Use this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen