Turn your Bibles to Zechariah. You get to the end of the New Testament or the Old Testament and turn back a little bit and get you there a little faster maybe. But Zechariah chapter 8. Verse number twenty-one. Um As I studied for tonight's message, there really is so much with regards to prayer that we as a people need. The number of books that are available is endless. Of messages that have been preached is endless. And the challenges that we as Christians need should be endless because this is such a vital part of the Christian life. But Here we often start a public meeting, a church service. Uh we'll say, Let us pray as we open the service. Um or it'll get shortened in today's vernacular to let's pray instead of let us pray. And uh we'll open our service with that, and many times we say, let us pray. Well, in Zechariah chapter 8, verse number 21. The Bible says, and the inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord. and to seek the Lord of hosts, I will go also. This passage of scripture we're used as a text and a launching point. uh in context is dealing with future events. Um but we're not going to be preaching about that. The thrust of the statement that I want us to take from this is that we need to be praying. Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, to get in the presence of God. I think that we say that flippantly sometimes times. We say, well, let's pray. And we bow our heads. As I was opening the service this evening to bring your hearts and minds to the mindset of prayer and the idea of prayer. And uh I think we sometimes take for granted what it is that we have in this the ability to go before an Almighty God and to pray. The power that is available to us, the means that is available to us, that we can go to God Himself and pray and get God moving on our behalf Yet, so many times I I think that it's we don't even realize the scope of what it is, and we take take it for granted ourselves. We take it for granted as a church. We say, oh well let's pray. Lord help us today and be with the service and please bless everything that's done and and amen. But it's not something that's serious from in our heart, not something that uh is a cry from within that we realize we're talking to an Almighty God. You know, in the Old Testament, uh, they in order to get in the presence of God The high priest, he had to go wash himself. He had to go clean himself. And then he had to put on special garments. He had to wear a special set of clothes to go into the Holy of Holies, the pr to to the behind the veil where your common man couldn't even go. Even uh even a normal priest couldn't go, only the high priest. could go there. And then only one day out of the year, and that was on the Day of Atonement. But we can go to God, to the very throne of God anytime. And pray and get God moving on our behalf. I want us to be reminded of this tonight This is our Thursday night prayer time. This is our prayer service. The time that we gather together to pray for one another, for the needs of our church, to pray for the burdens on the hearts of our brothers and sisters in Christ. We gather and considering, as I have in recent days, the idea of growth in the Christian life I could not help but be turned back to this very fundamental truth that we need to be a praying people. If we're going to grow, and I believe that our church is going to experience great growth in the coming year, if that's going to take place, we need to be a church that is praying. Serious prayer to an Almighty God. Do you realize every victory that we've had at Hunt Valley Baptist Church has been wrought through prayer? Through God doing something on our behalf. We need God on the scene. Sidwell Baxter said, Men spurn our appeals, they reject our message, they oppose our argument, they despise our person. But they are helpless against our prayers. And as we face as a church opposition in our community Whether it be an opposition at the door where we're knocking and want to share the gospel or where we're going and praying with somebody, or whether it's more corporately in the opposition for the property over there on Shawan Road. Do we believe in prayer or don't we? Then we better make this thing a matter of prayer because we could stand up with the best arguments in the world and they may mock and they may laugh at that. But they are helpless against prayer. The power of prayer and what God can do for us. John R. Rice said, every failure in life is a prayer failure. It starts and stops with prayer in the Christian life. Every success and victory is wrought through a spirit of prayer and getting God on our side, and every failure is a prayer failure. Samuel Chadwick is quoted as having said, the one concern for the devil is to keep Christians from praying. He fears nothing from your prayerless studies. He fears nothing from your prayerless works. He fears nothing from your prayerless religion. He laughs at your toil. He mocks at your work. But he trembles when you pray. We need to be praying Christians. It is what God wants us to do. God wants us to be praying It's amazing that we can come into the presence of an Almighty God. And He desires us to do so. And yet, so many do not. Many people like the results of prayer, but they don't want to do the work of prayer. Let me give you a few thoughts tonight. First, the representation of prayer. The representation of prayer. In the Bible, over and over, we see men who pray. We see men who, by their example, give us a definition of what prayer is and what it should look like. You can turn in your Bibles to 1 John chapter 5. We'll move over to the New Testament. There are many, many passages we could go to. This is a familiar passage. Many of you could quote 1 John 5. 13. These things that are written unto you. You guys know that one. But this this is in context also is talking here about prayer. He says, these things have it written unto you that believe unto me in the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe unto me. in the name of the Son of God. And this is the confidence that we, notice how many times the word we hear is mentioned, that we have in him. That if we ask anything according to His will, He heareth us. And if we know that He hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have petitions. that we desired or desired of him. Who is the we that he's talking about there? Christians That see, verse number 13 tells us those that have believed on his name, those that are assured they know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Christians, he said, we know this. You have this confidence. because of what it is God is doing for you. Because he saved your soul. Bob Jones Sr. used to say, I don't have to prove that God exists God proves it to me with every answered prayer. Is God proving to you through answered prayer? He wants to. Prayer is the spreading out of our helplessness and that of others before an Almighty God. Prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance, but it is taking hold of God's willingness to help. We don't have to get in a spirit of prayer to try and convince and talk God into trying to help. God wants us to come. He says you have not because what? You ask not. God wants us to ask. God wants to help. Prayer shows our dependence. on God. Your dependence on God. You know it just like I know it. You'd look at our country. And as a whole, something like 9-11 happens. All of a sudden our country feels helpless As a people, as a nation, and they all want to pray and there's banners up everywhere. God bless America and pray for our nation. And and everybody wants to pray because they feel helpless Just like you and I do when we get to call that your wife was involved in an accident or your son's on the way to the hospital, or you've got to report that it's cancer, you all of a sudden feel helpless And what does that do? It drives you to your knees. Well, the fact of the matter is, is we are always helpless. It's just that in some times when things are calm, we think we've got it under control and we're okay and we don't need to pray right then. But we must be a people that are driven to our knees even in the good times, because it shows our utter dependence on God. Even when things are going good, realizing that the blessing of traveling all the way across the world or all the way across the nation back safely is a blessing from God. Something that shouldn't be taken for granted. The problem is, is we think we've got it most of the time We need to get back to like Peter when he saw the boisterous winds. He cried out, Lord, help me! Lord, save me! Crying out, realizing that we don't have it under control and we need God even when we think we don't. Prayer is communication with an Almighty God. Communion with Him. Asking Him. Prayer is intercession. Those three things, if you take those three things and apply them to our life, It's not a set magical words. It's not like if I say these certain things. It's just a heartfelt cry to an Almighty God for your needs. Somebody said this. The art of prayer is the prayer of the heart. It's not the arithmetic of your prayer how many there are. It's not the rhetoric of your prayer, how eloquent it might be. It is not the geometry of your prayer, how long you can pray. Nor the music of your prayer, how sweet your voice may be, nor the logic of your prayer, your arguments, though convincing may be. Nor the method of your prayer, how orderly they may be, nor even the theology of your prayer, how good in doctrine it may be. What God cares for is a fervent spirit. spirit crying to him that availth much. Are we a people of Are we a church of prayer? If we as individuals are going to grow in this coming year, in this next few months, if we're going to be growing, it's going to start in our personal prayer life It's going to start in what we're doing in our personal walk with God. Our communication. I said prayer is communication. Communing with God. When we commune with God, that does something to us. It changes us. God begins to speak to you. You commune with God. That does something to you But prayer is also asking or petitioning. That does something for us. God does something for us and he desires to to meet our needs. He wants to do that. Prayer is also intercession. And that is God doing something through us. For somebody else. Praying for the needs of our brothers and sisters in Christ. God could use you To meet that need just through prayer. This week on Tuesday I sat and talked with somebody who's been attending our church for a little while, for a few hours. And he wants to come and be a part of this church and he says, I can't, I can't do much. He said, but what I can do is I can pray. I can pray. He said, if you give me a name and tell me what the need is, I will pray. I will pray fervently that God will meet that need And I said every church needs prayer warriors. And we are certainly no exception. Surely he's not the only one. We need a church full of prayer warriors. There was a very large church facility that was so large people would come just to see see it. They would come just to take a tour. I actually do that. Like when I'm on vacation, I see a really big church, I'll just go drive in there and I'll just want to go in and see it, you know, walk around, meet people, whatever. And uh anyways this large church was giving tours And they were showing this small group around, telling people about the church and so on, and they're looking through different rooms. And then the tour guide says, now we're going to go see the power room. And of course in everybody's mind they perceive they're gonna go see where this large facility, the uh electric service comes into the building or the distribution amps for the uh speaker systems are housed and all that. And they walked into a classroom with about ten or fifteen chairs. There's there's nothing else in that room. And they're like, What is this? And they said, This is the power room. This is the room from which all the power to accomplish the ministries that we have here at this church comes from. This is where the prayer warriors of our church gather and pray. We need some prayer, some power rooms in some of your houses, some rooms that God can get a hold of you and use you. To do a work through you for Hunt Valley Baptist Church and for the saints of God here. The reality of prayer. In James chapter 5, verse number 16, a familiar verse, he says, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that ye may be You know, saying a prayer and praying is two different things. things. One girl went to Sunday school and she was asked to open the Sunday school class in prayer. And she really was not very confident in prayer and she didn't know what to say really. She just she said the only prayer that she knew. She said, Now Lord, I lay me down to sleep, and I pray the Lord my soul to keep. That's the only prayer she knew. You know, saying a prayer and praying from the heart is two different things. The Bible says the effectual fervent prayer. This is a prayer that comes from inside. A heartfelt prayer. I don't know how many of you have had the opportunity to be there when somebody has been drawn to Christ and God's been working on them and you you get all the way down and you show them the plan of salvation and Jesus Jesus Christ died for them and wants to take them to heaven when they die. And you get all the way to the end and you say, would you like me to lead you in a prayer? Or would you like to pray yourself? Most people, because they don't talk to God, they don't know how to talk to God, they're just going to hopefully start their Christian life. They say, could you lead me? Because they've never really prayed before. But some people God has so worked on their heart they're at that point and they say, I want to pray. And they aren't maybe what we would call doctrinally correct in their phrasing, they may be not sure what they're But it is amazing to hear their prayer because it comes from their heart. And they cry out and realizing, God, I know I'm a sinner. And I don't deserve your salvation. It's amazing to see the truths of God's word repeated out in their prayer that they they just grabbed a hold of and they realized. And that's what it is we as Christians need to be a people of prayer that we pray fervently. The desire and the ability to pray is proof that you have the new life. A desire to pray and the ability to pray is proof that you're saved. As soon as Paul was converted, he said, Lord What wilt thou have me to do? Paul persecuted Christians up until that moment. As soon as he was saved, he prayed The disciples came to Jesus and said, Jesus, teach us to pray. If you have a desire to pray, And desire to do better in this area of prayer in your life, that's proof of salvation. That you have a new man. You have the new spirit working in you. And if you never ever have a desire to pray, you might want to check that. Because that's proof that you have the new life. There's a responsibility that we have to pray. That is, God has given us the command to pray, and we know that we are to pray. You and I have this responsibility. If we're going to be improving in this area of prayer, the fact of the matter is is it has to be systematic. You have to have a prayer list if I You're probably like me, if I sat down to pray without a list, I could pray for a few minutes. And when I pray without a list, I pray in generalities Lord, be with the church family. Lord, uh bless all of our missionaries. Lord, would you please be with this person? Lord, uh, you know, you you're praying through. But without a list, you've got nothing to guide you. In about ten minutes, you're thinking, what in the world, what can I pray for? But as you start building your prayer list, Now the church prayer list could be part of your prayer list, and you may divide that up on different days and say, I'm going to pray for the missionaries on this day or this day, but that church list doesn't have your mom and dad. It doesn't have somebody that your your neighbor that you've been talking to, or doesn't have that guy at the gas station you left a track with. What does your prayer list have on it? If you're going to be successful in improving in this area of prayer, if we're going to as a church take a step forward, we've got to develop a prayer list You've got to have a place of prayer. Oh, I know that we pray without ceasing. I know we pray always. But we sing the song Sweet Hour of Prayer. The truth is, most Christians, I can't imagine how high the number is, have never spent an hour in prayer I would encourage you to try to spend twenty minutes in prayer. We are gonna have to set some time aside. You know as well as I do that without the dedicated purpose, without focusing your mind, this world distracts you. You can be in the middle of prayer. I was walking around outside today because it's such a beautiful day and I'm praying and I'm asking the Lord to bless tonight and I'm praying for some of the church family and I'm walking around all of a sudden I see man We need to get that taken care of and I pull out my phone. Next thing I'm making a list of jobs that need to be done and I'm like, ah, I'm supposed to be praying. You know, I put my phone away and Then I'm walking around the church, you know, here a little while later and the neighbor says hi and so I go talk to him, you know, hi, how are you doing? If you're gonna get serious with God, you gotta have a time, you gotta have a place That you get and pray to an with an Almighty God. Oftentimes Jesus went out and got alone. Jesus himself needed to get alone to pray. I think that we Need to get alone to pray. We should pray regularly. Daniel chapter 6 verse number 10. We know Daniel prayed three times a day. So we should pray regularly. We should pray spontaneously. And Nehemiah chapter 2 verse number 4, the king, if you remember that story, the king, he went to the king and said, Hey, uh, I want to God's put this on my heart to go rebuild the walls, and the king says, Well, what do you have me do for you? And that quick Nehemiah says he prayed and asked God. You know, I could sense that there, he's like Oh, what should I ask him for? How how aggressive should I get? Like Lord, what should I try to get the king to help me with? You know? But he went to the Lord immediately. So as things come up in your life, it ought to be a ready thing for you. The situation arises, it not be, it shouldn't be, oh stink, man, this happened again. It ought to be, Lord, thank you. Or Lord, help me, is your first response, Lord. Or is your first response to grumble or complain or to yell or lash out? We ought to be praying spontaneous, and we know we ought to pray continually. First Thessalonians five seventeen, pray without ceasing. You know, I know all of you have heard or seen the little uh phrase ASAP. My kids asked, well what does what does that mean, Dad? Uh somebody sent a text or something, they had that on there and they said, what does that mean? that mean and of course we know it as uh yeah as soon as possible. Somebody wrote this There's work to do, deadlines to meet. You've got no time to spare, but as you hurry and as you scury, ASAP always say a prayer. In the midst of family chaos, quiet time is rare. Do your best. Let God do the rest. Asap, always say a prayer. It may seem like your worries are more than you can bear. Slow down and take a breather. Always say a prayer God knows how stressful life is. He wants to ease your cares. And he'll respond to your every need if you always say a prayer. We should be praying always about our situations and what comes up in our life. Let me give you the reward of prayer. The reward of prayer. Of course we know the reward of prayer is answered prayer. Amen. We get answered prayer. God answers prayer, and what a victory that is when you pray specifically for something in your life. And see God come through and meet that need or answer that prayer. Nothing's going to strengthen your faith like that. And nothing strengthens the faith of a church body like seeing Answered prayer together. In Acts chapter 4, verse number 31. Why don't you guys turn there? We're going to look at the last seven verses here of this chapter, but in Acts chapter 4, 31, familiar verses again. But I just want you to see what the scripture says here. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word with boldness. One of the benefits of answered prayer is that you will have boldness to be a witness for God. They spake the word with boldness. Some people say, well, that's just not my personality, or I just don't feel like it, or that's hard for me to do. If you spend time in prayer, a season in prayer, God will change your personality. God will give you the boldness you need to be A witness for him. One of the benefits of prayer is answered prayer. One of the benefits is great boldness. One of the other benefits is found in this verse. He says in Acts 4, verse number 32, he says, and the multitude of them that believed were of one heart. And one soul. And when they had prayed, verse 31 starts out, they had one heart and one soul. You have great unity in a church that's praying together You've heard the statement, a family that prays together stays together. You have unity in a church that's praying. I guarantee you, when you on your knees are effectually fervently praying and asking God for unity among the brethren, asking God that the church would go forward, that it could be used to accomplish his will. You're less likely to try and demand what it is that you want. You're less likely to say, you know, the overriding goal and ambition of the church is to accomplish the will of God. When churches get messed up is when people start wanting their own will accomplished. Whatever that is. It may be the color of the carpet, it may be the plants. It may be the decorations, who knows what it is that people get been out of shape about. But they start demanding their own will instead of Looking out for the whole. And when you're praying for that, I guarantee you, in your heart and in your mind, that'll change because what you want is unity. What you're praying for is unity. And sometimes that means we have to put our own will aside. You know that's the way it is in your home as a husband and wife. You can't, sir, you can't, ma'am, always demand what it is that you want and still have unity in your home Sometimes you have to put your own will or desire down and say, okay, I was wrong, you were right. Oh you know what? We'll eat at Red Lobster even though I don't like seafood. No, I'm just kidding, I like seafood, but You guys know Mary likes red lobster. Um but whatever it might be, you put your will down and say, okay, I'll do that for you. And that's the way it happens in the church. When we're praying, we get great unity. You also have great power. Verse number three, and great power. God gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And with great power. Folks, we need great power here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We need God to do great things. More and more I'm convinced about the need for the power of God in working with people In dealing with situations that arise in people's hearts and their lives and in families and in situ things that come up that the church is supposed to help meet that need, we need the power of God. We need the power of God as we go out soul-winning. We need the power of God as I stand in the pulpit here and preach. And yes, that is dependent largely upon me, that I'm a vessel fit and that the Holy Spirit is on me. But I believe just as much it can be i you can be instrumental in God doing that if you're praying that God's power would be in the preaching, that God's power would be evident and he would work in lives. And use the preaching of God. Then there's great grace. We see the great grace of the resurrection of the Lord, verse number 33, and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Great grace was upon them all. They had great grace. Not only did they experience great grace, but they became the bearers of grace that they shared with other people. Great grace was on them all, and then great generosity. An unparalleled attitude of generosity, verses 34 through 37. That's evidence of God working in your midst. At the beginning of the service At prayer time, when we take the offering, when we close the service, many times at the start of a message, we'll say, Let's pray. Well tonight I'm asking the church, let's pray. But not just tonight or just to close the message or just to pray over the offering, but let's be a people. of prayer. Bow your heads and close your eyes with me.