Chapter twenty three. Isn't it amazing how when you're out and about either store or restaurant or wherever, if you've got a sneeze sneeze or cough, you're like, oh no, oh no. I can't, I can't. Everybody's gonna look at me here, everybody's gonna restaurant's gonna clear out, you know. Uh that pressure. Yeah. Um so this evening uh we're we're getting close for winding down on the let us series that I've been looking at At. Today we're going to look at a let us not, a let us not, and this is let us not fight against God. In Acts 23 and verse number Number nine, he says, And there arose a great cry, and the scribes that were of the Pharisees' part arose and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man. But if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God. Now in this, the 23rd chapter of Acts, Paul is taken before the Sanhedrin. They obviously don't care for Paul. They're not pleased. with this man who was their zealot. He was their man. He used to persecute the Christians like none other. I mean he he was on their side and now he had ch Switch sides. He was the number one proponent, the number one preacher of this gospel, of this group called Christians And he was pulled forcibly before the Sanhedrin, and they were not pleased with him, and they uh did not handle him with kid gloves. If you look at verse number two, you find that Paul came before them and he began to speak. And the leader of the Pharisees told somebody, strike them in the face. I mean, just nail him, like almost saying, Who said you could talk? Who said you could speak? And Paul tried to speak out and they punched him in the face. Now God had given insight to Paul with regards to this group that he was standing before. And you know God will do that. God will give you wisdom that you need at the time that you need it if you're walking with him and following him in your life. And Paul was standing before this, what he realized was a mixed multitude. There was two groups of people represented in the Sanhedrin there. He saw that there was a number of them that were Pharisees, and I don't know if this was something readily available by the way that they dressed. Maybe the Pharisees had a particular way that they would like to dress and the uh the Sadducees had a way they liked to dress. But he noticed that there was Both of these groups were represented. And so Paul, understanding that he was there to be on trial, but he wisely interjected something that he knew was hotly debated between these two groups. So Paul says, Well, I believe in the resurrection, knowing that the Sadducees do not believe in the resurrection, and the Pharisees do believe in the resurrection. Changing the argument about him to something that they disagree on. And so he's standing there listening to them arguing about this issue. He he deflected towards them and They were arguing and after a few minutes the Pharisees thought, well, we have Paul here, and he's on our side. And so they changed from wanting to prosecute him to basically kind of saying, you know, hey, well Here's Paul, as we read the verse to you there. He says, And there arose a great cry, and the scribes that were of the Pharisees, that group, that part, arose, and strove saying, Well, after thinking about it, we find no evil in this man. They considered it and found out this is a pretty good guy, I think. And, hey, if a spirit or an angel spoke to him, told him the resurrection was true Then they say, who are we? Let us not fight against God. Now, this argument obviously was self-serving. For them in this situation, it was something that was self-serving, but the admonition is still applicable to us, and something that is vitally important for us as God's people to be sure we do. that we don't do, and that's to fight against God. We don't want to fight against God in our life, in what God's will is for our life. We don't want to fight against God. in what God would have for us as individuals to do, steps He would want us to take. I want to remind you. That the lost man has always fought against God. Since the beginning, since Adam and Eve, it has been the habit of man to stand up in defiance. Against God and what God's will is for him. Adam and Eve, they had everything they could ever want. But God said, There's this one tree that you're not to eat of. Everything else is freely yours. But man wanted to do his own thing and take of that tree. The one thing that God said was not for them. And man took that and plunged the human race into sin. We go down through the scriptures and you can look at Nimrod, who uh started the uh construction of the Tower of Babel and wanted to build it up to to be like gods, to reach up into the heavens, the whole earth. was defiant against God in Noah's day before the flood, before God destroyed them. All through the Old Testament, the stories of those that stood against God are too numerous to mention. I think about the epic battle between Pharaoh and God, where God sent Moses, he said, Let my people go. And Pharaoh said, No. And God sent a plague. Pharaoh said, okay, no, I changed my mind. And God had to send another plague. Pharaoh said, okay, no, I changed my mind. Sounds like a lot of Christians. God sends a plague, God sends a trial, a test into our life, and we finally say, okay, Lord, I'll do it. And then we change our mind. And God has to send something else into our life to bring us around. And over and over again, you know the story. Ultimately, Pharaoh did not only let the people go, but Pharaoh ended up dying. In the Red Sea, because he wasn't ready to let the people go. He chased them all the way there into the Red Sea and ended up losing his life, trying to stop them from getting away. You think about that story in Esther Where Haman, because of bitterness, because of jealousy, was determined to destroy the Jews, was going to kill them all. But God was victorious in that situation as well. But all through the scriptures you see these principles, these practices where man stands against God. I think of the New Testament where they crucified Christ. They crucified him and they persecuted the church without mercy. The only other place in the Word of God where this statement or this phrase is found. fight against God, those three words in that order. There's obviously lots of stories we could draw from, but the only other place that that phrase is found is actually right in the book of Acts, just a few chapters back. If you turn back to Acts chapter five I would like for you to see this because, as I said, the first example that I gave you, where the text comes, let us not fight against God, that example is really a self-serving, self-motivated statement. applicable to us still, but this one here really uh has some truths in it that I think that we can gain. If you look in Acts chapter 5 and verse number 39 is where we see the phrase He says, but if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, lest happily ye be found even to fight. Against God. Now, in order for you to understand that, I think it'd behoove us to read the context. So if you would follow along, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 25, and we'll read down through that verse, verse number 39. and get the context of story of kind of what's taking place here. So then came one and told them, saying, Behold the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching people. Then went the captain of the officers and brought them without violence, for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned. And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest asked them, saying, Did not we straightly command you that ye should not teach in his this name And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intended to bring this man's blood upon us. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a prince and a savior. For to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are his witnesses of these things. And so it is also the Holy Ghost, whom God has given to them that obey him. When they had heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them. Then Stood thereup one in the council, a Pharisee named Gameliel, a doctor of the law, had a reputation among all the people, and he commanded to put the apostles forth a little space And he said unto them, ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. For behold, these Days rose up Thadius, boasting himself to be somebody, to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves, who was slain and And all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered and brought to naught. After that man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of taxing. and drew much people after him. He also perished, and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. And now I say unto you, refrain from these men and let them alone. For if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to naught. But if it be of God, Ye cannot overthrow it, lest happily ye be found even to fight against God. That gives you, I hope, a pretty clear picture of the story there, what's taking place. These men that had been cast into prison, got out, God had freed them, they were out, they were preaching. and they weren't supposed to be preaching according to the rulers of the day. They pulled them back in before them and said, Why how can you do this? And the men declared unto them the truth of the word of God that Christ was indeed the Savior of the world and that he had uh died and rose again, declared unto them this, and it smote them in their heart. And they they they were so angry about it, they were talking about killing him. Togameliel stood up and he said, Hey wait You remember this guy when he when he had a whole big following and we were worried about him. But when he was gone, all those people left. There was nothing. Nothing happened. And remember Thadus, when he stood up, a bunch of people followed him, but when Thadius was gone, they all left. Nothing came of it. And so let's not bother these guys because if If it's nothing, it'll be nothing. But if it's of God, you don't want to fight against God. And it displays some tremendous wisdom there. And I want to give you three thoughts tonight about why men fight against God from this passage of Scripture. First of all, I want you to see men fight against God because they don't fear Him. Instead, they fear men. In verse number 26, he says, Then went the captain of the officers and brought them without violence. Why didn't they hurt him? Like he brought the men in, but they didn't hurt him. They brought him without violence. Why? Because they feared the people. They feared the people, lest they should have been stoned. So they brought these preachers in and they were going to judge them, but they were careful with them because they knew there was a lot of people that liked them. So they were handling it diplomatically. They feared the people and what was going to happen. And listen, this is how the world functions today. It's all about how am I perceived? What do people think of me? The advent and promotion of social media has only progressed this at a at an exponential rate, especially among the young, where they want You know, the the how how many likes do I have and and what's my image out there on Facebook and and how do people see me uh in in the public realm and and how many thumbs up did I get and so on. That image, putting that out there, and it's all about public perception and how people perceive them. Beloved, it's a mark of a fool that doesn't fear God. That's what the Bible tells us in Jeremiah chapter 5, 21 and 22. He says, Hear now this, oh foolish people. without understanding, which have eyes and see not, which have ears and hear not. For ye fear ye not me, saith the Lord. Will ye not tremble at my presence Which have placed the sand for the bounds of the sea by perpetual decree that it cannot pass it. And though the waves thereof toss themselves yet, can they not prevail? Though they roar yet, can they not pass over it? God says, you know, I remember when I was a boy, we lived two blocks from Lake Michigan. And Lake Michigan's not an ocean, and as far as storms go, Lake Michigan is is nothing compared to the ocean. But I remember walking down to Lake Michigan and out on the concrete piers and the concrete piers we would be walking out there and uh the the water would come in so hard I mean it's like the entire pier would disappear behind that wave. The waves would come and just wash over it, and then the pier would be visible again. And that they would beat on that sometimes for days. But when the storm blew over, the water was right back in where it was. And you all have seen how storms in other parts of the world and have exceeded their banks because of some monsoon or hurricane or something, but when the storm subsides, the water goes back where God put it. No matter what it does, it it it can't can't change the bounds which God has placed there. And he says, Don't you see that? Why would you live your life more concerned about what people think of you instead of what God can do? More concerned about your public image instead of your image before God Himself. Sadly, today the depth of man's consideration of God has digressed to bumper stickers That say things like honk if you love Jesus, or what I call t-shirt Christianity that declare blasphemous things like this blood's for you. You think how can a Christian, professing Christian, reduce a thrice holy God To that. We have no fear of God. And when man has no fear of God They're not going to do what God wants. They're going to stand up. You all have heard the decrees of the atheist. God, if you're real, just strike me down right now. See, God's not real. You know, they defy him, they stand up against him, because there's no fear of him. But we are to fear God, not man God says, and fear not them which can kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. We're to make our decisions in life based on this, not on public perception, not on how somebody else is going to view it. And a lot of life today is really what's politically expedient. And think about the turmoil in our country right now. Has a lot to do with that instead of just what's right. Because we don't fear God, we fear men. All through the Bible, this is how God chose men that were going to be leaders. The stipulation was somebody that feared God. Remember back when Moses was looking for some men to help him, and God said, choose you out from among you men that fear God. And all through the scriptures you see that. That is a stipulation, a requirement for one used of God. It begins with fearing Him. When we fear God, we're going to obey Him. As they say in our text here, Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than man. Amen? We ought to obey God rather than man. And we make our decisions this way because we fear God, not man. We want to please God, not man. Beloved We fight against God when we don't fear Him. When there's fear, it causes us to submit and to yield and to do what God wants us to do. We fight against God because they fought against God because of their feelings. Their feelings. Look at verse number 33. He said, when they had heard that, they were cut to the heart. And took counsel to slay them. Boy, we live in a very touchy-feely day today. Everybody's concerned about their feelings and And they're all wearing their feelings on on their sleeve. And they I mean you can't hardly mention anything or say anything without somebody getting irate and and just losing control of themselves. The the the the day of uh you know just Mutual respect and a discussion over about just about anything is almost gone because people get offended, get mad, and they can't just agree to disagree. They just they just get mad And uh we see that even in the church house so many times. You know, what they were for claiming to them, for told them, said, hey, you guys crucified Christ. I mean that was a true statement. He said you guys did this. And we are here to testify of that and to testify of Christ. And when they heard the truth, they got offended. Isn't that right? Well that's what happens because the Bible and truth many times is sharp. The Bible is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword. And the Word of God, if it's doing its job, the Word of God and the preacher sometimes, when he's preaching the truth of the Word of God, on occasion, it ought to hit us right between the eyes It ought to convict our heart. It ought to, as it says here, when they heard that, they were cut to the heart. And beloved, when we hear the preaching of the Word of God, it ought to, sometimes it ought to cut to the heart, the heart of the matter, and get on our sin and get on the what we've been doing. Instead of saying, man, who is a preacher think he is talking about that. He's he's meddling now instead of preaching. He shouldn't be bothering with that topic or this topic or whatever. You know and what any any topic is okay as long as it's not our topic. Right? We're happy to have the preacher preach on anything. He can nail him to the wall. I mean I've had people come and tell me, man, Pastor, you oughta hit this more. You ought to hit this more. W because it's obviously not something they have a problem with. But when I touch on something that they have a problem with, whoa, Pastor Why are you doing that? Because the word of God cuts to the heart, and that can be offensive But how are we going to respond? That's the question. Are we going to fight against God because our feelings are hurt? Or are we going to respond to the Word of God and do what God wants us to do? Respond to the Holy Spirit touching our heart and speaking to us. Or are we going to just stand up and get mad at God because our feelings got hurt? Many times we don't like the message of God. The word of God is powerful. You think about today the political situation and and the the the different parties and and all of that, you know, as I was pondering this message and pondering the power of the Word of God to transform lives, I thought, you know what? There's no political platform in history that has even come close to affecting change in a nation like this book has. The words in this book, the pages, these words have changed entire nations. No political platform, no president, no group could claim to have even fractionally done what this book has done. In changing a nation, in changing men and women. It's a powerful book. We need to be like the revivals of old, the gone by days. When the word of God was preached and it cut to the heart of the Christian, and the Christian responded to the Lord, yielded to the Lord, and did what the Lord wanted us to do. Instead of continuing to nurture that sin that's been tolerated for so long, we sacrifice it on the altar and say, I'm I'm letting that go, Lord. We need to get back to that word of God which says, Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. That's still in the book. Nothing shall offend them. Some of the most faithful Christians I know get offended. A lot. Great peace have they which love thy law nothing shall offend them Only by pride cometh contention. Beloved, we've got to get that stuff out of our life and stop getting so easily offended and start responding to the Spirit and to the Scripture. Amen? The message of the Word of God is sure. It's always right. It never leaves us wrong. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. You understand that the word of the God was here in the beginning, and one day heaven and earth are going to pass away, but the word of God is still going to be here. You can trust the Word of God because the source is right. It's God Himself and any other source is going to lead us astray. But the Word of God doesn't. The message that's in the Word of God is sufficient. Is sufficient. You know, there's something in the Word of God for everybody and for every situation in life. Now maybe we don't have the exact passage we need right now, but that's why we study to show thyself approved. That's why we get into the book, and that's why we come to church. So we can hear preaching and teaching on the Word of God. So we have that foundation because the Word of God is sufficient. Psalms 19, verses 7 through 9 says, the law of the Lord is perfect. converting the soul, the t met testimonies of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statue of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, and the commandments of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous. all together. The word of God is sufficient, beloved. It's sufficient for whatever your needs are. And the word of God is sweet. If we let it change us. If we don't fight against it. When we're fighting against it, that's when it gets hard. That's when it gets it attacks us and that's when we we get like Saul kicking against the fricks. It's it's uncomfortable and we don't like it because we got a burr under our saddle, right? And and it's just getting more and more irritating But if we yield to God and surrender and do what God wants us to do, then it's the word of God is sweet and it's precious. So beloved We need to guard against that. Don't let our feelings get hurt. Because when we are run by our feelings, we're going to fight against God. Instead of following God. And lastly, this evening, they fought against God because they didn't fathom the power of God. Look in verse number 39. Emelio had to tell them, but if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it. They say, you can't overthrow it. Lest happily you be found even fighting against God. He said, this is a God. There's nothing you're going to do that stops it. You could go ahead and kill these men. But if this is of God, that's not going to stop it. If this is of God, it's just going to continue on. So so what good would it do to make all these people mad and to kill these two guys? Because if it's of God, it's going to keep going. You see the Sanhedrin there they didn't have an understanding of what was going on. They didn't have an understanding of the power of God. They just didn't realize the futile endeavor it would be to fight against God Himself. Maybe because they didn't know God, maybe because they didn't realize the power God has. You know, many times We're just not acknowledging or recognizing the futile endeavor it is for us to fight against God. We want our way and we want to do what we want to do and we stand up against God and go our own direction. And how many Christians have you known? That ultimately came to the end of their rope and they said, I've been fighting God for so long. I just gotta give up. I just gotta surrender. I just gotta let go and let God have his way in my life. It's a futile endeavor. In Psalms chapter 2, an amazing passage of scripture where there were some kings that gathered together to stand up against God. Listen to these verses. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers took counsel together against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. But listen to the response that God has for them. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision I mean, can you see God in heaven looking down and here we are, this little infinite, or this little finite being, looking at an infinite God? And defying him, saying, We're gonna do what we want to do. And God's like, What? You're gonna huh? I mean it's it's It's it's comical that that man would say they're just oh I mean you think about it with man's all of man's achievements And one hurricane can wipe a whole coast off. Gone. Years and years and years of planning and development and infrastructure. Gone. I think we better get back to just saying, okay, Lord. Lord, you're in control This is a futile endeavor to try and stand up against you. Man, God laughs at man's attempt to stand up against him. Can I encourage you to just trust God? Because no matter how bad it gets, God is able. God is in control. God can Provide a way. You know, in Acts chapter 12, Peter was imprisoned by Herod. He just Herod had just killed James. Just killed James. Maybe in front of Peter, I don't know, but he had just killed him. And it was literally that next verse that he says, and he took Peter and imprisoned him. Now, if I just saw my fellow preacher killed and I was taken and stuck in prison, I would be pretty stressed out. I would be a little bit you talk about anxiety, right? I would have a little concern, but if you read the passage of Scripture in Acts 12, verse number 11, he says, And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know for a surety that the Lord has sent his angels. and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod and from all the that expect expectation of the people of the Jews. Peter went in the prison, if you read those beginning verses in that chapter, He was strapped to two two soldiers. And he just went to sleep between them. He just laid down and went to sleep. There's two soldiers strapped to him. Peter just went to sleep. He's saying God's in control. Whatever it is, God knows. And beloved with the mess that's in our country, God knows Wherever we're at, wherever we end up come January, God knows. God's in control, and we can trust Him. We can rely on him. Herod was doing his best to stop the spread of the gospel, doing all he could to stop the spread of the gospel. He killed James. He had imprisoned Peter. He was Herod was standing up against God. Look, since you're in Acts, look at Acts chapter 12 and down at verse number 20. And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyra of Sidon, but they came with one accord to him, and having made Balsus the king of the Chamberlain, their friend desired peace, because their country was nourished by the king's country. And upon a set day Herod arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne and made an oratation unto them So Herod stood up in all of his grandor. And he said in verse number 20, and the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a God, and not of man. Boy, the people were praising Herod, weren't they? But verse number 23, and immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory, and he was eaten of worms. And gave up the ghost. What does verse number 24 say? But the word of God grew and multiplied. Herod did all he could. He was going to stop Christianity. He was the most recognized and most powerful person of his day. And he stood up and the people said, oh, it is like God himself. And God said, Oh, if that's enough, you're dead. And God's plan for the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but the word of God grew and multiplied. Yeah. I don't think we should fight against God. I think we ought to yield to Him and do what God wants us to do as individuals, as a church. And as as effectively as we can as a nation, because God will hold us all accountable. But God's in control. We're not fighting against him. Let us not fight against God. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? It's a futile endeavor, beloved, to fight against God. God knows and God's in control, and when we try and just fight against him, he just laughs He just looks down and thinks it's comical. But man, when we yield to him, God can use us in such a mighty way. I would much rather have God on my side than God against me. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you, wants you to do what God wants you to do. There's an altar here. You're welcome to pray. Are you on God's side? Are you fighting against God? You yielded to him, or maybe you haven't been fearing him as much as you should and kind of go in your own way instead of yielding and doing what he wants you to do Maybe being led too much by feelings and instead of faith. Garrot, okay. Lord, we thank you for today and the privilege to be in your house, to gather and worship you, to bring our request to you this evening as a church family and pray for the the needs and the burdens on the hearts of our brothers and sisters in Christ, Lord. We pray that you'll meet and supply their needs, Lord. We pray that you'll lift