The study on Thursday evenings uh concerning the let us admonitions that are found in the scriptures. You know you never know uh who's watching. Uh there's I I have been visiting churches Um I've been in other places and people have told me, oh I've I've watched your services. Uh of course uh Jacob's friend And uh his their their family have uh many, many services watched the services from Hunt Valley and we've had missionaries and people in foreign fields because of complications with their services or because it's COVID shut 'em down or whatever. Um So you never know who's watching and what the needs are and uh where they're at. But I know that the Holy Spirit knows and that God knows what people need. And uh so if you would just allow me to pray, ask God to speak to our hearts tonight as well as uh as we present this truth that it might Go forth and accomplish that which God would have. Lord, we come to you this evening. We ask you earnestly that you would allow me to step out of the way, that you would give me liberty to preach and clarity of thought. Lord, would you guide my tongue? Would you, Lord, put a watch before my mouth that I might not say anything that uh, Lord, I shouldn't say, but Lord, this message would go forth and would challenge us as God's people, that it would stir us on to greater things for you, that it would motivate us to Step into the battle, as it were, and to accomplish your will for our lives and Lord, not to be content to sit on the sidelines and just talk about what you how good you are or our ambitions of what could be, but Lord, to enlist and to to participate and to see you do great things, Lord, here in Hunt Valley and around the world. And Lord, we praise you for it. We ask these things tonight in Jesus' name. Blessed name. Amen. You see in Lamentations chapter 3 and verse number 41, the text verse for this evening, he says, Let us Lift up our hearts with our hands unto God in the heavens. The title for tonight's message is Let us Lift up our hearts. Let us lift up our hearts with our hands unto God in the heavens. To be honest with you, the text before us this evening is one of those that I saw in the scriptures, as you know, I've read every passage of scripture that contains the two words, let us, when they're together, I've read every one of them, and and some of them really uh are not applicable to the Christian life. Some of them are not something we can gain uh truth from. And I looked at this text and I thought about it and said, well, really what can we gain from this that we haven't already studied? I know the context of this is dealing with prayer and I actually the very first let us that I preached on was let us pray. And I thought, well, that's not uh you know I almost left it off. I almost said, well, I'm gonna skip this one and do a different one. But the more I pondered this, the more I thought about it, the more I was challenged personally and was moved to share the thoughts with you. This, of course, being in Lamentations, is Jeremiah singing the song of lament. He's stating the condition of God's people, as many of them had been killed and taken into captivity. The mighty throne of David was destroyed. The all that they were as a nation, that great nation of God, the people whose God was their Lord, no longer was what it was. what it used to be. And you read the text, or if you read the rest of the passage of scripture, you hear his heart's cry. He calls upon them to turn to God. He asks them to search their ways. And we're going to deal with this next week probably, but you'll notice in verse number 40 there's another let us. In verse 40 there, he says, let us search and try our ways. Let us search and try our ways. And I'm going out of order because my heart was moved specifically to this text this evening because of recent events which will be evident as we go through the message this evening. As I said, the context of this passage of scripture really is prayer. It's talking about lifting your hands up in prayer, lifting your heart up to God in prayer. Uh however, as I considered it, uh I studied many many commentators and actually even people that have written on this text have uh changed the word. They they read this and they state it, and they change it from saying, Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God. They change the width to end. They say, let us lift up our hearts and our hands to God. And I'm not saying there's something wrong with that interpretation or that application and saying that in prayer we lift up our hands, and I studied this through the scriptures. There's certainly call for that. Lifting your hands to heaven. But I go back to it says with. Let us lift up our hands, the hearts with our hands. So in my literal mind I picture taking this beating organ And lifting it towards heaven, thinking, well, surely this is not what God is asking of us? How is it that man is supposed to lift his heart? Towards heaven with his hands. And I began to ponder this and thought, how is it that I could lift what's in my heart? How could I lift my heartbeat, my what's important to me, what I value, what I love, towards heaven? And beloved, I was struck with the idea that Lifting of one's heart with his hands is a physical act that puts on display What's in the heart? It is an action that we do with our hands. Lifting up what's in one's heart towards heaven. That physical display of the love that's in your heart, it's not just lip service. But actually doing something. It's not just singing onward Christian soldiers But enlisting in the battle. Beloved, as I pondered this, I thought about it and I was encouraged in my heart and I was motivated to see that every time I'm running a vacuum in the house of God, I'm lifting my heart up and saying, God, I love you. God, I love you. Every time I'm taking the trash out of God's house and cleaning up for the next service, I'm saying, God, I love you Every time I take a track out of my pocket and I hand it to somebody in obedience to the Great Commission, I'm saying, God, I love you. Every time I obey God and follow his will for my life, I'm saying, God, I love you. And I pictured in my mind that's the way that God's people are able to lift what's in their heart up to heaven. They're able to put it on display and say, Yes, Lord, we love you And here it is on display, not just for me, not just in my heart, but for the whole world to see. My mom has long For as long as I can remember, she is really disliked singing, Lord, I want to be a Christian. In my heart. Now, there's nothing innately wrong with that song. I want to love you more in my heart. I want to be more like Jesus. in my heart. But my mom's frustration was, why don't you just be it? Why sing about being more like Jesus? Why don't you just be more like Jesus? Why sing about about about wanting to love God more? Why don't you just love Him more? And that that song just grated my mom every time we would sing it. She would just she would just be like kind of like Just do it already. Don't just sing about it. And I think that's in at least in my heart how I want to try and apply this text this evening. A Christian is not just about, oh, I love Jesus. What are you lifting up to heaven via your hands? How is that love being expressed and put on display for the world to see? First of all, this evening I want to give you the example that we have that we get to follow. We're talking about Doing more than just lip service. We're talking about doing more than just saying, I love you. But that that love would actually manifest itself in a powerful and meaningful way. So beloved, who is the greatest example that we have that is an expression of love? Jesus Christ. He is the example. The Bible says, but he commendeth, which you know that word means Anybody? Showed. Showed. He commendeth his love toward us. He showed his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That great example set for us by Jesus Christ, He showed us His love. He didn't just talk about how much He loved the world. He sacrificed and gave Himself for the world, beloved. The scars that are still in his hands will forever be on display and declare to all who ever see them, He loves you. He loves you. His love is on display for us. Christ, who knew no sin, took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men We know that Christ came, beloved. He came not to be ministered unto, but to be To minister. That was the heart of Christ. When he came to earth. I wonder how many people come into God's house on a Sunday. Morning with that mindset. I'm not coming to God's house today to be ministered to. I'm coming To minister. We are to have, we know that we're to have this mind of Christ. But this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. So are you following the example? Showing your love by your actions. Lifting up your heart. What we say is in our heart. The songs that we sing about the love of Jesus. And we sing them so meaningfully and so powerfully, and they stir our hearts. But do they motivate us to action? So I would like to give you, secondly, this evening the elements of this lifting up of our hearts. In John 12, 26, he says, If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servants be. If any man serve me, Him will my father honor. You see, the first thing I want to show you is that if we're going to lift up our hearts with our hands, it takes surrender He says, let him follow me. We follow the example that he gives us. Seek to minister instead of being ministered to. Seek to serve instead of trying to be served. Seek to love others as he loved others. Isaiah says He says, Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? And said, I, here am I. Send me. I wonder, are you willing to go? Are you willing to do whatever God God asks of you? To go wherever God wants you to go? To accomplish whatever task God asks of you to attack to accomplish Just surrendering to his will. We're saying, Lord, I love you. You see, a little over week ago on Monday evening just a couple of hours after it happened Mary and I I heard that Benita Sharp had been killed in a tragic car accident. At first there was disbelief. I literally thought somebody was pranking me. I thought, no, no way. That's just impossible. I tried to search and find out some information. Couldn't find anything. We we texted and called and some other people and got confirmation that it did happen. I reached out to Gene and I said, Big G. That's what I've always called him. Say, hey Big G You know I love you. I'll do anything for you. You just tell me what you want. He said to me, he said, can you come to the funeral I said no except that is there anything else that you want? I can't make the funeral. I went. I said yeah. I I'll be there. He said, Can you stay a couple days? So when the crowd leaves, there'll be somebody there's still be a friend here. Said I can stay a couple days. days. You see, I expressed my love. I said, I love you. I'll do anything you need, anything you want. Then he asked. And then I listened I lifted that love up with my hands, and I showed up in Austin. And I stood with him and cried with him. God calls you and I. We say, Lord, I love you. He says, Okay. Will you And we say, accept that, Lord. Accept that. Is there is there anything else that you wanted from me, Lord? Because I'll do whatever you want, Lord. It takes surrender. Surrender to God. Psalms 119 in verse number 48 says, My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments. Another peculiar statement. But very similar to this, my hands also will I lift up to thy commandments, which I have loved, and will meditate on thy statutes. I think the psalmist is saying, Boy, I'm gonna lift my hands to obey in these commandments. I'm gonna commit my effort. I'm gonna strive to do what these commandments say. I'm gonna lift my hands and and and get involved. I'm gonna get in the battle. I'm gonna get in the fight because that's what I love. Beloved, God is willing to do for you, for the heart that's right with him. In 2 Chronicles 16:19, it says, For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong. On the behalf of them whose heart is perfect towards him. Is your heart right with God tonight? Have you submitted to him, willing to do whatever He wants you to do. It takes sacrifice, not just surrender. You have to s surrender, but you might need to sacrifice something that's valuable or even not valuable, just being willing to use or do whatever you have for for Christ and for his honor and glory. In Mark chapter twelve, verse forty-three and forty-four he says, and he called unto him his disciples, and he saith unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in than all they which have cast into treasury. For all they did cast into abundance. But she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living. You know, beloved, it's never been about what you gave It's been about what you have left. Her sacrifice wasn't that great in the grand scheme of those that cast in. But compared to what she had left, she had given it all. She sacrificed. When I was in college, there's a missionary that went to Suriname, West Africa, and he came and he preached a message entitled Love with shoes on. Love with shoes on. And beloved, it's literally what I'm saying tonight Putting feet to your prayers, lifting up in obedience and sacrifice to God what He has asked of us and do Do that. Are you willing tonight to sacrifice for Christ who gave it all to you? Not just saying, I love you, but to sacrifice. Maybe to sacrifice your Thursday evening, your Sunday, your Sunday afternoons for for choir practice or Saturdays for bus or Sunday early for bus. I mean just to sacrifice, to serve and do what God wants you to do It takes a spirit-filled Christian. Because it's only in the power of God's Spirit that we can do that which we would not ever do. Do or maybe not even be able to do on our own. To do what is right. As I went to Austin, I prayed and asked God to give me opportunities to minister to those who were in need. I asked Him to give me opportunities and give me words to say. I'm no different than you. I stand in front of somebody facing that loss, and I say, God, there's nothing I can say that would do anything. Comfort this soul. There's nothing I can do. So I ask God to help me, to give me wisdom, to give me opportunities and genes And I and my brother-in-law Steve were sitting in his office, and Gene was talking about God and God's grace, and What God had done in their hearts and how God had ministered to them even the the couple of weeks following up to this accident. And he looks back and He he said, I don't uh it's just mind-boggling to me to see God working in preparation for this. And he told a story of how his wife was after him to to get family portraits done And he says, you know, I I grab my camera and I joke around and take a couple pictures and say there you go. She's like, no, Gene, we need to get pictures. We need family portrait done. And she he said she just stayed on me to get it done. And and we finally went out and took a day, we got the portraits done. He said, then we got home and uh she's immediately as soon as we got home She says, I want it printed out. I want a big full, I want a big picture right here on the wall. I want it printed out. And Jean's like, okay, we'll get to it. And she's like, no, no, no, we're not going to get to it. We're going to get it done. And literally just a couple of days before the accident, they hung that picture on the wall in their house. Tears running down his face. He says he can't Imagine what it means to me to have that hanging there. And he talked about other things, about God's direction in the weeks up to that event. And he of course began to cry and he couldn't hardly talk. And you know, I'm not a hugger. I'm not a real affectionate guy. The Holy Spirit Said, you need to go over there and put your hand on him. I walked around the office. He was talking and crying and just put my hand on his back. Had nothing to say, but in my hand I was saying, I love ya. I don't know how Was that uncomfortable for me? That was uncomfortable for me. That was uncomfortable for me, but what I'm saying is that God opened the opportunity and God empowered me and says, This is what you need to do to minister to him right now. And not in my own strength, but in God's strength, I went and did what I wouldn't normally do. And beloved, in the power of God's strength, when God says, this is what I'm asking of you. When you're yielded to him, he says okay, and he empowers you to do it, and you'll go beyond yourself and you'll accomplish something that you don't think you could accomplish or that's beyond your comfort zone, and you'll be amazed. See what God would do with you. If you just said, Yes, Lord, I love you, and I want to be used of you. Who give you opportunities to lift your hands. What's in your heart to heaven? Lastly, I want you to see the elevation of this Ultimately, Christ said, if you love me, keep my commandments. That's the expression of love. Keep my commandments commandments. Christ asked Peter three times, Do you love me? Then feed my sheep. Beloved, one day every Every Christian's going to give an account of the things done in his body. And we're all looking to hear those words, well done. Thou good? And faithful servant. If we're going to hear those words, it can't just be something that's in here. It can't just be a love for Christ that remains in here. It has to come out and be put on We have to lift it because the evaluation day is coming. Day is coming. It's not just hand service In conclusion, let me say this. Hand service without the heart is just as bad. I have somewhat against thee because thou hast less thy first love. As I close this evening, I want you to understand the other side of this coin is if we are motivated in our service for the praise of men, Or because of the fear of men? Or we do what we do for any other reason than a heart motivated by love. If it's not the love of Christ that constraineth us, and our love for Him that does this. It's just as bad. You can stand up and sing with the tongue of angels In the most melodious tune. You might impress men, but beloved, if the heart is not in it, God is not impressed God is not impressed. Do you believe that God, who searches the hearts of all men and knows what's there Would accept such insincere service? How can he be pleased with an outward action in which the heart Does not share it. So it takes both. It takes the balance. It takes that love for Christ that comes from spending time with Christ, from building a relationship with Him, and out of that love of Christ comes the actions Which reach and impact the world. Maybe just our world. Maybe just our scope of influence. But if we would reach out with that kind of love, we would impact our world for Christ. Let us lift up our hand hearts with our hands. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Dear Lord