Amen. Take your Bibles. Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4. I appreciate the wisdom of your pastor this morning. As he said, we're here to celebrate. We're not in a hurry. Amen. We're not in a hurry right now for the Word of God. Mark chapter 4, verse 35. What a glorious day. If you can't preach after that, that singing group, you might as well hang it up. Amen. Mark chapter 4, verse 35. And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, let us pass over unto the other side. Now in Mark chapter 4, Christ wanted the disciples to cross over to the other side of the Sea of Galilee with him in a ship. However, today we often build bridges. so that we can cross a chasm or cross a river to the other side easily. Tuesday, March the 26th of this year, I checked my phone at 2. 30 in the morning. to see that there was a news alert that the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore had been hit by a ship and collapsed. And then we all saw the horror of that collapse repeated over and over again and the lost lives uh on TV. And now 30,000 vehicles that cross it daily have to take a long detour around the chasm there, around the bay. If you face a valley or a river and you want to get to the other side, you have to find a bridge and cross that bridge. Standing beside the bridge won't get you to the other side. Looking across the river and seeing your relatives and friends on the other side won't get you there. Wishing that you were there won't get you there. Dreaming about it and thinking about it and making Out of your pro and con sheet as to why you ought to cross the bridge. That won't get you there. You must cross the bridge to get to the other side. Jesus said, let us pass over unto the other side. The children of Israel didn't just face one crossing. Let me get my hearing aid put me back in there. Life is full of crossings, not just one crossing. Uh but we take one at a time. The Red Sea was a mighty crossing. It took faith to cross uh out of bondage and into freedom, and they did it. They crossed over. But that wasn't the end of their crossings. We read the Bible, they crossed the Arnon and the Jabbok and other rivers on their journey and their battles. We read of the miraculous crossing of the Jordan River later, when it was that flood stage, that was a miracle, but they crossed that river. Surely and I were in Revel Stoke, British Columbia and Canada, and headed south to Spokane Washington. There were many rivers in the way, many bodies of water. We came to Shelby Bay and there's no bridge there to cross, so we had to cross by ferry And that shelter bay ferry opened the the way for us to be able to cross other rivers and bridges. I'm persuaded that you and I face bridges in our lives. And the first bridge is Jesus Christ and our need of the cross. In order to cross the great divide between our sinful state and the heavenly holy Father on the other side, we need Jesus Christ. And that that will then open up the path to other bridges along the way. You have to listen to Christ's words to his disciples each time you come to another bridge in your life, his words are, let us pass over onto the other side. That's the title of the challenge this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus, I pray that you'll take this simple thought and multiply it for hearts and lives in this building that are this tent that are facing many bridges, different bridges. I pray that you'll give us courage to cross over, not look at them, dream about them, think about it, but cross over it and let it begin today in Jesus' name. Amen. Examine with me three three thoughts this morning and we'll be done. Of course I have seventy-eight sub points, but Number one, what's on the other side of the bridge? Well, we know that for the Israelites there were much greater opportunities on the other side of the bridge that they faced. They They'd have new liberty and blessings in the promised land. For the disciples in Mark chapter 4, there were much greater opportunities on the other side also There's the greater opportunity to see God demonstrate his power if we would be willing to cross the bridge that's in front of us. In Mark chapter five and verse two in the next chapter, uh after they passed over, they saw Christ cast out a demon out of a man. In verse 25, they saw Christ heal a woman with an issue. That wouldn't have happened if they hadn't crossed over. In verse 39, they saw Christ raise Ja Jairus's daughter from the dead. Wow, that must have been something. In chapter 6 and verse 30, after they passed over, they saw Christ feed the five thousand And in chapter 6 and verse 45 we saw Christ walk on the sea and calm the storm. Well those who cross the bridges that God sets before them, get to see God demonstrate his power in miraculous ways. There was the greater opportunity to be used of God to minister to others after they passed over to the other side with Jesus and Christ. Mark chapter 6 and verse 7. And he called unto them him the twelve and began to send them forth by two and two and gave them power over unclean spirits But before Christ sent them out, they had to cross over. Are you willing to cross over? What bridge is in front of you? that you've been looking at, thinking about, but you haven't crossed that bridge yet, and you need to. And when you do, great things can happen and they can happen to you. And you God can use you There's a greater opportunity to learn biblical truth. In Mark chapter 7, after they passed over with Jesus, he taught them many truths about God. Dear friend, you limit what God can teach you when you look at a bridge week after week and you refuse to cross it by faith The Lord wants you to grow in your knowledge of Him and His Word. But the next volume of information that you need to know is on the other side of the of the bridge that's in front of you and you need to cross over that God can teach you more. On the other side, definitely offers you greater opportunity to serve to see and to learn just like it did for Israel, the Old Testament, and the disciples in the New Testament. Number two Second thing we see here is that there had to be a time when they started out across the bridge. In 2003, we started praying about starting a church down this way. And we looked at every IE30. And we have another way to consider where we might start a church. Dave Block throughout very uh wisdom after he ends up. survey work recommended up valley Hawkinsville area. I came down and looked at different uh locations with him. We looked at a garage We looked at a corporation on North on York Road. We went in and surveyed it all. We looked at a church. That's a possibility. And we tested the Lord's principle of sowing and reaping. What a great principle that is. We have several days of visitation, saturating the area, inviting folks to a weekend meetings. I think it was in Oregon Ridge lodge and giving them flyers. We believe that if we sowed the seed that God would bring the harvest and we see a new church started uh boy, I'll tell you today just thrilled my soul. They see all that God has done here and to see those who received Christ and been baptized here. Wonderful Sure enough, April of 2004, Hutt Valley started in a storefront on the southeast corner of West Timonium Road and Green Springs Drive in Timonium. And we Cross that bridge. It started. Amen. Good things can happen when you cross the bridge, and when you're willing to sow, you'll see reaping. And then you remodeled the people of Up Valley at that time, remodeled and subsequently built that building. But see, somebody had to take the first step to open the doors and say, Let us pass over onto the other side And you did it and you kneeled to it and the people it that were there at that time. Then you Then came another challenge and God opened the door for you to cross over and buy the property that you have where the church building is. But it was an expensive toll bridge. And still the believers in this church at that time crossed over by faith, sowed the seed. and bought that property. They believed God and God rewarded their faith and did them with this property. I believe they believed God and bought this property. you then uh just off of I-83. What a wonderful location and a great property. And you believe God and passed over to the other side and bought it and fought court battles and prayed and interceded and fasted and God provided the increase when you crossed over Amen. But nine, ten years ago, your pastor was struggling with whether or not to step forward and the uh Buddhist layman had to be the pastor. I talked to him several times and uh your pastor Today looked at that day looked at that bridge for months. One day, after much prayer. He crossed that bridge by faith. And thank God that he did. I love your pastor. He's got a heart for the area. He's got a heart for you and for God You come today and you're listening to God's word. God keeps placing new bridges before us. Is that not true? New bridges. And so it may be a challenge of committing more divisions. It may be the crossing of a a bridge of getting behind your pastor's vision uh for this church in this area. It may be costing the grace of making Christ and his church the center of your life, for I believe that's exactly what the church ought to be. The center. Christ sent the at the helm and uh made the build everything around the church. And it may be the crossing of a bridge or giving up a habit in your life or the wrong music or something else that's dragging you down in your Christian walk and you're at the bridge and you see what could happen. God can use you in a greater way. If you would give that up, it may be to start tithing to get or to get back to tithing, or uh the bridge of surrendering to do a particular ministry that's needed, or uh crossing a bridge of surrendering Forgiving someone or apologizing to someone, we often leave that out. But we go around with hurt feelings and And spend life with that. We don't need to. It's a good cross that forgive and apologize, whatever you need to do. There are any number of bridges that God brings into our lives. And you have probably known what your bridge is for quite a while. you've been considering passing over that bridge and you've been counting the cost, but there has to be a day and a moment that you start across the bridge I'm going to do it today. There's the bridge and I'm going to cross it. There has to be a day to start it when you say, I'm going to believe God and cross over my bridge today. And remember Christ's words. They're very important about this. He said, let us pass over unto the other side. You don't pass over by yourself. You don't have to be afraid. You won't cross this thing alone. He is passing over with you. He will assist you as you cross over. Maybe it's time to step out by faith again. You've done that before in your life, but it's been a while. Now it's time to step out again. Maybe it's time to get a vision again And give a dream again and see what God could do in your life again. And you need to cross over. Today is the day to quit looking and thinking about it And quit saying I can't, I can't, I can't, that'll never get anything done. Today is the day to quit making excuses Why you can't or why you shouldn't, it's a time to be led by the Spirit of God and cross over the bridge that God's put in front of you Today is the day to pass over with him and see what great opportunities are on the other side. There has to be a time when it starts. And when it starts, then there'll be great opportunities when you pass over. The last point. There's always a challenge to cross it. Mark chapter 4, verse 37, turn there with me. 437. And there arose a great storm of wind. And the waves beat into the ship so that it was now full. This is spiritual warfare. Did you notice that there wasn't a storm of wind or waves until they tried to obey Jesus and cross to the other side? Did you see that? The storm came afterward. As soon as they started in verse 35, the storm arose in verse 37 Did you think that there won't be some challenge trying to prevent you from making it to the other side? Yeah, there's always a challenge to crossing a bridge. Not everyone will encourage you to cross the bridge that God sets in front of you. It brings them under conviction that God has bridges for them to cross that they're ignoring And so they don't encourage you to cross that bridge. For the disciples, there arose a great storm of wind. And you need to brace yourself for a barrage of false thinking and false advice when you decide to cross that bridge. All you need to know is, number one, know what the Bible says. And number two, that Christ wants you to do it. Amen. That solves whatever arguments you will face. Get advice from your pastor, don't bypass that. But otherwise you ought to cross the bridge. I want you to notice how Jesus, his direction and his purpose, was affected by these winds. In verse 38, Christ is not the least bit threatened by those winds. Not at all. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep. On a pillow, and they awake him. Notice the wind didn't awake him or the storm, they had to awake him and say unto the Master, carrest thou not that we perish While the storm winds blew the greatest uh greatest winds Rocking the ship that they were in, Jesus was asleep. It didn't scare him or upset him in the least. And don't let it shake him either. Don't let the the storm Or the things that occur to try to hinder you, don't let it uh shake you. If he is secure, we are secure. So just know that the winds of false reasoning will come to discourage you from fully crossing uh that that gorge and crossing over of the bridge Go be into it. And then, secondly, how is Christ affected by the winds of false teaching? Well how is that? In verse 39, and he arose and rebuked the wind. He's not affected at all by those things that happened to try to dissuade us. He has the power over the wind and we have Christ. So we're gonna make it. And then how is Christ affected by winds Well, Christ reveals unto us our greatest need when we face storhoes. In verse 40, and he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? In other words, the storm winds reveal our need. They reveal what we're lacking It allows God to put his finger on something in our life that needs uh attention. And so uh we Build up and faith in him through facing the storms. We should not let the storms uh stop us from crossing the bridge. Finally, what are the types of bridges that we face today. There's the first bridge, the bridge of salvation. The lost look at this bridge and they say, you know My friends across that bridge. Yes sir. And they seem really happy. And they seem like uh you know they have found a newly sound I know but they have crossed that bridge. I don't know, maybe I should cross it too. And they look at the first bridge. They see the chasm that's caused by their sin. They see a holy God on the other side, but a light of victory on the other side. They talk to those who have crossed over and they read the Bible or come to hear preaching like today and they realize they ought to cross over They muse about it, they think about it, sometimes think too much, and they sometimes worry about what others will say if they cross over. They contemplate crossing over, but they're still lost in their sin and still headed to hell unless they see Christ It's the only bridge to God. Until they see that. All the other bridges that man has tried to build to God over the Gulf of Sin have fallen short. The bridge is out. You can't cross over any other way. Only the bricks that God build himself by sending his Son, Jesus Christ, will bring us safely and safely to the other side. Today I encourage you It's time to quit thinking about and weighing the decision. You've done plenty of that. It's time for you to get on the bridge. Start. Pass over unto the other side by faith and be saved. Repent of your sins and trust Christ alone. to save your soul. Amen. That'd be a wonderful bridge for someone to cross today. I'll give you the opportunity in just a few moments to make that decision and get on the other side of that bridge. But then some believers who have passed over the salvation bridge are stuck at another bridge in their life. It may be the bridge of water baptism. And they're stuck and they won't cross over and get water baptized. It may be the bridge of of church membership And they've gotten saved, but now they haven't been baptized. They won't yield to the Lord, take membership in a Bible-believing church like this. Amen. This is where you ought to be a member. And then there's the bridge of confession for no sin. And we need to cross that. If we have no sin in our life, confess that before God and He's faithful and just first forgive us. There's the bridge of attending all the services. I mean it's a schedule change. It's a life change. that we have church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. And there's a bridge in a person's life after they get saved where they say, you know what I need to learn more about the Bible. I need to be around God's people more. And I need to hear preaching. I'm going to be there every time the door is open. You've got to cross that bridge in your life. If you haven't done that yet, that's the bridge that God's tried to get you to start across. Financially, there's the bridge of giving of our tithes and offerings and missions. In service, there's the bridge of involvement in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ ought to be the center of the community. And people would look at it that way if we looked at it that way. Right. And we ought to be involved in our church. And so um God deserves a return on all that He's done for us If you are at the bridge of involvement, remember Jesus said, let us pass over unto the other side. One last verse and we're done. 2 Samuel 17, would you go there with me, please? 2 Samuel chapter 17 and verse 16. By the way, don't drag your feet passing over to the other side. It's 1716. Now therefore send quickly and tell David saying, Lock not this night in the plains of the wilderness, but oh, here it is Speedily Passover, lest the king be swallowed up and all the people that are with him. In other words, don't wait another day Don't sleep on this decision. There's a danger in waiting to make a right decision. If you're standing before a bridge and it's a one that God set before you, that's a right decision There's a danger in not doing what you know that God wants you to do. Therefore, do it today. Do it speedily. Do it right now. And pass over today. What bridges God want you to cross today? Say it with Jesus. Let us pass over unto the other side.