Turn to your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter number 4. If you'd allow me, I'm pretty much going to speak to the young people. Although it is applicable to any of us, the word of God is is powerful and it is available to us all and certainly is profitable to us all. And we'll allow the Holy Spirit to maybe apply the Word of God to each of us that are maybe a little bit older currently as I deal with this passage of scripture and uh try and really kind of this is youth night and uh maybe I'm just gonna try and focus and and point in on the youth here. We're going to speak this evening on the title of a message that comes right from the verse, Let No Man Despise Thy Youth. First Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 12. The Bible says, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believer in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, and in purity. This is youth night. We've heard from the young people about how God touched their life, how God stirred their heart and challenged them in one aspect or another of their life, where God moved upon them. Sadly, I believe many times we underestimate the ability of our youth. Not just the ability that they might have, but what God wants to do with them. What God wants to do through them. You see, there is an entire time of life that modern convenience and developed society has brought into an existence. It is those teenage years. It is that time of life when kids are no longer adolescents, but not yet adult. I want you to consider that this is a creation of the modern society where we've raised a group of kids to be To think in their heart and mind that, well, I'm not a kid, but I'm not an adult Therefore, I'm not so stupid, but I'm also not responsible for my actions because I'm not an adult. If you're not responsible, then you are still a child. I let you plug into 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse number 11 says, When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child. But when I became a teen, I played for eight or ten years And when I was ready in my mid-twenties I became a man. It's not found it what does it say? I I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. There is a time, a place, a transition when a when a young person moves into acting like an adult. And sadly, adults, we've allowed kids, these teens, which really should be acting like adults, we've allowed them to continue to act like adolescents. We haven't demanded of them what they're capable of. We have not pushed them or put upon them expectations for what God would want them to be. We've adopted this modern thought or philosophy that, oh, they've got about eight or ten years before they actually have to commit and be responsible and do what's right. They can wait around and now that that that time has extended into mid and late 20s where young men and ladies still haven't decided whether they're going to be an adult or not. What I'm saying is whether they're going to be responsible or not, whether they're going to actually do what's right or not. Whether they're going to get out of bed in the morning when the alarm goes off and go to work like they're supposed to. They're still acting like a child. Well, I want to encourage you young people this morning that you don't have to do that. God has a plan for you. God has an expectation of you, even if your parents don't or your church doesn't. God does. God wants to use the young man and the young lady who is obedient to him. Sadly, in our churches, we've allowed young people to exist without any expectation of responsibility. or activity. And our young people have successfully risen to that level of nothing. Because we haven't pushed them. God wants to use you Yes, there are many great men and women in the Bible that we talk about and we read and we proclaim how God used them, but there are many, many of the Bible stories that we use that are young people. The story is literally somebody who would fit into our modern teen years. And yet, for these thousands of years, we have preached messages of how they stood. And they have stood as a example of the believer. To adults for generations and generations, even though they were just teenagers, like Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abindnego. Taken from their home when they were young, and yet stood as an example of the believer. The greatest honor bestowed upon a woman to bear Jesus Christ was a young lady. Joseph, just a boy, when he was sold into slavery. David, just a teen when he faced Goliath Solomon became a king, and by his own testament, his own words, he said, I am but a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in. Josiah was just eight when he began to reign, yet he led the people after God. Some of you young people tonight, you need to heed the admonition given by Jeremiah In Jeremiah chapter 1, verses 4 through 8, he says, Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and before thou camest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee. And I ordain thee a prophet unto the nations. This is the cry of most of our young people today. This is Jeremiah. He said, Then said I, Ah, Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child. But the Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee And whosoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Jeremiah said, Oh no, Lord, I can't do that. I'm just a child. I can't do that. I'm just a teenager. You can't put that on me. I'm not responsible enough for that. God looked at him and said, don't use that excuse. Don't say you're just a child, you're just a teen, and you can't do that The time's come for you to put away childish things. The time's come for you to take responsibility and to be a man, to be a woman. You say, but I'm only 14, I'm only fifteen, I'm only I I I wasn't expecting to have to be a man until I was twenty-four. There's a problem. It's time for you to be a man, to be a woman today. To put away childish things. Our text verse tonight, Paul was talking to Timothy, and he says, let no man despise thy youth. He says, you know how to be the kind of young man that when people look at you, they don't say, oh, there's a kid in a man's body. Adults, how many twenty, thirty year olds have you have you l looked at and you said, uh man, when are they gonna grow up? When are they gonna stop acting like they're fifteen? Right, yeah. But do you know what you can be fifteen and act like you're twenty-five? Paul says, Timothy, let no man despise thy youth. You know how you can let how you can live in such a way that people don't despise your youth? They don't mock and make fun of the fact that you're just a kid? Be an example of the believer in word and in conversation and charity and faith and spirit and impurity. Right. And you can do that, and it has nothing to do with how many birthdays you've had. Right, right. It has to do with a heart decision. With the heart decision So he says here to be an example of the believer. He says first of all in word, and we won't be long. I'm going to fly through these here. The outline's right in the text. You know where we're going. He says, first of all, regarding your conversation, be an example. The words that you use, the words that you speak should communicate to all that hear you that you are a Christian. That you have some depth of maturity about you. The foolish talk needs to be thrown out. The ridiculous conversations need to be done with. You need to learn how to stop that stuff. To be an example of the believer, you've got to be an example in your conversation, the things that you say. Right. You say, well why don't they ever give me any responsibility? Because you're still talking like you're ten years old. A believer, I don't care how old he is, and I don't think this is a problem in this room, but I want you to know that a believer that's going to be an example of the believer Controls what he says. And it doesn't matter what happens. There's no place in the vocabulary of a Christian for cursed words. No place. Some of these young people heard a pastor this week. Cussed at them. And he looked at him and he said, you're right, I just said that. I said it out loud and I said it to your face. And he felt he was justified because some of these kids are being disrespectful and there's no room for that disrespect. But it doesn't matter what happens. There's no reason and no excuse for a Christian to use foul language. You need to be able to control this this mouth. You need to be able to control what comes out of it. I don't know that cursing is the problem with these young people, but you know what? The Bible goes way beyond cursing. He says, let no corrupt communication come out of your mouth. You need to control the worldly slangs that are part of your conversation. The desire to speak and sound like the kids on the street, like the latest TikTok video you've seen. Like society. That's not what Christians sound like. If you're gonna be an example of the believer, you need to control Ephesians 5 verse 4 says, neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather the giving of thanks. Yeah. Crude language is from the gutter and it needs to stay there. Young people, we don't need to be discussing bodily functions. This is not conversation for somebody that's going to be an example of the believer. You do not need to be discussing Your underwear. Underclothes, under garments. Jokes about those things are crude. Yeah. There's no place then for it in the conversation of somebody that wants to be an example of a believer. You do not need to be discussing immoral activity. Having conversations concerning the opposite sex. Yeah. And if that's an example of a believer or not. And I'm just trying to encourage you tonight, maybe as maybe as as pastor and staff and his leaders, we we failed you a little bit by by not having uh a higher expectation of your ability. But I want you to understand that God still has an expectation. Right, right. And he wants you to be an example. An example of the believer in your conversation. In what you say. We see he wants you to be an example of the believer in your conduct. That is literally what the word conversation in the text means. Your conversation, it means conduct. The first word, the one be an example of word, is dealing with your conversation that you speak. This word conversation is talking about your conduct. Be an example in the conduct, how you behave Beloved, old as a believer, old things are passed away and all things are become new. We're to put off the old things and to put on the new things. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 20 through 24 says. . But ye have not so learned Christ, if so be that ye have heard of him, and have been taught by him as the truth in Jesus. . that ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man. You put off the old man. There's some old things that you used to do that you don't do anymore. You say, well I've grown up in church my whole life And and I never really uh I I didn't have to give up the bar, and I didn't have to give up drinking, I didn't have to give up cursing, and and my life didn't really change. But there is an old man That is that fleshly man that wants you to sin and do wrong. And there's a new man that wars in your members that wants you to do what's right. And you make a choice to put one off or put one on. To be an example of the believer in your conversation. Do you have a new walk today? Not just your actions alone, but your attitude. We had a couple people mention the the attitude, how important and critical that is. You know the the old adage. The child was told by his mom to go in the co have a seat and sit down, and he went and sat down, and then he said, I'm sitting down on the outside, but on the inside I'm standing up. He wasn't sitting down. How's your attitude with your parents and with the authority that's in your life? To be an example of the believer, you're going to have the right attitude. You're going to have the right actions. How is your conduct tonight? Is it becoming of a Christian? Are you going to wait? In your mind, you think, well, I'm just a teen, so I'll wait until I'm 19 or until I'm 20 or I'm 21 to actually take serious Living as a Christian. How many of you are sixteen years old? Just one over there. Two, three. Do you know Steve Spurgeon was preaching to crowds of over 5,000 people every single week at 16 years old? He was preaching the Word of God to over 5,000 men and women, adults At sixteen. We failed you. Because we said you're just a kid and you can't do it. You can do it. This can be real to you. God can be real to you at sixteen years old. God can meet with you in the morning and God can answer your prayers and God can be just as powerful in your life as he is in my life. And he wants to be. But we've let you guys exist and live in this la la land where you get to just play. Well, you make up your mind and decide what you want to do with your life. But God has a plan for your life. He has an expectation. Are you going to be an example? of the believer in your conversation, how you act, what you do as a Christian He says, be an example in charity. That of course is in love. How you love other people. There's no reason that God's people can't get along. There's no reason you young people can't get along. It's only by pride that cometh contention And you hear about these little spats between different people, these young people, and this problem and that problem, and he said this, and he did that, and he said this, and I'm not talking to him. Grow up. You say, well I'm just 14. Grow up. You're 14, and you know what? When you're 25, you're going to be coming to the pastor about somebody else in the church that said something about you. Because you haven't learned how to deal with it. There's no reason God's people can't get along. Only by pride cometh contention. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, that ye have love for one for another. Do you know, beloved, that great passage on love in 1 Corinthians chapter 13? That great passage on love, do you know that in that passage on love is where we have the verse, when I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. You know, a child by nature is a consumer. A child by nature, the younger they are, the more they consume. They don't really give out. These babies are good for nothing. They just eat, just just sleep They steal your sleep. They don't even respond. You're s you're you're putting forth so much effort and they don't even do nothing You're like, can I get a smile at least? You know, you work so hard just to get a smile. They they don't they don't but that transition comes the older you get you stop living for self You stop being a consumer and you start being a giver. You start showing and giving love instead of just accepting it. One of the reasons so many young people have such bad attitudes is because they're just a consumer. Because they've just been receiving love, receiving love. Mom and dad have been taking care of them. Mom and dad have been meeting every need. Mom and dad have been supplying everything. And they've just been taking it all in. And they're becoming disgruntled and disquieted and upset with mom and dad when all mom and dad has done is try and love them. But see when you grow up, when you put off childish things, you start to give out a little bit. We see here he says be an example in control. That is in your spirit. In the control of your spirit. You know, a man that's not in control of his spirit is like a city with his walls broken down. This is vitally important. And you know when you learn this? It starts at Titus and Andrew's age. And some of you might have to discipline yourself to be in control of your spirit. How do you respond when things don't go your way? My kids know when they come and ask me for something. Sometimes I just say no just to see how they're gonna respond. They come and ask me, can I go to so and so's house? And I said, No, I don't think so. And if they're like, Well I don't know why this is you know, life isn't fair, you're so mean. No, they don't respond like that. There would be a lot bigger request and but if they have a bad attitude, if they're if they go pout But I'm watching for the response, and if their response is okay, and they go to play and do whatever and they're they have a good spirit, then I'll go back and say, hey, I appreciate your spirit. Yeah. I think I think it's okay, you can do that. Why don't you go ahead and do it? How do you respond when things don't go your way? You'll sit in a corner and pout? That's childish. Right, yeah. You're seventeen and you're acting like you're six. Yeah. See it's supposed to be growing up here. You're supposed to be growing to the point where you can put that away. How how are you in your spirit? Can you take no and be okay with it? Can you take a responsibility? Mom or dad say, hey, I need you to do this, and you say, oh man, I was planning to play all afternoon. Now I have a job. Is that okay? And you say that's oh yeah, that's fine, mom. That's fine. I'll I'll get it done for you. Changing your plans? Being in control of your spirit. That's the example of a believer. He says here also be an example in your confidence. That's in your faith. Do you have confidence in God? Do you have faith in God? We know that without faith it's impossible to please him. We don't have faith because we're strong or because we're smart or because we're successful. We have faith. We have confidence in God because God is trustworthy. God wants to do amazing things in our lives. Your confidence should be in him. Not in your hand. But in God. We see lastly here, he says, example in our cleanliness, in our purity. Listen, this is hard in our modern society, with all the loose morals and the complete acceptance of every kind of perversity. We live in such a wicked world that you're considered conservative and moral if you just have sex with the opposite sex. You're considered conservative and moral if that's what you do. But God has a different standard. It may be accepted in society today. It may be promoted. People mock and make fun of you if you aren't involved in sexual activity. And or you're living in it. It's the way they communicate, isn't it? It's what they talk about, isn't it? In this world But that's not what God wants. He wants you to be pure, to be an example of the believer. Listen to me tonight If you're touching someone with the opposite gender, you are not in a right relationship with God. You can't be. Because you're defiling the holy the temple of the Holy Spirit. The Bible still says it's good for a man not to touch a woman. And I'm not gonna dig into it and and and chase down chase down this rabbit too far, but it it's a biblical principle. God wants you to remain pure and clean until the marriage day. In today's society that's extremely hard. That's difficult. But do you know that God's standard doesn't begin right here? God's standard begins right here. God's standard says if you think upon a maid to lust after her in your heart, you have committed adultery already. So if you're going to be an example, young man, if you're going to be an example, young lady, it's not just refraining from what you do with these. It's all the way back here where you control what's happening up in your mind. And that means you gotta be careful what you listen to and what you watch. What TikTok videos you put through these eye gates. You have the ability with the devices that you carry. Most of you have devices And if you want to find it there's a way around it. There's a way around it. I have parental security, you know, put on my kids' phones. But I know there's ways around it. There's always a way to try and cheat the system. And when it comes down to is are you going to be a man? Are you going to be a lady? And be an example of the believer. That means you do what's right because it's right to do. Or are you gonna act like a child and do what you can get away with? Be an example of the believer in purity. Paul told Timothy, if you're going to be used by God. Be an example. Our young people can and should be active in the Lord's work. We've got examples all through the scriptures of young men and young ladies doing great and mighty things for God. And somehow we've allowed them to sit on the sidelines and said, well nothing's gonna be expected of you until you're twenty-five. Tell you graduated from Bible college. You don't have to have a walk with God. You don't have to be real. You don't have to be serious. You can just take 10 years and figure it out Do you remember Jesus Himself? When his parents forgot him. You ever been forget forgotten by your parents? Well they left you somewhere by accident. Oops. They came back and said, Jesus. Where are you? And he says, What? Know you not that I must be about my father's business? See, Jesus wasn't taking the time when his parents were away to get away with anything he could. He knew even as a boy that his father, that our father, had an expectation. And he took that time to be an example, even to his mom and dad. What, know ye not that I must be about my father's business?