Well, amen. I uh appreciate all the kind words. Uh Mary has a lot of talent and uh it would take me a a while to mention those She is definitely one of those that has the gift of teaching. The Lord has blessed her with that as far as the burden to see that information imparted, kids to understand it and so forth. So I definitely have always appreciated that about her. Um a couple things uh as far as myself. Uh I went to Curhaven as well and um graduated obviously a few years before Caleb because I'm older than he was. I was telling somebody at church the other night that I was seven when Caleb was born and I remember washing out the cloth diapers at seven. And I I I uh obviously took care of him as well as Becca who was the next one and and uh enjoyed that. I have always loved children. Well, we've been married now for thirty six years, but for the first seven and a half years we did not have children. wanted children, we thought, you get married, you have children. That's what happened. It didn't happen. And a after seven and a half years we adopted one and at twelve years I got pregnant. Had never done anything to keep from having kids, had never done anything to try to have kids other than begging God. Twelve years I got pregnant. I was twenty weeks and the the lawyer called and said the birth mother wants to know if you want another baby. So we had we went to the hospital and got Sharon when we'd been married seven years, seven and a half years, and then we went to the hospital and got Seth eight days before I had our first natural born. So I had two boys that were eight days apart, which was made for a lot of questions when she goes checkout. So anyway we thought well we had our miracles then uh nineteen months later and twenty-one months later and fifteen months later and twenty-one months later and anyway, so no natural born children until I was thirty-five, and between thirty-five and forty-three we had six and three mysteries So the Lord did bless. Uh it just took us a while. Uh Dr. Brown, Larry Brown prayed over us at one time and he he told us now once you're in the program, you're in the program. And so we live that true truly. And uh anyway, the Lord's blessed. We've been now in Kansas over thirty one years. Uh uh the June will be thirty two And we're grateful for the ministries and so forth that the Lord's given us. Our youngest two are in high school, the youngest two girls. And uh we're just, you know, my husband told the daughter that's at school with Melissa Battrell uh they're at the same college, but he told her, You don't have to finish college, God might have you get married. So I mean she's not even dating or talking to anyone or whatever, but thinking, Oh, she's not gonna finish c I had to finish college Anyway, but Uh so I d I don't know if he's in the mode of, you know, come on you guys. Get out of this house. But anyway, we uh have enjoyed the Lord giving us children and um seeing the way the Lord works over the years What I wanted to talk about and the reason I titled it Let's Clean House is more specifically towards our hearts And it's almost with the same principle as what Pastor brought out, my husband brought out in the first session, as far as if we can get ourselves right the other things many times will fall into place. A few things I wanted to point out. Um, you know, when you talk about cleaning house, when I was little I used to to uh imagine that we would get one of those machines like the cat and the hat and they would come and clean the whole house for us. Obviously that didn't happen. Um and who would have thought we now have robot vacuum cleaners and things that can actually do things automatically Um, I remember once uh when my mom asked me to do something and I said, you know, I think you just had kids so that they'll keep the house clean for you. She said, Honey, if I didn't have kids I wouldn't have to clean the house. Um my my mother-in-law talking about cleaning, my mother-in-law uh went out one time they were hu in Kansas to visit and she had gone out to to uh put something in our car And when she got to the car, she thought, man, Stasha's really let this car go And she uh went in ho in the church building, got a garbage bag and was out pulling all the garbage out and putting it in this bag And this girl at church walks up to her and said, Mrs. Hanks, can I help you with something? And my mother in law said, No, I'm just trying to help Stasia out and she said That's our car. My my mother-in-law hands her the bag and says, Well, I gotta head start with Georgia. Anyway She couldn't my mother-in-law said I was thinking the whole time, I cannot believe she'd let the car go like this. I can't believe all this garbage is in my car. It wasn't my car, praise the Lord. Anyway, but Uh everybody has a different idea of clean. Some people their cleaning methods are let's attack the neediest part before it's beyond help. And that's the mentality some people have certain methods that they use, there are a lot of different ones recommended. But we really know that all of us all of us the best way is constant maintenance. It's not just like, okay, I haven't cleaned for a year, so now I've got to do something, you know. We have to maintain a little more often than that. Um the Bible tells us in Matthew 23, verses 25 and 26. I do have the verses typed out, some of them I will read. So you won't have to turn to all of them, but I will try to give you the references in case you do not um have them uh all written in front of you. But Matthew 23, 25, and 26 says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye make the outside of the cup and make clean the outside of the cup and the platter, but within they are full of ex distortion and excess, thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which was this with is within with the cup and platter, that the outside may then be clean also. And it's just the story of the Pharisees, they're a very familiar story, but we can see that We need to clean the inside, but not just the outside. Uh let's go ahead and ask the Lord's blessing Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you for this session. I pray that you would help us to get maybe even one thing that would be a help to us that will change our lives, that will change our marriage, that will change our homes, and help us to be willing to change that one thing Or that it would just be one thing that would help us to be better at what you have called us to do in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so the first thing is why should I clean? You know, uh kids use they say, Well, why should I clean that? It's just gonna get dirty again and you have to say, Well, you can't wait you can't say you can't do your room just because it's gonna get dirty again. That's what happens. Obviously eventually you have to wash dishes because They're all dirty and something it's going to get dirty again, but it has to be clean. Uh as a mom you say, well no one else is gonna do it, I'm gonna have to get it done. You know, there's there's different responses to why should I clean? But Uh when it comes to our own lives, God wants us to be a clean vessel. You know, um sometimes when there is so much uh dirt, decay, sin, whatever in our lives, it's difficult for the good that God wants to put in our heart. You know, we're sitting in a service, the Lord speaking to us, but he can't get in, can't fit in with all the stuff that we've clogged our lives with. Uh the first reason then is because the Lord sees our hearts. You know, the Bible tells us in um Proverbs 16, 2, all the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. The Lord knows exactly what we're thinking. There are times that we are happy that other people don't know what we're thinking because it may not be the most positive, but But the Lord knows our hearts. So the Lord knows if we are bitter against our husbands or against another person. The Lord knows our hearts. So the Lord sees our hearts. Uh in 1 Samuel 6. 7, very familiar verse tells us that the Lord looks on the heart. Man looks on the outward appearance. So sometimes because those around us can see it, we spend more time on what people can see. You know, it's like the the old thing where, oh, people are coming over, put it all in the closet, shove it under the bed, you know, where you're trying to get cleaned up before people show up Because the outside might look clean, but the inside is not clean. And I'm not here to judge how you do your house or don't. If we have time, I actually have a list of little helpful hints on things that work for me, but Anyway, I just want to reiterate to us that it's important for us to clean because the Lord sees our hearts. Knowing if we are bitter towards somebody, knowing if we have have bad feelings towards our husband, knowing the way we talk to him when no one else is there knowing how we criticize him or or uh say negative things to our children or in front of our children that should not be said. And so it's important for us to realize and remember that the Lord keeps the heart Uh the second reason is because the Lord wants to bless us. Um God does truly want to bless us. And He is holding all these blessings. I think of Um, my husband really likes to do things for the kids. And all they have to say is, Dad, can we get coffee this morning? Sure, where do you want to stop? You know, like that's a that's about it. Now this is Child seven and eight. This is not child one. At child one with multiples, whatever, it was not Where do you want one stop? It was what? That's too expensive, you know? And so it's a it's a little bit different mentality. But Just the point that a father wants to, desires to do things for his children. I feel like God is the same way. He's right there waiting for us to ask, wants to bless us. But do you think that if One of the girls was at odds with her father because of not cleaning the room or something that happened that morning that they're even going to ask, let alone that he is going to say, Oh sure, where do you want to stop Oh, it's the same with God. When our hearts are clean, we can ask him anything and he's just saying, sure, where do you want to stop? Instead, it's well I'm not gonna ask God, he's not gonna bless me right now because he knows what I'm thinking about. And so we are harboring those things in our hearts and th and so we don't have a clean heart in that respect Um, he wants us to bless us so much. The third reason is because the Lord wants to use us. You know, the Lord cannot use a dirty vessel. Um Deuteronomy ten twelve says, And now Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but to fear the Lord, thy God, to walk in his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord. thy God with all thy heart and soul. Um, that's what the Lord wants to do. He wants to bless us. So He wants to use us. Um, physically it's not fun to be near someone who is not clean. We uh I had a roommate in college and she did not ever do her laundry. And it was very bad. I went and talked to Mrs. Leslie and I said, I don't know what to do about this girl, she doesn't wash her clothes. She hangs them back up. She has not washed her sheets. This was several months into the school year. Has not washed her sheets one time. rarely takes a shower. I said, I just don't know what to do. I have said and we had to pay for laundry, but I have offered like I'll I'll take her clothes and throw 'em in with mine. You have anything I can pull your sheets off and wash her sheets while I'm washing mine. I was trying to help, but she did not she would spray Lady Sessin all over her clothes. To this day I that smell brings back really bad memory. But nobody enjoys being around somebody that has foul odor I think of it that way in the with the Lord. He does not enjoy being around us, does not enjoy spending time with us, and also does not want to use us, does not want to when our hearts are filthy and smelly. It's important for us to have our hearts clean. The Lord does want to bless us and He wants to use us. The second thing is, how should I clean? Now obviously it's not a simple thing. Um, you know, cleaning is a constant maintenance, but um the the first way, you know, you can hire someone to clean your house I mean if you have money. You can hire someone to take care of you physically. You cannot hire someone to clean your heart. That it's not it's not possible. You can ask the Lord to clean your heart you although it may di be difficult. But that's the first thing. Ask for God's help. That's the first way we can get our hearts clean. Psalm fifty one, seven and ten purge me with hyssop and I shall be cleaned. Wash me and I shall be white in the snow. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. It's important that we desire a clean heart. It has to start there. We can't we don't get a clean heart just because we go to church every week or because we are Christians or because our husband is in the ministry. We we get a clean heart because we desire one and we ask God to help us get one. So the first way is to ask for God's help. Um we need his help to to stay clean. We should ask the one who knows how to help. You can ask your friend, you can listen to things on the internet, you can do a lot of things, but the one thing that will help is to ask God. And of course, this what Pastor went over in the first session. covers a lot of that. The second way is to use God's Word. The Bible tells us in E Ephesians 5. 26 that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. The Word of God helps us in ways we do not even realize or cannot see. W Pastor Git always gives the illustration that when you take medicine and he'll ask people, you take any medicine, and they'll say whatever it is, and then he'll say, What's in it? They say, I don't know that they take it because they're trusting that it does something for them and and you know it helps keep their blood pressure down or whatever it is that the medication is supposed to do. But in our case we're telling w we're saying the the word of God helps. You n not you can't physically see, you know, the water washing a dish and being clean But in our hearts, when we read God's word and let that go through us, listen to it, listen to preaching so many ways that we can get it, it cleans our hearts And that's what's important. You know the the uh illustration of the the at the car wash there's always these signs, free vacuums And you can y your car needs vacuumed out and so you drive by and oh there's that sign again, free vacuum. Does that clean your car? No. You can drive up and sit next to it But if you don't get out and actually use the vacuum, it doesn't clean your car. It's the same way. The word of God's right there. We we have it. But we can have it on our shelf, carry it in our car to church, bring it home from church, put it back on the shelf. It's there, but we're not using it. And that it's it's not going to do any good for us. So um many people like to use certain cleaning products and they claim they work the best. I I have several that I like but one I love Dawn dish soap. I use that to get stains out, to get grease out and my kids are always I've had kids in the Christian school send stuff home with my kids for me to get the stinks out and send it back. They'll say, Oh, my mom can get that out and they'll show up with this sweatshirt or something that has paint on it or whatever. Whose is this now? Because I like Don and Dawn is a miracle worker as far as that. I like magic erasers. Um I don't like how fast they you know, go away. But I enjoy the the uh progress that you get when you're using magic graces. Those are two things that I like, but Um, they work, but God's work all word always works and it never runs out. It's not like okay, well we've used it up. We that we can't use any more of that today. It never runs out. It's always there and always continues to work So it's important for us to do that. Sorry, I'm having trouble with my bifocals. Uh trying to see the bottoms. Um anyway, so Um certain things work for people, but God's word always works. In John 15, 3 it says, Now ye are clean through the words with word which I have spoken unto you. Very familiar verse. Most of these verses are verses that you could probably quote. Many of you probably memorized them as a child. Um it's they're very familiar. And then the third thing, C is to filter your influences. And uh Proverbs thirteen twenty um tells us how to do that. I'm sorry I did not uh write that one down and so I had to turn to it. I usually in this case I will write down at least the first couple words because after that then I'll have it. But 1320 says, He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fool shall be destroyed. Um filter your influences. You know, we probably don't need uh to watch a bunch of people on the internet that are either not Christians or not my mother as my mother in law puts it, they're saved but not so saved. And obviously it's not very scriptural, but well what she means is they're not necessarily independent Baptist And so sometimes we um we can get caught up in uh people's influence that are not even in the right version of the Bible, let alone going the same direction we are. And so sometimes you ha need to filter what you're listening to. And now sometimes it's not internet. Sometimes it's a friend you have. If you have a friend that is Every time you get with them, you uh you guys spend time exchanging the the tea on somebody and that's not healthy either And so sometimes the influences that are in our lives are what is clogging our heart and filling it with what we would consider dirt or things that need to be washed out or cleansed. And so we need to make sure that whatever our inf influences are are not um causing this. We had a house that we bought one time was a uh what you call a hoarder's house And you literally walk in and there was a path to get to the master bedroom. I was actually gonna show you some pictures from it and my husband needed his iPad and so I didn't get to bring it but Uh I was cleaning it out and in the master bath next to the toilet was over two hundred and fifty empty toilet paper rolls. Only two people lived in the house. Can you imagine how long it had been since they had done any maintenance? Garbage everywhere, piles everywhere. In fact, when we bought the house we thought, well we're probably gonna have to do a lot of drywall repair. You know, you couldn't even get to any of the walls. So no walls had marks on them, they didn't have holes in them. The house was full of stuff. But one thing that we found in the house was probably a dozen assorted boxes of garbage bags and at least two full boxes of cleaning products. You know, bleach, spray, etcetera. So they had everything they needed. And and several vacuums. Anyway, they had everything they needed, but they didn't use any of it. But that's exactly like we are. We have everything we need. But are we using it? Are we using it to its full potential? Are we just getting our two verses a day a day or something? It's not going to do the same amount of good. So definitely it important. Okay, the the third thing that we want to talk about is when should I clean? Of course the Bible tells us daily. We need to clean daily It's a constant battle to keep things cleaning the dirt and mess pile up. Procrastination makes it worse. And the longer we procrastinate the worse the mess is and the easier it is to keep procrastinating. Not just with cleaning with everything. Procrastination is is difficult. But with cleaning our hearts the longer okay say you miss a day having a walk with the Lord, you know, having your devotions or having a prayer time and you are not uh spending that time with but it was just one day. And then one more. And then one more. And pretty soon it's to the place where you don't have time for it anymore because it's been like pushed out of your schedule or out of your life And the longer you put it off, the longer it it the easier it is to put it off longer. So it's important that you make time and that you do it daily. A constant maintenance, as we talked about before. First Corinthians 15, 31, I protest by your rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. You know, we have to crucify the flesh daily. We have to get rid of that bad spirit that wants to come up. We have to keep from being negative. We have there's things that we have to guard against But it's important for us to make that decision. You know, no matter how spiritual your husband is, he cannot keep your heart clean. Even if you have a spiritual child, several of my kids Uh honestly, I feel like they put me to shame as far as the time they get up and the amount of time that they spend with the Lord. I feel like they are very close to the Lord. But They, no matter how close they get to the Lord, they cannot clean my heart. I have to do it, and you have to do it. Um, we have opportunities to check our hearts. You know, most church services at the end of the service, there's an invitation. The invitation a lot of times for a mom, a teacher, a bus worker, so forth, into the service, our minds automatically go to I've got to pick up my kids. I have to get this food for the bus route. I have to grab that stuff from the Sunday school class. I have to get the food out of the oven that's to feed the people that I have to feed this afternoon You know, whatever it is, that's where your mind goes. When at the invitation is a perfect time for us to search our heart and ask the Lord, what is in there that should not be What is not in there there should be. And see if there's something in our lives that He wants us to get rid of Um, it's easy to find excuses. You know, sometimes we might say, as far as our walk with the Lord, we might say, well uh my schedule just doesn't allow it. Or I just have too many kids. Um there were days that I felt like that. Um I I remember at a at one point I felt like Sunday mornings, like nobody had it as hard as I had it. Um with number four I had Seth and Samuel were nineteen months and I had Silas. He he was born on a Wednesday. Uh the next Sunday I was in church. The next Sunday I started back teaching teen girls. And that's all it was. You know, I had three kids, nineteen months and under, and I was back teaching. There are times that you feel like no one has it as far as you do. The truth is we don't know what other people's lives hold, number one. Number two, the truth is it's a privilege to serve under any circumstances or whatever your schedule, it's a privilege. But there are times that we feel like no one else has it this hard. No one else has to have a baby and come back this fast. No one else has this many children they have to get ready. Now I will say my husband is one of the neatest people you ever need. He does put his clothes in the laundry He will make the bed. He I have never, ever picked up dirty clothes in 36 years. He always picked them up. He will make the bed unless I'm still in it. And he will and if he I get up between the time he comes home and if I haven't made the bed yet, he will be in there making the bed because it but he wants that done. He's very m very it's very important to him. He will check the kids' rooms uh in the mornings most times He wants to know before they leave the house, did you make your bed? Did you kiss your mother? You know, he's got several several things that he goes through that they need to have done, but definitely he wants their beds to be made And it's always very important. He does feel like making the bed is a test of character. And um fortunately he doesn't ask that question with adults But this this last year he was preaching at Alexanderson and he was uh there a few minutes early and he walked back into the dorm but that is back up to the auditorium and he saw this room that it was a disaster. So when he got in the pulpit he said, Whose room is such and such? And he had that boy some up. Of course he found out later the guy worked midnight and, you know, was trying to keep working and job, whatever, until the next morning he brought him a dozen donuts. But but I will tell you that boy has stopped us twice since we've been there because one of our boys is there and uh another boy and he said You changed my life. And the vic his roommate has said he has never once let it get that way again But is important to make the bed and he has always um checked the kids' rooms. And that one time w we had a small college for about twenty years And between 12 and 24 students, never never a huge college, but one time he went to the dorms and took pictures of all the rooms. and put them on the screen in the in the college classroom so that all the kids could see, okay, this is what the girls' room looks like that you see are dating and this is what the boys' room look like. So that helped them cure them of leaving the room a bad morning. Anyway, it he does feel like it's a sign of character and so he does like the bed to be made But I will tell you, because of being a pastor on a Sunday morning, he was no help. He never ever once dressed a child for church on Sunday morning. never found their shoes, would not know where to find their shoes or clothes or diapers. Out of eight children, he may be changed to diapers. But that was just me letting him be what God needed him to be for the ministry Now, if you have a husband that, you know, does as much cyber changing and feeding and so forth as you do, then just praise the Lord. But that was every I truly believe that every God makes every person a help meet for the person that God has been married. So sometimes we judge what other people should or shouldn't be when that's not the person that they are married to So each person needs to be the help meet their husband needs, not the help meet my husband needs. The bulk of people, because my husband does spur the moment, invite people. He has stood in the pulpit and said, What do we have to feed these people? So after church I have to have something for 150 people. So I'm trying to think, okay, okay. We we we might have enough hot dogs or we might have enough nachos or you know, like I'm going through my brain, what do we have over there? Uh we have chocolate left from candy sale, you know. I I don't know. I'm just trying to think of something and he has done that Well or I am making lunch on Sunday and he'll say I'm bringing twelve more people and I've had ladies in the church tell me my husband would never do that to me because I wouldn't put up with it. And in my mind I just say, Well that's why I'm married to him and you're married to him because God knew my husband needed me and your husband needed you and that he just worked all that out for us. But there's something to that as far as you have to be what your husband is needs for a help meet. So that's important. Um I want to share you one more point actually. Um what happens when I clean? Okay, so we know what happens when we clean the house. We just sit down and phew, you know, it just it feels so good. But John 15, 7 says, If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. So what does happen when we clean? God answers our prayers We can get a hold of him. There's no iniquity between him and us. That's important. So God does answer our prayers. You know, it's it's uh the equivalent of changing the oil on your car, you know, running your dishwasher or washer on a clean cycle with the solutions that help it clean all the parts inside. Those kind of things. You can't see what good it's doing, but it runs more efficiently, runs better, successful, and in the case of us, happier. But all of those things. Um It's every time that we are cleaning house or cleaning anything, I would encourage you thinking about, you know, when you're scrubbing the sink because you know there's stains in it or whatever, think about Is my heart clean? If my heart is clean is just think that I'm trying to scrub. And every time you're sweeping, vacuuming, you know, scrubbing something, doing laundry. I feel like the laundry never runs out Um I I uh wrote it on a another section here, but I saw a uh thing that said a child asked his mother where something was and she said it's on the couch. He said the couch for sitting or the couch for laundry? So I guess it makes a difference which couch if you have more than one. Anyway, so uh a few things I wanted to share with you since we it looks like we have a couple more minutes is a few house cleaning tips Now all of you have different things that work for you and some of you could probably give me ideas that would help me as well. But I just want to share a couple things Um, one thing that if you feel like it's overw overwhelming, do one face at a time. So sometimes we think, I just don't have time to clean the whole house. Clean off one counter. Clean clean off one table. Clean off one couch maybe. Clean one space at a time because sometimes if you just get that one area cleaned it might motivate you to to go a little further. Or at least you can be happy about that one thing that gets clean. But it's just like my husband always says, you don't eat a sandwich in one bite. It's a bite at a time Do the same thing with your house cleaning instead instead of being, you know, overwhelmed or you know defeated. Do do the one space at a time. Um the second thing is try not to handle things more than once Um this is a trick that helps because, okay, so if you're sorting the mail, you come in and you get the mail and you bring it um to the counter. Sometimes you set it on the counter, then you move it to the table or vice versa and then whatever. Stand over the garbage can, throw away everything that's garbage. Um in my house three four well I have two kids in college different places and I have one in college locally and then I have one that graduates from college but he still lives at home. So we have basically six adults that we get mailed for besides ourselves. So I put them in the slots and put my husband's on the end of the dining room table where he sits and studies and then I don't have to mess with it anymore and it's not a matter of moving the pile do to handle it once. Like if you have a dish, don't carry it from the table to the counter to the counter to the sink to the sink things to the dishwasher. Go from the table to the dishwasher if possible. Just to just if you can try to get in the habit of doing that, sometimes it just makes things go quicker and it's less of I don't have to do the dishes. You know, it's like most of them are taken care of. Um the the next thing is um when possible multitask. Now some people can't do this because they can't think and move. But I know because there's a uh a girl at church that does a lot of the cleaning. And when she talks to me she's not getting anything done. And so, um, she's the type of person that I can be backing away trying to get out the door. And she's still talking to me and following me out the door. And I'm trying to leave because I have to go teach English class or you know, whatever it is I have to do next. And she's still talking She cannot talk and work. So I understand there are people who are like that. But when people call me as a pastor's wife, you get people who call you and they just want to talk or they want to unload or they want to ask you a question. And if you can Do something at the same time. Or if you are cleaning something, put a message or some scripture or maybe even something enjoyable, music or something. on so that you're basically accomplishing two things at once, maybe feeding your spirit as well as getting something done. So when possible must multitask. If you have children At night, I mean I probably wouldn't try this with your husband, but at night, say, okay, if if this is what my mom used to do. If there's anything in this room that's yours, take it with you So uh shoes, toes, backpacks, whatever, take it with you. And that helped because that immediately got rid of, you know, three quarters of the best at least. And then sometimes she still had to say, uh Caleb, come back for your you know, whatever, 'cause there was something else in there that belonged to somebody. You know, it could have been balls or whatever, but there was always with him it was probably a skateboard. But anyway So um if you have children just have them take everything that belongs to them. One thing too is to get rid of stuff. Sometimes things become overwhelming because we have too much stuff I um am guilty of that as well. Every time I go to my mother's or my mother-in-law's, I come home and I say, Stetha, you have got to get rid of stuff. Because I can see how overwhelming that it can be. And many times, you know, if you just think of, okay, I personally at home I only have one drawer for utensils. So I have one drawer for sharp stuff, one drawer for utensils I don't like stuff on the counter, so I don't have a nice thing and the can opener and all this stuff on the counter. I don't like stuff on the counter. But I um have drawers. So I have a drawer for utensils. If it does not fit in that drawer, it does not stay in my house because I do not like having to jerk the drawer trying to get it open because the spatulas are all turned wonky and whatever. In the drawer I have a section for anything spoon or spoon related, anything not spoon, not and not related spoon. and try to just keep it simple because and we only have I I don't know, we have three or four specialists, a couple metal and one plastic or something. Whatever works for you, not everybody can do the same thing. But use the space you have and not say, oh, I have too many. I need to use another drawer or I need to put something on the counter or whatever. Just get rid of some things because you can't use five spatulas at one time anyway. So anyway, sometimes that will help. Um another thing is too, um okay, I kinda went over this limited amount number of cups. Seems like that is one thing that gets overwhelming in our house Everybody gives cups at Christmas and birthdays and Valentine's and whatever. And so you can imagine with so many in the house that it it grows and grows and grows So every few months I set them all on the counter, I say, okay, everybody take two and the rest are going to the garage sale pile or whatever and I just get rid of stuff. Now if you have some that are sentimental and mean something to you, whatever, if you don't really use them put them away somewhere. Or if you do use them, then you can keep them out. You can do whatever you want. It's your cabinets I'm not coming to inspect. But but definitely um Sometimes the solution is getting rid of stuff because if you have to like jam it in there and fit it this way and that way just so it can fit, probably have too much Okay, and then another way is to establish homes for things. What I mean by homes for things is a place where they go so that everybody knows that's where they go. We would have a shelf in uh the right inside the door of the house that we lived in at the time and all the kids' Bibles and King's kids books always went on the shelf And so if we were looking for them, that's where they were going to be. Or if we found them in another spot, they go to the shelf. Because when you have that, a lot of times you can get people in the routine of putting things back where they go and that uh helpful to get that accomplished. And then another thing is don't rate your accomplishments by some influencer or uh person that you have seen on Pinterest or whatever, like, okay, well if my home doesn't look like hers, then I just don't have a clean house. Well, you do what God tells you to do and put worrying about what the person who has the little perfect setup that doesn't have a real job. They make videos and whatever. And doesn't doesn't have children and don't work in the ministry and you know, whatever, all the things that we are required to do that um makes their lives a little bit different and does and quit trying to match up to other people. And so don't don't worry if it doesn't match up. Be happy with the progress that you have. And then another thing that helps me is to make a list of the things that you'd like to get done. Most of the time you don't get all the things done on the list, but at least it gives you something to cross off. And I have actually done things that weren't on the list and I write them on the list so I can put them on the list because it just gives you a good feeling. I'm gonna have Alicia pass out. Um I my thing is kind of poetry. I don't um unless you happen to have like the ingredients of Christian mother books that my husband wrote. I wrote poetry in there. But there's I like to write poetry. I wrote one um about creating me a clean heart. So it's called a clean heart. And I'll just read it to you while she's passing it out, but I have a copy for all of you Everything that is in my heart is mine and mine alone. All the thoughts I've ever had, any wild oats I've sown. I can make a resolution or turn over a new leaf, but I cannot remove the sin that will bring my heart relief Create in me a clean heart, O Lord, please give me that sweet peace. Iron out every wrinkle, don't leave behind one crease. Please sweep out all the cobwebs, the dirt from way back then And when the garbage is all out, don't let me bring it in again. The places that need scrub today may need it next week too. The cleaning is a full-time job and I can't do it without you Vacuum out the unclean thoughts and any unkind words that I might say. Remove them from my mind that I might honor you today. Wash me with your holy word, scouring every stubborn saying, make me shine as a child of yours, a bright reflection of your name. And hopefully that will help you um just bring a reminder to have a clean heart do this mess.