For granted that a lot of you know the story and will be referencing it, but in Esther chapter nine and verse number one we see the Bible says, Now in the twelfth month, that is in the month of Adar, on the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandments when the king's commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution. In the day the enemies of the Jews, now notice this phrase, hoped to have power over them But see what God did here. He says, though it was turned to the contrary, that the Jews had rule over them that hated them. You see, the enemies of God had hoped to have power over them. The enemies of God had, of God's people here, the Jews, had set forth a plan in motion through by which they could be destroyed. And yet God turned it to the contrary. And when God is in his place and does his job, he does it a lot better than we can. So the thought this morning that I have for you is let God even the score. Let God even the score. It's normal, beloved, for us when we've been hurt to try and get even. It's normal for us You know, we adopt that old saying, I don't get mad, I get even. Revenge is a natural tendency. But beloved as Christians, we're not supposed to live in the natural, we're supposed to live in the supernatural. We're not supposed to be led by the flesh, the desires of our flesh that wants to get even. Amen. We're supposed to be led by the desires of the Spirit, living in the Spirit, that wants to let God rule and reign and let God get even. God will even score. So I want to give you a few points this morning. First of all, let's consider the actions of the wrong. The actions of the wrong. In the book of Esther, here we have a very unique uh picture, a very unique story that's given to us in a very powerful way that illustrates how God, the righteous judge, will take that which is unjust and turn it on its head. God will, as it says in our text here, turn it to the contrary. Those that hope to do you wrong, those that in their idea or their thought, they want to won something over on you, you just leave it, let God, and God will turn it to the contrary. Now you could strive and try and get even, but that's not going to get you anywhere. In this book of Exter, Esther, the last of those post-captivity books that deals with it dealing with the Jews. You know, the Jews had been taken into captivity. There was a few that remained there underneath the rule, the law of the kings, of the Medes and the Persians. But you remember there was three door deportations under Zerebabel, Ezra, and Nehemiah. Those groups had already gone back. But there were some people that stayed there in the land of the Medes and the Persians, and they were still under that rule. They were still ruled and governed by their laws. And this This book of Esther, the story here, takes place in those circumstances. We remember the story here. We're reminded about these Jews. In this harsh environment. But you know the story how the Bible tells us that God put Esther in the kingdom for what? For such a time as this. It was God's plan that she would be there to save his people. He knew what was taking place. But the lesson that I have for you this morning that I want you to go away with is stop trying to take God's place. Stop trying to take God's place and let God even the score. You know the story of Haman, that wicked man full of pride. Eaten up with bitterness. You know, it's amazing. He was seeking after vengeance, but you you know the story. Uh why was he so mad at Mordecai? You guys tell me Because Mordecai wouldn't bow. Isn't that foolish? Because somebody wouldn't bow. Not only does he want to kill Mordecai, not just wants to kill all of Mordecai's family, he wants to kill every single Jew. I mean the hatred, the consuming bitterness, vengeance, when it grabs a hold of your heart, when you get into that place where you want justice and you're going to go after justice. Bless God, you deserve justice and you're going to get it. You're the one that's hurt. Mordecai was just doing what he knew was right, and Haman was eaten up with bitterness because of it. Such a small thing. I'm not going to spend much time here, but you know most of the time in reality, most of the things that we get very bent out of shape about in the grand scheme of things really are pretty small And sometimes we even get mad at ourselves for getting mad about something so stupid. But now we're already mad and so we can't get over it, right? Because it's already we've already, you know uh expressed to our mate or something. We've already let it be known that we're unhappy and then we're kinda like, well that's kind of dumb, but now I just feel dumb so so it it just gets worse. I mean, it's amazing to me when you think about this Haman, this wicked man, and what he was trying to do. You know this grand scheme that he put into place seeking revenge over such a small matter. The desire for rent revenge, beloved, is something that's all-consuming, and it's not where we are supposed to be sitting. The fact of the matter is that all of us at times have been wronged. Everyone in here has had injustices happen to them. From the youngest in here, which at this point I would guess probably Caleb. Who else is here? Oh, Sophia, she was hiding back there. Yeah, Sophia. From the youngest in here, Sophia, to the oldest. You know? Sophia, does your mom ever yell at you when you didn't deserve it? She said that is not just well you know that there was a lot of times that she didn't that you sh she should have, right? Hey, I know. We're parents. We don't get it right every time. That's understandable. You ever had a friend mistreat you From the youngest in here to the oldest, we've all had injustices, we've all had things which we could put ourselves in a place of vengeance and decide that we wanted to get it. They were wrong, bless God And there's something inside of us that says we want to make it right, because that'll make us feel better, right? Hopefully. That's what we think it'll make us feel better. Yeah. I don't think anything that's happened to us by any means equals what is talked about in this story here. But sometimes you may have a family member that did you wrong. You may Have a friend that did you wrong, fellow church member. And sometimes it was something that happened years and years and years ago, and you can still call it up. You can still name every detail, you can still name all the circumstances around it, and you can describe exactly why he was wrong. But is it helping you? Listen, somebody sometimes people come to the church here and uh when they first come to the church they get to talk to me for a few minutes and they'll start they they'll start to try and tell me about all the problems in their church that they came from. And they they start to the they start down that road and I I notice it and I've got to the place where it's I I can start seeing where we're headed and I say, hey listen I don't need to or want to know anything about what happened or went wrong or whatever your former pastor did or didn't do or what some church member did or didn't do. If Hunt Valley Baptist Church can minister to you and help you, great But it's not dependent upon me knowing what happened in the past. And if they came from a good church, I always tell them you need to get that fixed. You need to call your church. You need to talk to your pastor. You need to If God ultimately wants you here, that's okay, but you can't just leave that church with hurt feelings. You need to deal with that. You need to handle that and and get that settled Once that's settled, if God wants you to move and you're moving with the blessing of your church and want to come here, then we'll we'll take you. But we don't need Hunt Valley Baptist Church filled up with people that are bitter and angry that that are holding on to some some vengeance that they're hoping God will will rain fire down on somebody's head. They need to learn how to let that go But listen, I want you to see the assurance of the Word of God. The assurance of the Word of God. God has ordained and set in place uh God given authority. It is by God's plan, God's design, that He has set up authority to handle vengeance. You know, sometimes we can talk about it in in a home situation between siblings And the the the inevitable why did you do that? Because he right and then it comes back. Well he Oh but but first he he he did it first and so then the whole story comes out and you find out it was a percussion of events that ultimately ended up in one of them, you know uh hitting the other or whatever and you're like, listen, uh and I encourage my children to try and solve their disputes by themselves, but I say there is no ever any reason for you to hit your brother or sister. That should never be a thought. That should never come to your mind. And if you're at that place, then what you need to do is you need to get the authority and say, here's what's going on, this is what happened, and let them duel out justice. You you may want to suck them, but you see you don't have the authority to do that. You have the God-given authority, and God has set up the authority in the home, in the church, and and government, ultimately, government to bring justice. in a place. In our story here, uh, you know, it was the government that ultimately God used to turn this story on his head It wasn't that the Jews just went out and got justice because bless God we were mistreated. No, ultimately they addressed the the king. The king said, yes, what's been done to you was wrong, so what we'll do is we'll make a decree. We're going to change this. And God, through the correct authority, brought vengeance. You know, even in Romans chapter thirteen, the passage on government, the Bible says, For he is a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is a minister of God, a revenger To execute wrath upon them that do evil. That's talking about God. I'm sorry, about government ordained of God. That their job is to bring the revenge. Their job is to avenge those that have been hurt. This is the role of government given to them by God. The idea, beloved, is that another authority outside of yourself is making the judgment and bringing the vengeance. Ultimately, the authority. We know the Bible says that vengeance is mine, I will repay. Right? Vengeance belongeth to God, the ultimate authority. And God may choose to use the authority in your life. God may choose to use government to bring it to bring judgment, uh but we've got to let him do it. We've got to get out of his place. And let him be the judge. God is the authority and he will take care of it. You and I, beloved, don't have the authority. What I'm saying is we don't have the right To execute judgment ourselves, to bring vengeance ourselves. This is especially hard when it seems like the government is not willing to or unable to take action. But we go back to what does the Bible say? Let's bring it down home. What if something happened to one of your children? You see, I I uh can I tell on myself this morning I have in my mind thought through how I would get justice if somebody hurt one of my kids. And the government wasn't gonna do something about it? Sadly, I've I've planned this out in my mind. How justice would be brought. Amen. Now that's contrary to what I'm preaching this morning. But I'm just being honest with you, right? I'm telling you, in my heart as a man, if my flesh, if somebody hurt one of my kids, When I when I went to pr to Peru on a missionary missions trip, I sat down with a missionary that had been there for a number of years, a great missionary, very successful, God bless in a great way through him through his ministry. uh started a Bible college through the years that they were there, they started fifty churches that are all pastored by nationals now. And uh but I asked him, I said, what's the hardest thing that you've ever faced on the mission field? He said the hardest thing, Caleb, without question, is on a Sunday night when my 14-year-old daughter was walking home from church. Just down the street, just walking down our street right here by our house, she was attacked and raped by a group. of teenage Peruvian boys. And the hardest thing for me was to stand up in a front of a group of Peruvian people and still love them that next Sunday. He said I had to get with God and God had to do something in my heart to change me, to be able to just say, I'm washing my hands of all this and we're leaving this country. You see, that's where the rubber meets the road. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. We want to get vengeance, but we've got to get out of God's place. We've got a promise, we've got an assurance from the Word of God that God will take care of it. God is going to handle it. Beloved, two wrongs never make a right. We say that, but even in my illustration of me getting justice for one of my kids getting hurt, and in our minds and in our flesh we say, well, justice was done and they deserved it. The two wrongs don't ever make a right. You've got to go through the authorities that are established by God. We've got to pray and ask God to help the government to be able to bring justice down on the head of those that have committed a crime like that. This injustice justice thought never brings the the satisfaction that uh you think it will How many of you have heard those that have for years been holding on to some anger or bitterness about a crime committed against them or their family, and then ultimately justice comes? Maybe it's Finally, the government has come and exercised the death penalty against somebody and they were put to death? And how many of you have heard on the news reports that I thought it would have felt different? I thought I would feel better. I thought all this anger and bitterness would be gone. Thought somehow this was going to change, but it doesn't. There's a quote that says, There is no passion of the human heart That promises so much and pays so little as revenge. We've got a God-given promise. We've got assurance from his word that he will take care of it if we will let him take care of it And in our passage here, God said, okay, you've been done wrong. Let's get with the king. The king's going to set this up. The king's going to change the decree. Actually, they allowed uh Mordecaia to write the decree so that, you know, what do you want it to say? And he didn't say, let's kill every single one of uh the the uh Medes and Persians. No, he said let us just defend ourselves. You see, they weren't out trying to get vengeance. They were saying, let's defend ourselves. But God knew. God brought vengeance. You of course know that wicked Haman was hung on his own gallows. Not only that, his ten sons were hung on the gallows. You see, God knew that the injustice was there. Actually look in the text here at a couple of verses in chapter 9. I want you to see a couple of things. Look down at verse number 6. And in Shushan the palace, the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men. So in the palace, five hundred men were destroyed. Then in verse number 13, then said Esther, if it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews, which are in Shushan. to do tomorrow also according unto this decree, and let Haman's tins sons be hanged upon the gallows The king again said, Okay, he w the ten sons were hung on the gallows. Then in verse number fifteen, for the Jews that were in Shushan gathered themselves together on the fourteenth day also of the month of Edar, and slew three hundred men. at Shushan, but on the prey they led not their hand. Laid not their hand. Then in verse number sixteen But the other Jews that were in the king's provinces gathered themselves together and stood for their lives and had rest from their enemies and slew of their foes Seventy and five thousand. But they laid not their hands on the prey. So seventy-five thousand eight hundred and ten of the enemy were destroyed. God brings justice. God brings vengeance. We have a promise from the Word of God that vengeance will be brought out, but we've got to let God even the score. Amen And we've got to let it go. We've got to let it go. So I want to deal lastly here with the attitude of the wounded. What should our attitude be? The one that was injured, the one that was hurt I mean it's hard. It's natural. It's normal to want revenge. Our our first reaction, uh, Tim, stand up If somebody comes by and goes like this, what's your first reaction? Yeah. Young people If if somebody uh looks at you and says, You're trash what's your what's your first reaction? Oh, I'm trash? You're double trash. Your trash has been run over by a car. Been hauled to the dump already. And eaten by birds, you know. And and I mean we just try and go that much further, right? That's a natural tendency. The our first reaction is something happens to us, immediately we we do it back Exactly. I mean I've told you before how I get frustrated at myself because when I get cut off in traffic I forget to honk, like oh I missed a chance to honk at them, you know. Like I wanted to get even by at least at least honking at 'em, you know Um now I have never like accelerated and got in front of somebody and slammed on my brakes to try and get even. That's just foolishness. But you know the idea of just man I could have at least brrrrrr, you know So now I drive with my hand on the meal, you know. That's natural. But Christian, we're not supposed to live in the natural We're supposed to live in the supernatural and be empowered by the Spirit of God. Vengeance. Vengeance, beloved. The Bible says It has a lot of Bible in it. But the 1828 dictionary is what I'm quoting now. It for the definition of vengeance says that the affliction of pain on another In return for an injury or offense. The infliction of pain on another in return for an injury or offense. And it goes on to say: such infliction, when it proceeds from malice, Or mere resentment, and is not necessary for the purpose of justice, is revenge And a heinous crime. That's in the 1828 dictionary. When the motivation is just to get even, when the motivation is is malice and anger. And and something in your heart, it's not a matter of finding justice, it's getting even, or even one-upping them. He the 1828 dictionary says that's a heinous crime. To seek revenge. Vengeance is what we want, and revenge is what we seek after as a natural man. You and I can have the spirit of vengeance against our enemies, but I want you to know and remind you that You can have the spirit of vengeance, that spirit of revenge. It can come out anywhere with anybody, even your mate. The one you say you're supposed to love more than anybody in the world. The Bible says, be not bitter against them. Talking about your mate. Be not bitter against them. Do you know that? A lot of times that'll happen in a home. Some some guy will come home and dinner's not ready and he'll say, Well tomorrow I just won't even come home. I'll just leave her with the family for the kids for an extra five hours. I'll go out to eat dinner. Or he won't take out the trash after she asked him three times, he leaves for work without taking out the trash, and she says, well see if I make him dinner tonight That's vengeance. That's revenge. That's getting even. One cashier told a story about uh working and and you know how a lady's purse has A garage sale in it, you know. Everything and and he he was describing how the you know these ladies they come through and they they you know the everything's coming out of the first and he says this one lady came up and she was digging for her uh checkbook to write a check for her groceries and out came the TV remote. And he he had to ask. He said, I I gotta ask, you always carry the TV remote? And and she says, no I asked my husband to come in the store with me and he said no, so when I left I took the remote. That's just getting even, man. She's like the whole time I'm gone, he's gonna be looking for the remote That's the way we are. We want to get even. We want to get revenge. But that shouldn't be our attitude. The Christian should have a different spirit. Proverbs 24, 29 says, say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me. Isn't that what we were just talking about? Our natural tendency is to give back. I will render to the man according to his work He says, say not, I'm going to do what he did to me. I'm going to render back to him the same thing he did to me. That's the natural man. That's what our desire is, is to get eaten. Oh, we love that passage, an eye for an eye. And feel like it gives us justice. We don't understand that that was set up a boundary for government in exercising discipline or uh meeting out judgment. God tells a Christian that we're to pray to Him and that He will give vengeance. We pray to Him and He will bring it. In Luke 18, don't turn there, but I want you to turn to Matthew chapter 5, a familiar passage of scripture. But turn to Matthew 5, we'll be there in a minute. But in Luke 18, there's a parable that he spake unto this to this end that men ought to always pray and not to faint. And in this parable, there was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came to him saying, Avenge me of my adversary! And he would not for a while, but afterwards he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continually coming she weareth me Verse 6 says, And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cried day and night unto him? God will avenge. He says if you call on him, when somebody offends, when somebody if if Eli offended me, I'm not supposed to go, Bob, you can't believe what Eli did. Miss Christina, you know what Eli did to me? Man, I am so hurt. Timothy, next time you're with Eli, what I want you to do is No. He says, call, I'm supposed to say, Eli, I'm offended by Eli, I'm supposed to say, God. Eli stepped on my new polished shoes. And I'm gonna have to polish them all over again? Would you bring vengeance on him? Sometimes when you're praying, God speaks to you and says, You know what, that's really not something you need to do repentance for, right? And you're like, no, no, God, I'm really upset about this. And God starts working on your heart But sometimes God will meet out vigilance, as we see in our story. But what is the attitude of the Christians supposed to be? Look in Matthew chapter number 5. This chapter is all about perfectness. Look down in verse number 38 How much time do we have? Oh, we're okay. 1004. And book down at verse number 38. Follow along. He says, And ye have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. We like that. We grab a hold of that. Bless God, it's justice. But I say unto you that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also You know, some years ago we had somebody that had given the church $25,000. And those of you that were here know that there couldn't have been a worse time for them to come and they said, listen, we gave this $25,000 to the Lord, but we want it back. What in the world? I mean I I I just cannot imagine. And and oh I was so Distraught and concerned. We did not have the money. There was no means or way that we could take care of that. We were in a bad way. And just what are we going to do? And, you know, they had sent us a legal letter from their lawyer that they were going to sue Hunt Valley Baptist Church to get this $25,000 back, take us to court, and Um, you know, I I met with so many I talked to two Christian law associations and and talked to pastors and ultimately we were in the right and there was no court in the country that was going to award her that money back. Uh we had that in good standing for many legal representations. But as a church we looked at it and said What would the Christian spirit be? No, it's not right. No, we can't do it Even had pastors say, You better not, you better not give back one dime. If you do, you're gonna have a run on your church. You know, people are gonna be everybody's gonna be coming and asking. And ultimately we say, Well, let's just leave that in God's hands. And uh We gave her the $25,000. And do you know what? I think it was within a month. It may have been within a week or so. God gave somebody in our church a surplus of money, and they came and said, we're going to cover that $25,000. God met the needs. God knows. God will take care of it. And I would not want to be her. Doing that. He says here, whosoever, and in verse number 40 there, if a man will sue thee at the law and take thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh of thee, from him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away. Yet ye have heard it hath been said that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy, but I say unto you, love your enemy. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. See, we're talking about the attitude of the wounded How should we be? We should be like our Father. For he maketh the Son to s to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. For if he loveth if if ye loveth them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? Be ye therefore perfect, even as your father, which is in heaven, is pervert You see, beloved, forgiveness is the only right attitude. A young Korean exchange student A leader in the Christian affairs organization at the University of Pennsylvania left his home one evening. To go send a letter to his parents. He had dropped the letter in a mailbox, turned around, and stepped into the street, and was attacked by eleven teenage boys These eleven boys beat him with their fists and with their feet. They beat him with a lead pipe. Later that night, this boy was found dead by the police. He died because of his injuries. All of Philadelphia cried out for vengeance. The Attorney General received authority from the governor. to try the teens when they were found as adults. Everybody was seeking vengeance. But a letter came to the courts from the parents. Signed by 20 of this boy's relatives. And it said this. Our family has met together and we have decided to petition that the most generous treatment possible Within the bounds of your laws be given to those who have committed this action. In order to give evidence of our sincere hope, Contained in this petition, we have decided to save money to start a fund to be used for the religious, educational, vocational, and social guidance of these boys when they're released We have dared to express our hope with a spirit received from the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who died and gave himself for our sins. Forgiveness is the only action for the Christian. We as Christians need to get out of God's place. In Romans chapter 12, that familiar verse says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. Give place unto wrath. You see, wrath comes from God. And we've got to give place to God You see, God stands, God sits in the seat of judgment. And when you and I have an offense or something comes to us and we take God's seat, We are not giving place unto wrath. We are taking the place that God is supposed to be in We were supposed to get out of that, forgive, and let God be in his place. What did Joseph say to his brothers? Remember that story? If there's ever a story of injustice. The story of Joseph. Why don't you turn there and we'll close with this passage? Turn to Genesis chapter 50. Genesis chapter number 50. And we'll see what Joseph said to his brothers. Genesis chapter 50, look at verse number 15. He says, And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said to Joseph, Joseph will peradventure hate us and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. So they're afraid. They're saying, listen, Joseph's going to take it out on us now. He's going to get even for everything that happened. And they sent a messenger unto Joseph saying, Thy father did command before he died, these bunch of liars saying, So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now the trespass of thy brethren and their sin. For they did unto thee evil. And now we pray thee, forgive the trespass of thy servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. And his brethren also went and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not. Or am I in the place of God? Joseph said, you don't have to be afraid. Because God is the one that meets out justice. You're afraid of me, but I'm not in God's place. I forgive you. It goes on there and goes on to describe how he says, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Ultimately God is in control. But I want you to see, he said, Am I in the place of God? Christian, we need to get out of God's place. We need to let God even score