It's a joy to be back with you this evening. Forgot how short the pulpit was. My new pulpit's like this tall. It's for brother that's Brother Ferguson. Uh is what it was built for. Of course this church has a very special place in my heart. That man there, very special man to me as he is to this church. I was gonna give him a hug before he got down from the pulpit, but he walked away before I could. So I got one out of him when I left. It's it it ten years of a hundred hour work weeks and I got a hug finally from Pastor Taylor. It's possible. Uh you gotta put the time in uh to earn that one. But uh I of course came to the church here as intern in twenty twelve, was first intern. Uh uh I don't know what they said about breaking it for a bell, so they replaced me with three guys the next summer. Um after I after I was here. Uh uh we only had me for that time. Well we've got the same work done with three guys the next uh summer, but Of course, it was the first return to the church from the intern ministry. Pastor Colin asked me the other week to uh preach this evening for the intern uh night and uh Lord laid on my heart something that I think will be uh help to you as a church in regards to the interministry. I'm gonna present part of the intern ministry that'll A lot you are unaware of and it'll it's going to do deal with how I would always deal with the interns about what an internship was. And kind of get open the door, let you peek in on that. I know the hour's late. Thankfully it's Friday night, so most of us don't have something to do tomorrow. But if you can bear with me, we'll uh we'll share these thoughts with you. Gotta offer an apology first if you're watching the intern video. There's an intern that was conspicuously absent from the pictures. That was my brother. See, that that summer was when Pastor Caleb was trying to figure out how to be an interim pastor and the interns were completely under my uh supervision that summer and the way that I handle pictures is when the project is done, I say, Man, we should have taken some pictures of that And so when Wesson's internship was done, I said, Man, we should have taken some pictures of that. Um so he didn't make it into the to the uh pictures there. Um but uh Enjoy to work in the ministry here and especially with the intern ministry that was uh had a lot to do with that, handled most of the interviews, even meeting uh James over here when I yet last night So we met on the phone, interviewed you over the phone, emailed back and forth, but now get to meet you in person. Uh left when I found out you were coming. And um But getting to work with the interns over the years very very directly. Uh I I appreciated all the testimonies of how much they enjoyed fellowship with Pastor Caleb uh 'cause they were working with me and then they got to go in the evening and play with Pastor Caleb uh a lot of the a lot of the nights. Um so I didn't make in a lot of the testimonies But it was fun to a fun ministry to be a part of. When it comes to the intern ministry, there are three perspectives. Three different experiences of the intern ministry. There's the experience of the intern. Intern gets worked to death, uh, gets to play a lot, gets to learn a lot of things they didn't know, gets to have experiences that they'd never experienced before. It's a mem it's a memorable time in a very exciting way. The intern experience also happens from the church You get to uh be with them at work parties, serve with them in ministries uh uh on Sunday uh and and around during during the week and be part of VBS and have them in your home and And feed them and take care of them the weeks that they're here and get to know them in a in a very friendly sort of way. Then there's the intern experience from myself and Pastor Caleb. With them every day, dealing with them from sunup till sundown many times, uh working with the interns and making an investment in their lives. You heard Zachary mention that word in his testimony. Investment. And that's what the internship is. It is an investment. investment, yes, from the the church and you make a big investment in their lives and I want to encourage you tonight to go even further as this ministry continues in investing But all the interns would tell you that the investment in their life by pastoral staff here who are with them every day and and and and molding them and shaping them throughout the week outside of service times uh has a lasting impact. A lot of who I am today is from the investment of that man right there. Hundreds hundreds of hours a week uh often that we would be together in conversation, uh working together, hitting each other with sledgehammers, and all kind of things that happened uh no one else knew about. Two or three o'clock in the morning things were happening while everybody else was was not here and there was a l discipleship that was going on uh in in ministry and and it's an investment. Turn with me in your Bibles to the book of 2 Timothy, chapter 4. We're going to read one verse, and we're going to come to this verse in towards the end of the message this evening. We're going to come back to it. We're going to talk about this idea of internships. In 2012, I was the first intern, helped form that position that became affectionately known as the Summer Slave. I served for 14 weeks, worked on the bus route on Saturday and Sunday, held in teen Sunday school class, taught the junior church class every week. I preached two of the Sunday evening services during those four weeks, 14 weeks. I taught with the teens on Thursday night, and then did whatever else Pastor Caleb wanted for the rest of the waking hours. I loved every minute of it. I got to experience that summer. For that summer I got to experience, and in the years to follow, a biblical principle called life-on-life discipleship. Life on life, discipleship. If you have your place in 2 Timothy, I invite you to stand with me for the reading of God's Word. 2 Timothy 4. We're going to read just verse number 11. Here, Paul writing says, Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. Let's pray together. Lord God, we love you and we are so thankful for the time we have to be in your house this evening. We thank you for the years of faithfulness, Lord, that this church has the chance to experience. Lord, of your faithfulness to them. And our attempt to live faithfully for you and the great things that you have done that we are rejoicing in yesterday through the missions program, today through the twenty young people whose lives have been uh impacted. changed, altered, and given a a push forward and a head start in their service for you through the doors of this building and through this ministry. Bless us this evening, Lord, as we look at this idea of making an eternal investment. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. This text is our theme verse for our intern ministry. Whenever I would present the intern ministry to prospective interns, I would talk about this verse. Often get up in the college chapel and bring out this verse. And so when Pastor Cave asked me to close out the evening on the intern ministry, I said, well we need to, I don't think we've ever done it with the church family, talk about the intern theme verse, and that is this verse in 2 Timothy 4, verse 11. There's that principle I mentioned called life-on-life discipleship. That is where one person makes an investment into a life of another powerfully in spiritual matters that have spiritual results. Just thinking through the Bible, you can see this. Moses and Joshua is one of the first that come to mind. This young man named Joshua was who he shows up on the scene in the battle with Amalek. When Moses went up on the mountain to to hold his uh arms up in the air, the rod of God up in the air to intercede, he puts Joshua in charge of the military. I'm sure Joshua was around and involved in things before this time. Uh but here he is on the scene. Hey, you're in charge of this. And there's some interns that have had that that thrust on them when they showed up. Hey, you're gonna be doing you're gonna be doing this and and it's up to you and this has got to get done. Zachary again mentioned his testimony, responsibility, it's on you Joshua is given responsibility. Lead the army. You're going to go fight? I'm going up the mountain to watch. And you're going to get things done down here. That's where Joshua shows up. Then you find Joshua when Moses is going to the mountain to receive the commandments from God and the law from God and the description of the tabernacle. Joshua goes with him. Of course, he can't go on the mountain But he goes to the foot of the mountain to wait for he just wanted to be as close to the man of God as he could be. That's a big part of the intern ministry is these young people, work day is over and the man of God says, You want to come to my house. And a wise intern says, absolutely. When my internship was going on, Pastor Kev still lived up in uh in Loganville. And uh about the third week in, Sunday night, he'd start asking, hey, you want to come second week maybe Start telling me you won't come to my house. Drove a half hour up to his house. Drove back at 1 30 in the morning so we could start work the next day. And uh after about the second week of that, he says, Well don't go home. I've got an extra bed. Uh you can stay here tonight And say, but be as close to the man as God as you can. That was what Joshua did. And while Moses was forty days and forty nights fasting on the mountain, Joshua was forty days, forty nights by himself at the bottom of the mountain, just waiting to hear from God. And hear from God's man. And being away from what was going on at Camp. Because what was going on at Camp wasn't pleasing the Lord. And Joshua missed out on that. Why? Because he wanted to be with God's man. This is where Joshua was. Moses comes down from the mountain, he meets Joshua, they head toward the camp. They hear the noise of war, but it's actually people singing. That whole story. There's Joshua. And we see Joshua after that, see gu Moses set up a tabernacle outside the camp, said, You want to meet with God, you come here. And when Moses and the elders and Joshua would go to the tabernacle outside the camp, the Bible says that the men of Israel would stand at the doors of their tent and they'd watch. They'd let somebody else go to God. Well, I don't need to go to God, he's going to God for me. But not Joshua. Joshua went with Moses to the tabernacle and he started to learn from Moses what it meant to walk with God Because when Moses left that tabernacle, Joshua says he stayed a little longer. He stayed a little longer because he was learning from Moses' investment how he could have his own walk with the Lord. This prepared him for the time that he was chosen to be one of the spies that would go into the land. And he was one of the two that came back with a good report. Where did that good report come from? From spending a lot of time with God's man. Life on life, discipleship. Elijah and Elisha is another one that comes to mind. Elijah, of course, God's prophet, well known for the great things that he did for God. But there came that greatest day that we remember where he was on Mount Carmel, called down fire from heaven, and and and saw those miracles, slew the prophets of Baal. that ran off into the wilderness to hide from Jezebel, saying there's no hope, there's no point, I'm the last one left. God says, no, you're not the last one left And in fact, you're not even done with what I have for you to do. I want you to leave here. I want you to go find a young man. A young man named Elisha. Now we don't see Elijah doing great things. In a miraculous sense, after that point, we see him spending time with a young man. A young man that went on and did twice as much for God as Elijah was able to do, but why? Because a man invested into another man. Life on life discipleship. Samuel did this with his boys. It didn't work out so well. He did it again with Saul Didn't work out so well. But he didn't give up. Well this is pointless. I know young people aren't living for God anymore. He said, you know what? I'm gonna find somebody else. And he found David. Yeah. Somebody to invest in. Life on life discipleship. When you get to David, he took the principle even further. He had all those men that gathered around him. Nobody else wanted to be with. And and David gathered around him, he took these outcasts and these vain men and these these men that just had no value to society and of them came the mighty men. Why? Because there was a man who said, I'll invest. I'll invest in these young men that nobody else wants to put up with, but I will. That was David. Think of Jeremiah and Baruch. Baruch came into it and said, Well, I'm not, you know, I'm a scribe. That's all I need is a scribe. And he starts to be a scribe. And Baruch goes from being a scribe to preaching in the temple. He goes from preaching in the temple to preaching in front of the princes. He goes from preaching in front of the princes to preaching in front of the king. Because a man named Jeremiah invested in a scribe named Baruch. What about Jesus? Jesus wanted to impact the world with the gospel. How did he do it? He found twelve men. to invest in. And eleven of them went out to reach the whole world with the message of the gospel. Because Jesus spent three and a half years Life on life. You're with me when I get up. You're with me when I go to bed. You're you're gonna eat with me. When I'm working, you're working. When I'm praying, you're praying sleeping. When I um Yeah. The disciples were on an internship. Which is Christ. You know what happened? Those disciples went further. Than Christ did, geographically. Because he invested in their lives. Barnabas and Saul. What kind of a New Testament would we have today without Barnabas? Yes, we will still have the Bible because it's the Word of God. But Barnabas had a great impact on the Word of God. He didn't write any of the books. What did he do? There was a guy that got saved, and no one in the church wanted anything to do with him. Saul was his name. His name was later changed to Paul. But he couldn't have fellowship of the Church of Jerusalem, at least not until this guy Barnabas said, you know what, I know he's a little bit of a wild card. Uh I know he might get us all killed. I know he's impulsive and reckless, but I'll invest in him He can come with me and I'll work with him. And through that investment, Saul became Paul and went further for God than Barnabas did. Why? Because he made an internal investment into this man's life. Paul couldn't have done that without somebody to invest in him. Paul learned from that. He learned and he went with Timothy, with Silas, with Titus. with uh Philemon, these men that uh Paul saw the need to invest in. The one I'd like to present to you this evening is Mark. Mark was a young man that was in need of some investment. And we'll talk about them throughout the message here this evening, but as we go into that, I want to remind us how important it is to invest in the next generation. No matter who you are or what you do, there's gonna come a day when you can't do it anymore. From the pastor to someone who all they can do is come to sit next to you because their health doesn't let them do that anymore. One day you won't be able to do that, and who's going to take your place? God has people in a place for a time, and they steward that and they grow that until the day that God puts somebody else in that position, calls us home to heaven, maybe it is. But who's gonna do that if we're not investing in the next generation? It's exciting to me over the last five or so years that I was here, how God burdened my heart and Pastor Caleb is about investing in particular people for certain things and how when God moved me somewhere else, uh it wasn't even above in the ministry because people were ready to step in and take the place that I left behind. Why? Because of investment. It didn't happen on accident. The internship ministry is a ministry of investing in the next generation. And it is an eternal investment. Over the past twelve years, Hunt Valley Baptist Church has had the privilege of investing in over twenty in twenty interns These investments that the church made into those lives. They were eternal investments. And I want to talk about investing this evening. Number one in the outline this evening is the intern. When you have the internship ministry, of course you have the intern. Let's consider the intern of Mark. Mark's the theme of our message this evening. He was an intern. We're introduced to him in Mark chapter 12. All right, yeah, in Acts chapter 12. Where his mom's house is being used for a place to have a prayer meeting for a preacher that was in prison. Peter was in prison. Mark's mom's house was where they were meeting to pray. That's where we find out about Mark. We know he came from a mom that loved God and then invested in their son's life. And so he has some investment there. We find them at the end of that same chapter, Acts chapter 12. Where he's going with Paul and Barnabas on their missionary travels as they leave from Antioch. He travels with them. He leaves with them, probably with mom's encouragement Go along. Hey, he'll be a help to you. He doesn't really know that much. He's he's not uh you know super talented, he's not outgoing, but if you need somebody to carry a bag or something like that, hey let's why don't you take Mark with you? Just We don't know for sure, but possibility there. But partway into this journey, Mark goes back home. Mark leaves them and he travels back home. We're not told why. We'll see in a moment. It probably wasn't for a great reason. Maybe he got tired of traveling. Maybe the ministry wasn't as exciting as he thought it was going to be. Maybe they worked too hard, and he wanted something that was a little bit easier. Maybe he just got homesick Want to go back to where mom was. We don't know, but for some reason this young man decided to go home. We don't see Mark again until Acts chapter 15. Where Paul and Barnabas are getting ready to take another trip. They're traveling back to those churches at Antioch, the one that Mark's the ones that Mark had been with them When they went to start these churches and Barnabas makes this suggestion say, hey, Mark came with us last time. Uh I bet he'd like to see these ministries and see how they're doing, see how they're growing And Paul says, no way. No way. I don't want him. He's too much trouble. He went out on us last time. It says he wouldn't go with us to the work. He wasn't a hard worker. He wasn't diligent. He he I don't want to bring him along. He's going to be problems. That disagreement got so strong that Paul and Barnabas. Separated. Went separate ways. Barnabas took Mark and he went back to those first couple churches that Mark had been a part of starting. And Paul and Silas went to some of the other churches that had been started a little bit later. Mark is mentioned twice in the Bible, just in a listing of names, but he's brought up here in our text verse in 2 Timothy chapter 4, and we're going to talk about that in a little bit. We use that term intern To describe someone that needs an investment. Someone that needs an investment. This can be someone that was young. Young people need investing in. They need investing in for several reasons, uh because their knowledge is limited. That's why we put kids in school, because they don't know very much The knowledge is limited. You can learn things from two ways. You can learn through instruction or you can learn through experience. Instruction is easier, faster, and doesn't hurt as bad. So, young people, if you can learn from instruction, that's a good way to do it. And young people need to invest in. You know, they invested in not just because their knowledge is limited, their skills are limited. There's things they don't know how to do. Go around to all these interns and say, What'd you learn how to do in Hunt Valley? And you'll hear some interesting things about tools they learned how to use or things that they learned how to do at Hunt Valley. Skills are limited, their experiences are limited, things you've never done before. And you get to do those in an internship. You know, young people need invested in somebody who's new to the faith. A young Christian needs invested in his church is using the discipleship ministry to invest in people that are new to the faith and need to grow in those regards. Someone who needs invested in could be someone who's not saved, but needs to be taught the truth of the gospel. And in truth, we're all students that need investing in. That investment changes over time. But new Christians, pastors, church members, church staff, Bible college graduates, doesn't matter. We still need investing in. I was saved twenty-seven years ago. This July I will have been preaching for 20 years. Uh I still need investing in. I listen to sermons every week. I've read nine books so far this year. Why? Because I need people pouring into me because I still need an investment. Don't ever stop letting people invest in your life. You know, when it comes to those interns, every intern is going to have some needs. Their knowledge will be incomplete, their practice is going to be imperfect. They're gonna do things that are wrong. They're gonna do things the wrong way. It won't be right about everything. Their methods are gonna be kind of rough. We used to have a joke about having an intern broke it fund. Something would happen here at the church. We said, well, that's going to be put on the intern broke it fund. We had some interns one year that asked me after we had brought that up a couple times, do you really have an intern broke it for? I said, no, we'd never know how much money to put in it. It all depends on the intern. So that's the intern, someone who needs an investment. Let's talk secondly this evening about the investment. Again, going back to the example of Mark. Mark was a pretty rough intern, just trying to get a glimpse of it from the Word of God, you know, Paul. Paul, the guy that shook poisonous snakes off into the fire, the guy that was beaten with rods, the guy that was shipwrecked, spent overnight in the deep, got up and made fires and cooked meals for people. The guy who got stoned and drug out of the city and got up and went back to the city to preach again? That Paul said, I don't want to deal with Mark Give me a poisonous snake. I don't want I don't want an intern. But that wasn't Barnabas' perspective. Barnabas, see, he already invested in a problem child named Saul. And he knew what was possible with someone who was rough around the edges if you put some investment into their life. Barnabas said, I'll invest in him. And he made an investment in Mark. What was that investment? Think about that with Barnabas. He gave up traveling with Paul. Choose intern or Paul? I'll go be with the intern. I I I'll go be with Mark. He gave up his position as the assistant. He became the head guy. I know from experience, going from the assistant to the head guy, things change. My gray hair has doubled in the last year. Still have ways to go, but it's it's it's going. There's more to it when you're the one in charge. He took up financial responsibility. Hey on Paul's mission trip, Paul has to make sure we have to eat. Paul has to make sure we have somewhere to stay This is our mission trip. Now it's on Barnabas. The intern's not gonna figure it out. It's up to Barnabas to do it. And then he had to spend all that time on the road, all that time in the ships, all that time What an investment that Barnabas made. We don't know what happened on all those evenings and during all those days, but we know that an investment was made in the life of Mark by a man named Barnabas. You see, interns need investment. That's what makes them an intern. There's going to be a time investment. Typically we have a 10-week internship program. Some have gone longer, some have gone shorter. I I think I have a record of 14 weeks of an internship. I I just needed more time. I took that long. That's it. I needed more time. Then I had to come back and put another nine years in to get it really get it sorted out. So there's time. It's gonna take time for you to invest in someone else. When I worked with the interns I started my day with them. I ended my day with them. Even before I got to be with them. I wake up in the morning and said, what am I going to do with the interns today? And I'd have that burden for a couple hours before I actually got to see them. And I worked with them throughout the day. And had the burden of being with the intern and And how am I going to invest and what do they need to learn? And and how could they be better? Or how can we encourage them? Or what can we talk about today that's going to challenge them spiritually? And I'd send them home And I go home with my family, and my mind is the interns. And what they need and what we did today and what needs to be done tomorrow. It is a time investment. A lot of time invested. This church makes a time investment in the life of young people and interns. Investing in people takes time. You can't invest in people if you show up late and you leave early. Investment takes place through time. There's going to be a financial investment Our church has spent a lot of money on interns over the years, paying for them to be here, giving a love offering Paying for the things that they broke. There's a financial investment. Families spend money investing, buying food, preparing meals for the interns. I'll tell you, the investment is worth the cost. That's good. To make the investment is worth the cost. There's going to be a time investment, there's going to be a financial investment, and there's going to be an emotional investment. Amen. Life is time. When you give somebody your time, you're giving them your life. And a a a piece of so many people in here's life was put into me. Chunks of my life was put into some of the young men, young ladies, adults around this room. A portion of his life is invested all around these pews. And when you invest your life into something, there's an emotional investment there. That's why it hurts so bad. When things don't go well. It even hurts when things are going well and you have to say goodbye. Right. A lot of tears shed here last February when God said it's time for this investment to go somewhere else. Why? Because there's life. There's emotional investment. There's an investment made. You have the intern, someone who needs an investment. You have an investment. that has to be made. Time, money, uh, emotion that's given. And then we have the interest. You know, whenever you make an investment, you're interested in the interest. How's it doing? Several years ago, when I was saving money for a house at some point, a down payment, I had an investment account So I check it every day. What kind of interest did I make today? What are those investments doing? I want to see the progress. Sometimes it showed up red. Sometimes it showed up green. But you want to see how the investment was doing. You want to see the interest, what has been produced as a result of my investment. When we invest in people, we want to see the interest. What were they able to do with my investment? Or better yet, what was God able to do with that investment? As you've seen in the testimonies this evening and talk to some of these young people that are here, you get to see the interest on your investment What's happening in their lives? What is God doing through them? What about Mark? We're talking about Mark this evening. That text verse we just looked at. Mark coming here in 2 Timothy 4, verse 11. Go back there with me. This is Paul writing. Paul who said, give me a poisonous snake before you give me mark again. He says here in verse number 11, only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable to me for the ministry. Profitable to me to the ministry. That guy that he said, I don't want anything to do with. He's too much of a problem. He's slowing us down. He's not worth the effort. Paul said, that young man's profitable to me. For ministry. How did Mark get there? Barnabas. Barnabas said he's rough. He needs work. He's going to break stuff. He's going to lose stuff. He's going to forget things. He's going to make me look bad. He's going to eat too much. Well. But he's worth the investment. We have here Paul saying Mark is profitable For me for ministry. Last time we saw Paul and Mark together was when he said, I don't want him. He's not worth it. He won't work. Now he says he's he's profitable be. You go to Jesus' definition of profitable? If you do what you're supposed to do, you're unprofitable. To be profitable, you've got to do more than you're expected to do. And Paul says, Mark's profitable. He doesn't just do the work, he does more than I expect him to do. And he got there through an investment. An eternal eternal investment. Mark went from being a pain to being profitable. And a lot of young people come through these doors. They come in a little bit of a pain, but they leave profitable. Because of an eternal investment. Not just profitable for the ministry of Paul, but profitable for the whole world. Think about Mark. Mark ring a bell and all? Matthew. Mark. The Gospel of Mark that revealed Christ as what? A servant. Someone who knew how to work. You heard the testimonies of the interns. They said, I never had a view of work like that until I was involved in my internship. Mark did an internship and he had a whole different perspective on work that was involved in the ministry. So much so he wrote a gospel about Jesus' work and he served as a servant. Why? Because of investment that was made. What great interest accrued on Barnabas's account through the interest in Mark's life. Investments always produce interest. You're going to get a return on your investment that you make with God. Now you may get a young person through these these plates that takes what's been given here in his home church in his life growing up and here in the ministry and he goes off and squatters it, lives for himself. That may happen. But we're not looking for Him to give us a return. God's going to give the return. And this church will receive interest on your account for all the investment that's been made over the years. time and money, emotions invested. You always get those investments. But innovative when you get to hear how well they're doing I think of John who said this I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. You've heard testimonies this evening of your interns walking in truth. Why? From an eternal investment. There's joy in seeing someone you invested and go on and do something for God. And then you get to return on their invest your investment with the investments that they make. You know, when we support a missionary and they do things for the Lord as we looked at last evening, we say that's fruit added to your account. When you invest in an intern and they go on and do something for God, Hunt Valley receives a reward from that from God because that happened because of your investment. When we invest in others, God counts that in our lives because of the part that we played. Anything that the Lord does through my ministry. I'm pastoring now in Blythewood, South Carolina. Church when I got there of fifteen to seventeen people. We had fifty-one people on Easter Sunday. Two people have been saved, and three people have been baptized. Had one joined the church so far. Visitors almost weekly hearing the gospel. People excited about things that God are doing. We have a testimony service and and over and over again the message is God's word is impacting me like it never has before. Amen. Because this church found an intern that was rougher on the edges. And they said we'll make an investment in 2012 for 14 weeks into his life. And we'll bring him back. We'll let him invest in us, and we'll invest in him. And when that day comes that God says, I'm ready to send that investment out to start making some interest. A day comes and that comes back to this church here. What's done through me comes back to the ministry here, goes to the college that I went to, the teachers and professors that worked with me, the dorm supervisor My Christian school teachers, my youth pastor, my pastor, my parents, my grandparents, these are all people that have invested. Every one of those investments, every headache, every sleepless night, every tear, every time you have to tell them again because they're stubborn. It's an investment. But it's not just an investment. It's an eternal investment. We can all go from being a pain. To be improfitable through an eternal investment. And when we see people around us, don't see pains, don't see problems, see investments. This church has made an investment through the intern ministry. Continue to do so. Keep making eternal investments.