Finished up our New Testament survey the last two and a half years or so. We did an Old Testament survey, New Testament survey, and uh I wrote all those lessons and uh we're going to be getting into uh what uh w we're gonna try something I've never done in all these years uh that we've been doing this. I've I've pretty much uh just write the lessons and we've done a lot of different things. You know, we did the parables and we did the Ten Commandments and you know we've done uh different individual studies like that and what we're gonna try is I'm gonna order a curriculum. I've ordered four uh samples of curriculum from some companies that produce curriculum and and uh we're just gonna try and see how that works. And uh so we're gonna order those and find out the cost if it's effective for us and and then uh use those and see if uh it's beneficial for Sunday school. So that's that's coming right around the corner. The teens ordered their curriculum already and they are going to be looking at the teenage years of Christ and learning from that. And so that's the curriculum that they're going to be using and they're going to be starting on that next week. I asked the teens to be up here today because this morning's Sunday school lesson is very fitting for us and they're kind of right in the middle between they just finished up New Testament survey with us and uh they're going to be starting this Teenage Years of Christ. And uh it just worked out that they could uh join us today and be up here. But uh here's the thought for this morning. We're going to be in Ecclesiastes chapter number twelve. Look at verse number one. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse number one, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Well the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. You know, beloved, everyone has an idea or a thought about what life really is. You know, what what things in life are important? What things in life bring satisfaction? What is it that we should be living for? What is the essence or most important thing in this life? And if you ask different people, you're gonna Get a lot of varied answers. But can I tell you that the wisest man that ever lived came to the conclusion of his life, and in his ending days, he determined that life was about God. Life is about God. And that's what we're going to be looking at this morning from this passage of scripture. Solomon had lived his life He had walked every road. He had fought the battles. He had known the joy of victory and the sorrow of defeat. He had Experienced probably more than any of us ever will, having been the wisest and the wealthiest man, both blessings given to him by God. But can I tell you that as he looked back over the long years of his life and he begins to ponder what mattered most to him, in the midst of his musings, He grabbed a pen and he began to write. And he said, Remember now thy creator In the days of thy youth. He was writing to the young man and saying like the pulpit, like the pulpit, like the poet. He was saying like the poet, hey As you are, I once was. And as I am, you will be. You know, young people, you need to listen to the aged. They've got a lot of advice for you. And I know that you think they're just disconnected from reality. They have a hard time working the smartphone. They they they don't know they don't know the the current lingo and and they can't uh you know they can't connect with you on those levels and so you think that they're just disconnected and they don't know a whole lot and Uh they're from a bygone day, but can I tell you that the they lived and went through what you're going through? The the the patterns of life they really don't change. Oh, the fads come and go. The fact of the matter is is some of you young people think the fads that you guys are living with now are are new and you don't realize your your family w they went through 'em when they were young. The same things, it just rotates around, you know, the g the guys ties they always get skinnier, skinnier, skinnier, and then finally start getting wider and wider and wider. You know, skinny jeans are out and now for some reason we like short pants. Uh this is what's in now, right? Wear pants where you can see your socks, but you've got to wear goofy socks so that you're in, you know You gotta wear pants that are too short and and and bell bottoms are coming back. You know, pants that are really big, way too large for you. Those are coming back. It's just fads, just J just changing. So you young people getting so tied up in that kind of stuff, you're gonna find out in a few years it really doesn't matter. You you think your parents are just connected. What it is, they just don't care anymore. Okay? Be because they got a little bit they they got a little bit of wisdom. They live long enough to know, you know what, I'm gonna stop chasing it because it's gonna be gone in a couple of years and I'm gonna have to get a whole new wardrobe. And uh, you know, it's just the fact of the matter is you need to listen to the aged because they have a lot of wisdom. This is what Solomon is saying. He says, I've been through it all and I'm trying to tell you That life's about God. George Bernard Shaw said, youth is wasted on the young. Those that are of age, you understand that. You realize the truth that he's sharing there. It's because young people are so consumed with the meaningless. With the useless. They tend to spend their days investing in or pursuing things that really aren't going to matter in the grand scheme of life. Many an older person has said, oh, to be young again. Oh, to have that energy with the wisdom that not to go through all the stupid stuff again. That's not what any of us want to do We want to go back with the wisdom we have now and relive those years so we can really seize and grab a hold of that which is important. That's what we need to do. The young tend to be self-absorbed and consumed with their own happiness and Really, uh the idea or the mantra is, you know, enjoy today. I want to have the most fun I can have today, right now, and not taking any thought. For tomorrow are what truly matters. That's man's nature. Not just the young, but all of us tend to get wrapped up and consumed with today. And forget about tomorrow. Look with me, if you would, at chapter number two. We're going to come back to twelve in a second, but look back at chapter number two and and just look at Solomon declaring here his life and How much he experienced. Beginning of verse number one, and she said, I said in my heart, go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure, and behold, this is also vanity. He says, I've told myself I'm going to have a good time, man. Nothing else matters. I'm going to enjoy life. He said of laughter, it is mad and of mirth, what doeth it? I sought in my heart to give myself unto wine. Yet acquainted my heart with wisdom, and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was that good for some sons of men, which they should do unto the heaven all the days of their life. I made me great works, I builded me houses, I planted me vineyards, I made my gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kinds of fruits, I made me pools of water to water therewith the woods that bringeth forth trees, I got me servants and maidens and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me. I gathered me also silver and gold and the peculiar treasures of kings and So I was great and increased more Then all that were before me in Jerusalem also my wisdom remained with me, and whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them I withholded not my heart from my joy, for my heart rejoiced in all my labors, and this was my portion of all my labor. He says, Man, I I had it all. I had everything this world could offer. I had all of the benefits. Basically anything my heart desired, I went and got. And I had it. And he gets to the end here, and he teaches us some things. In some concluding thoughts in Ecclesiastes chapter number twelve, and ultimately it is that life is about God. I would have you see, first of all, the description of life's challenges. He kind of, these first seven verses, he's describing the challenges of life. He says, first of all, the day is going to come when your delight is gone. He says, remember now thy creator and thy deeds of thy youth. When you have the strength and the capacity, remember God. He says, because, well the evil days come not. He said you've got to remember the evil days coming. Right now it's not here, but it's coming. He says, Nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. He calls them evil days, but he's saying the day is going to come when your delight for life is gone. When your strength is weary, when you experience more pain than pleasure Those that are older understand what he's talking about. The fact of the matter is, is my mom always said, getting old is for the birds. That it just the body starts to fail on you. Often you may even hear older folks talk about how They just want to go home. They don't really have anything here in this life worth living for, and they just want to go home and be with the Lord. I've been with many that have even prayed and asked God, God, just take me home. Listen, let me just say here that life is in the hand of God. You need to leave it in the hand of God. I know there's days of discouragement and there's trials and it gets it gets hard and you look and wonder what what does God still have me for? That's where faith comes in. You trust that He has a purpose for you. And there's a reason that you're still here and you gotta fulfill that purpose. But listen uh taking life, whether you take it yourself or you pay somebody to do it, euthanasia is wrong. It's a sin. God gives life and God takes life. That's in the hand of God and we need to leave it in the hand of God. We need to trust God. Now I'm not talking about uh somebody that goes into hospice care and they're on terminal uh their terminal and Making them comfortable. I understand that they c maybe could live another week if they let their body fight and they are just in excruciating pain for the last week of their life and They could hold on for another week if you let them do that. And and there are some who look at that and say, well, y you're taking their life early. No, you're making them comfortable for the last few days. They could fight and labor and try and hold on for another day or two, but th they they're God's calling them home and you understand that I believe that we're not going to this is not a study on this, so we're not going to take time to dig into it this morning, but I believe that's biblical and I believe that it's compassion. to uh make them as comfortable as you can during those closing hours of their life so that uh they can pass off into eternal eternity as peacefully not in excruciating pain. Okay, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about you're just discouraged and don't want to go on, and so you're going to pay somebody to take your life or take your own life. That's wrong. And we've taught on suicide before. I can't get into that this morning either. Uh there there's a lot of That just uh there's so much here that I feel like you need need to talk about. We've addressed it before, but uh listen, it's it's wrong. You shouldn't do that. But he's describing here the day when The delight of life, that joy of youth is passed on. He describes the declining strength that's evident in men's bodies in verse number three. He says, There are in the days when the keepers of the house shall tremble. I'm just going to kind of go through these phrases here. The keepers of the house are your are your arms, your hands, those things you use to help maintain the house and They tremble. They're not quite as stable as they once were. They you're trying to pick something up and it's not as secure as it once was. He says the strong men shall bow themselves. This is your legs, your your back, those strongest things of your body that w at one time you would have just grabbed it and gone. And now the back's a little bit bent over. It's bowing itself. You don't have the strength that you once did. He said, the grinders cease because they are few. It's talking about your teeth. The grinders, there's not quite as many as there once were. My brother Daniel pastors in Kentucky. And he says, You know what you have if you put thirty two Kentucky boys in a row? A full set of teams. Hey, he's from Kentucky and he tent it on me. Now I know if Brother Bob Humphreys was here, he wouldn't like that. He He's from he's from Kentucky. Uh yeah. Oh Bob Gamble, yeah. Sorry, Bob. But he just says the grinders are going to cease. He said verse number three, those that look out of the window shall be darkened. Okay, this is talking about your eyes. Your eyes start to turn. You know, th he he didn't know that one day it was going to be called cataracts. He didn't realize that with age there starts to grow a film on the lens and and it darkens everything and blurs everything and It's amazing this medical technology we have today and you can get cataract surgery and they can open that up and give you a little bit of that back. But uh you know it's the fact of the matter is is that's just part of age Verse number four he says, He shall rise up at the noise of the bird. You can't sleep that well. Any any small thing wakes you up. You know, these youth They go to bed and they are dead to the world until a bomb goes off. And then they're up and and you're like, oh man, if I could sleep like that now. Now any little thing You know, this time of year we try not to run the heat or the air, and so we open and close the windows accordingly, you know, depending upon what's needed. The problem is is we have got this team of birds that come outside at the crack of dawn, these birds will be sitting right outside our window and they are just chirping up a storm. I mean it is a a a there's no way I could sleep through it And so we have to on that side of the the same place every morning on that side of the house we have to close the windows or else it wakes me up. And uh you know th what he's saying is you're gonna wake up, you can't sleep as you know, you're getting up two or three times during the night You can't sleep as long, can't sleep as hard. That's part of age. The doors shall be shut in the streets. This is speaking of the fact that you're not as active as you once were. You're not out running around. You're not you know, not in and out and you know uh painting the town red and you know you tend to kind of just stay in more. You tend to uh be at home and ultimately reach the point where you there are those who we refer to them as shut-ins Those that really don't have the opportunity or can't get out, and we try and visit them and call them and check up on them and spend time because they tend to be that way. He's just describing what it's like. He says, um Where are we at here? Middle of verse number four he says, When the sound of the grinding is low, again describing ears, that uh your ears your hearing starts to diminish. Things that were once clear and distinct now are muffled and you just can't quite hear as well anymore. You know, young people when you're speaking to adults and especially the older they are, you need to speak clearly and you need to speak up. This is a sign of respect for them. Their hearing is not what it was. And when you're there, you know, then it's gonna have lunch today. And they look at you and they can't even read your lips because you ain't moving 'em. What what? Open your mouth and articulate your words like somebody that knows how to talk. And and it it's helpful to them because their eyes don't their eyes their eyes don't function like they used to do. Their brain doesn't function that way either. So have some patience with them Uh really try and speak up and and speak clearly just so that they can hear you and they don't have to say what so many times. Sometimes they're they get so tired of saying what that they're just gonna let you say whatever you're gonna say and just be okay. They don't even know what you said. Because it's not worth all the effort to try and get you to talk louder. And so speak up a little bit. That's that's good uh teaching for you young people. You ought to grab a hold of that Uh he says, Hey, uh where are we? In de four and the daughters of music shall be brought low. The the again the music, whatever you're hearing is fading. Verse number five. He says, When they shall be afraid of that which is high and fear shall be in the way. Now most normal older people get afraid of heights. Bob Gamble, not so much. Just a couple years ago Bob Gamble jumped out of an airplane. Uh I told him it wasn't fair because he couldn't see the ground coming. But uh You know, most people are afraid of heights the older you get. Things you would have just jumped down the stairs before and now you're not even sure if you want to go down the stairs, you know, you don't even want to walk down 'em And and you know, just that the the fear of heights, you start to get some common sense about you is what it is, and you say, you know what, I could fall from here and this would be pretty detrimental to my ongoing health, so you decide not to do that. There's some apprehension there he's describing. Um and he he says there then verse number five the almond trees shall flourish okay the almond blossoms are are white they turn white talking about your hair that it's gonna turn white or turn loose Like some of us, you know, but it's gonna happen. That's age. He's describing the age there. Uh he says the grasshopper shall be a burden. Uh talking about just even a grasshopper. is gonna be heavy. It's gonna the the strength has waned so much that the smallest thing wears you out. Uh it's it's a burden, even something as small and as simple as that and and the aged understand these things. desire shall fail, you know, that desire you y you know you're getting older when the first thing you want to know about something is when is it over? You know. Is when when are we done? When when do we get to go home? Uh how late is this gonna go? You know? you just the desire to be out late, the desire to go, you know, sometimes young people, it's ten o'clock and they're like, what do you want to go do? I wanna go to bed, amen. That's what I wanna do. You know, what what you want to go do? Uh it's ten o'clock, man. And and they've got that energy and that excitement, but older, you know, you the desire fails. You don't have that ambition to go And and you see these things and he says there that man goes to his long home describing the fact that w one the end of days is gonna come. You s here just talking about getting older. Somebody said you know you're getting older when everything hurts and that that which doesn't hurt is because it stopped working a long time ago. He says, you know you're getting older when you're sitting in a rocking chair but you can't get it moving. When your knees buckle but your belt won't. You know you're getting older when you get wore out thinking about a project. When you sink your teeth into a stake and they stay there. When you have all the answers, but people have stopped asking you the question. You know you're getting older. Young people uh there's a little bit of it advice in there too. Sometimes, you know, we lose patience, but we need to remember the wisdom that they have, and we need to uh Proverbs tell it, you know, says that it's like deep water. And a man of understanding will draw it out. You can draw it out. You can get that. You need to learn how to ask questions of the aged, of the senior, and and And gain wisdom from them. Draw it out while you have the opportunity, because they will not be with us forever. In verse number seven, he describes our delivered spirit. And it says that you listen, uh Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God. Hey, this body's gonna go in the ground, but our spirit's gonna go into heaven. Verse number eight, he declares life's Causes, all those things that we live for, all the causes that we had, all the things that we thought were so important. He says, Vanity of vanity saves the preacher. All is vanity. The idea that listen, he understood that l a lot of things that people live for, the causes that they have, that's just vanity. It's meaningless. Thirty-three times in this book he says vanity. These words, vanity and vanities, come from a root word which means breath or vapor. What is your life? But a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanisheth away. But he says a lot of things that we live for, they're so meaningless it's like the breath that comes out of your mouth that so quickly is gone and it's it's just it it it's meaningless. Meaningless. That's what he's saying here. He gives a demonstration of life's caution. The preacher speaks to us verses nine through twelve and We see the the preacher's work and his word as he as he mentions these things. Let me just read these verses to you, 9 through 12. And he says, moreover, because the preacher was wise. He still taught the people knowledge, yea, he gave good heed and sought out and he set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought to give and to find out acceptable words. That which was written was upright, even words of truth. The words of the wise are as goads and his nails fastened by the master of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. That would be the great shepherd, the one shepherd. And further by these, my son, be admonished, and make many books there is no end, and much study is weariness of the flesh. That's the only verse the young people have enjoyed out of this whole thing. Much study is weariness of the flesh. That was a good theme verse for me when I was a kid. You know, who wants to do much studying? uh not me. And uh so they the the preacher is trying to give him some wisdom here in the midst of this, but he sums it all up. This is really where we were going this morning. I want you to see his design for life's commitment, contentment. Design for life's contentment. As we get into this last verse, verses 13 and 14, he describes to us how to have a good life How to seize upon that which is most meaningful. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. He says, after all that he's been through, after everything he's experienced, he speaking to the young man, he sums it up. And gives us wisdom. He says, forget about what you want. Forget about what you think. If you want to be happy, do these three things. First of all, he says here, fear God. Fear God. He sums it up, boils it down to the brass tacks, to the bare minimum. He says, listen This is what's most important. You need to remember this, young people. Remember to fear God. Live your life in the fear of God. Now, this fear is a reverential awe. It's an understanding of the greatness of God, who he is, the magnitude of his majesty, and the magnitude of his power. And saying, listen, I am in awe of God, and I'm going to live in awe of God. It seems as though many churches today don't want to speak or talk about fearing God. They don't want to be associated with uh hellfire and brimstone type preaching, and so we're not going to talk about the fear of God, but what they don't understand, beloved, is the truths that the Word of God gives us regarding the fear of God and how important this is. As a church, we are doing a great disservice to the people of God when we aren't exhorting and encouraging them to live in the fear of God. The Bible tells us that by the fear of God, beloved, this is how we overcome evil. He tells us that in Proverbs 16:6, by mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord. Men depart from evil. You want to have victory in your life, you want to overcome that besetting sin. You want to get past that which drags you down. And the the God says, hey, fear him. By the fear of the Lord it is that you overcome evil. You're able to get victory because you fear God. Beloved, by the fear of God, he tells us men will live longer. I know you think it's taking vitamins. And vitamins are good for you. I'm not gonna knock those too much. But uh, you know, God says you want to live longer, fear him. Let me read it to you, Proverbs 10, verse number 27. He said, The fear of the Lord prolongeth days. Doesn't get clearer than that. The fear of the Lord prolongeth days. You want to live longer, young people? Live in the fear of God. But the years of the wicked shall be shortened. I mean you you it doesn't get any clearer than that. It doesn't get any more direct than that. Fear God, you live long. Live for self, live wicked life, you're gonna live short. In Ecclesiastes chapter 8, verses 12, he says, Though a sinner do evil a hundred times and his day be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God. See you want to have a good life, fear God. Live in the fear of the Lord. They don't realize, beloved, that through the fear of the Lord is how we experience provision Uh everybody wants to jump on and claim the oh listen, my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory, and God's gonna meet every need in my life. But the the Bible says in Psalms thirty-four Verses 9 and 10, he says, Oh, fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him. There is no want to them that fear him. You're living in want, you're living where you feel like some needs are Provisions haven't been met, and you're trying to grab a hold of and I'm gonna claim that verse. I'm gonna claim my God's gonna provide. Hey, are you fearing God? He says there is no want to them that fear him. He says, the young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. We should live in the fear of God. Through the fear of God is how we receive his protection. Psalms 34:7: The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. Those that fear God experience the protection of God. The angel of the Lord is encamped around them that fear him and he protects them. Are we living in the fear of God today? That's what he says. This is the uh the conclusion of the whole matter. You want to have a successful life, fear God. Secondly, he says you need to follow God. You need to follow God. What does he say there? Let's hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments. Beloved, want to have a happy life? Follow God. Obey Him. Do what God tells you to do. The fact of the matter is, if you're here this morning and you you've you've been saved, you've uh confessed the fact that you're a sinner and put your faith and trust and the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross for you. Jesus paid your sin debt, and he says, What? Know ye not that ye are not your own? Beloved, your your sin debt has been paid. You have been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body which are his. We need to glorify God in this body. You don't get to just do whatever you want to do. You don't just get to go wherever you want to go. You don't get to live however you want to live. Oh, young the young today like to say it's my life. I can do what I want. But we understand correctly it's not. It's God's life. And we should be living in subjection to Him, following God. Are we following God? Oh, I know we like to say it that this is our final rule of faith and practice, that the Word of God is what we live by, and we're going to follow the Word of God. But do we really do that? I'm talking about people that would even say that, yeah, I I I I'm a I'm a Christian. I I follow God. Except where you don't want to. Except in the areas that you disagree. Except what you feel like doesn't apply to you. I mean, come on. The Bible says, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, and ye shall be witnesses. God's called us to be witnesses. Let me ask you, as a child of God who would say, I'm a follower of God, when's the last time you gave out a gospel track? When's the last time you witnessed to somebody? The Bible says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together as a manner of some is. You know this room is gonna double in size uh here in the next hour. There's a lot of people that aren't here for Sunday school. They would believe that they're followers of God. That's just putting it down where the rubber meets the road. What I'm saying is we follow God where we want to. Instead of looking at the Bible and saying, okay, that's what God says, that's what I'm gonna do. And we all have excuses. We all have reasons why different portions of Scripture don't apply to us And I know that's I I don't think that really means this. We can come up with whatever excuses or reasons we want. But God says, listen, you want to have a happy, successful, content life. Here's the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and follow God. Obey His commandments. Look, lastly, he says, forget not the judgment of God. Verse number 12, he says, For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Listen, don't forget that judgment day is coming. No matter what's going on in this life, don't forget there's a judgment day. And he's going to try every good work. Listen, Judgment Day is only a bad thing if you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing. Judgment Day is a marvelous day. It's a wonderful day if you're doing what you're supposed to be doing. I tell you, there were many days where my kids did not want me to come home. They were praying something would happen. The rapture. Amen. Whatever. Like they did not want me to come home because they knew that they weren't doing what they're supposed to be doing. But there were many days that they were waiting for me to come home. They wanted me to come home. Why? Because they had gone above and beyond, because they did what was expected and more and they were excited about showing dad look at what we did Look at what we accomplished. And beloved, when we're uh you know doing what God wants, be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Beloved, you get to reap the blessings of doing right just like those who reap the hardships of doing wrong. When you're doing right, judgment day is something we get to look forward to Look back at chapter 11 and verse number 9. But any of you young people that have the Word of God with you, would you be able to read that? Ecclesiastes 11, verse number 9. Stephen, you want to read it for us? Whistle young men in Ayouth, and like that heart here is a value. Walk in the ways of thine heart, in the sight of thine eyes, hold out that all break. Alright, I don't know if you were looking at that while he read it so you could really understand it. He says, Go ahead, young man. Live how you want. But listen, I'm just telling you, judgment day's coming. Go ahead. Enjoy it all. Eat, drink, and be merry. Go ahead and just live for today and live your life however you want to live it. But remember, I'm warning you right now, judgment day is coming. God will bring all these things into judgment. You can live for yourself, you can live for sin, but judgment day is coming. The love of judgment day doesn't have to be something we fear. It can be something we look forward to if we're doing what God wants. And you can rejoice in the blessings and the goodness of God. Beloved, life is about God. And that's what's going to bring joy. At the end of life, After you're put in the ground, every opportunity to do something for God will be passed. Your days will be lived. There's nothing you can do about it. But right now, regardless of who you are, and I know some of us, you know, we're creeping up into that age that was described in verses 1 through 7. Some of you are like I've been there a while. I understand. But listen, while you're still breathing, you still have an opportunity to fear God, to follow God. And don't forget that judgment day is coming, and you can live these days to your fullest. Some people that have lived in the past, and I'm going to close. They've summed it up like this. Rockefeller, who had all the money in the world, he said, I have many millions, but they have brought me no happiness. Vanderbilt said, the care of 200 million is enough to kill anybody. There is no pleasure in it. Henry Ford said I was much happier when I was a mechanic. Andrew Carnegie said millions seldom bring smiles. Ralph Barton was one of the top cartoonists in the nation. He left a note on his pillow just before he took his own life. And on the note he wrote, I've known few difficulties. I've had many friends. I've enjoyed great success. I have gone from wife to wife, from house to house. I have visited every country in the world, but I am truly fed up with inventing devices to try and fill 24 hours a day. Beloved, they had they had everything this world had to offer, and no joy. But I'm saying is Solomon who lived through it all and had the most wisest man that ever lived, he says, listen, stop chasing those things. You want joy in your life? Fear God, follow God, and don't forget the judgment day is coming. Live in light of those things. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in your house. We pray that you'll be with all of us, Lord, that we would in our life follow you. Just do what you say we're supposed to do. And Lord, that we would be motivated by the fact that we understand you are an awesome and a powerful God. And Lord, that we would live in fear of disappointing you. Fear of not Doing what we should do, Lord, fearing God for how great and wonderful you are. Lord, we just pray that you would help us this thought to make a difference in how we live tomorrow. And we'll thank you for what you do in our lives in Jesus' name.