This morning, as I already stated, I'm going to be speaking about life on the edge. In Proverbs chapter number six, look down in verse number 27. I will read verse number 27 and 28. Uh it's two short verses here. Why don't we read it together? Proverbs chapter number six, verse number twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? Now I understand that in context this is dealing with the matters of the flesh, that this is dealing with uh the temptations that face men and saying if you get around or uh participate in or uh get sensual with the opposite sex you're going to get burned. And it's that's in the Context of the passage of scripture is what it's dealing with, but there is, in fact, a biblical principle and a law of nature. The fact is, is that when you walk close to the edge You're gonna fall. He says when you play with fire, you're gonna what? You're gonna get burned when you play with fire and oh I know that you were able to play with it once and it was okay and I know you were able to play with it again and it was okay But at some point you're going to get burned. And I remember as a young man we were in El Paso, Texas, and we lived out in the desert, and there was no trash service out in the desert. We were five miles from the first stoplight And so we took our trash and we dug a big hole in the backyard and once a week we would burn it. We would take it out there and we'd throw it in there. And of course, as a young man, this being my responsibility to uh you know, re responsibly make sure the trash got burned, I would find every type of explosive device I could that I could put into that fire and make sure I had good entertainment while the fire was burning I mean, just like any responsible, you know, twelve, thirteen year old boy would do. And so I remember look scrounging around the house and it'd be like Oh, there's a bottle of Aqua Net. That will be good. Oh, that's still full. I can't take that one. Mama missed that one. I'll look around under there's a bottle of air freshener. Uh I can't take that one. I'll find something just about empty that maybe nobody would miss and I would go out and I would throw it in the fire and w wait, you know, get back and wait for it to explode. And wow that was neat and you know you know where this is going And uh sometimes the trash was out there and it was uh it it it it was wet and in order to get it going you had to put some kind of uh you know accelerant on the fire. And uh, you know, we we threw lots of trash in there one time, I don't know where it came from, but we had a two-inch steel pipe that was down in this fire, and I don't know I lit the fire and I had thrown some gasoline on there and I lit the fire and nothing happened, right? It wasn't I mean it burned out, the gas burnered and it went away. And I'm like, oh man, but I didn't want to get too close to the fire. So what I did is I dumped the gas down the steel pipe. I figured it's gonna go down to the bottom of the fire and light, right? But you know what happened. That gas shot out of there like a gun and flew flaming gasoline all over me. I was literally on fire I did the old, you know, shake, rattle and roll, right? I mean I dropped to the ground. I thought this is it. I done burned myself alive. I was scared to death. Now I did get the fire out and praise the Lord and I actually did not get hurt at all So I didn't have to tell mom and dad. To this day they don't know that that happened. But you play with fire, you're gonna get burned. I remember one time I threw a can of spray paint into the ki into the fire and uh It it melted the top of the can out. And uh and I heard it going, pshh, it's spraying all the spray paint. And I said, that's no fun. It didn't explode, it's got to explode And we had this pit where all the fire was, right? And I you had to kind of climb up. It was inside the bit of big mesquite bush. There's a big mesquite bush. We dug out the middle of it and we were filling that with trash. And I climbed over the ridge and I looked in there and it was spraying all the stuff out. And so I kick the can over. Because it's just gonna, it's not fun to let you spray all out. I want it to explode. I kick the can over and I turn around and jump. Well, the can was faster than me. It exploded and it flew and it hit me right here in the back of the leg. Now you know what happens when you step on a Coke can? You know how it wraps itself around your foot and kind of stays there? This is what that pink can did around my calf. It was so hot it burned through my jeans, and it burned the imprint of the can in my calf. When you play with fire, you're gonna get burnt. Let that be a lesson. Kids don't ever do anything like that. This is a principle that's found here in Scripture and stated very clearly. Can a man take fire in his bosom and not get burned? What we're saying is that when you live life on the edge, something's going to happen. We are today living in a society where people seek the thrills of life. Last week my family and I went out and we went forwarding, and my we had such a great time, and praise God, we were all safe. Certainly not accident-free, but we were saved at the end of the week. You know, we had a few spills, a few tipovers and such, but everybody was able to drive home, no hospital calls, praise the Lord. Because we were in places, I'll tell you what, i i if you drive off the wrong edge, you literally are in for two, three hundred foot roll, tumble down, a very steep embankment. I mean you could the the washouts you could be going over a trail and the washout it it looks like the trail the trail's here and the trail's here and you don't realize there's a 15-foot hole in the middle I mean it's just washed it's gone. And you could just be driving and we had one young person drive right into one of those. Praise the Lord hers only about two and a half feet deep. And she did go over the handlebars, but she's okay. But I'm telling you, it's dangerous. And as a parent, I was very concerned for my children. And I would tell them, listen, if you're making me nervous, you're being too bold. You need to settle down. You need to stop being so aggressive. You're going places you shouldn't go because you're getting too close to the edge. The edge of your ability, the edge of a cliff. You're making me nervous. Stay back over here. But we like the thrill, don't we? I recently saw a video on YouTube of a 22-year-old boy who was seeking his 15 minutes of fame. And he asked his girlfriend to shoot him with a fifty caliber pistol. He had read somewhere or saw somewhere that the bullet would not go through a book. He held a book in front of him. And of course they videoed the whole thing because he wanted fame. He wanted to put it on YouTube and get all the likes and recognition and He held the book and he even said he's like listen I want everybody out there to be able to feel the adrenaline. I want you to be able to see what I'm going through. I want you to know what it's like and I want, you know, we're gonna get how many ever likes out of this and and uh you know, his goal and ambitions for fifteen minutes of fame and he held the book in front of him and his girlfriend said, No, I'm not gonna do it and he said, Yeah, you need to do it and she says, No, what if it kills you? What am I gonna do without you? And he's like, It's not gonna kill me, it'll be okay and She said, No, I don't want to do it. And he said, just do it. And she pulled the trigger and a fifty caliber bullet went right through the book into his heart and killed him. Living life on the edge. Who in the right mind? I mean, in the in the in the worst circumstances. I mean, let's say it didn't, but maybe she just missed the book. Maybe the book was safe, but she may I mean it's only this big and it's a girl after all. Sorry, Miss Kim. Shootin' and shoot me, what in the world? But we're like life on the edge today Man, we've got to push it further and go faster and go higher and jump farther. That's what we want today. And our text warns us this morning that when you play around danger, danger is eventually going to win. The fact of the matter is is there's no not very many retired Russian roulette players. I think of biblical examples of this, you think about Samson. He lived life on the edge, pushed the limits. He had all that strength, and after all, he could he was God's mighty man and he could go and do whatever he wanted. But he got burned, didn't he? He got blinded. He got bound. And he was tied and made to grind the millstone for the enemy. I think about Lot. You think about Lot and how he just pinched his tent toward Sodom Sodom. He just pinched his tent towards Sodom, right? He was just going towards the edge of Sodom. I mean, hey, it looks nice over there. I mean, I'm not gonna go and live in Sodom. I'm not gonna be like that, but I'm gonna go towards Sodom. And we know ultimately. His wife was turned to a pillar of salt and he lost it all because living on the edge leads to danger winning. In our society, people have taken life in a totally different way. Life no longer is sacred like it once was. Life is no longer valuable like it should be. Life is not eternal as God tells us it is. What I'm saying is this world looks at it in a case, casera, whatever it will be, will be. Let's just live it to the fullest. But when you understand biblical principles and you realize you're living your life for something beyond yourself, you have meaning and you have purpose. I want to challenge you today to take a closer look at your life. And see if you're living too close to the edge. And encourage you to give back More than once, with the 28 of us that were out there riding four-wheelers, we had to tell the young people, hey, you're going too fast. Hey, hey, you're getting too close to the edge. And this morning I'm asking the Holy Spirit to reach down into your heart and to knock on your heart's door. And I'm going to give you some examples of people living on the edge and maybe Touch some areas that might hit home for you, or maybe it might not, and I might not touch the area, but I hope the Holy Spirit will reach down into your soul and say you're living too close to the edge in this area of your life. You're walking on the line. You see today what people like to do is they like to put up a line on the edge of Christianity. and the world on the edge of right and on wrong and this is what I can't do or can do and this is what I can't do and they live their life right on the edge there and they try and say, well I'm okay because I'm not over there But you're not over here, you're living on the edge, and can a man take fire in his bosom and not be burned? I hope the Holy Spirit will reach down into your heart and talk to you about where you're living on the edge this morning And maybe save your life from destruction. Maybe save your marriage From ultimate failure. Maybe save your kids from running away, going the way of the world Let the Holy Spirit speak to you. Let me give you several examples this morning. First of all, some people live their their life on the edge of time. On the edge of time. They e everything in their life is a rush. They gotta rush everywhere because they're always running a little bit late They're always running just oh I gotta get there quick. Why? Because I'm running a little late. You know, you stand to reason that if I was fifteen minutes late for church this morning, that next week I gotta start the morning process fifteen minutes earlier. You know, if you can get to church ten minutes late every single week, then you can get here on time every single week. You have built and created a habit in your life of living li time on the edge. Getting right to the Well, I'll get there right on time. I'll get there right there. And you rush here and you rush there and you're always running a few minutes late for this and a few minutes late for that and that makes you a few minutes late for the next thing. You're living life on the edge of time. Your time, you you're you're you're y that causes a person to be careless. Because they don't have the time to just get where they need to go because they are running late. Mm-hmm. Why? Be c well I gotta get there. I gotta make up some time because I was doing a little bit too much other stuff. I'm trying to help you this morning. We need to be on time for what we're doing and I and I'm not Listen, I'm not talking about the guy that has a flat tire and he ends up being late for something. I'm talking about the by the people who have victually lived their life on the edge of time. You have established a pattern and a way of doing things that you just aren't early. You just barely make it. You just squeeze in. Or you get in a little bit late. Listen, I don't think God wants us to live that way. That that may causes you to be careless. It causes you to it costs you. You miss opportunities That you could have had because you're running late. You can't stop and fellowship for a few minutes with your brother or sister in Christ. Sometimes you come into church a few minutes late and you missed an amazing testimony. From somebody in the church family who maybe they said got up and talked about how God just fed them in such a great way this week or how God met their need. And you missed that. And that might have been the very thing that you needed for encouragement and for strength, but you missed it. Obviously we're here in church and I'm talking about church, but it this applies to every area of our life. Do you live on the edge of time? Do you always find yourself running a few minutes late for this or a few minutes late for that? Let me encourage you to try and step back from the edge a little bit. Just plan ahead a little bit. Just say, hey, I'm going to leave ten minutes early. If I get there a couple minutes early, it'll be okay. Don't live on the edge of time. Let me ask you this If I offered five hundred dollars to the first person here next week, how early would you be? Some of you would be here Saturday night. The first person here next week gets five hundred dollars. Whoa, I have a reason to get there. I gotta be early I gotta be there before everybody else. I gotta be what If you can make it ten minutes late, you can make it on time. Again, I just think that God would want us to be on time. This is not an entire lesson on that, but we'll look at that at some point in the future. Don't live your life on the edge of time. It costs you. It causes you to be careless, to rush to and fro. It causes stress in your life. Say, man, I got a lot of stress. Well, stop rushing around everywhere. Leave a few minutes early. Plan ahead. Get out of bed a little bit earlier. And then you don't have to be so stressed. Don't live your life on the edge of time. Some people live their life on the edge of finances on uh with their money. You know, if you're carrying credit card debt, you're living on the edge. You're just one circumstance away from destruction. You're living on borrowed time. You're on the edge. You've got credit card debt that's hanging over, and you say it's okay, Pastor Caleb, I can make the payment. What if you lose your job? What if you get in an accident next week and you end up at the hospital for two and a half months? Then what? Oh, Pastor, you know I wasn't planning on that. I know. Those things happen. You're living on borrowed time. You're living on the edge financially if you're carrying credit card debt. Let me encourage you. You've got to do something about that. That's why we're having Brother Baller in and he'll he'll talk to you for free. All you gotta do is set a meeting and he'll meet with you and try and help you with that. We've got Financial Peace University, nine weeks of classes, an hour and a half on Friday nights that could help you with your finances if you're living on the edge financially. We're living in a world today where people are pushing the financial edge to the point they've stopped living on the edge. What they've done is they've walked out on a glass uh floor over a great gulf. With a sledgehammer. And every purchase they make, they're tapping the glass. You keep making, I mean, you're so far out there financially, you know if one thing happens It's all gonna be over. You're so far overextended you don't know how in the world you could ever come back. Let me encourage you and tell you you can come back. There is a way back It's your biblical financial principles which we would be glad to teach you and try and help you with, but don't follow the way of the world and live your life on the edge financially. I get credit card applications And I get notices from my current credit cards that I could extend my limit. Ray, we you have been approved. You can now have $25,000 worth of credit on this one card. What in the world would I want $25,000 of credit for? Why? It is mind-boggling the credit and the debt that people carry today. Why people increase their debt? Some increase their debt because they simply just do not understand or grasp what's happening to them. The biblical principle that the debtor is servant to the lender. And what's happening there, and they think, oh well the the payment is only twenty-nine ninety-five. But if you ever look at the little chart they give you, that if you pay that payment at $29. 95, it's going to take you 29 years to pay it off And you're gonna you you borrowed $2,000 and it's gonna take you $14,000 to pay it back. Why would you do that to yourself? You are doing that to yourself. People increase debt sometimes because they just don't have any self-control. They just can't say no. I want it. I want it. And I'm talking about something as simple as a cheeseburger when you don't have the money to get it. All the way to a $50,000 car. If you're carrying a car loan right now here that you're upside down in, let me tell you you're living on the edge. Most people that buy cars today financially cannot afford them and they're upside down on their loans. That means the car is not worth What you owe on it. You're upside down, okay? Listen, I'm trying to help you. I'm not getting I'm not upset at you. I'm trying to help you. I'm saying that was a bad financial decision. People that have an upside-down loan. Many times they'll go to they'll want a new car and they'll go to a salesman and they'll say, Oh, well we can just roll this payment into your new vehicle You can get a new car and now you're buying a car that's less let's just say a cheap car, like twenty-five thousand dollars. Except you're rolling your ten thousand dollars from your other vehicle that's only worth two. into the new vehicle. So now you're buying a car that on the lot is worth twenty thousand or or twenty-five thousand dollars, but now you've got to pay thirty-five thousand And as soon as you drive it off the lot, it's lost about five thousand dollars worth of its value. Now you're fifteen thousand dollars behind on that car. Anytime you buy a car, You should always be able to sell it and get out from under your loan. If you aren't in that position, you can't afford that car. There's a lot of little principles like this that could help you not to live life on the edge. Have some self-control. Dave Ramsey says financial problems are, I think he says 80% behavior. It's not has nothing to do with how much money you make. You say, man, if I made more money, no. Wouldn't matter because you're the one making the decision. If you made more money, you'd just be in worse worse situation. Here, I'll I'll throw this out to you. Uh you think money fixes your problems? A study done by a university, and I don't have it in front of me, I've done a lot of reading in the last few weeks on finances. Families that make less than $30,000 a year. are only twenty-four percent likely to have infidelity in the home. A family that makes over $70,000 a year is like 54% more likely to have infidelity in the home. Finances affect your life. And more of it just means more problems. It comes down to decisions and doing what you need to do responsibly with your finances. Some people increase their debt and they because of tragedy that comes into their life, unavoidable circumstances. Health, car wreck, etc. Some have needs because they're not putting God first. Give, and it shall be given unto you good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give unto your bosom. For with the same measure that you meet, with it all shall be measured to you again. Listen, this last week I went out on vacation, right? I went with my brothers. And we had a lot of ladies there. For the sake of the ladies, we ordered a Portageon. So they, you know, we're in the woods, we're roughing it, but we thought that'd be much nicer for the ladies. Right. So we got a Porter John and have it delivered there where we were camping. There's a place we found up there in that area. Anyways, I told my brothers, I said, Don't worry about it, I'll pay for it. And you know, some were like, well no, we need to split it, we need to take care of I said, Oh it's okay, I'll I'll pay for it. Don't worry about it. Not not a problem. Okay, we got two of them, the two Portageons cost us 150 bucks. for the week. And I said, uh don't worry about it. I'll take care of it. I wasn't worried about it. I said, listen, God's been good to me. But do you know when I came home last week Yesterday? Oh, when I got home yesterday evening, Mary was opening the mail and she handed me a letter from somebody that said, Pastor Caleb, you and your family have been such a blessing to us. We just want to say thank you and show our appreciation. And there was a check for five hundred dollars in there. God's dead unto no man. Give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, running over, shall men give unto you but This goes into every area of your life. You're having struggles problems in your marriage. You want love? You want some more love from your mate? Biblical principle, give love. Give love. Give love. And it shall be given unto you. Give love. You want friendship? A man that has friends must show himself friendly. Be a friend. Give friendship. Give friendship. Be a friend. And you're gonna have more friends than you know what to do with. Give and it shall be given unto you. Do you need some time? Say, I can't get it all done. I don't have enough time. Give some of your time to others. Help others and see if God doesn't multiply your time to get more done. in the time that you have. Have you learned the blessing of giving? Or are you living on the edge? There was a wicked man who was hiding his money from his wife. He was hiding it in his pickup truck. He would take a little bit of his money from every check and stash it away that his wife wouldn't get it. He died before she did. When he died, family members were going through his things and they found this truck and this strong box that he had in it And found it contained $66,000. He was keeping that money, what he thought was from his wife, but actually He was keeping it for her because he died. And she got it all. Listen, you live your life, Stingy You're not going to get anything out of it. But you live by biblical principle and give and it shall be given unto you. Listen, let me uh give you one more thought here. This is probably the most important thought for the morning Are you all with me still? Still awake? Okay. Living on the edge of heaven. Wanna ask you, are you living on the edge of heaven? Hebrews chapter 13, verse number 18 says, Pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience. I have put the wrong verse in here. I don't know how I did that. Forgive me for that, but it's a good verse. It's not the right one. Listen, we're all living on the edge of eternity. How many of you realize that this time next week, very well one of us couldn't be here? We don't know how much time we have. The fact of the matter is is we are all living on the edge of eternity. We this could be our last day on earth. This could be the last breath that you take. We don't know. The Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You don't know what it's going to bring forth. You don't know. So we're all living on the edge of eternity, but the difference is that some are living on the edge of heaven. They know about heaven and they look towards heaven and they want to go to heaven. But they haven't made the choices that will get them there. Just as much as we're on the edge of eternity, some of you are living on the edge of heaven. You know, it's like this. Let's say I had had enough, and I chose that I wanted to end my life. And I went up onto the tallest building I could find. And I stood on the edge of that building and I jumped. Do you know something? The moment I jump, I can't change my mind. I can no longer say, oh, oh, wait, wait, I want to take the elevator down. It's too late. I jumped. The opportunity to make the choice His past. That's what eternity is like. You see, the moment that you die, you've jumped off into eternity The opportunity to make the choice of whether you're going to spend an eternity in heaven or an eternity in a place called hell, the choice is too late. You can't make a choice at that point. You have to choose before you jump. You have to choose before that last breath is taken You're here this morning and we're all living on the edge of eternity, but are you living on the edge of heaven or hell? Some need to just get honest with themselves. Really think about this. When you die, will you be in heaven Do you know? The Bible says, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God wants you to know it beyond a shadow of doubt. And so many people live their life and they're living on the edge of heaven. They've heard about heaven, they've heard about God, they love Jesus and and everything's really good and they think everything's all right but they haven't made the choice. And the decision that, not a hope-so, but a no-so salvation Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that when you pass away, that when you take that last breath, that you'll be in heaven instead of a place called hell? When you consider eternity, do you hear the songs of the angels? Do you think about the golden streets? Or is it the torments of the screams of hell that draw your mind It was a rich father who wanted a driver for his daughter. And she had to take this precarious path to get to school every day. And so it's back in the days of the coaches. horse-drawn carriages and he put out the applications for a driver for his daughter to get taken to school and he Told her told everybody, come and we want to find out how close you can get to the edge of this cliff and not go over And many drivers came and applied and drivers came and they drove the carriage and they drove it fast and they drove it really close to the edge and I mean just so I mean scraping the edge, I mean kind of the wheel just hanging off and he's like, Look at that skill, look at that skill and One driver took the coach calmly down the road and stayed all the way to the left, didn't go anywhere near the edge. And people laughed and mocked and like, look at him, he can't even get oh man, look at that. So far from the edge. But the dad said you got the job. Are you living life on the edge? Are you here this morning and I I d maybe I didn't even touch it on it. Maybe the Holy Spirit talked to you about something in your life that you're doing that you say that's just too close The edge. You need to get back from the edge a little bit. That's just not safe. That's just not what you want to do. It's going to lead you down a path of destruction. It's going to end up causing you to get burned, Christian. God touched your heart in some area. You're here this morning and say, Pastor Caleb, I might be living on the edge of eternity, and I don't know whether I'm going to go into heaven or hell. You can know that this morning. We can take a Bible and just show you what God says about how you can know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that when you take your last breath, you'll be in heaven. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed if you would. I would like to have a moment of invitation.