There's a call that goes out to all mankind. You see, he says here in verse number two, he says, Behold, I Paul say unto you. That if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. What he's saying is if you are looking for salvation, Through the act of circumcision, Christ's death, burial, and resurrection profits you nothing Because you're not looking to what Christ did for you, you're looking to unto circumcision. He says, For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law. He says, Hey. If you want to look to circumcision for salvation, then you are a debtor unto the whole law. You can't just say, oh, well, I did this and I'm okay. No, if you're going to follow the law, you've got to follow it all. Over four hundred laws given to God's people in the ceremonial, uh, moral and sacrificial laws that God gave his people. He says you've got to keep them all. That's a tall order. Basically, what the law was for is to show us that we couldn't do it. That only through Jesus Christ and his death, burial, and resurrection are we called unto liberty. And freed from the law. We, he says, he goes on. Where do we stop? Verse number four: Christ is become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, you are fallen from grace. For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith which worketh by love. He says, hey. Your salvation is through Jesus Christ, not through being circumcised or not being circumcised. He said that that one way or the other is not going to make a difference for you with regards to eternity. Your eternity was sealed and delivered by Jesus Christ on the cross. Do you understand this morning that all of your good works stacked up together will do nothing to get you into heaven? Whether circumcision or not circumcision, it's Jesus Christ that provided the way to heaven. It's a free gift that all you have to do is reach out and accept it. All of the good works that you could perform on this earth from this day until the day you die will not get you one step closer to the gates of heaven. It's a lie of the devil that you're going to get to heaven and they're going to weigh your good works and your bad works and see how you come out. And if your good works are more than your bad works, then you'll get in. That's not in the book. Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And he in his love, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life, he in his love made a way for you. People say God is is a you know I I don't want to serve a God like that, a God of judgment. He's a God of love. God never sent anybody to hell. They go to hell by their own choice when they reject his son. If you're here this morning, there's a call to liberty. God says you can go to heaven, it's a free gift. All you gotta do is accept it. If you haven't accepted that free gift, please don't leave here today without getting that settled. There's four things that you need to see in the Word of God about how God wants uh what God wants us to do to get to heaven. I'm not going to give those to you right now. But if you don't know that, please let somebody at the close of today's service take a Bible and show you. You you don't have you can just at least see what God says. But I'm telling you, according to our text here, that it has nothing to do with your works. It didn't matter whether you're circumcised or not, it doesn't matter whether you go to church or not, it doesn't matter whether you uh have communion or not, or you've been baptized or not, or or any other good work that you put forth. Doesn't matter. It's Jesus Christ. There's a call to liberty. Jesus Christ, through his shed blood on the cross, he freed us from the punishment of sin. You no longer have to spend an eternity in a place called hell because Jesus paid the penalty for you. He's freed us from the punishment of sin. Not only that, he has given us freedom from the power of sin. We don't have to live in the bondage to the sin that used to hold us bondage. We can be freed from that power that that sin held over us. You have a something in your life that's just controlling you and you can't let it go and you can't quit and you've tried every kind of five-step, twelve-step, eighteen-step, seven-step, three-step, and four patches to quit, and you still can't. Well, Jesus Christ can help you quit. Because you've been freed from the power of sin through him. Why is my wife laughing? Miss Trudy, you gotta be good in church, right? I don't know what they're doing over there. That'll preach though. You've been freed from the power of sin. And glory be. Brother Lawrence, he's always saying, praise be. He'd say, praise be. You're one day going to be free from the presence of sin. When we go into glory, and we'll not have to deal with it anymore here online, we'll be freed from the presence of sin. Why? Because of what Jesus Christ did. But do you know something? You can be saved. You can be on your way to heaven. And the Apostle Paul here says, stand fast in the liberty. That you've been called to, you know that you can find yourself back in bondage to the things that you once were in bondage to before you had Christ? You can find yourself back held and even harmed by that sin which Christ paid for you and provided a way for you to have victory over. Christ and his grace is of no use to someone that depends upon the law. Watchman Knese said, Law means I must do something for God. Grace means God has done something for me. So we see first that there's a call to liberty. There's a call to liberty that God sends out to everyone in this verse. Then we see that there's a condemnation of a license. The condemnation of a license. He says, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. Yes, you have all been called to liberty in Jesus Christ, and through his power, we've been set free from the presence and the power and the penalty of sin. But Liberty was never meant to be a license. There's a condemnation of that idea of the license to sin. We have liberty to determine what we will do and what we won't do for God. When you understand soul liberty, when you understand individual responsibility, what we're talking about here, and we'll be looking at those in our Thursday night Bible study in the weeks to come. But you see, when the Bible is very clear on something, you don't have to decide about it. But there are some things that we need to decide about. We have individual soul liberty. What he says is you have liberty to decide to do what God wants you to do, not what you want to do There's a very different different way of approaching that problem. You have liberty to do what God wants Not what you want. Anyone that would say, I have liberty to sin or to go my own way knows nothing of the grace of God. Your liberty is not so that you can satisfy your sensual desires, but that you may satisfy your Savior's demands. Because what Jesus Christ has done for us. You see We have been set free. But it's not set free to sin. It's set free from sin. And the problem today with many people as they look at this idea of liberty is they feel or they argue or they present the thought or idea as they've been set free just then. Now they wouldn't want to look at and define and say what they're doing is sin, but what it boils down to is they're saying, I've been set free to do what I want to do. I have my rights. I'm not under the law. Don't tell me I can't. Who are you to say? They're demanding their rights instead of doing what God wants them to do. We have been set free to do what God wants us to do. Liberty is the right to find out what God wants and do it. You know, as a young person, I longed for the day. I longed for the day that uh I would be an adult. And I could have my own house and get up when I want and go to bed when I want. I wanted to have my own refrigerator so I could eat whatever I want out of the refrigerator and drink whatever I wanted out of the refrigerator. I longed for the day when I had my own car and I could go wherever I wanted to go and nobody was going to tell me what to do. I longed for the day when I didn't have any homework, praise God. Do you know I studied yesterday for probably 16 hours? I long look what God did to me. I longed for the day, but you know what I found out when I became an adult? I found out that with that house and that liberty to do what I wanted came a lot of responsibility. With that car that I could drive and go wherever I wanted to go, now somebody had to put gas in it. Somebody has to pay the Car payment and the insurance and the gas bill. With that house and that refrigerator, it's not just stocks like it was when I was a kid. There's not just whatever I want in there to eat. Somebody has to go buy that and put it in there. There's a lot of responsibility that came with that. So we've been called the liberty, but liberty is not a license. With that liberty comes a lot of responsibility. Paul said first legalism is going to fail. And a license would be foolish. But if you live your life guided by love, That would follow, that would fulfill, that is faith. So our third point today is there's a command to love. A command to love. He says, but by love serve one another. By love Serve one another. We serve God not because of pressure from without, like the law, but we serve God because of pressure from within called love. That's why we do it. If we love God like we should, and we love one another like we should, liberty will never be a problem. I want you to see a correlating passage that goes with this. So would you turn your Bibles to the book of Romans? The book of Romans. Just turn back. In your Bibles back towards the beginning of the New Testament there. The fact just get through Corinthians and Romans. You'll find it there. Romans chapter number thirteen. In Romans chapter number thirteen, now you're gonna have to put your thinking caps on. Everybody got your thinking cap engaged? Ready to look at this passage of scripture and get some understanding here? He says in Romans chapter 13, verse number 8, he says, Oh no man anything. But to love one another. For he that loveth another hath what's the next three words? Fulfilled the law. He says, if you love one another like you should. You will fulfill the law. What does he say in Matthew about thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul? When the disciples come and say, Lord, what's the greatest commandment? He says, Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And what's the second that's likened unto the first? Love thy neighbor as thyself. That's what he's saying here. Now look in verse number nine. He says, For this uh thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment It is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor, therefore love is the what? Fulfilling of the law. Fulfilling of the law. You understand that if we love like we should, there would be no need for the law. Because if I love like I should, I'm not going to kill somebody. Well that's obvious, Pastor. You're obviously not going to kill them. But do you know what? If I love like I should, I'm not going to lie to them either. Thou shalt not lie. What what are the what what are the ten commandments? We haven't done this in Sunday school in a long in a long time. What's the first one? Okay, if you haven't been through this with me, do it with the do it with me. This is you take one finger and point to towards God. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Second one, take this hand and it bows down to that one. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Don't bow down to graven images. Okay? One hand, three fingers. This three fingers, put them to your lips. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Back to two hands, four fingers, number four, turn it into a steeple. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Number five, take all five, salute. Honor thy mother and thy father. Number six Thou shalt not kill. Number seven, put these two together and put 'em in the bed. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Number eight, take this hand and grab it. Thou shalt not steal. Number nine. Thou shalt not bear false witness. I promise to tell the whole truth, thou shalt not bear false witness. So take the nine, put your hand on the Bible, thou shalt uh thou shalt not bear false witness. And number ten, grab it all and pull it to you. Thou shalt not covet. That's the law. That's what he says. You have fulfilled all of those when you love like you should. All of those will be a mute point. If we love God like we should and our neighbor like we should. So you understand what I'm saying is that if I love God more than I love myself, I will do whatever is necessary to demonstrate that love. No sacrifice will be too great. Pastor, how can you ask that of me? No sacrifice will be too gay. As a matter of fact, it will not be a sacrifice. Why? Because I love God most of all. Whatever he asks, whatever he expects, whatever he desires, it doesn't matter because I love him most of all, and if I love him with all my heart and with all my soul and all my mind Then nothing else is gonna matter. But we don't. We love ourselves so much more That we demand our right instead of his will. Am I giving you truth or not? That's what it is. And God says very clearly here in our verse Neither you neither use somebody help me out. How does it start? How does it start at the beginning? But brethren, you have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love serve one another. Yes, you've been given liberty. But if love is your guiding principle, you will never exercise your liberty to the harm or hurt of anyone else Because love is the guiding principle. If we love one another, the law is unnecessary. We don't need to make choices about things that are clear-cut in the Bible. God said, thou shalt not kill. You don't have to decide how you feel about that. I know there's some that you might be questioning whether that's really in the Bible. There's a few you might want to take care of. But the truth is that's very clearly spelled out. Where this comes into play is in things that are not clearly spelled out. Where there is not a guiding principle or a precept that guides our action, we have to determine what would God want. And you have the liberty in Christ to determine that. But use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, let love guide your decision on what is lawful for you to do. Love of God first, love of your neighbor is yourself. as yourself second. And if those are your guiding principles, liberty is never a problem. Because love is exercised first. Let me illustrate with my wife. Because we like doing that. You understand that I have liberty to go and to stay out as late as I want to? I could do that. I have the right to do that. I don't even have to call home. I have the liberty to do that. But with love as my guide, I love her. Therefore, I say I don't want her to be home alone. I'm going to give up what I wanted to do. I wanted to go and do this. I wanted to spend some time with so-and-so. I wanted to go here, but love is my guiding principle, and love says, I'm going to give up my desire and I'm going to go home because I love her more than myself. I want her to be happy. I don't want her to wonder what I'm doing. I don't want her to have to wonder what is what is Caleb doing? Where is he? Even if it starts out just wondering, is he safe? But you keep it up, and the wondering is going to be starting to be wondering who he's with. With love as my principle, that's never a problem. You know, I have liberty to go out and buy whatever I want to buy. Bless God, I'm the man of my house and I can buy whatever I want. I have that liberty. But love says she's my partner. We're a team. And if I want another four-wheeler, she needs to be on board. So I'm just kind of plugging it in right here, you know. Just kind of letting her know. That you all think I should be able to get one, eh? No, no. Brother John will let you use it. You helped me convince her, amen. What I'm saying is love is my guiding principle. I don't just go out and buy whatever I want. A few weeks ago I bought a trailer to help haul the the four-wheelers around to cart them around to where we need to go. I've been watching for over a year to look for this trailer. For a long time and this was a great deal and I I I said, man, we need to get this trader and I I went to her and I said, Hey, look at this trader. What what do you think? Here's what it costs, this is what it compares to, here's what probably what we can get out of it if we sell it uh down the road, this is what it'll do, what do you think? And after a couple of hours of convincing, she was no You know what? Her guiding principle is love as well. And her pr her love guiding principle says Son, I want you to have it. If there's any way we can do it, please go get it. And we're in a place we can do that. I could do without this or without this or without this. If you can do that. Why? Because her guiding principle is love too. We're talking about love and liberty, but here this will help you in your marriage. Let love be your guide. And it'll help you. This is stark contrast to the questions asked in the Bible and what people ask today. You understand in the Bible the questions that were asked were asked because they had a desire to please God. Any passages of the scripture that deal with love and liberty in the scriptures It has a d they have a desire to please God. And they said, is this lawful? Can we do this? Should we do this or should we not do this? There's a desire first to please God. They love God first. That's in stark contrast to today, where people ask, I want to do this, can I? Let me illustrate. Um Alicia, she has a particular dress that she likes the colors of and she wants to wear it. However, she wants to be modest. She desires to please God. She desires to be modest. So she comes and she asks mom, Mom, is this dress okay? Can I wear this? Mom says, go ask dad. She comes and she she shows it to me and she says, Dad, is this dress modest? Is this okay? Get this. Either answer that I give her Is acceptable to her. Because her heart's desire is not to wear that dress no matter what. Her heart's desire is to please God and to be modest. So either answer I give her is acceptable. I could say that, hon, that's okay, you can wear that, and she'll say, oh good, I like the colors. Or I can say, hun, that's probably too tight, that's not modest. And she'll say, Thanks for letting me know, I won't wear it. Either answer is okay. Because her desire is not to wear the dress, to do what she wants to do, her desire is to please God. That's what liberty is. We have the liberty to find out what God wants us to do and to do that. Why? Because our guiding principle is love. By love, serve one another. When we love God first and love our neighbors ourselves, liberty is never a problem. We work for him, serve him. Not because we must, like a slave, but because we desire to as a son. For brethren, you've been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. He starts out with four brethren. He lets them know they have a relationship. That they are brethren. So I say to you today, brethren, brethren, you've been called unto liberty. But you've not been given a license. We must use love as a determining factor for the liberty we have in Jesus Christ. And if we really love God, we will live in such a way as to please Him and bring honor and glory to Him in all of our actions. And if we really love our brother, we will live in such a way as to not harm him, but always edify him. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Brethren, you've been called to liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you for your love, for this verse that we've had this month to muse upon. Lord, for the insight, for the for the direction that you gave me as I studied and opened this passage of Scripture. I believe literally life-changing thought, using love as our guiding principle, that alone would settle most of us. Lord, I pray that as a people we would love you first, most of all, and love others as ourselves, and we might live joyously in the freedom and the liberty that we have in Jesus' name. Christ. In Jesus name, Amen