In Song of Solomon two hundred fifteen tonight now in the Scripture, it says, Take us the foxes, the little foxes that spoil the vines, for our vines have tender grapes. Now, a person comes to Christ and Christ saves them. That's what he does. He's the Savior And he that person becomes born again. He becomes a spiritual babe. The Bible says, newborn, if you will. Many scriptures point to that truth Now, what do babies do? Well, let's see. We had three. I kind of remember these stages as they eat And they grow. And they want to eat more. And they grow a little more. They make a mess All of it is in the context of their upbringing. It's important that they continue, however, to grow Babies ought to grow. Otherwise, they will be stunted. It is not normal not to grow. Did I say that right? I think I said it right. It is not normal not to grow. So new believers need to watch that they continue to grow. In fact, all believers need to watch that they continue to grow. All believers uh need to do that and you are either growing or you are stunted in your growth, one or the other. Now, growing wouldn't be so hard if it there weren't so many hindrances to that growth taking place. Oh, the devil is sly, isn't he? You know, first he doesn't want us to be saved. He didn't want you to be saved. But now that you are saved, uh, if you do receive Christ as your Savior, then he doesn't want you to grow as a Christian. Think with me, if the things that would hinder our growth were great big things Well we would recognize them, wouldn't we? And we would say, okay, well I'm not going to fall for that, and we would push past it and we would grow. But they aren't big things, are they? They are little things that come along. Here's the thesis of tonight's message. The devil can use little things That become big issues in our lives to stunt our growth. And we need to be on the lookout for these little things. This evening, I want to look with you to look with me at little things that can prevent spiritual growth. Little things Ask yourself, is there a little thing, just a minor little thing, that I have allowed that is stunting my growth Now listen, we can all be growing even during this time, as our sister gave testimony tonight. We all ought to be growing all the time, no matter what's going on in the world. Amen. But now uh if there's a little thing that can come along that can stun our growth, we need to be on the lookout for that and uh ward it off. So let's face it tonight, start growing again. Let's pray. And we'll get right into it. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus, now I pray that you'll give me liberty in the Spirit to speak the truth. and in love, and I pray, dear God, that folks will receive it in the same spirit. And Lord, if there's a little thing that you point out tonight to us that we're slipping in, that we've allowed in, that is stunting our growth. Help us, Heavenly Father, to be honest. It doesn't matter if we're in our living room or watching on YouTube or sermon audio or out in the parking lot or in the auditorium. Lord, whatever it is, help us to be honest. before you and to deal with that little thing, that little issue, that we may get back on the road to growing. It's important that we grow. And we give you all praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Now, the little foxes in Song of Solomon 2. 15 speak to us of lingering bad habits. Lingering bad habits. When we were lost without Christ, we likely picked up some habits before we got saved. Some things that God doesn't like. I know I had some things when I came to Christ that the Lord worked on me about that I needed to change. And you that's probably true of you too. And if we had unscriptural friends, we may have picked up some of their bad habits as well. And those bad habits are now in our Christian life in fruiters to hinder us from growing growing. Now we know that Let's just come on common ground for a moment. We know that Christ is the vine and we are the branches. John chapter 15 The Bible pictures us as being engrafted into Christ the vine, whatever we receive Christ as our Savior. We have the same, uh have become an extension of Jesus Christ on the earth and the life that is in Christ Now flows through us the branches, or at least it should. And he wants us Because of that life flowing through us, now we as branches can bear fruit. Are you with me? We can bear fruit. Now, secondly, for the newborn believer, any fruit that he or she begins to bear would be Can I put it this way? A tender fruit or a tender grape. Be like a new grape. They're not used to bearing fruit, so this would be tender grapes The new Christian's fruit is just getting started. They're just starting to learn God's ways. They're just starting to learn how to eat and enjoy the milk and the meat of the Word, both in reading and from the preaching. But uh they're new at it, but uh they are learning, and so each new convert is tender and teachable, and their fruit could be called tender grapes, if you will. Thirdly, we also know that there's a devil who wants to spoil everything good that God has planned for us. Isn't that right? There is the devil, and he will come in the form of a little hindrance, such as an old habit that we haven't conquered yet. The devil is a fox He's a fox, a sly, that is. God wants to do more in us and teach us more, but this little fox This little habit that he keeps us going in keeps gnawing away at our spiritual growth and energies and our fruit. The preacher preaches on our habit. Oh my. Or he talks to us about it. And if he does, It's possible that we get miffed. Well, what's he talking to me about that for? Or what's he preaching on that about? And when that happens, if that's our response, then our growing stops right there. Stops. Okay. Well, old habits can be vices. In our lives. Or they can just be fun things that take our time. But if they hinder your spiritual growth, you have to treat them like a fox. I've seen old vices like things you might think of, drinking and smoking, dancing, worldly music. Pornography, cussing, uh party, partying, and drugs, gambling, and so forth. Keep a new believer from growing. I've seen that happen. Uh but I also know a lady that we've led to the Lord. We led the man to the Lord. Shirley and I went out to follow up on that. They came to church and we followed up and led the woman to the Lord She came to church, came every service, made a public profession. Her children subsequently received Christ. She began to take notes on the sermons, began to grow, began to be faithful, was here every service at our church for about three years. Three years after, she reverted to a little fox. And you wouldn't believe what it was. It was flea markets every weekend. Now there's nothing simple about a flea market, right But she got bought into the flea market so that she had to be there every Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. This week, next week, the next week, all summer. She told me now, preacher, we'll only I'm gonna uh I'm gonna be back. This isn't gonna be forever. But Um I'll I'll be back. And so um that was six years ago She's never been and back inside the church. About two years ago, she filed for divorce from her husband, and they got it. And all of this was from a little fox. What something that looked innocent on the outside. And they're gone. All of them are gone. All of them are out of church. All of them are backslidden and their family is the shambles. But I've also seen fun fun things like weekend recreation, boating, and golfing and camping and skiing and fishing, demanding hobbies. uh Sunday activities, a cabin, a beach house, visiting the relatives, working overtime, etc. , become foxes that spoil our fruit and hinder our growth. Now look at Listen to me carefully. I'm for vacation. I believe we need to get away sometimes. But it's not every weekend. I mean, we need to temper that in our lives as well. Turning the Bible to Colossians chapter 3. These are the seemingly innocent areas we have set our affections on And they can prevent our further growth in the Lord. However, the Bible commands all of us In Colossians 3 and verse 2, to set your affection on things where Above. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. And so the antidote for the little fox is found in our text. Back in Song of Solomon 2. 15, he says, take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoiled the vines. That is, overcome them, take them, remove them. The us there refers to the fact that we are responsible to do it, not God. It's not God's responsibility to take them away. It's our responsibility. Determine not to let them interrupt your growth. In other words, you need to value the importance of growing spiritually enough that you will see if there's a habit, something that's interrupting your growth, and take it out. I mean remove it. Determine not to let them steal your tender fruit. Colossians three nine 3-9, lie not one to another, seeing that you put off the old man with his deeds and have put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. That is, God calls on you and me to drive away the old man habits. The old ways of doing things in order that we may go forward in our growth. I wonder tonight, let's stop right now, how is it with you, Christian? Examine yourself. Are you willing to deal with those old ways and old habits so that you can get back to growing or keep growing? Are you willing to remove them? Little foxes are like lingering bad habits. Number two, Proverbs chapter six, if you would go over there, please. Proverbs six, verse ten. Another little thing that can prevent our growth in God is a little sleep. When it talked about a little sleep, he's talking about laziness spiritually. It says Proverbs 6. 10, yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep. Some new Christians would grow, but they're too lazy in their habits, in their pattern of life They're too lazy to leave their comfy homes and make an effort to get to church on Sunday night and Wednesday night when we're back. They're too too lazy. It's not that they particularly have a health problem or a problem with the COVID. It's that they're too lazy, some of them. They use the family time excuse. You know that one. I just have to have some family time. And of course I can't take it from anywhere else. I've got to take it from church. Listen, we raised three children, all of them in church, every time the doors were open, all the time they were coming up. By the way, all of them are serving Christ as adults today. in independent Baptist churches. So something was right there. They used the fatigue excuse with God. Well they would never use the fatigue excuse with their employer. Try that with your employer. I'm just tired today. Uh oh. And I won't be in work Shirley's mom taught her that if she could babysit on and earn money late Saturday night, that she could get up for church on Sunday morning and stay awake. And it left an impression she never forgot it. Some Christians are so lazy they won't pick up their Bible during the week and read it. Dear brethren, we are commanded to search the scriptures daily. We are commanded to study the Bible, to show ourselves approved unto God. Don't God's commands ring true? Don't they mean anything to us? Some Christians are so lazy that they can't make it special meetings and other activities that would help them, that would bless them and draw them close to God. Neglect is the second cousin to laziness. Some are so lazy that they only attend church. That's it. They won't lift a finger to help in any ministry. They never look for needs of others to meet or others to encourage. They are Sunday Christians and they come waiting for you to lift them. Brother, when we come together, we're supposed to r come together to edify one another. That is build up one another. You ought to look around the congregation when you get back together and say, now how can I be a blessing to that brother and sister? What can I say today that would be an encouragement and lift them? We ought to be building one another's up. They never look to the needs of others. They're Sunday Christians. They never volunteer to serve in any way. There's a thin commitment to this ministry by some. Dear friend, I'll guarantee you the senior saints in every church Put a lot of others to shame. They're 60, 60, 70, 80 years old. I used to think that was old. Not so much anymore. They still work in the nursery some of them. They still visit shut ins and sick some of them. They still go out on soul winning or bus visitation when things are normal. Some of them do. They still help clean the church. They s make it to every service faithful like a clock. They still work around the building and the property and still send cards and come to work night and and help serve at banquets and such like Someone says, well yeah, they're retired. They have plenty of time now. No, no, you're missing the point. They did this while they still had their family. While their family was at home, they rearranged their schedule to serve when they were still working a job and raising a family, and their children saw that service. Shame on the rest. There's no excuse for being lazy. They were taught to do better than they're doing. And what we ought to do is just name it like it is, call it like it is. It's laziness spiritually. A little sleep, that's all. A little sleep. Some haven't matured spiritually, and they aren't growing because of it. They're still teeny bopper Christians. Maybe that describes you if you're listening tonight I don't want you to get mad at me and get mad at God, but God loves you. And God wants you to get back on track. And maybe you need to hear it plainly, uh, that this is a little sleep. It's a little thing, but boy, it can have an effect on your life. Immature by choice. Some are still using excuses. Why they can't be what they ought to be. They lack commitment. They have some knowledge, but we know that knowledge puffeth up. And so turn to Romans chapter 13. They're not lazy toward their family or their home. They're not lazy toward shopping or hobbies or vacations. They're not lazy toward yard sales and soap operas and sports and the beach and TV and hunting and fishing and texting and recreation and the web surfing and computer games or investments They're not lazy toward their job, they're not lazy toward anything that they want to do. But toward God and His work and His church and His Word, they're spiritually lazy. And they have no time left for God. There's no serious study of the Bible. Could I tell you something? When we read the Bible, we ought to read it more slowly than we're going through it. There are words there that sometimes I read, and as many times as I've read it through, There's still a word there that I just can't put my finger on what that means. We ought to take time and look that thing up. If we care about what God said, we'll look that up and find out what it means. Write it off to the side. So that next time you don't trip over that word. We ought to spend some time on his word. A little sleep, though. We need to name the spirit of laziness that Some have given themselves over to, and they need to be confronted, and it has stunted their growth. Now, this is not something new, however. However, in Romans chapter thirteen and verse eleven, Paul faced this in the early church when he wrote to the church at Rome and he said, and that knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. In the early church, can you imagine there were those that were asleep? For now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. Brother or sister who is drowsy, maybe out in the parking lot listening to the preaching, I don't know. Maybe at home in your chair, maybe uh here in the auditorium, I don't know God is calling on you to awake. How serious are you, after all, about growing? You ought to be dead in earnest about growing in God. Wake up for the Bible study. Wake up for prayer time. We ought to get serious about prayer. Wake up for all of your church services. when you get back to having them. Wake up for service in some capacity in your local church ministry. Wake up to the needs of others in your church. Wake up to bring somebody to church and care about somebody's soul. Amen. This is all part of being revived Turn to Ecclesiastes chapter ten. So there are little things that prevent our spiritual growth. There are the little foxes that represent bad habits that we need to break in our lives. There's a little sleep that pictures our spiritual laziness that we need to awaken out of. The third little thing that the devil uses to hinder our growth is a little folly. Just a little follow. That's the old ways of thinking and doing things. The old ways. Ecclesiastes 10. 1. Dead flies caused the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking saver. So doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honor. Well, we're in reputation for wisdom and honor. We're Christians. We ought to have some wisdom and honor. Folly, the word means foolishness. Folly is doing things my way instead of God's way. And so God says that stinks. Woo! If God says it stinks, it must really stink. Now, before we came to Christ, we may have developed different ways of thinking about things, things like abortion, before we became Came to Christ. Things like autonomy or social welfare or who is the head of the home, who should be the head of the home. Divorce and remarriage. Dress, separation, music, worship styles. We may have had different views about church attendance, Bible versions May have been one of those things, and on and on we could go. How many people have you and I seen who have come, received Christ? began to grow, but then was tripped up when they faced a decision and found out that there Preconceived ideas that they brought with them into Christianity didn't agree with God's idea Didn't agree with the truth that they learned in the Word of God, and here comes a little folly, and their growth is impeded. Your preacher preaches on controversial issues. We need to quit listening to the media and the culture and the internet and TV preachers and start listening to God and his word and the pastor that God has given to us. 2 Peter 1 and verse 3 says God has the answer for each and every issue in life. Life. Everything. 2 Peter 1. 3. He's given us all things that pertain to life and godliness So God's man announces to you what God says about some issue and how to obey. Well, when did Uh when I did that in our church, sometimes whole families left and never came back. They let that trip them up. Folks became miffed and ultimately left because I wouldn't approve their Christian contemporary music uh special or I wouldn't let them use cam music in the background Or I wouldn't let them be on the platform while they were living a double life and I knew about it. They've left because I preached on dress and they didn't agree with God. It wasn't that they didn't agree with me. They they didn't want To agree with God, they want their way, and they want uh to fit into their culture more than they want to fit into the plan of God They won't really don't want to know what God thinks about it, or they would have studied it out themselves. They give up a great church like yours. For a little folly. And today there's plenty of folly churches out there. Some of them are folly Baptist churches that they can choose from. But dear friend, we have to make choices. And those choices, listen to me carefully, need a biblical foundation. Not the way that I always thought about it, but the way that and not the way that I think God meant it. That's a little folly. God is clear on these matters And when your preacher preaches, sit up and listen and do what the Bible says that you hear. Thinking becomes folly when we cling to it instead of clinging to God's word. It becomes folly when we make it a battleground and object And the object of our discussion and thought and gossip. We whimper and complain and build our defense and seek allies instead of looking to the Bible and God's way. We accuse the preacher of legalism every time he gets too close to our shortcoming or our pet sin. We say he's opinionated, which simply means I don't really want to know God's word about my pet sin. A little folly And it hinders our growth in the Lord. It only has to be one issue. Listen, only one issue. You can agree on ninety-nine and nine But it can be be a big hindrance and it will hinder your growth. I have to ask you, how badly do you want to grow? Turn to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5, we find another little thing. That hinders our growth. Beware of a little folly. Beware of little sleep a little sleep Beware of the little foxes. A fourth hindrance to our growth is a little leaven. A little leaven. And that is hypocrisy. In Galatians chapter 5 and verse 9. A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. Turn with me to Luke chapter 12. Remember that in Galatians 5. 9, a little 11. But in Luke chapter 12, I won't dwell here, but as Jesus taught in Luke 12, Did you know that the very first thing that Jesus spoke to his disciples about in this passage was hypocrisy, and he called it leaven? He says in 12. 1, the last half of the verse, he began to say to his disciples, first of all, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees. Which is hypocrisy. Leaven. Leaven is hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is saying one thing and doing something else It's saying that you are a believer and acting like an unbeliever, or acting carnal, or like a worldly person. Notice that it only takes a little leaven to leaven a whole lump of bread. That's a danger point, isn't it? It's a danger. It only takes a little hypocrisy to ruin your whole testimony, your reputation, and your growth in the Lord. Just a little hypocrisy. I wonder how it is with you. Are you saying one thing and living like another? Are you saying you're saved, but you're living like the lost? Do you allow yourself to cuss a little? I don't cuss a lot. I just cuss a little. Or drink a little wine and beer. Well, Pastor, I don't have that much in my refrigerator. You shouldn't have any in your refrigerator. Uh I just look at a little porn. It's just a little bit, preacher. It should be zero. It should be none. Just a little critical. I just have a little critical spirit. You shouldn't have any critical spirit. I just gossip a little. I just commit adultery a little. I'm just a little negative. It's a little leaven. Beware, even a little leaven will leaven you. It will ruin you. It will spread to your entire being. It leavens the whole lump. It will ruin your life. We're never a hypocrite in only one area. That thing will spread. Deal with it tonight. Hate hypocrisy like God does. Be who you say you are. Amen. It's time to measure up to who we say we are and who God says we ought to be. Little things that hinder our growth. Little foxes are like little bad habits. We need to break them. Little sleep pictures our spiritual laziness. We need to awaken out of that sleep. A little folly Points to our old ways of thinking that should not govern us anymore. We ought to choose God's ways over our ways. A little leaving speaks of the hypocrisy that we must eliminate before it ruins us. Don't talk it if you're not going to walk it. Number five, in our last one tonight. James chapter 3 and verse 5. There's one more little thing. There's actually more than one. In the Bible, if you want to do your own study on a couple more, one is little faith. Little faith. There's also a little city. But here in James chapter 3 and verse 5, there's a little member. And that member is the tongue. And if you let it run wild, you will not grow. You cannot grow. Even so, verse five, the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. Another great hindrance to our growth is our tongue Sometimes we talk too freely, especially around our children. I find folks talking my mom and dad never talked about finances, never talked about uh some of the things that I hear parents talking around their uh about around their children. The cure is that our tongue must be bridled according to this passage We must bring it under control, in other words. The tongue is a little member of our body, but it's a boaster It likes to boast. It's a powerful butane torch that sets fires that are hard to put out. Cursing, swearing, taking the name of the Lord in vain hinders our growth. You need to get a control of your tongue if you claim to be a Christian Gossiping, criticism hinders our growth. Dirty talk and racial slurs hinder our growth Negativism, cutting remarks, and destructive sarcasm. And I I'm one of the world's worst on sarcasm. I have a sarcastic nature about me and I have to control it. It has to come under the power of the Spirit of God. Amen? But these things can hinder our growth. Lying and half-truth and slander hinder our growth And it all comes from this little member. And that little member can do great damage. Go back to James chapter 3 If someone else does it and you listen, you're just as guilty. You're a partaker in that thing, their sin. James 3 and verse 6 The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. At the end of that verse, and it is set on fire of hell Our tongue, if we don't control it, the Bible says it can be set on fire of hell. In verse 8, last half of the verse, it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. And people do damage now on Facebook and blogs and text and tweets and emails and still by phone. The cure is that we need to bridle our tongue, and now we need to bridle our keyboard, our keystrokes. Think before you speak. Make it speak right. Make that tongue speak right. You don't have to say everything you think. Good, nice. A good thing I don't, I would have gotten myself in trouble. trouble, I get myself in trouble enough. Uh but if I said everything I thought, oh man, you can button your lip. Sometimes, and curb your keystrokes. The Christian, known for a caustic tongue, is really a Christian that is not, listen to me, not full of the Holy Spirit. He or she is carnal at best. I wonder, has your tongue hindered your spiritual growth? You've let it run wild, and now it's hindering your spiritual growth. Give it to God again At the end of this service, we'll have a time of prayer. And God is challenging us. He wants every believer to have victory in this area of these little things, including the little tongue, little member. You were growing, but something happened, and now something needs to change in your life. If so, God is lovingly revealing what that something is. He's giving you an opportunity to remove that hindrance this evening So that you can get back to growing. He's the Heavenly Father. You're the child of God. When I had children, I wanted them to grow. I was alarmed when they weren't growing. He as the Heavenly Father is alarmed If you and I are not growing, we need to take heed to the Word of God tonight. Every head bowed and every eye closed now in this moment Little things that prevent spiritual growth. Often, when a person is considering coming to Christ for salvation, it's the little things that hinder him Are you thinking about being saved? But there's one little thing that's nagging you. One little thing that you have magnified and put under a magnifying glass until it just is preventing you from. From being saved. Don't let that happen tonight. It's time to put that aside and turn to Jesus and let him forgive you of all of your sins. Let this be a night of rebirth for you. I wonder, Christian, are you a believer with a desire to grow? As you think about it, you say, Yes, this makes sense to me. I really do need to grow. But lately You face some hindrance to that growth. You identify it. You feel like you're stalled out somehow, and now you're looking at these little things and realizing that one of them is what it is. It's what's been hindering you. Maybe a little fox, a bad habit that you need to break. Maybe it's a little sleep. Spiritual laziness that you need to awaken out of. Maybe God is calling on you tonight about calling you out about your little folly of old ways of thinking And that come cross-grained to what God wants you to think. And look at how He wants you to look at things. You need to choose God's ways. Maybe you've been hindered by a little leaven, a little hypocrisy that you've allowed in your life, and you need to eliminate it before it ruins you. Leavens the whole lump. Or maybe the little member of the tongue is at it again. And it's hindering you, and you need to bridle it tonight. Whatever it is that's hindering you from going forward with Christ and growing spiritually, I wonder if you'd say tonight, preacher, I haven't been growing like I should lately, and the Lord has put his finger on that in my life. I need to turn it all over to him If so, I'm going to lead in prayer for the close of this message. I invite you to pray and talk to your Heavenly Father and admit that little area to him tonight. You'd be amazed at what can happen when we will admit that we have failed in an area and we ask Him to cleanse us Oh my! Imagine the growth begins immediately. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, there's people listening everywhere, all over the place to this message tonight. And Lord, we don't just hear the word. We want to be doers of the word. And Lord, we're not just interested in hearing another message. Lord, we want to be challenged. We have been challenged. And we want to follow through and do what you prompted us to do. Tonight, Lord, it's little things that we need to deal with so that we can get back to growing. I pray, Lord, in somebody's house tonight Let there be someone who will honestly deal with a little thing. Out in a car in the parking lot, in the auditorium, on YouTube, or sermon audio, Lord, we're asking you in Jesus' name that you will effect the starting of growth again in somebody's life because they are willing to deal with with a little thing. I pray if there's one who's lost, that they'll be able to deal with whatever their little objection was to not coming, and that they will come To you indeed tonight and call this preacher and let him know that they receive Christ as their Savior even tonight. In Jesus' name we thank you for your word and the deliverance it brings to us. Amen