Uh easy easy way to find it, but uh our theme verse for vacation in Bible schools, first John five, verse number four, for whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith, our theme. is under God's Big Top, come and see Amazing Acts of Faith. And we've been teaching the young people all week about amazing acts of faith. And And they've been learning these things and I thought it would be fitting this morning to speak to the church family about faith. And uh, you know, just a couple of months ago I preached a message on a Sunday evening entitled Faith Worth Living for. The catalyst for that message was the death of my grandmother, who at 95 years old went home to be with the Lord. I preached in that message some truths about faith and the idea that it's faith that we have ought to be faith worth dying for It ought to be faith that carries us through to the end. And in that message I taught on the fact that faith is found in Christ. That's the faith should be invested and given in Christ, from Christ. It's where it should be, and faith is faithful in a crisis. That the faith that you have ought to carry you through a crisis, ought to be with you in a time of hardship, and shouldn't leave you hanging or leave you uh left out in the cold. Uh in a time of crisis, I'm glad the faith in Christ, that He's a friend that sits closer than a brother, faith also ought to be full of compassion And I'm thankful that God has given us good brothers and sisters in Christ and family members that love the Lord, that extend the compassion and love of Christ during times of crisis. and that faith is fulfilled at the conclusion. What good is faith that if the end it doesn't carry you home? And our faith in Christ, we are assured that we have a home in heaven and we'll be there. We'll see our loved ones again. That faith is fulfilled. in the end. And if you have faith, it's good for dying. I think it ought to be good for living as well. I think it ought to be something that impacts our daily lives. it not not be something that we just uh look for the end and it's faith for that, but but not faith for today. Beloved, faith is central, foundational to Christianity. We know that without faith, it is impossible to please God. It's impossible to be pleasing to God without faith. Well, I assume that all of you are Of like mind, and that is that you would desire to please God. You desire to please God. And if we desire to please God, then we understand that we must have faith. Faith is rewarded by God because every example, every extension, every application of faith glorifies God. Amen. In every situation where faith is displayed, it glorifies God And for that reason, God rewards the exercise and the display of faith in His children Now, tonight, briefly in our service, I'm going to be speaking on saving faith. A very short message this evening, but talking about saving faith. Giving a very clear presentation of the gospel and motivating those that are present, hopefully, to have faith in God for their salvation. And what does that mean? So we're going to talk about that this evening, but right now, for those that are present, I want to talk to you about living faith. Or living by faith. Let's ask God to bless as we get into His Word. Lord, we're thankful for the privilege of ours to gather in church. I'm thankful, God, for the privilege to preach your word, a responsibility not taken lightly. Lord, I need your help this morning. I need your strength. I need you, Lord, to feed us. Lord, I don't want to just gather together in your house and spend a few minutes in the Word of God for the sake of doing it God, we need you to speak to our hearts. God, I believe that your word is quick and it's powerful and that it has the ability to reach into the heart of man and to challenge us To be what we ought to be. And I pray, God, you would help us as your people to be people of faith. To not let our faith waver, but to live our lives day by day. As men and women of faith. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I want you to see, first of all, that faith is provided Faith is provided. Ephesians 2, verse number 8 says, For by grace are ye saved through faith. Faith is provided for us by God. It is not of yourselves, but a gift of God. You understand that you are not saved by your faith. For by grace are ye saved. You're saved by the grace of God. For by grace are ye saved through faith It is the faith in the heart that is given to you as a gift of God that allows you to reach up into glory and grab a hold of the grace that is extended unto us. It's through faith that we reach and grab a hold of the grace that's given to us by God Listen, there's been many a soul that has doubted and questioned their salvation because they wondered, did I have enough faith? Did I believe enough? Did I when I prayed? Was I saying the right words? When I called on God, was my faith in the right place, or was I thinking about the right thing? What I want you to understand this morning is faith is a gift from God. Faith is something that is given to us by God. It's not a work of our own. God puts that faith in your heart. God gives us that faith. It's not something that you conjure up or that you change. And I want to encourage you this morning, if you had enough faith to call upon the name of the Lord. Thou shalt be saved. If you had enough faith to bow your head and say, God, I realize I'm a sinner, and I realize you sent your son. That in that, the faith given to you by God to reach up into glory and call on the name of God, you had enough faith for salvation. Faith was given to us by God. Listen. One commentator put it like this and this faith is not the product Of man's own power, but is the free gift of God, and therefore salvation through it Is consistent with salvation by grace. Since that in itself is grace. It's even God's grace that gives to us the gift of faith It's a work of God in our heart. Faith is provided by God. Don't question your ability to have faith It comes from God. The disciples prayed and they asked Jesus in Luke 17, verse number 5, they said, Increase our faith. And I thought that was a very fitting question because if faith comes from God and is instilled in the heart of man, then that's a pretty good source to go to to ask for more faith. And this morning I want to encourage everyone present and everyone listening to the message online. I hope that you desire to increase your faith. That you want to grow in this area of the faith that you have, whether you've been saved for six months or sixty years. I hope you desire to have more faith in God, to see God do more things, and that you will, with the disciples, say, God, increase my faith. Why would we ask for that? Why would we want to increase our faith? Because faith is powerful. Faith is powerful. Jesus said unto him, Mark 9:23, if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. Faith is powerful. Beloved, nothing that is needful is impossible Through faith. Nothing that is needful is impossible through faith. Faith is powerful. Faith in God. Somebody said this: faith is dead to doubt, is dumb to discouragement, and blind to impossibilities Faith in God. Beloved, we're saved by grace through what? Faith. That's foundational. That's the beginning of this walk of faith. That's the beginning of the Christian life is coming to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ through faith, putting your faith and trust in Jesus who came and died for you to forgive you of your sins. But that's just the beginning. We know, of course, that we are also to live by faith. Galatians 2. 20 says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith. Of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Hey, faith does not deny evil. Faith does not deny the existence of hard circumstances, of trials, but faith sees a way through it We're to live by faith as God's people are actions that we're to be living day by day through faith. And you understand that We know this as Christians. We know it to be true. Yet many times, when a test comes, when a trial comes. We were living by faith real good until the problem came up We were living by faith real good until faith was actually needed. Are you hearing me this morning? We were real faithful until it actually took faith to do so. We were generous givers until it actually took faith to do so It's like this. Now I've never played professional uh basketball or on any type of a team, but those of you that have, how many of you have played on a team basketball football man this this illustration's gonna fall flat. Everybody's gonna be like, I don't know what you're talking about, Pastor. Um You see what they do in practice for basketball is they teach them a play. They give them exactly where each player is supposed to be. And they run this pattern over and over and over again. And here's the thing, is the pattern that play, it will work if you run it. It works. The guy gets open and he's able to sync the shot. But what happens is when they start to play against a team that's a little bit aggressive in their defense. An undisciplined team will break down, they'll stop running the plays, and it just turns into street ball Why? Because there was a little opposition. The plays work in practice when there was no opposition, they were sinking it every time. They were getting open every time. But when the opposition got a little aggressive, then it fell apart. That's what I'm saying, beloved, in our Christian life. Oh, it works real good when the sun's shining. We walk by faith, we live by faith when things are going well. But when the problems hit, when faith is actually required to actually perform and commit to the plan. Then it falls apart. We're to be living by faith, beloved. We're to walk by faith. 2 Corinthians 5, 7. For we walk by faith and not by sight. Boy, this is something, I mean, if we just did that, walk by faith. Not by sight. I can tell you, Christian, that we are too impacted by sight. And not spiritual sight. If we had spiritual eyes, we would be able to see through the problem. But too many times we allow our physical eyes. To destroy or to steal the faith that we claim to have in God. We stand by faith. Corinthians 16, 13 says, watch ye stand fast in faith. You stand by faith. You know that God's in control and that God is with you. And so you stand on the principles of God and you don't move. Listen, this world even more and more increasingly is opposing the things of God. They try and undermine and destroy and take away the truths of the Word of God, but you know the Word of God to be true, so you stand by faith in the Word of God. Hey, Dr. Keller and I were talking about creation versus evolution in between Sunday school and the morning service. Listen, evolution is pushed on every front. I mean you can't get away from it. It's everywhere. And it's so much a part of our culture today. That as a Christian, if you're not careful, you'll start to buy into evolutionary philosophy. When evolution from the beginning was a lie. It was even in Darwin's book where he put it out, he said over 800 times, I suppose. We think that this might be. It was just a theory to start with, but now it is taught as fact. And many Christians start to question and wonder, oh, I wonder how many millions of years these rocks have been here. They haven't been here that long. We stand by faith on the Word of God. Because the Word of God is true. Listen. You stand by faith, Romans 11, verse number 20, and thou standest by faith Sometimes you question, man, is this right or should I do this? Is this what I ought to do? But if you have a promise from the Word of God, you can stand strong. Have faith in God, and what God has said is right and true, and do it. Tyler Edwards said, when you get to the end of all the light that you know, and it's time to step out into the darkness, into the unknown. Faith is believing that one of two things is going to happen. Either you will step onto a solid platform in which to continue, or you're going to learn how to fly. One way or the other, faith is stepping out. It's in the darkness. You're not sure what's going to happen, but you know God's in control. And you step out in faith. We pray in faith. Matthew 21, 22 says, and all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. We're overcomers by faith. Matthew 17, 20. And Jesus saith unto them, Because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you, if ye have the faith as a grain of mustard seed. Ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible to you. We pray in faith Believing that God can do it. Do you understand faith is a defining thing? There's a story of a small town up in Maine that uh I'm sure you've heard about different but I don't remember the name of the town, but you've heard about these places where this small town was built along a a waterway. And then they came and they bought the town and they were going to put up a large dam to make a reservoir, to make a body of water. And so they bought all the houses in the town because once the dam was built, all that was going to be underwater. The whole the whole area is going to be flooded, all these houses would be gone, all the businesses would be underwater underwater. Well they knew that this was coming, that it was in the works, that they were working on the in you know, Army Corps of Engineers was designing the dam and they're adjusting and the the the uh state or whatever was buying up the property and so the people stopped painting their houses. I mean why paint the house? It's gonna be covered with water, right? Uh why why fix the roof? It's gonna be completely buried here before too long at some point down the road They stopped maintaining the businesses and they stopped mowing the grass and they stopped patching the road and the town literally began to fall apart. You see, when there's no faith in the future, there's no power for the present. Faith, beloved. Knowing that God is in control motivates you to stand and do what God wants you to do now. Having that faith If it's just uh whatever it will be, who knows, it's all up to chance, you've got no reason to dictate or determine what you do today. Without faith. Faith. We fight by faith, 1 Timothy 6:12. Fight the good fight of faith. And we have victory, beloved. Through faith. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Are you having a struggle overcoming the world? Are you having a battle maintaining your walk with God? It's faith in God that gives you the victory to overcome the world. You've been saved a long time. Maybe you've been saved 20 years. But you still have infantile faith. Beloved, we need to trust God. Can you believe that God can give you victory over sin? Can you believe that God will help you through the current problem and the current crisis? Can you believe that God will meet this need? Can you believe that God will help you in raising and training your children? Can you believe that God will provide a way? When you can't see a way? Do you have faith? Beloved, faith is powerful. And as Christians, our faith is supposed to be progressive. It's supposed to be growing. We're not supposed to be saved two years and 20 years and have the same faith when 20 years that we had when we were two years. We're supposed to be growing in our faith and In Romans chapter 1 and verse number 17, he says, For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. From faith to faith. Beloved, as we walk through this Christian life, we are supposed to be growing In our faith, going from this act of faith to this act of faith. To seeing God do great things in our life and growing our faith and then growing it some more. First of all, if you're going to have progressive faith, your faith is going to be increasing. It's increased Through the Word of God. As Christians, you can't expect your faith to grow if you're not in the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? The Word of God. Now we use that verse all the time when we're talking about and looking at people that are lost and they don't know Jesus Christ, and we say, Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God, and we try and give them scripture. We try and let that scripture begin to work in their heart. But that verse is applicable to us as well. If you're here this morning and you're with me and you're crying out to God saying, Increase my faith Lord, I want to have more faith in you. Lord, I'm with the disciples, and I'm asking you to give me more faith. He's saying to you, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. You've got to have a steady diet of the Word of God. Let the Word of God reach into your heart. This book is powerful. Do you understand the amazing thing? It doesn't matter if you're Brother Brown in Madagascar speaking Malagasy. That's kind of a neat word. I like Malagasy. You're speaking to Malegathy, the words of God, in whatever language they're portrayed, are powerful. The word of God, this book that we have right here, is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword. Piercing to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. This is not just words, it's God's words. And the power in this book will reach down into your heart and into your life and it'll get through all the muck and it'll make its way right through the weeds and it'll reach down into your soul and grab a hold of what is the most important thing that you need to deal with For some people it's salvation. You need to come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. You've put it off, you've put it off, you've heard, you've been told, you've been told, and Jesus still is reaching into your heart. Getting away all the arguments, he's putting away all the opposition that you have, and he's he's reaching in your heart and he's saying, You need Jesus, you need Jesus You need Jesus. You need Jesus. That word of God that says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And God is calling you to salvation today. But there are some of you you've been saved for years, you know, Jesus as your Savior, and God is reaching into your heart through His Word and speaking to you about faith in Him. Speaking to you about something that you need to do, a step of faith, something that you need to do for him. Because of his book. This is a powerful book. We've got to get in it. We've got to hear it. We've got to desire the sincere milk of the word. If you're going to have faith increased, it's going to be because you're in the Word of God. Beloved, quite practically How to increase your faith. I'm going to give you here the truth. If you're with me, you're saying, God, I want to increase my faith. The way you increase your faith is O B. E D I E N C E Obedience is Is the very best way to show that you believe Obedience. Obedience. The way that we increase our faith is when God says step, you say, okay. Wow. That didn't hurt. Wow. God gave me something to step on. Look at what God did. Amazing. And God says, do this. And you say, okay Wow, look at what look at what God did. That's fantastic. There's no hesitation, there's no question. I I have faith. I know that when I step on this platform, it's going to hold me. And if I step down right here Look at that. I did it without any hesitation. I'm confident. You know why I've walked on this hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times? If anything happens, it's because I missed a step That happens. But I have confidence in it because I've done it. I've done it. When you follow God and you just one step at a time and one act of obedience at a time, your faith is increased Because over and over again you see God come through for you. George Mueller, who prayed and prayed and prayed and saw God do miracle after miracle after miracle, said If God fails me today, it'll be the first time he ever has. God never failed him. And beloved, when we by faith follow God as God commands us to take a step, God tells us to go, God tells us to step out, God tells us to move, God tells us to start this or to stop this, and we do it We see God work miraculously, and our faith is increased. I need greater faith this morning, which means I need to be more obedient. I need to be more obedient to the Word of God. I need to be more obedient to the Spirit of God as the Spirit of God comes in and speaks to my heart. That still small voice says, hey, you need to do this. There's Christians that get to the place where they question if God even exists. Do you know why? Because they have long since stopped following the Spirit of God. They've long since stopped yielding to the Spirit of God. And you get to the place where, oh, it's just all actions. It's not even really real. I mean it's not e it's just these people are just all doing this and it's all fake and Because a long time ago, when the Spirit said step, you said, I don't like that. I'm not going to do that. And you stopped your progression of faith. And seeing God work in your life. And instead of going that way, you started going this way. And now you're a long ways from God. Just like physically, our muscles are built by reason of use The more you pick up. You want to build some muscle? You lift weight. Now you can go to a gym and lift some weight that they hand you, or you can get a job and do some work. Now some jobs aren't that way and you have to go to the gym to get any kind of exercise because your job doesn't allow you to do that. But you you build muscle by exercising. You build faith by exercising. You exercise the faith that God has given you, and you'll have more faith. As we are obedient to God. Childlike faith focuses On the father, not on the fear. You're afraid to step out Focus on the Father. Follow him. He hasn't failed anybody yet. He'll come through for you. Your faith will be increased. There are some people that have very strong faith because they've seen God do amazing things over and over in their life. And some people say, well, I wish I could see God do something like that. I wish God would be that powerful in my life. He can. If we're allowed obedient, if we yield to him, follow him each time he commands, through his word or through his spirit, we obey, and our faith will be increased.