Yeah, Amen. Turn your Bibles to Song of Solomon. Uh we don't get there to Song of Solomon very often. Uh the book of Song of Solomon, there are many who take that and uh they uh they say the interpretation is the relationship between Christ Christ and the church. I believe that could be an application, but I believe biblically interpreted it correctly, the r the Song of Solomon is uh l about the relationship between a man and a woman and the love that a husband has for his wife and vice versa. And uh it really goes into some very uh intimate details about the husband-wife relationship. But this evening I want to speak with to you about living With the love of your life. Living with the love of your life. And Song of Solomon, chapter number eight, is where we're going to be this evening. We're going to read just a few verses together. Song of Solomon, chapter number eight, verses five through seven. Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness? Leaning upon her beloved, I raise thee up under the apple tree. There thy mother brought thee forth, there she brought thee forth to bear thee. Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm For love is strong as death. Jealousy is cruel as the grave. The coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most veheminent flame Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it. If a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would be utterly contemned Beloved, I want you to know that our homes are under attack. In the world today, in society, the home is under attack. Satan has long since done all he can to try and undermine and destroy the home. So goes the home, so goes the church, so goes the country. Uh it's been stated very correctly that a a church is only as strong as its weakest home. The homes are under attack. Satan would do all he can to destroy this unwavering love that should be present in every home. One Sunday school teacher was teaching the importance of love in the home, and she illustrated this point by reminding the kids that the Bible, uh one of the commandments is uh honor thy mother and thy father. She asked of the kids, she says, Which of the commandments tells us how we should treat our brothers and sisters? And without hesitation, from the back of the class, one of the boys said, Thou shalt not kill That might be uh the relationship between siblings at times. There's certainly sibling rivalry that takes place and Uh that has to be managed wisely by a parent to help them understand and and to maintain that love uh through life. It is a sad situation when siblings grow up and they don't talk to each other or have anything to do with each other. It's It's they they really have lost uh one of the most precious relationships that they could have this side of glory, having a brother or sister that they they love and care for and know that they can count on one another. There of course six uh siblings in my home, five brothers and sisters that I have, and any one of us know that we could call up any one of us and uh at a moment's notice that there's a need that we would do all we could to try and fill it I had somebody ask me this morning because of my email that went out that my brothers and I had a argument about who uh got to go get dad And they took that the wrong way. They took it as you had an argument about who had to go get Dad. They were like, Oh, Daniel drew the short stick, huh? Uh well no, that's not what we were all all desiring to go. We all wanted to go get Dad and help him get home. Uh but Daniel ended up being the one on the phone when they they told me twice, nope, don't come. Nope, nope, it's gonna be a waste of time, waste of money. We don't need you. I called back and said, hey, I'll drive you back, I'll fly you back, whatever. Second time no. I don't have to carry nothing. They'll take care of me, no problem Well Daniel happened to be on the phone when the doctor told mom that somebody needs to be with him. And so Daniel got the privilege of doing that. I I missed out. But that relationship is a precious relationship. You ought to love one another. Even sibl even siblings should love one another. But the relationship we want to talk to you about tonight really is the husband-wife relationship. Living with the love of your life, spending time and maintaining and uh keeping that relationship right One man fully aware of his marital relation was very far from Rosie, came home from one from work one afternoon, and his son was sitting on the front porch his head down in his hands and a very forlorn look on his face and dad could tell there was something wrong with his son and so he sat down next to him and he he he kind of shook his knee and said, Hey Ronnie, how how's it going? What what what what's going on? How how are you doing, Ronnie? After just a minute, Ronnie looks up at his dad and says, Dad, just between you and me, I can't get along with your wife either. I mean that's a sad thing that uh uh children sometimes know the the situation that's in the home and they understand And we we ought to love one another. It ought to be something that's precious to us, something that we value and that we work hard to maintain. And he there's three principles given to us here. in this text that I would like to encourage you to maintain and remember as we're going through this. We obviously, Olivia just got married. We've got uh my daughter here in just a few weeks going to get married. Um and listen, those of you that have been married for a lot of years, you know it takes work. You've got to continue to uh maintain that relationship and and keep it fresh and keep it right. It doesn't just happen. First of all, I want you to know that there's a change of possession. There's a change of possession. This is a mindset that needs to be in your heart. And uh that you need to realize this. And young people that are not married yet, when that time comes, I want you to realize and think biblically regarding this change of possession because it's not a it's not a worldly mindset. It's not something that's popular today, but I want you to know it's biblical. I want you to see here in verse number six She says, Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm. Now, you know, beloved, a seal was a means of marking identity. A seal was a mean of stating ownership. For much of history, a seal was uh maybe a ring or a uh brass insignia uh that was put or an insignia uh put into a piece of brass that they could use they put some wax down and and they would put their family seal. They would seal it. And that showed ownership. That showed uh possession. That showed that that was the seal. Today your signature is your seal. Uh this week I went out and got uh Tim's car registered and put the tags on and sent off for the title and you know I had to sign on the line there So it's Tim's car, but my name's on the title now because I had to sign it. And uh so one day maybe he'll get it put in his name. But it it was the seal showing ownership. That car now belongs to me. It's actually Timothy's car, it's not mine. He paid for it, so it's Timothy's because he's he's the one that invested the money. But that shows ownership. Uh that seal is on there Now listen, she is saying to her to be or to her her husband here, listen, I want my seal on your arm. I I want my seal on your heart. I want every other lady that's out there in the world to know that you're taken. Right? You want you don't want other women out there any floosy uh flirting with your uh husband or wife. Come on, yeah. Ah I've been wondering if I should go down this road or not. So Mary was very popular, just like she's popular here. Like people love Mary, right? In in college, Mary was very popular She was great friends with all the guys on the basketball team. So she washed all their jerseys. She got all kinds I mean she was hung out with them. She was just uh very popular. I was not a very popular person. Which is still holds true today. Uh things are still the same. Um but we started dating and uh One day we're sitting in the dining room and and we're playing and one of these basketball players is sitting next to his girlfriend and he's flirting with Mary. I mean, you know, he's playing with her, he's flirting with her, throwing stuff at her, and they're playing back, and and I stood up in the dining room hall right there and I said, I called his name and I said, Flirt with your own girlfriend. I was not in the mind for him to be hey I mean a ring's not on our finger but we're getting kinda serious so let's I want this to be I want everybody to know that You belong to me and I belong to you that we're no longer available, that we're not no longer on the market. We're taken. Amen. There's a change of possession She wanted that seal to be there on his heart. Wanted the seal to be on his arm, I think in a testament of showing his strength and that he was going to protect her. provide for her and fulfill that role in that position in her life. And men, that is our job, to provide and to protect for the home and the family. And I think By and large, uh certainly the men in here, and I think by and large there are a lot of men who would certainly do all they could to protect their home, and we should. But I wonder, uh more than just physically, I wonder if we would protect our home spiritually I wonder if we're men that are willing to get on our knees before God and pray a hedge of protection around the home. Are we ready to fight for the home? in the realm of spiritual things and make sure that we're a godly leader that the home can look up to and we're protecting the home from the worldly influences that would try and influence it She's saying to him, Boy, I want to belong to you and I want you to belong to me. We belong to each other. Again, this is not a modern thought. Modern thought is I am my own person. But this is biblical. You see, the Bible says in Genesis chapter 2 and verse number 24, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. They become one flesh. They are one together. It's one flesh. You know, he didn't say there that they shall be a joint venture. He didn't say that they're going to have a contractual agreement as long as all of the faction points line up correctly. No, he said they become one flesh. That means every part of your life is given wholly to your mate. You're one flesh. You see, in today's world, many people want to hold back large portions of their life. They want to have their cake and eat it too. They want to be married and have the married relationship, but they don't want to be one flesh. They want to maintain their own life over here. They want to maintain their own things over here and and and uh not Fulfill that role, and that's why, beloved, over 50% of marriages today don't make it. Listen, if you want to maintain your own life, stay single. When you say I do, you're giving that up because you now are one flesh. Can I take a couple minutes and get practical? What it means to be one flesh? You see, some of the areas that people don't like to be one flesh today, one big one is money. I've got these listed here in what I believe are our current problems. People don't like to be one flesh in money. They like to maintain their own money. This week I was listening to the Dave Ramsey show, and I would encourage you just for some good financial advice, if you especially if you don't know how to handle finances, just start listening to that. Maybe some of it will soak in You know, but I was listening to the Dave Ramsey show and some lady calls up and uh she says, Well, uh I just got married to my husband and uh we're excited about the future. Um, but I was just wondering what we should do with with his money and with my money. And he said, no, no, no, no. It's not his money and my money anymore. It's our money. And she's like, well, no, I mean, because he doesn't work and I earn all the money. Now Dave Ramsey didn't go down that road, but uh um he he said that doesn't matter. It doesn't make any difference. He says my wife has had the the the privilege to be a homemaker and the burden of being a homemaker her whole life and I have been the breadwinner but I have never earned a dollar that wasn't hers. Because we are one. You're one flesh. You're looking, it is not his or hers. It's ours. And she went a little bit further and she says, Well, what if one of you makes more than the other? I mean I make a lot more money than he does. It doesn't matter. You don't get two or three votes because you happen to earn two or three times the amount of money than your mate does. You see it's all it's all one. No longer is there a his and her bank account. Now you can have separate bank accounts if you want to use this one bank account to pay certain bills out of or or use this savings account to invest money here or there. You can manage the funds however you want as long as you understand that it's you're you're all together. It's one. It it's not his and hers. There's uh a real problem if you're handling your finances where, oh, that's my money. No, you're one flesh. If you want to live for a long time with the love of your life, you've got to get a hold of this, realize there's been a change of possession. Uh you don't own your own stuff anymore. Now, you know in our home that Mary pays the bills. She likes doing that. And I do not care for it at all. So that works out nice. I mean that's just the way we do it. In some of your homes, uh maybe the guy happens to be the one that writes the checks or pays the bills or balances a checkbook. Me, I have a general idea of where we're at, and that's good enough as far as I'm concerned. You know, I mean that's fine with me. Mary wants to know where the 23 cents went, you know, where it doesn't balance. I'm like, hon, it don't matter It's twenty here you go, here's a quarter. Don't worry about it. She's like, Oh but it needs to match, it needs to balance, you know, and so I appreciate that because she helps keep it all straight and organized and all that But she enjoys doing that, so she does that. But that doesn't mean she's in control of the finances. But nor does it mean that I'm in control and that I get to say a hundred percent of what goes on and and we're going to use this money for this without consulting her. You see, we're one flesh. The money goes into our bank accounts, our savings accounts, and then we together determine what we're going to do with that. And you have to determine in your home what what works for you. If you're on a really tight budget, you may have to say, listen, if you're going to spend more than fifty bucks, we need to talk about it. Because We're tight. We can't just go waste fifty dollars at a at a restaurant because you want to. I mean we w we're tight. You gotta look at it. Now if you're not that tight, and you know what, you say hey you could spend You know, you'll figure it out, $500, $1,000, whatever. But if you're going to go buy a $10,000 car, $30,000 car, you know, we probably ought to talk about that purchase. You know, it's something that you need to work out, but it needs to be something that you do together. One of the quickest ways to put a hurtain on your relationship is to be making large financial decisions without your mate What you're doing is you're saying that she or he doesn't have a vote. That this it's your money and you're going to do what you want with it. That's not a right spirit There needs to be mutual respect there. It's both of yours in its entirety. Another big problem today, not just with money, but there is the idea of this is my body. I get to do what I want with my body. It's my body. Well, not according to the Bible. You see, the Bible says in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse number 4, the wife hath not power over her own body. Oh my goodness. Read that to the world today. What? I don't have power over my own body, plus God has my body. I'll do what I want to do. He can't tell me what to do with my body. No, the Bible says, are we going to think biblically or are we going to think how we want to think? It says there very clearly, you can write the reference down if you didn't have time to look at it. 1 Corinthians 7, verse number 4. The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband. And likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife. You see, we're one flesh. I no longer have complete say what happens to this body. She has say say And she the same, and vice versa, because that's what it says. We're one flesh. You need to remember that. This specifically in 1 Corinthians there is talking about the intimate relationship But we need to think about it and consider it from each other. Your body no longer belongs to you. You need to keep your mate in mind and keep their thoughts and wishes in mind. Another thing that tends to, especially in today's world where we're talking about blended families, another thing that It's very hard for people to let go of their thing, like and no longer is it ours, is children. Children. In blended homes. I know that all of you have heard this. Well, they're my kids. Listen, if you're not ready to call them your kids, or if you're not ready to take on complete and full responsibility for those children, you're not ready to get married. And if you are not ready as a mom or as a dad to give complete, full care and say, listen, these children now belong to you. Blended families. I've heard why moms look at her husband and say, You will not spank my child. You are not going to discipline my child. You see, there's a huge problem there. That needs to be addressed long before they get to the marriage altar. Because you've got to be ready to 100%. If you don't trust him enough, then you don't trust him enough to get married. And if you're not ready to take full responsibility of those children, then you're not ready to get married. You see you become one flesh. You no longer can can draw a line there and say, oh well, they're they're her kids or they're your kids. Now you know in our home when the kids are bad they're married. And when they're good they're mine, right? No, there are children. The good, the bad, the ugly, all of it, there are kids. Whatever they they are, whatever they have become, whatever God does with them, there they're our responsibility together. We both take that weight of responsibility. I mean, do we both succeed or we both fail as parents? By the way, it would do you real good to remember that the next time, mom, you're making fun of dad in front of the children. You're undermining his authority, making it so he can't discipline them very effectively. You've got to be very careful about that. So mom so that those children understand that you and and her are a team and you're working together. I know we're uh I'm I'm throwing kind of a broad net tonight and I I look around the room and I know there's homes that are dealing with a lot of different dynamics and The relationships are different and the situations that you're facing are different. And I know some of these things may be not 100% applicable to every home and situation, but I want you to understand that the Word of God works Some other areas that sometimes people don't like to give over ownership. Sometimes guys are inordinately tied to their vehicle. That's my vehicle. Wife does not touch that vehicle. No, she's never going to drive that vehicle. It's a car, man. You know what you're saying? You're saying that that hunk of metal That's gonna rust away one day and be in a junkyard is worth more than her. Okay, it's it's a car. Let it let it go. It's our car. Now, sometimes she may not want to drive it. Can I tell you that uh the golden the the golden chariot is 100% Mary's, okay? She she can have it. That's the gold van that Mary drives. And uh very rarely do I ever drive that car, and every time I do I remember why I don't drive it Um but you may have some other situations too where you say, and that's fine if you guys agree to that, but the idea is the having that like, oh it's it's mine and she better not or he better not drive my car or whatever. We need to remember that it's a one flesh. Sometimes it's friends. They're my friends. They're his friends. Whatever. We've got to be careful about that. Living with the love of your life means truly being one flesh. Secondly, I want you to see that the commitment is permanent. Verse number six there, it says, Set my seal upon thine heart and as a seal upon thine arm, for love is strong as death. Death is pretty permanent. I did read this week about a lady in the 1800s who uh actually had a stroke. She was pronounced dead, was put into a coffin, was buried. And her sister came from out of town the very next day. And her sister came from out of town and said, you buried him, buried her without me getting to see her? It's a true story. She called for her sister to be exhumed so that she could see her sister one more time. She had been buried less than 24 hours. They raised her, they opened the casket and she sat up. She wasn't dead. She had had a stroke and uh was obviously in some type of an a coma for a little while, but uh when they opened, she lived another 47 years After that. I don't I but you know normally death is permanent. Um you know, unless something like that happens or of course the Lord comes on the scene, but you know Death is permanent, and that's the idea behind our marriage, a relationship. It is to be permanent. Now I'm not getting on to those that have endured the pain of a divorce. There are those amongst our congregation that have endured that pain, and they they would be the first to tell you. That's not what anybody would should want to go through. That's not what anybody you should do your debt level best to avoid that. That is not God's plan, and it's not what anybody would desire. And so the plan from the beginning, young people, you need to set it in your heart and mind is this is forever This is not a we're gonna try it and see if it fits. This is not uh, you know, like Amazon, you can order your stuff and try it on and if you don't like it, send it back and it doesn't cost you anything, you know. This is not like that. You you you stand at the altar and say I do, it's done. It's it's forever. You say, Well, I'm not sure if I married the right one. Well you did know. If you said I do, that's the right one You're it's you're you're married forever. It's permanent. That's why it's so important that you make a wise choice regarding that You need to make up your mind. You need to settle it. Because as long as you leave yourself, you're not going to uh you're not going to be as committed as you should be. You're not going to be as forgiving as you should be. You know, Mary and I, when we said I do, we Both committed, it's done. This is this is it. There there is no out. And that first time In the car driving away from the wedding when she irritated me? No, I'm just kidding. No, that first time when she irritated me, or the first time that I irritated her? You know, basically we just said, well, we have to get over it. We have to get past it. We have to let it go. Because we're stuck with each other forever. And I looked at her and I said, I refuse to be miserable. So we're going to do what we need to do to have a happy home. And that means you've got to let go of some things. You've got to be ready really willing and ready to forgive and to forget and to move on and build a right relationship. And that's a good thing because there's been a lot of times through the years that Mary's, I'm sure, had many things she could hold on to. Many things that I did that were not the best or the wisest or could have bothered her, but she and I both said we're we're not holding on to that. We're gonna let those things go so that we can have a happy home. Because why? Because we determined from the beginning it's permanent. It's a permanent death is pretty permanent, and that's what the description of this relationship is. He says here, jealousy is cruel as the grave. The grave is unrelenting. It's unreleasing. He goes on, the coals thereof are the coals of fire. The word there for that fire is actually the word that was used, the same Greek or Hebrew word, sorry, was used when Jesus lit the fire at the tabernacle The fire that was lit there. It is a fire that's supposed to be maintained and doesn't go out. That's what your love should be like. It should be a love that's maintained and that doesn't go out. It's permanent. It's a permanent commitment And it takes persevering. We see in verse number seven. The challenge is persevering. Sometimes it is challenging to persevere. Sometimes it's Hard, but you've got to do it. We see in verse number seven, he says, Many waters cannot quench love. Neither can the floods drowned it. You hear many people today talk about, well, I just fell out of love. No, you didn't. You allowed life's circumstances to bring you to a place where you stopped pursuing her, where you stopped pursuing him. You allowed your affections to be set somewhere else. And now that love's gone. In the same way you can put it back. If you understand that it's permanent, you say, hey, we've got to do this, then you set your affection on her. And you set your affection on him. You don't allow your heart to drift and to ponder and think about other possibilities. Sometimes it can be challenging here, but many waters cannot quench love. He's saying all the toils of life, the storms of life, the waters that flow, the waves that crash upon you, they're not going to put out that flame. They're not going to put it out because you've tended it, you've maintained it, it's strong, you've persevered, you've pressed on, you've kept the fire burning. You know, I've often thought uh if some people would put half as much energy into their current relationship as it as it's going to take to start a new relationship. They could have an awesome marriage. I've I've seen it with people that, you know, they they They're going through that and listen, I do not this probably one of the most painful things you can endure going through that place or that state of happening to divorce So I I understand that, but here's what's amazing to me. Somebody uh you'll you'll see a couple, they they break up and they separate, and all of a sudden She loses 10, 15, 20 pounds. And she's got new clothes on. And she she has her hair done. You'll see her in town and she's got makeup on. You're like, I've known you for twenty years and you've never looked that good. You know, maybe if you had to put that kind of effort in before you got divorced, you wouldn't be divorced today. And he so all of a sudden he's been he's going to the gym and he's in shape and and you know he why? You know how much effort it's gonna be to build a new relationship? All of the planning you're gonna have to do, you're gonna have to be thinking about where to have a date and and where to go and all of the you're gonna have to schedule it and you're gonna have to drive over there and pick them up and you're gonna have to go. I mean if you put that kind of effort and invested that much time in your current relationship Your relationship will be on fire. The challenge is to just to persevere, you keep going, work at it. The contrary to popular opinion, love is not something that you just feel and cannot control. You see, that's a Hollywood myth. Oh, I just fell in love and it just happened. No, you gave your heart towards that thing or that individual. You pursued them. You built that relationship through time and effort and energy and communication, and you let it fall apart by the exact opposite By not giving any time, energy, or communication to it, you let it fall apart in the same way. The Bible teaches, beloved, that love is something you choose. It's not something you just have. It's not just this overflowing flood of emotion. I mean the emotion is awesome. But it's something you chose. And the emotion follows. I mean just read 1 Corinthians 13. There is no overwhelming flood of emotion in 1 Corinthians 13. There is no butterflies in your gut in 1 Corinthians 13. Charity suffereth long, and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not iniquity, but rejoiceth in truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. Whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Hey List of things there that love is, sounds to me like it's commitment. It's effort, it's work Real love, according to 1 Corinthians 13, is patient. It's polite. It pardons. It's precious. Do you value the love that you have? We're going to spend a long time with the love of our life. It won't just happen. We've got to value it. We've got to realize how precious it is. Look at the end of the last verse of our text here. He says, if a man will give all the substance of his house for love. You see, one of the big problems today is so many people have begun to love the substance of the house. instead of their mate. The the how many things they have is what is more important, what is more valuable. The cars in the driveway and uh nice couches and uh the new refrigerator or the loot laundry machines or whatever. These these the substance of the house. You remember some of you older folks, these young people that are starting out today. I I'm maybe it's not even the best thing. It seems like they're starting out with a lot. Um I came back from setting up Alicia's apartment and I'm like, man, this girl's spoiled. I came back, I walked in, I told Mary, I said, She is spoiled. This is ridiculous. Uh I think sometimes it's good to have to endure some hardship and when when it is You know, like literally you're living on love because you ain't got anything else, you know. That's I think that's a good thing. You have to struggle a little bit. Um But that's what was important. It didn't matter whether we had a nice house. Didn't matter where we lived. Didn't matter because we were together and And that's what we were going for and that's what we wanted and and we were excited and happy even though we were in a nineteen seventy Fairmont mobile home. The floor was all rotted out. Came home from getting groceries one night and Mary fell through the floor. Good thing a trailer is only three feet off the ground. She only fell three feet, you know, but she did get all cut and scraped up because the floor was rotten. She didn't threaten to leave me. I did help her climb out. We we we tended tended her wounds. Um but you know uh uh sometimes today the focus is so much more on the substance. And here he's saying, this guy would give every bit of his substance. And you know what I've found? I have seen over the years, been in the ministry since 1999 now. It's hard to believe. But I have seen so many times, sadly, I I look around this room and I know there's people in here that are in this boat, but You reach the place when that love of your life is no longer here. And what they meant to you, the value. There's people here that would gladly give up all they have for another day or two with the love of their life. The substance is nothing. The car is nothing. If they could they they would give away the car in a heartbeat if they could have another week with their wife with their wife or with their husband. who's no longer here. What I'm saying is a time comes when they experience that loss and then it really hits them. And the sad thing is is many people, not all people, some people realize what they have and they value it and they they enjoy it. But sometimes they're living in it and they're just taking it for granted. They're not even enjoying it. They're not even realizing what they have until it's gone. And then they say, oh man, if I could just have it back. How precious is that love, the love of your life? If we really valued her, if we really valued him, what would we give to maintain that love, to keep it precious, to keep it right? Well then let's persevere. Listen, I know tonight there's people in every this It's one of the hard things about preaching, especially on relationships and something like this. You're dealing with people in so many different walks of life. There's people that have known the pain. of divorce. There's people here that have had to say goodbye to the love of their life and they look forward to the day when they see them in glory. There's people in every different stage and I guess the encouragement tonight or the challenge is for those of you that still have the love of your life, don't take it for granted. Plan to maintain that for a long time and then trying to teach some stuff to these younger people here that are going to be taking those steps in the near future and realizing it's forever, you might as well work at it and maintain it because uh you're you're committing for life. And there's Really, nothing better this side of heaven than to have an amazing home, a wonderful, wonderful home, and the joy that that brings. But it doesn't just happen. It's not it's not the Snow White uh or the the Hollywood fairy tale. Okay, that's what those are. They're called fairy tales It takes work, but it's worth it. It's worth it. So stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.