Songs are for the day or what the emphasis is because she does try and set the music on a particular path. She tries to have the songs carry a message and and continue the thoughts throughout throughout the uh service. And so I'll ask her, what is the thought for the day? What is the focus of the songs? And occasionally I'll ask and see if the Lord will give me direction for a message that would tie to that. Although I did not ask her at all uh regarding today. Ah so I was quite shocked when uh they began to sing, press on. I love that song, Press On, the the choir this morning singing that and uh uh I am dealing this this morning with the passage here in Philippians that I would say encapsulates this song as as probably in a greater way than any other passage of scripture. where the songwriter says there's a chorus that must be finished, there's a race that must be run. There's a mission to accomplish, there's a battle to be won. We've been called to take the challenge by God's might and through his Son, He will give us grace to complete the race, moving forward, pressing on, towards the hope of the high calling, towards the promise that we've received. With the strength that we've been giving pressing on to Victory. It goes on and just the principle and the idea of pressing on. Well, this last week I was asked by somebody, they said, You've been married for a long time. Tell me briefly how to maintain a strong and vibrant relationship with your wife He said, I know there's a lot of things. There's whole books that have been written on the topic, but it just briefly, could you just give me a little tidbit of information. Give me something small that I could carry with me that you would say, you know, would encourage me on that path and I could live a long and and happy life uh with my wife. I said, Well, happy wife, happy life, you know amen. I no, I I I sat there at first and I just thought, well I I almost said, let me get back to you. Let me let me think about that. Because that's a pretty tall order. How do you describe the the depth and the breadth of maintaining a right relationship with your wife? There's so many things that go into it There's so much that could be shared or said. But immediately the Holy Spirit gave me something that I was able to share with him. I said, if I was going to sum up a life-changing truth with regards to maintaining a right relationship with your wife and having a happy life together. I would say it's this. Live life on purpose. Live life on purpose. I went on to say the fact of the matter is, is many people allow life to happen to them and they respond, and many times they respond only after it's too late and it's a mess And then they're trying to clean it up or to change it. But if you and I would live life on purpose, I would say that would be instrumental and very strategic in helping you to have a long and right relationship. And he said thank you and went on his way. But that thought continued to kind of stew in my heart and mind. So I'd like to bring a message to you this morning entitled Live Life on Purpose. Our text is Philippians chapter 3, verses 13 through 15. We'll be looking at this chapter in more detail. But in Philippians chapter 3, verses 13 through 15, he says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this One thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I press towards the mark. I think the uh Apostle Paul here was saying, I've got a goal, I've got an objective. I get out of the morning and I get out of bed in the morning and I have direction for my life. I have something that I need to or want to accomplish, I am living life on purpose. In verse 15 he said, let us, therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded, and if any Saying, be any of you be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Beloved, those who live life on purpose tend to be happier. They tend to be more successful. They enjoy better relationships. They accomplish more in a day. Living life on purpose. They're better stewards of the God-given resources they have at their disposal. And the list goes on and on. We've just enjoyed a great vacation a few days away. Many of you had some time with family and friends and maybe a day or two off work, but we understand, beloved, that's not life You don't it was awful nice to be able to stay up light late and and sleep in late. Get up whenever your body clock tells you to get up. And I liked it when I was younger and my clock would allow me to sleep as long as I want Not anymore. I've set my alarm for nine o'clock in the morning. It's seven o'clock. My eyes are up and I'm like, what is wrong with this person? I mean I should be able to sleep till nine at least. Come on And I'm up and I'm awake and getting you know, no the kids, they're all out, you know. It's quiet it's it's dead around because they were up till two or three in the morning. Oh what a fun time, but that's not life You you're not living on vacation even though by and large society would love to have uh five day weekends and two days work, right? I mean society would love to just be done with all the days of work and everybody wanting to retire at twenty-five years old and I'm doing a study right now, I don't know when I'm gonna preach it, but uh on the fact that men were created for work. And we have a problem in this country which by and large is uh exasperated by the fact that people aren't working. But that's another message for another day. We want to look here at living life on purpose. The fact of the matter is, is you need to have the objective. You need to have a goal. You need to have a direction as we're closing in on the end of 2024 and on the brink of breaking into a new year. I mean it's a fresh start. Just the idea that not one page in 2025 is marred with the failures of Caleb Batrell yet. All the possibilities that a new year brings and the excitement of that, just that idea stirs the heart of anybody with any ambition. Beloved, whatever goals or desires that you have in your life could become a reality in 2025. The sin that you know and have desired to be done with for so long could be Quit in 2025. Oh, the habit that you wanted to start, the ambitions and goals that you've had. Hey, anything's possible over the next 12 months If we live life on purpose. Hey, in just over two days At eleven fifty-nine and fifty-nine seconds. I mean at the very end of the day you're gonna p millions of people all over the world. are gonna yell to one another, Happy New Year! And uh on January 1st, for those of us that are sane and we went to bed You know, you'll see people on January 1st are out and about and people will be saying, Happy New Year! Happy New Year! Happy New Year! But the fact of the matter is, is for most of them They are going to get up on January 1st with the same problems and the same situations that they were dealing with on the beginning of January 2024. Because they let life happen to them. They're still in debt. They still have broken relationships. They still don't get along with their mom and dad. They still aren't faithful to church. They still aren't being victorious in their life. They're still struggling with alcohol. They're still wanting to give up drugs. They're still trying to make changes in their life. It's been an entire year and they haven't accomplished their goal because they get out of bed every day and they let life happen to them instead of get up with an objective to accomplish something The goal this morning is to try and exhort and encourage you to live life on purpose, to make a life-changing decision. We it's not 2025 yet. We've got uh just over two days still that you can look at it. And some people, hey, I want to exhort you, don't be like the drunk who says, well, I'll stop drinking tomorrow Oh, tomorrow I'll quit. Beloved, tomorrow never comes. Let's start right now so we could hit the ground running in 2025. with the goals and objectives and desires that God would want us to have so we could accomplish something of real value over the next twelve months. Let's live life on purpose. Would you pray with me as we ask God to do something in our midst here for the next few minutes as I speak to you on this idea of living life on purpose? Lord, we come to you right now, heads bowed and hearts humbled before an Almighty God. Lord, we are unworthy, but I call upon you right now to bring the importance of this message to each and every heart and mind. Lord, you know exactly where each and every saint is. You know what their needs are. You know what's happening. And I ask you, Lord, would you open the windows of heaven and pour your spirit out upon this place in this hour? Lord, would you this morning do that work that only you can do? I know, Lord, that it's not something it's not a magical thing that we can Click our heels three times and all of a sudden problems are gone or habits are stopped. Lord, with you we know that all things are possible. And that God, we can make change, real life-changing decisions even this hour. Lord, I believe your promises with all my heart. And so I believe this morning that your desire to give to each and every one of us an abundant life is there and it's possible for us. I ask you, Lord, that you would somehow instill in us that possibility. Allow us to live through your power on purpose. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we go back to our text in Philippians chapter number three. I would like you to turn to the beginning of the chapter. We're going to begin reading in verse number one as we learn some truths regarding this desire of Paul and his his goal and his desire to press on. First of all, he tells us here to remember that there is always opposition Philippians chapter 3 and verses 1 and 2, he says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same thing to you, to me indeed, is not grievous. But for you it is safe. He's saying, boy, for me to repeat myself is not grievous. It should not bother you because it is for your safety. How many of you have had to tell your children something more than once? My dad always says, if I told you once, I've told you a million times, don't exaggerate. That's one of the dad's lines, one of the things he's always he's always said, you know. And uh, you know, you you you tell your kids over and over and over and over again Why? Because they haven't learned it yet. And Paul is saying, listen, there's something you need to be aware of, and I know you know this already, but, and look what he says in verse number two. He says, beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. He was saying here, listen, there's some opposition. There's some downright dirty dogs that are going to do all they can to disrupt your plans. You can press towards the mark all you want, but you've got to be aware that there's somebody trying to trip you up. Boy, when Joshua was going into that promised land with all the children of Israel, they remembered that there was opposition in the land. They were standing there at the Jordan River ready to cross and going into the promised land and they said, Boy, we know there's some giants in the land. We know there's some opposition in the land. This is not going to be easy It would be foolish for you and I to think this morning. And I hope to encourage you, I hope to exhort you, I hope to stir you to live life on purpose and make real change for tomorrow But I also want to warn you to remember there's opposition. You're going to make the decision to do right, and you know who's going to be there? Satan. Satan's gonna be there and he's gonna be ready to try and trip you up to stop you. He came to to kill and to destroy. He wants to stop all of the progress in your life. He is The Bible says to be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. He wants to devour All the progress you could make this year. He wants to devour all the ambition that would stir you to get off of your chair and go and accomplish something for God. Satan is the the enemy of all that is good and right. I just want you to remember that there's some opposition But you know Satan is the enemy and we're aware of that, and we know we got to guard against that, and we can watch out for old Slowfoot. But you know sometimes our greatest enemy Is self. The one looking us in the mirror The one that uh stands there, that the greatest enemy to our making real change or bringing about any great progress in our life many times is ourself James chapter 1 verse 15 says, Then when lust hath conceived, that is conceived in my own heart, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Boy, you want to accomplish something, but you are allowing sin to destroy it There's so much that you want out of life, and thus far you you have allowed sin to keep it from being possible, from it being a reality As I think about the cause or the how this message was provoked in my heart, I think about the husband and wife relationship, and some man may desire a a powerful intimate relationship with his wife, but the problem is is he has allowed the sin of pornography to corrupt his mind And it is robbing him, it is keeping him from being able to have what it is he desires with his wife. Why? Because he's allowed himself to partake of the sin of pornography. We've got to stop letting sin rob us of what we want to accomplish. The desire is there, the goal is there, but oh slewfoot tempts us and we allow sin to disrupt the plan. You want a powerful prayer life where you can pray and see God do great things The problem the Bible said is your iniquities have separated you between you and your God. Sin keeps it so that when we get down on our knees and pray and beg God for the miracles that we want to see, God does not hear us. Well I'm saying, beloved, is that we need to remember there's some opposition. Oh, Satan is going to do all he can to stop us, but sometimes self gets in the way as well. And we allow that sin to keep us from accomplishing what is our goal. You know, sometimes that sin is not so much an activity as it is an attitude You know, many of the problems that people have in their homes stem from simply a wrong attitude. You know young people, you need to look at your relationship with your mom and dad You need to look at your relationship and you need to think about it. And you need to say, is my attitude right? Boy, it would be nice to have a uh a great relationship with mom and dad. Boy, it would be nice to have that kind of fun camaraderie and and you know banter back and forth in a good spirit with mom and dad but the problem is is there's a sinful attitude in a way that's keeping you from having that right relationship Husbands and wives aren't getting along because of some sinful attitudes Some pride my way. I don't get what I want. If my needs aren't met Zenful attitudes are keeping you from having the relationship that in your heart and mind you want. Here's the thing, is you need a purpose in your heart to live life on purpose. Get out of bed in the morning and determine in your heart today, instead of being critical, I'm going to be complimentary. Instead of having a bad attitude today, instead of allowing Satan to let me be discouraged and downhearted and down in the dumps instead of looking at everything From the underside, I'm gonna get out of bed today and I'm gonna determine to be on the winning side. I'm gonna have a good attitude today. And Come what may, I know that God's on the throne and things are gonna be alright. Boy, heaven is still my home, and so I can smile and I can rejoice. And it doesn't matter if the kids don't respond exactly the way I want to. It doesn't matter if my husband and wife says exactly what I would like them to say. I've purposed in my heart to live life on purpose, and I cannot control what they say, but I can control what I do. I can't control my attitude. I can't control my spirit. The problem is you're like, well they shouldn't have said that. That may be true, but how you responded is still on you, buddy. It's still on you. You have to determine your heart to live life on purpose. Get out of bed with an objective and with a goal and say today we're going to accomplish this. Here is the plan for this week. We've got 12 months, and man, they pass so fast. Doesn't it seem like just yesterday it was January 1? I mean, how quick does a year pass Boy, if we don't on purpose think about it day by day before you know it, one month is gone, two months are gone, we're we're we're at July and having the Fourth of July fellowship and oh that's so much fun. But what was accomplished in those six months You gotta decide to live life on purpose. Having a right attitude The fact of the matter is that sometimes there might be some cleanup that needs to be done. When Joshua Went into the promised land in Joshua chapter 3 verse number 5, and Joshua said unto the people, sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Boy, you want to see God do wonders among you? The first thing you gotta do is sanctify yourselves. That is clean yourself up. Set yourself aside. Take care of those things in your life that you know need to be changed. There might need to be some cleaning done so that we are not our own worst enemy. Let me ask you, are you clean today? Well, I know we got out of bed and Took a shower or maybe before you went to bed last night you you took a shower. Hopefully sometime in the last 72 hours you got a shower. But I wonder how long it's been since you've been clean with God. Same since you really got down and said, Search me, O God, and see if there be any wicked way in. God clean clean me today. Clean me Beloved, regardless of what you've done or where you've been, I want you to know that God desires to clean you. And you can start the new year clean. You can start the new year with nothing on your slate. With your debt 100% paid and your sin one hundred percent covered. Not only is there opposition, but beloved, we know that there is great opportunity. He says in our text, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. reaching forth to those things which are before, I press towards the mark. First of all, what a privilege, what an opportunity we have to forget the past. To forget the past. Beloved, we all, every single one of us have some things here in our past that we're glad that we can forget. What I'm saying is you're not holding them over you anymore. You know they've been forgiven. You can let that go. We've all got some things that we need to let go. We can forget the past. You know, there is some failures. In last year that you need to let go. The great nineteenth century Preacher Henry Ward Beecher said, We've passed through one more year, one more long stage in this journey of life. Oh, with this ascents and descents, with all the dust and mud and rocks and thorns and burdens that we wear. That hangs so heavy on our shoulders. But it is done. The year is dead. It has rolled away. Let it go. God in His providence has brought us out of it. It is gone, or rather, its evils are gone, and yet its good remains. The evil has perished and the good has survived, and now we standing on the beginning of the next and the new by God's grace We have been what we have been, and by God's grace we shall have our experience in new days to come. Listen, all you accomplished for God last year remains, and it will remain until eternity. Praise the Lord. All the right and good and things that you accomplished, that carries on. It's an investment in eternity, but praise the Lord, the failures of yesterday, you can let them go. They're gone. Don't let Satan hold those over your head and say, oh, you're nothing but a failure. Everybody has failed in the past. Everybody has uh done wrong in the past, but we all need to Seize the opportunity to forget those things which are behind. Man Joshua could have stood there on the brink of the Jordan River and said, Boy uh Israel, uh you guys couldn't do it forty years ago. What makes me think we could do it now? You guys went in there and checked it out once and decided it was too hard. Here we are now. I I think we probably just it's probably too hard for us too. That's what Satan does. He comes to you and he says, Well, you tried that last year. You tried to make that change, didn't you? Yeah, but you failed. You're nothing but a failure. You can't do it. And Satan would hinder you from even trying again. But beloved, Paul says, I'm forgetting those things which are behind. The failures of yesterday, we've got to learn to let them go. What an opportunity we can to forget those things. Boy, the missed opportunities in this past year. You say, boy, I should have done that. I should have seized that opportunity. I should have done this. I should have done that. That's all gone. There's nothing you can do about yesterday. But praise God, not only can we forget the past, but we have the privilege of forging a new future. We've got a new path that we can walk as we come into this new year. We press towards the mark. We're going to get out of bed and we're going to look at what we want to accomplish inside of God's will and his plan for our life, and we've got a a goal to shoot for. There is a new path. I read to you Joshua chapter 3, verses 10 through 13. We'll be gone here. But he says, And Joshua said, Hereby ye shall know that the living God is among you. And that he will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Hevites and the Fezorites and the Gershirites and the Amorites and the Jebusites Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan. Now therefore take ye twelve men out of the tribes of Israel. one out of every tribe of man, and it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet of the priest that bear the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above. and they shall stand upon a heap. He's saying we are going to step into the Jordan River. We're forging a new path. God's going to take us across the Jordan River on dry ground, and some of you are standing on the brink of a Jordan River life-changing decisions, things that God could do in your life, that this time next year you would rejoice about what God allowed you to accomplish. Some of you need to live life on purpose and get out of debt in 2025 Some of you need to purpose, live your life on purpose and make changes so that this time next year you rejoice at a restored and a renewed passionate Ferment, fervent, loving relationship between you and your wife, between you and your children. But it's not just going to happen over the next twelve months by accident It's only going to happen because you set a goal and a purpose and you got out of bed each day and purposed in your heart to live that way. God wants to take you across the Jordan River. He wants to forge a new path for you. What an opportunity! But some will see it on the other side of Jordan and say it's not possible You have to decide to press towards the mark. That's the only way you're gonna get the prize. Some of you need a purpose in your heart to read through your Bible this coming year. It's something in your heart and mind you've always thought would be good, or you always thought, boy, I would love to accomplish that, to read every page of this book you look at and you say, man, that's a big book. Holy, how in the world could I do that? One page at a time. A few chapters every day. Just purpose in your heart. This is what I'm going to do this year. This is something I'm going to accomplish. I'm going to read the Word of God this year a little bit every day. Read through the scriptures. Purpose in your heart you're going to have a time of prayer and get a prayer list. Pray for your family and pray for your church and your church family. Some of you need to purpose in your heart this year, by God's grace, God's going to use me to lead another soul to Jesus Christ. You've been on your way to heaven for many, many years. But have you ever been used of God to show somebody else the way to heaven? That's what God has called us to do. It is the Great Commission given to us all To preach the gospel. That is to tell people about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ so their sins can be forgiven and they can be on their way to heaven. Some of you say, boy, I could never do it, yeah you could. If you purpose in your heart this year it's going to happen I'm going to start preparing. I'm going to be a witness. I'm going to try and lead somebody to Christ. I'm going to pray that God would take give me a soul that I could come across the path of somebody and you start being soul conscious. Can I tell you that God will do it for you? I tell you, my father I've never seen him so passionate for souls as he is now. I think the closer he gets to the grave, the more passionate he is about it. He almost can't have a conversation without talking about souls. Somebody lost and on their way to hell. Just last week they were in a hotel Somewhere I don't remember where it was. And uh Be praise God, believe me, show me who needs you. We ask God all the time. And uh God woke him up in the middle of the night and said, you need to go downstairs and talk to the person around the desk He got up in the middle of the night and walked downstairs, opened up a conversation with a young lady who was running the desk there. About 30, 40 minutes later, she bowed her head and trust Christ. And he said, Listen, I'm preaching at this church, and he gave her a gospel track. He says, I'm preaching at this church here in about eight hours, six hours, whatever it was from then. And he says, Boy, it'd be great for you to come. And she said, I will. And her and her husband and child showed up at church on Sunday morning. I'm saying if you're soul conscious, if you're asking God to lead you to bring you across the path of somebody that needs Jesus, you he'll do it. Dad has more more pictures on his phone of people he's led to Christ than he does as kids. What I'm telling you is it convicted me. When's the last person I led to Christ? We need to set some goals this year and say, God, use me. Give me a burden for souls. It's not going to happen if you just say, boy, that would be nice. No, it's going to happen when you get out of bed in the morning and say, Lord, leave me a soul, lead me to a soul today. Allow me to be a witness for you today. And God will take you across the path. Well, it looked impossible to Joshua, but beloved, he crossed on dry ground. I want you to see as I bring this to a close that there's also an objective. There's an objective. In verse 15, 16 and 17, he says, Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, where unto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same thing. Brethren, be followers together of me. He's saying, come on with me. Let's be followers of Christ. As Christians, we are to be followers. The objective, beloved, is to be a follower of God. He says to be thus minded. I think of another passage of Scripture where he said, Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God thought it not robber to be equal to God, but humbled himself. became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Let this mind be in you. We need to be thus minded. Having the mind of Christ, being a follower of Jesus. Beloved, it's not just accomplishing our own goals for this coming year. There's nothing wrong with you setting some practical, some practical objectives, some practical goals. Wouldn't hurt some of us to, you know, trim up a little bit practical, simple goal. I believe financially it's really more of stewardship than than than just practical. I think there's some real spiritual side to that as well. real spiritual side to what we're doing with our money and we ought to think about that. But maybe you're just like, boy, I would love to get out of debt. That's possible. Practically, we want to do this. Boy, I want to get the house painted. Whatever, you could set some practical goals, that's fine, but we need to prayerfully ask God, God, what do you want to accomplish with me this year? I want to be a follower of you. We need to follow God's plan. You know God has a plan for your marriage. Boy, if we would do it God's way, we would be a whole lot happier. God has a plan for your life. What he wants you to do and be. What we need to be focusing on is God's purpose, God's plan. The older I get, the more I realize how important focus is. I got these glasses on my face because I cannot read anything in front of me without them. It's all the same, but if I take it off, it's all blurry. Nothing's in focus. Nothing changed right there, but it's not in focus. I gotta put these on to get it in focus. And sometimes I think we've taken our spiritual glasses off. What God has for us to do is not in focus because we're not using spiritual eyes. We need to focus on God's plan for our lives. You know, you could set a goal to be in church every Sunday in 2025. Amen. Amen is right. I know you're going to be in ver on vacation. I didn't say you had to be in this church. I mean that would be that would be good. But you say, you know what? I'm going to be in church every single Sunday in 2025. That's a pretty easy goal. You don't even have to be spiritual to show up for church. You just have to have some determination and say, This is where God wants me, I'm gonna be there. That's an easy goal. You say, not for me. I understand we're all in different places. But it you know what? It isn't going to happen unless you say that's what I want to accomplish. You gotta live life on purpose. What do you what do you want to accomplish in this coming year? Hey, there's going to be some opposition. We know that. You can let the opposition stop you, or you can be aware of it and push forward regardless. Because we've got an opportunity. The opportunity is to forget those things that are behind, forget the failures of yesterday, and forge a new path. By God's grace, with his power, it's not something we're going to do on our own, but to accomplish the objectives. It doesn't just happen. As we're closing out this year, coming in next year, I exhort, I implore you to live life on purpose. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?