Turn your Bibles this morning, the book of Exodus, right in the beginning of the Word of God. Exciting to be able to share with you this truth this morning. Exodus chapter number sixteen. We're going to get into the Word of God here, and uh just over a week ago uh a number of our church went down to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. They held services there. They preached a gospel message and had some song and ministered as best as they could. By and large, the men who are there at the mission and the women who are staying over there on the lady side of Kerr's house are staying there because they're homeless. Because if they did not sleep there, they would be sleeping out on the street. And I just wonder this morning, could you imagine being in a situation or a place where you did not have any home, you had no place to lay your head. You had no money or means of providing for yourself. There was no freezer full of food, no pantry with dry goods, no fridge with leftovers for you. No way to earn or supply or meet your own needs, even the most basic needs that you have. Can you imagine living simply off the provision of somebody else if they happened to be able to meet that need day by day. Well, in our text, beloved, we have just such a situation described for a little over two million people. Two million people who were on their wilderness journeys. And 100% reliant upon God to provide and meet for their needs. And I know that you all know this story, but uh they were complaining. They were sad that they didn't have any uh food to eat. Uh look at verse uh number two here, chapter 16. And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness, and the verse number three, and the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the uh of the Lord in the land of the Egypt, where we sat by the flesh flops, listen to this, and when we did eat bread to the full. Now how many of you think as prisoners, as slaves that they sat around eating till they're fill full. Probably not. Warren Wordsby used to say that the good old days is just simply a combination of a bad memory and a good imagination. That's what it is. And I can see these uh people here just saying, Man, things were so much better when we were under bondage and when we were slaves because we got to eat anything we wanted, which you know is not the case They were just imagining, they were just dreaming because their stomachs were growling. They were looking and needing of some provision. Look down in verse number 11. If you would, and follow along with me. He says, I'm going to read down to verse number 20, uh, and so follow along as we read these. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel. Speak unto them, saying, At the eve, ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God And it came to pass that at the even the quails came and covered the camp, and in the morning the dew lay round about the host, and when the dew that lay was gone up, behold there the face of the wilderness that Did I lose my spot? The face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as an hoar frost on the ground. And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna From they wished not what it was. And Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat. This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded. Gather of it every man according to his eating, and, Omar, for every man according to the number of your persons, take ye every man for them which are in his tent. They were to go out, gather, get what they needed for everybody in their tent. God had provided it for them. They were to do that. And the children of Israel did so, and gathered some more, some less. And when they did meet it within Omar, they, he that gathereth much had nothing over, and he that gathereth little had no lack. They gathered every man according to his eating. Verse number 19, and Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning. This was God's command. They were not to gather extra. They were not to go try and fill their storehouses. They were not to say, oh boy, look at this, look at everything, and gather all of this food, because God was going to provide for them each and every day. He says in verse number 20, he says, notwithstanding, they hearkened not unto Moses, but some of them left it until the morning. And it bred worms and stank, and Moses was wroth with them. We have here a story. Of God's plan and God's design to feed his people each and every day, and man's desire to try and hoard up or store or gather and Really, to live off of what God provided yesterday. Our theme here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church for this year is rest and revival. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. Our desire is that we as a church might experience revival. That God would stir our hearts afresh and anew and do a new and great thing in our midst. But what I want you to understand this morning, and for a few minutes, I would like to preach to you on the idea of living on yesterday's bread Living on yesterday's bread. It is not God's plan that we should sustain ourselves and live on yesterday's bread We're going to talk about this for a few minutes, but God said, Give us this day our daily bread, that we're to go to Him daily and seek Him, and we're going to get into this and and look at some ideas about areas where Christians sometimes are content to live on yesterday's bread. But what I'm saying to you this morning, if we have any hope of God doing a great thing, if we have any hope of God stirring us afresh and anew, if we have any hope of seeing revival in our midst Some of God's people got to say, I'm not content to live on yesterday's bread. I want to see God do something today. And we got to get hungry for it and go to God and seek it, and God will do it, but we can't live on yesterday's bread. Would you pray with me as we begin? Lord, we come to you now. I submit myself a hum a humble, unworthy servant, to preach this message before your people. But God, your word is powerful. And your Holy Spirit does his work if we'll just get out of the way and allow him to. And I ask you, God, this morning, that I don't know what everybody's need is, I don't know where every person is, I don't know what they're struggling with, but God you do, and I ask you to meet with us this morning, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would give me liberty to preach and clarity of thought and take your word and implant it into fertile soil the hearts of your people this morning. In Jesus' name, amen. I'm sure that all of you have eaten leftovers. I'm not a big leftovers fan It's one of the kids that that's one of the reasons God gave me kids so the kids could eat the leftovers. I I don't care mo Mar Mary knows I don't care for leftovers and and they they they eat them up but You know, I mean some leftovers are good. Sometimes you you enjoy them, and sometimes we even look forward to them. For me, I don't personally care for leftovers much I'm sure that there are people here that are sentimental about past experiences, things that have happened, victories that you've endured, or things you've accomplished I can look back on certain things in my life, things that I've enjoyed, and I I enjoy reliving those, talking about them, experiencing those again Just last night I was giving Brother Hanley a tour of the building and talking about what God did here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and how God miraculously Over and over again. And we were praising the Lord and giving honor to Him. But it's it's fun to talk about those things, to talk about what God did. in the past. But you can't live on what God did in the past. There are some experiences that we don't want to relive. On Thursday night we were sitting around the bonfire at the Minaboys Camp How and I don't know how we got onto this But my boys were telling stories about their loving, compassionate father. And these stories were digressing Pretty soon I'm like, okay, let's change the subject. Let's relive something else. Somebody else have anything to talk about? I mean this was getting bad. These boys reliving their childhood and things that I did as a dad and and and everybody was laughing at my expense. But that's no that's okay. We're having a great time. There's some things you don't want to relive But sometimes too many of us, too many Christians, they live in the past. They're living on what transpired in a bygone day. They're enthralled with what happened a long time ago. During these wilderness journeys, the Israelites were provided manna from heaven God gave them that they might eat, and they were to gather just enough for that day. They weren't to store up. They weren't to gather to try and hoard for the future. It was God's design that daily He would give them what they needed As I look around at Christianity today, I see many Christians that are trying to live on what they gathered yesterday. Trying to live on the fervency and the fire of that they had in their youth, trying to live on the passion they had for Christ a long time ago, and beloved, that will not continue. You need a new purpose. You need a new passion. You need fresh oil from God Almighty to sustain you today. Amen. Beloved, if your relationship with Jesus Christ is only as fresh as yesterday, it's rotten. You're not even aware of how spoiled it is. We want to see revival as a church We're fast encroaching upon half of this year being done That's our theme. We put it we put it up on a banner and hung it on the wall. So surely it's gonna happen. Well half the year passed We don't have a lot of time if we're going to see God do something. I want to give you just a few things. I don't expect to be long. I know what time it is We had a great service thus far. But let's let God feed us here from the Word. I want you to realize, first of all, you can't live on yesterday's wealth. The blessings of God are sufficient for a day. Each of us could talk about and stand and attest to the truth that God has been good to us. God has met needs and provided and been such a blessing to us in past. God has been good to us in many, many great and wonderful ways. We can tell stories about how God provided and met needs and came through in a miraculous way. But yesterday's blessings are not and will not be good enough for today. You need a new blessing from God. You need new provision from God. You need new sustaining from God. When I was in high school, I started working for Walmart. They hired me for the whopping pay of $4. 75 an hour. And I know for many of you here, you're like, man, that's a lot of money. Because back when you went to work it was 75 cents an hour. How many of you understand that 475 is not going to sustain you today? Right. That's just that you you're not going to live on that. In today's world. You gotta have uh an updated pay. You gotta have a a change, something new One semester in college, I was taking Old Testament survey. I was taking a in-depth study of the book of Romans. I was taking a verse-by-verse study of the book of Genesis. And I was taking a class on the life of Christ. all of these inside of one semester. And man, was the word of God opening up to me in amazing ways. See this in-depth focus on the Word of God, just one class after another and seeing things tied together and seeing Christ exposed and and and and uh uh uh coming alive in the pages of scripture over and over again and I was learning so much But that was a lot of years ago. I can't live on what I learned about Christ back then Oh, that laid a foundation and it gave me what I needed to continue to grow and to continue to be fed. But I can't live on that How many of you ate lunch yesterday? Well we had some good food out at the Mini Boys camp out. But you know what, I'm hungry again. I was telling Brother Hanley about pit beef. Baltimore. That's that that was originated in Baltimore. I don't know if you know that, but it's it's originated here. They're they're copying it all over the country, but I want you to know it came from us. Pit beef. So I told him, I said, for lunch today you're going to experience pit beef. I'm going to take him out. We're going to get some pit beef for lunch today. You know, you you can't live on yesterday's lunch. Right. Oh you can for a little while. But you gotta get fresh food from heaven. How's your spiritual appetite today? You can't live on yesterday's worship. I'm sure, beloved, that everybody here could stand and sing praises to God. You could talk about answered prayers. You could talk about the miraculous things that God did for you in the past. Those special things. And they should be remembered. The Bible tells us even to set up memorials. The children of Israel had to set up a memorial so that they could tell the next generation what God did. But beloved, because God brought you across or through the Red Sea and God brought you across the Jordan doesn't mean that God's done. There's still a Jericho in front of you There's still a Jericho to conquer. There's still an Ai to experience victory in. God still has a whole land for you to conquer. You can't say, oh, I've crossed the Jordan. Aren't you happy? No, God wants to do more for us. Just because we've experienced some victory doesn't mean that God has done working. Just because he's answered some prayers in the past doesn't mean he won't uh answer a prayer today. I've been involved in some all-night prayer meetings growing up. We had those seems like different times different things happening in the church or ministry. We would have an all-night prayer meeting. There's been twice in my life where I was so burdened. With the weight of something that I prayed through the night. That I prayed until the sun came up Seeking God. There's been some times, and those are very sweet times and precious times, and I know how God ministered to my soul and what he did. But how long has it been? Since you prayed through the night. How long has it been since you spent an extended time in prayer and saw God do something real for you? You can't say, oh, I remember when I was 17. I needed God to do something and he did it. Amen. Well, praise God. Don't forget it. Praise the Lord for it. But don't you want him to do something again? Wouldn't you like to see him do something again? Man, I have felt the love of God in my heart and minister to my soul at times when weights were heavier, burdens were great. And God provided for my family at times in miraculous ways that I look at and say, wow, look at God, isn't he good? But I still need them to do so today. As sweet as those times were, as powerful as it was to see God come through, they're not going to provide answers for today's problems. I need God to come through today to give me faith to pray again. Those experiences, those victories, they give you faith. God did it. God can. God will. Let's pray again. Let's spend some time in worship. Yesterday's answers give you faith for today's storm. And today's faith will prepare you to face tomorrow's storm. Beloved, you can't live on yesterday's witnessing. We're commanded to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. This is an ongoing, continual command given to every believer. Every Christian, everyone that knows Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're called to be a witness, to tell other people about Jesus Christ. How long has it been since you've done that? Oh, I remember in vacation Bible school when I was 19, I got to lead a child to Christ. How long ago was that? I mean we praise God for that decision and don't make light of it, but how long has it been since you led somebody to the Savior? Since you pointed somebody to Christ, since you were an active witness in this old wicked world. This is an ongoing continual command for every believer. It's not a limited commitment. It's not a two-year commitment that you gotta do this for two years and then you're done with your witnessing. No, God expects you to go. To go and to tell people this lost world about him, about the Savior that can take away their sin and can give them a home in heaven What if somebody hadn't invited Dave Hanley to that old church in a basement and he heard about the gospel of Jesus Christ? He would have been on his way to hell, baptized and sprinkled in some water in a Lutheran church somewhere. Until somebody took the gospel and told them about the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ and his full and complete sacrifice that paid for our sin. Are you being a witness for him? Witnessing, beloved, should be a way of life for us. There is nothing greater that you can do for another human being than point them to Jesus Christ. You ever seen that show uh Undercover Boss? You know they set those things up and They get some employee that has, you know, he's four months behind on his mortgage or something. He's got hi his mom's in the hospital or his son's uh you know lost his eyesight. Or they they they pick somebody that's dealing with some great tragedy And then and then they at the end, what does the boss do? Listen, I appreciate you being a great employee here and And what we want to do is we want to we're going to pay your mortgage up to date. We're going to give you $25,000 to cover your mortgage Oh man, that's amazing. We're like, boy, I wish that happened to me. That would be awesome. I mean that's that's why we watch it, but you know what? What good does that do if he dies and goes to hell? The greatest thing you can do for somebody, I mean You can buy them a lunch, you can give them $25,000, you can do all kinds of stuff, but all the greatest thing you can do is point them to Jesus. Tell them about the Savior. Because no matter what provision you provide for today, Jesus Christ provided for his eternity. We're supposed to be a witness. Uh brother Dave doesn't even know this, Brother Hanley. Um one of the boys at camp got saved on Friday night. One of the one of the boys. So the need of a savior trusted Christ. We praise God for that. Um just this morning I'm putting Brother Lee on the spot here, but uh just this morning we're just standing outside talking, and Brother Lee was sharing this week in the grocery store, standing in line, he was talking to a lady about Jesus Christ. His love for us. And a few minutes later, right there in the aisle at the grocery store, she bowed her head and trusted Jesus Christ. We're all supposed to be doing that. You can't live on, oh, I I was a witness. I did tell somebody about Jesus once. I know. But we can't live on that. We've got to be a witness. See God allow us to see souls saved today, right now. We need to live in such a way that we don't miss an opportunity to point somebody to Christ. You can't live on yesterday's work. Most every Christian has done something for God. We could all talk about what we've done for God. You know what? And you felt good about it. You were thrilled. You knew that God was pleased and that ministered to your heart and you say, Man, I'm I'm so glad I did it. I can't tell you the number of people that have gone so winning with me and they're like, you know, I really didn't want to come tonight. But uh I did it and uh I am so glad I did. It was so amazing. I I you go home and you know God's pleased You go home and you know you were fulfilling the Great Commission. It doesn't matter ultimately what happened out there, but just the idea of fulfillment is And yeah, you had to come away from your busy schedule and you had to give up mowing the grass that night again, because you got to do it every week. And you you sacrificed whatever so that you could go, but you were thrilled about it. But I can tell you many of those that said, man, I had such a great time. It was awesome to know that I pleased God today, didn't come back the next week. What what did you used to do for God? I used to I once did. Boy, I was really good at. Boy, you couldn't get a better teacher or you couldn't get somebody more. But what are you doing right now? We can all talk about what we used to do for God. But what I'm saying is we can't live on what we used to do for God. What are we doing for God today? What are you doing for God right now? And listen, beloved, we have a working church. So many of you are involved in serving and working. Praise the Lord. Just do what God wants you to do. Just do what God wants you to do. You can't live on yesterday's work. What you've done in the past is commendable. And God was well pleased, I'm sure. But we still need people doing those things today. Somebody's still got to cover that ministry today. Somebody's still got to fill that gap. Somebody's still got to take that trash out. Somebody's still got Somebody still got to wash those windows. We got a lot of windows around here. It's almost a full-time job to wash those the glass on the front door. I don't know why kids love going up there and just putting their hands all over that glass. It's like a full time job just to keep that glass clean. The guys that clean it, I'm like, you know, would you check that glass? I I just I don't like it when you're looking out and there's those fingerprints all over it, you know. But listen, we're gonna we're gonna keep the baby and and uh you know wash the we'll we'll wash the glass. We're thankful for the kids. We're thrilled to have them here. And uh with washing the glass is what we're dealing with, that's that's easy. We're thrilled to have the kids here. But somebody's got to do it. Listen, as I bring this to a conclusion today, ultimately what I'm trying to say to you is just I want to stir your heart towards revival. I want you to realize y you could read all the books about revival you want and and they're fun to read. We've read some in our personal devotions as a family and it and just to stir our hearts. But you know, reading about what happened in a bygone day does not give you revival today. God's gotta do that today. I just wanna bring this to a conclusion and ask you or encourage you to realize that You can't stop living because of yesterday's failures. We've all failed. We've all struggled. We've all faced some challenges. But I want you to know that you can be forgiven. And God still has a place for you. God still has a job for you. God's not done with you yet. You're still alive. You're still kicking. God has a plan for you. Satan wants to come and tell you that you failed, you messed up, you're no good. He's a liar. He's the accuser of the brethren. You can't stop living because of yesterday's failures. You can and know the forgiveness of God. Your sins can be forgiven today If you're here and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, your sins can be forgiven today. Brother Dave Hanley had no idea what I was preaching. Well he knew my title. But he did not know I was going to deal with this. And I I have written right down here in my notes this story. It was some years ago I got a phone call from a man. who had been attending our church. He said, Pastor Caleb, I need some help. He was crying. He said, I need some help. Can you come right now? I said, I I'll come right now. Where are you at? He was parked in a parking lot down there where Staples is. Right up from Temonium Road. He was parked in that parking lot and I drove over there. I got out of my car and I got into his car. And he was just crying. So what's going on, man? He says, I don't know. He says I don't he says I just I don't know what's going on. He says I can't I can't eat. I haven't eaten in several days. He says I can't sleep. I haven't slept in 48 hours. He says, I've just got this this struggle, this battle, I've got this burden weighing down on me, and I don't know what it is I don't know how to deal with it. I don't know how to face it. I don't know what's going on. But I I need something. And I said, what you need is you need Jesus Christ. He is the Savior of the world and He will forgive you of those sins and He'll lift that burden from your heart. That struggle that you're facing is a spiritual battle And God wants to give you deliverance, and we sat in the Bible, and I gave I sat in the car and I gave him the Bible, and we talked about the scriptures And about forty minutes later he bowed his head crying like a six-year-old boy that lost his best friend. He was just saying, God, I'm a sinner and I need your forgiveness today And a moment later he looked over at me and he said, I can't explain it. This is like that burden. That burden is gone. He said that weight is gone. That battle. He says, how in the world? That doesn't even make sense. I said, that's what Jesus Christ does. He forgives you and gives you that he washes that sin away and that weight that you feel, that burden that you feel, and what I'm telling you this If you're here and you don't know that ex haven's experienced that burden being lifted, if your heart is under the weight of sin, you're like Brother Handley who was sitting there and said his heart in his home heavy with the weight of sin, burdened about what you know you've done. Well Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to give you deliverance from that sin. And he's the only one that can do it. The only one, and he wants to do it for you today. But I know that Satan is telling you, don't do it. Don't do it because he wants to keep you in bondage and on your way to hell. God will give you deliverance today, and that burden of sin can be lifted. You can't live on your religious experience. You need Jesus Christ. And he alone will wash that sin away. If we're going to see revival as a church, it's going to start with one or two hearts to say, I'm tired of living on yesterday's bread. The prayers and victories that I saw in the past are great, but I want to see them again. And I'm looking for God