You know, uh if you've been here at all on the Thursday evening services, you know that we've been going through the book of Jude. Jude is a wonderful book to go through. Uh I think you guys understand it. Jude is probably the smallest book in the Bible Well, I kind of want to counterbalance that a little bit. So I'm going to Psalm 119. The longest psalm in the Bible. They call it the Mount Ever Everest of Psalms. But if you'll turn with me in the in your word of God. To Psalm number 119, we're going to look at a few things tonight. We're going to especially look at verse number 9, going down to verse number 16. And I want to talk to you a little bit about living in victory. Living in victory. You know, we uh we live in a world It almost accepts the fact that we're defeated. But, however, I can't help but Notice that when I have my devotions I walk away encouraged. I really truly do. And before I forget, I want to just say something. I I love your pastor. I've known him for a long time and and the betrothals as a family have always been a uh A role model to me. I like the way these men work. These men work because they're men and they do the job, man. They're not averse to sweat. And I like that. And they they get the job done And that's something my mother tried to instill me. My brother was in the airborne division of the army and uh he tried to instill it in me too. Sometimes it took a few reps on the on the head to get it through, but But he was consistent. But I wanted to do something tonight for you, Pastor Patrell. I really do. I want to be a blessing to you, of course, but I wanted to do something special for Pastor Patrell. I asked my wife to find me a cooler. And we couldn't find the one that would really work. But I wanted to put a million bucks in it. I've got a million dollar bill. Remember what he said? He said he's always dreamt that he had found a cooler with a million dollars in it? Well here's a million bucks But I don't have the cooler. I don't have the cooler. But praise the Lord. So praise the Lord. Amen? We're halfway there, brother. We're getting there. We're gonna make it. view of the land all the way. Alright. Well before we begin, let's have a word of prayer. Father, we thank you, Lord Jesus, for your goodness. We thank you, Father, that we can come together tonight. Lord, it's a blessing, Lord, to be in a in the house of God. Father, we thank you, Lord, that we can share the Word of God and Lord realize that Father that it applies to every need. Lord, that we'll ever have. And Lord, there's many needy people here tonight, Lord, including myself. Father, we all need guidance. We need direction, Lord. We need Lord, we need substance. We need something, Lord, from you. We thank you, Lord, for the songs and the service that that provides for us. And I pray, Lord, that Now, Father, that you would uh bless the reading of thy word. And I pray, God, that you would allow me, Father, to gather my thoughts together, and I pray, Lord, that I'd be able to present something, Lord, in clarity And Father, I pray as I present your truth that you'll be with me and bless me, Lord, in it. And Father, I pray, Lord, that we'd all walk away, Lord, more encouraged, more strengthened God by the Word of God. And Lord, we thank you, Father, for that. Nothing only that I can do. And Father, you know that I've asked you, Lord, I said, do you realize Who you ask. But Lord, you're gracious and you're kind and you're loving and you're good. And Father, I thank you, Lord, for what you do, Lord, that we cannot do, and that's touch hearts. So Father, pray, Lord, you're your work and And Lord, deal with hearts tonight. In Jesus' precious name I pray, Lord, amen. Psalm 119, starting at verse number 9. I have to say something though before I begin. This has kind of been on my mind. I drive a small truck for English American. I take garments, high-end garments, from Westminster, Maryland up to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and I gather material and bring it all back But on my travels, I go up 97, I get on uh you know 30, and then 997, and I see a lot of signage. A lot of signage. Um and a lot of signage that I see is political in nature. And uh some of the things that I see are are are s um you know Disgusting is a good word, but I mean more than that. It's ineffective. Okay, I see these signs that say something towards someone is just bad. You know, I thought to myself, well, you know, we can always pick apart anybody. It's not hard to pick apart people. But then I thought about what the Bible says. It says that we should pray for those that are over us. And I can't think of a better administration to pray for than the one we currently have. Seriously. You know, I'm not trying to mock at you, I'm not trying to make fun of somebody. I'm just trying to say that that's our duty as Christians. Could you imagine what it would be like if Joe Biden got on CNN and goes, I received Jesus Christ my Lord and Savior. I realize I'm a sinner And I'm working on a hunter. But but could you realize could you realize if Joe Biden got saved, what a what a difference that would make in our country? What a shock that would be. You know, I used to like to watch Trump He those executive directors or whatever they call those. He would, you know, dramatic signature they pull it up and show everybody, you know. You know, I thought that how great would it be If Joe Biden got saved and he made an executive decision and wrote it out, he said, you know what? You guys remember the term community organizer? Remember that? Okay, what in the world is that? And if Joe Biden said, alright, from now on, all of our community organizers are going to organize Bible studies in inner cities. That's what we're going to have. Mandatory. And for you out there in gangland, we want to invite you to come to these Bible studies. As a matter of fact, as your president, I will say that if you are the top visitor bringer To our Bible study. And it can be, it can be the Crips of the Bloods, it can be the four cornerstones, whatever it can't, it doesn't matter You can even invite the opposing gangs to come. But nationwide, if you are the top visitor bringer for your region, I'll bring you to Washington, D. C. You can be present for one day Minus the nuclear codes. But could you imagine that? Wouldn't that be a blessing to see Joe Biden saved? I mean seriously. Wouldn't that be great? But God can do that. God can do that. You know, because God wants us to live a victory. He wants us to see some victory. You know, Pastor Retrill was very kind to me. You know, it's I have been faithful. I mean I have been my wife keeps me in line. She's she's you know she was a firstborn in her family. I was the youngest. So I mean the youngest kind of think differently than the firstborn do. But she's been able to kind of keep me balanced, kind of work on me a little bit. But the reason that I'm faithful to God is because God's been faithful to me. And I mean when I say that, you don't understand what I'm saying. I uh I was saved at nine years old. And when I got saved, I was faithful to church, attended the church, and and did the different things that young people do in church. But I strayed. I strayed from the Lord. I got away from God. I got away from God. Actually Made a choice to leave the Lord and walk into the world. I did. Walked away from God. But I could never walk away from God's love. I expected God to do I didn't I never expected to live past 45. I thought I'd either be in prison or be in dead or something something crazy was going to happen to me. But God just kept loving me and loving me and loving me and loving me. Got out of the military. Hid my Bible, my the Bible my mother gave me, I hid that at the bottom of my my sea locker. Yeah, I didn't want the boys to see it that I was a Christian. You can't tell me God doesn't have a sense of humor. In boot camp, the Great Lakes, nine weeks of boot camp, right? Chief Zitkus, big guy. He was a senior chief. He was, ooh, he was a man's man. Huh? I need an RPO. Would you be willing to do that? What's an RPO, Chief? That's a religious petty officer. What do I do, Chief? Well you invite the guys out to go to church service on Wednesday night. I don't know what you do. I'm not a, you know, whatever. But isn't God funny? You try to run away from God and God will still, still, oh my word. So I was a religious petty officer. I invited guys to come to come to the services on Wednesday night. Uh even I got to work for the chaplain when I was on Guam for 18 months and he wanted me to become a chaplain's assistant, but I couldn't type. That was my out. I said, well, I'm sorry sir, I can't type. He goes, we'll send you to school. Don't do that. But if I'd have done that, I wonder how things would have turned out. But I got out, went to school, uh, graduated from ITT in uh in Fort Wayne, Indiana Mrs. Betrell called it Fort Worth. I have to get her about that. But it was Fort Wayne, Indiana. I graduated, uh, went on to work for GTE as a test engineer, field test engineer, but God never forgot where I was. Timothy and Andrew? You're going to leave and go to college here soon. It was a blessing to talk to Timothy because he's excited. Boy I was excited when I was a freshman too, Timothy. And you're well you're an old you're an old man now. You know the you know the routine, Andrew. But uh but anyway You know, God never forgets where you're at, no matter where you go. He doesn't forget. He's got your address. He he has your address permanently. So God got a hold of me. In 1985, living in Oak Park, Illinois, working for the telephone company. Telephony they called it. Big end word, right? I was walking down Taylor Street one day in January. Saw a pamphlet in the snow Had my big Eddie Barrow Goose down parka on a $475 parka. Oh, I was living large, I thought. Picked up the pamphlet. It has a story about a missionary God gave a second chance to. I said, well Lord, I said, you know that my heart's empty. My life's empty. I mean I've got everything I the world thinks that I need. All my friends would say, hey Dave, you've got the world by the tail. They come to Chicago, visit with me. I take them out to the fine places to eat. Fun things to see, crazy things to do. Everybody just rave about how nice of a time they had. Unfortunately, it was very empty, and I was destitute. But when God had me empty enough, he said, hey, I'm still here. I said, Lord, I'll tell you what I'll do, God. I'll take that chance. If you give me a second chance, I'll take it. One week to the day. My supervisor calls me up. He says, hey Dave, you got time for coffee? I said, sure So we go up the other crawford. He goes, hey, I have to tell you this. But he says, Tony Rapetta lost the bid. I go, what bid? He goes, the the bid for sprint. He says Sprint and I were we said we were bidding for a big huge contract. We lost the contract. He goes, Sprint won He goes, you're the newest hire on engineering staff. He goes, we're gonna let you go. And then it hit me. Got answered my prayer. Hot dog! I said, that's great, Pete. He goes Well, well wait a minute. We got severance pay here. We're going to pay you to live in the corner. We'll do whatever. We'll help you get another job. I said, I want another job. I got a job, Pete. I don't know what it's going to be, but I got a job. He goes, what are you talking about? So I started explaining to him what God was doing in my life. He started to cry. Right there at McDonald's. He started to cry. Tears were coming down his face. I said, Pete, what's wrong? Because I used to be a Sunday school teacher. I said, Pete, for goodness sake, I said, get back at it, man. Get back at it. Do what God wants you to do. Well, I don't have time to tell you the whole story, but here I am I'm still trying to do something for the Lord. If you're in Psalm 119, I want to share something with you tonight. Let me read this to you if you don't mind. Verse number nine, we're going down to verse sixteen. It says, Wherewithal shall a young man Cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments Thy word have I hidden mine heart, that I might not sin against thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord. Teach me thy statues. With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches. I will meditate in thy precepts, and I have respect into thy ways. I will delight myself in thy statues. I will not forget thy word. Albert Barnes and Barnes's notes as I was going through that I went through several commentaries trying to look and trying to pick up some ideas. I love I love Pastor Renshaw's class on Sunday morning. I told my wife said, I feel like I'm going back to school. I love it And then I don't know how it works out. I don't know how he got my wife's phone number. Somehow he's talking to my wife and he's for his messenger. He almost had me in the offering place Sunday morning. I said, I'll give all I'll give it But I know what's happening. He's talking to God and God's talking to him. God's helping me out. I appreciate that, Pastor. I really do. You keep on talking to him, brother. You keep on talking to him In Romans chapter 8, verse 37, it says, we are told, Nay, and all these things we're more than conquerors through him that loved us. You know, folks, if you're not living a victorious Christian life, you can. Okay, that can change. You can live a victorious Christian life. You say, well, there's a few things in my life that just aren't right. You will me too There are a few things in my life that just aren't right. But you know what they're getting better? They're getting better because each and every time that I talk to the potter He talks back to me the clay. He says, just let me get that little lump out. Let me just work on that just a little bit. Like a chiropractor. He's kind of been working on my neck a little bit. I'll go, that don't feel too good. He goes, yeah, but you'll be better when it's done. I'm going, I hope. Okay. But we can be more than conquerors through Jesus Christ. If you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior As I hope you all do. If you're not washed or cleansed in the blood of Christ, you need to be. You know, the book of John, in chapter 3, it tells you, Jesus plainly said to Nicodemus, he said, You must be born again. Not about going to church. It's not about having a Bible. It's not about knowing how to dress or how to speak or how to act. It's truly about knowing Jesus Christ. And we have to know Jesus Christ if we're going to be conquerors in him. So first we have to have the knowledge of our salvation. We have to have a clear understanding of what Jesus did upon that cross of Calvary. He didn't die for somebody else, he died for you and he died for me. And I didn't know until I was nine years old that I personally, my sins put Jesus Christ on the cross. And I felt bad about that, and that's when I got saved because I repented of my sins. I said, Lord, I'm sorry for what I have done and and caused you to go to the cross of Calvary Uh now I didn't steal a car, I never did anything tremendously bad, but I was honored enough to realize that I was a sinner. I've kicked the dog and done other things. I mean I knew I was a sinner, I had that nature But God, in his grace and in his mercy, reached out from heaven and touched my heart with the Holy Spirit of God, indicating to me that I was a lost, undone sinner. who was going to go to hell if I didn't get saved. And I'm glad that I did get saved. And I hope that you're saved. Because if you're not saved, you're going to be for a big, big surprise Sitting in a pew at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is not going to get you to heaven, but it's going to give you the opportunity to know how to get to heaven. And our desire and our goal, I'm sure every speaker and speaks here would desire that if you're not saved, that tonight you can be saved by the glorious power of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ desires that you trust him for salvation, for salvation, so that we can all be conquerors. More than conquers, actually. We have a clear and effective means for winning the war that rages around us. We have the world, the flesh, and the devil, and they all want to destroy us. This morning I got to work And normally a lady who's very congenial, easy to work with, was just in a horrible state of mind. And I was loading my truck up as I normally do, as I always do And she goes, are you ready to go yet? Almost, you know. And um she was really irritable. And this other lady came up and she was irritable too. I thought to myself, man, what in the world's going on? You know, so I kept my mouth shut because it's always good for Dave Hunt to keep his mouth shut because Dave Hunt does not do good with his mouth So I kept my mouth shut, got in my truck, and drove and I was praying about the service tonight and having a good time and thinking about this. Praise the Lord for God being so good. I got back to her Later on that afternoon brought stuff back. I said, Don, I said, I apologize if if I was a little lax in getting you know stuff ready to go this morning. She goes, oh she goes, I don't know what it was. She goes, the devil has pitchfork at everybody. Well she's not even saying she's talking like she that's pretty good. That's probably pretty accurate, Donnie. You don't realize what you just said. I said that's true. But uh we have a war, guys, we have a fight And God wants us to win this fight, He truly, truly does. Theodore Roosevelt Sago's feeling right is not necessarily the same as doing right We are to walk circumspectly, okay? In Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 through 16, it tells us that circumspect means to be careful. Careful. Consider all circumstances and possible consequences, young guys. Hey fellas, you're going back to college. Be careful. Oh I'll be on the I'll be on the dorm. Oh I'll be on the property around the dormus. I'll be good. No, no, no, no. I live there. I know. Be careful, guys. Watch circumspect. Especially you, Timothy, be careful, man, because God, you know, God wants you, he's got plans for you. So's the devil. So's the devil. Just do what you know is right. And God'll bless. God'll bless ya. And uh but we all have to walk circumspectly. We all have to be careful. We ought to be prudent. We all have to be careful. Psalm 119 is a wonderful psalm. It's the longest psalm in the course in the book of Psalms. 176 verses, the longest chapter in the Bible. This is for the Thursday night crowd. I wasn't going to do this to you, but I'm going to try to pull it off So if you start dozing, I I spent 35 years in a nursing home ministry, so if you start to doze, it won't bother me. I work with Dr. Mitchell on the July 60s, so I'm used to that. But so if you do, I won't totally get you There's 22 stanzas or paragraphs, one for each of the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet in order. Each of the stanzas has eight verses. Which, okay, which also began with the same letter. That makes 22 times 8, exactly, 176 verses. So what's all that mean? It means this that in essence From A to Z, in essence, from A to Z, Psalms 119 is giving us a complete reason for delighting in God and His word. If you've never read through Psalm 119, please make that a challenge. Please take it up as a challenge and do do that. Take the time to read Psalm 119. Take your take your time. Take a couple days, whatever it takes, but get through it. And you will be blessed because of it. I want to tell us tonight how we can live in victory. There's four things that we need to do that's pretty obvious in this Psalm I wish I could be deeper theologically, but I'm not. But you know, sometimes maybe just the plain old truth is good enough. You know? Maybe it's just the plain old truth. But I want you to realize That this idea of of cleansing the way, this young man, what I was going to tell Andrew, Timothy, and the other people, uh, Ms. Glover, who's going down to college, you know Albert Barnes seems to think that this is more of a projection in the future than a current situation. Wherewithal shall a young man, excuse me, cleanse his way? Well, you know, he's talking about the way, the way that we go, the way that we go, the way that we go. Tomorrow, the next day, the next week, the semester, next semester Whatever the case might be, there is a projection towards the future as far as cleansing the way. So how can we do that? How can we How can we better our way? How can we better our future? Well, there's four things that I want us to think about tonight that can help us better our future and help us clear the way the way that God would have us to go. This is found starting in verse number fifteen. David, who I just love dearly, He says, I will meditate upon thy precepts. Now these precepts, statutes, testimonies, they all relate to the Word of God. Okay, so this is this is not some You know, gigantic difference in these words. They're all relating back to the Word of God. This is all God's Word. So what I'm saying is this if you can just get a hold of the Word of God God will do its work. God's Word will do its work in you. It will help you, it'll bless you, it will lead you, guide you, it'll direct you. But David says, he says, number one, he says, I will meditate in thy precepts. So we need to have a How should I say a regiment of meditation? Okay, meditating. In Joshua chapter 1. 8, it's the promise that's given This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, and that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then Thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Now, you know, we have this prosperity preaching, and we want to talk about, you know, if you do such and such and such and such, you're going to get up with a bunch of these, right? But you know what? It's more than that. It's more than that. How about good health? That's always good, isn't it? How about good children? That's priceless. That is priceless. We just spent some time with uh some of our Indiana relatives, Ashley and her family. It was good to be around the grandchildren. You know, nothing nothing nothing hilarious, nothing crazy, uh just you know just good clean living That's good. Michael's family, good, clean living. Kathy's family, good, clean living. Heather, good, clean living. All serving God, all having ministries, all doing something for the Lord. I'm not trying to say we don't need this, I understand. But you know what? The world can keep that I'll take what God has given to me. I'm satisfied with what God has done for me. I'm very content. But we need to have a regiment of meditation. Andrew, what year are you going to be in college? It's gonna happen. You're gonna wake up, you're gonna go to the chow hall, well excuse us military, you're gonna go to the dining hall And there she's gonna be. You're gonna see her. You're gonna walk over and say Gotta dip some scrambled eggs for you. It's going to be wonderful, Andrew. You're going to think that God sent her from heaven and you're just going to be enthralled with everything that she does And if it's if it progresses, okay? Oh yeah. Well if it progresses, that's when the notes start. Be a little note left for you now. You'll walk by, studious, you know, study Deuteronomy or Leviticus. Oh. Take that up. And that, my friend, is the key to meditation, because you'll open that back up in the doorroom, you'll read that. You'll see the nuance of her handwriting. You'll see how she makes her A's. You'll read it and you'll read it and you'll meditate and you'll meditate. Oh You'll get there, don't worry, man. It it destroys guys. I don't know what it is about this love thing, but it it I used to wait for my wife for for her to come out of the dorms to go to kit you know go to breakfast And I think to myself, come on, I'm 545. Why can't she beat you? Come on. And then all of a sudden she walk out of the door with that beautiful blonde radiant hair and I go. Yeah. Well worth the wait. Oh yeah. And we'd we'd talk and we'd sit together and we we our first date was devotions in the girls' dorm, which is a disaster, don't do that Because of the girl all the girls that don't have dates, they're like all around, you're like You know, I mean really. Oh my word, man. So yes And don't go deep into like Leviticus or Deuteronomy with the devotions. Psalm 23 is good. That's always saved. Stick with it easy with the easy stuff. But meditation. We should folks we should we should meditate upon the Word of God. You know, I know friends I have friends that are heavy in the stock market and they're they're they're into finances And then boy, I tell you what, they meditate upon the st the market, they meditate upon the ups and the downs of the of the finances. They were you know and that's fine if you got that kind of money and you want to do that, well I'm not against money, don't get me wrong But there's something more precious than money. And that's the Word of God. That is the Word of God. David said, I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies as much as in all riches. And I think David knew something about riches. He's a king. Here's a king. Here's a king. So first we have to meditate. We need to meditate upon the Word of God. So we can't just read it and let it go. We need to take it with us throughout the day We have to take it with us throughout the day. Respect. Now this is a big deal. Respect. David said here, he says, and have respect unto thy ways. Do you realize that not many people respect the way of God today? Do you realize that? I mean when we used to drive up to Michael's up there at Manheim, I couldn't believe wasn't a place called Snookie Wookiee or Nookie or what's that called? Whatever. Some kind of a sports arena up there on the way up there to my son's church. There must have been hundreds of cars up there. I think to myself it's Sunday. But I'm old school. It's Sunday. You know the Bible says in Matthew that that you know that the way that God has chosen is narrow. Isn't that sad? That's sad. But broad is a way of destruction, and you can see that every day. You know, probably the the one thing I love most about this church, the one thing that I love most about this church. It's that track rack right there. You cannot walk out of here without passing that track rack. Christian soldier? Warrior? Special forces for God, there's your ammo. Reload. Reload. Reload. Right there. Right there. Today, well, Tuesday I go up to Chambersburg, I go back up today, but I walked in there Tuesday and everybody was kinda down. I said, oh man, something's going on. Just feel it, you know, it's down. The guy that I worked with, his dad was he's dying. He's probably gonna pass soon And then the lady that I work with who's in charge of everything, her her mother is in in the hospital with with a bad infection, could be you know septic or blood you know disease And so I said, you know, I said, would you please give this to them? Please share this with them. And brothers and sisters in Christ, beloved, I like it when you say that, beloved They're Hunt Valley Baptist Church tracks in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania tonight. Tonight. The UPS man pulled up today to unload his goods. I got to talking to him. He told me he just got back from vacation out west. I said, where'd you go? He said, oh man. He goes, all out west, and then Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Montana. I said, well that's fantastic And maybe I'm just strange. But if I'm talking to anybody for over two minutes I'd be doing something with the track. Or t we they're witnessing to him. I mean the Holy Spirit just convicts me. You know, if you're talking to this guy, you better give him something to think about And so I did. Paul's attracted. Says, sir, I said I want to get that to you. I said it's the best news you'll get all day. Well down to McDonald's, waiting in line to get Number seven, two cheeseburgers, order fries. Coke, taking care of my health. Yeah, oh yeah, my dad's long gone. But but anyway, so I'm at McDonald's, here's a big old boy he got a Harley t-shirt on, you know, walks in there. I'm looking at go Hey How you doing? Oh I'm good, I'm good. So we started talking about the kiosk. I said, hey, you like this self-help kiosk? I can't use that. The real man walks up to the counter and orders his food. I said, yeah, I'd agree. We got to talk to him a little bit and we have a good good conversation. Boom. Say sir, I said I want to give you something. I said that's the best news you're gonna get all day. Took that and looked at it. He said, thank you. I had a successful truck stop ministry. God blessed it. God made it successful. Not because Dave Hunt was involved in it, because God was involved in it. And I remember we was out there one day and we'd invite these folks to come to church. We passed over 10,000 tracks. In almost the three years we were there, had a close to 100 people come to church and got uh well I don't know 13, 14 saved. I'll never forget one guy walked up to me and goes, how you doing? So good sir, how are you? I said, would you like to come to church today? I said, I got something for you. I said, I got some good news. Best news you'll get all day So I'd love to invite you like to invite you out to church. He looked at me, Brother Renshaw, he goes, Who'd you vote for last election? He said, Well sir, I said I voted for so so. He goes, All right, all right. He goes, you know I like America. I said, You mean America, sir? America I said, yes, sir. You call what you want. America's fine with me. Just get in the car But but but praise the Lord for his goodness. You know folks, people need us. They may not appreciate us. They may not appreciate us, but you know what? We need to respect Not only meditate, but we need to respect the ways of God. You know, God's given us a wonderful way to walk. You know, I I was thinking about, you know, just the other day, I was thinking about, you know, I can go to bed, wake up, and I don't have to worry about what I did the night before. You know, I don't have to I don't have to worry about that. You know, Dr. Mitchell says something I really like. He said, he goes, you can never parade your sin down Main Street. But you can sure parade your your righteousness down Main Street, but you can never parade your your wickedness down Main Street. And I like that I like that a lot. So meditation, we need to meditate, living a victory. So the first thing is that we need to learn how to meditate upon the Word of God. We need to do that. Secondly, we need to have respect into God's ways. Thirdly God says, or David says here in Psalm, uh, well, let's go not too fast. Says here in verse 16, it says, I will delight myself in thy statues. I will delight myself in thy statues. In Psalm chapter 1, verse 2 it says, But his delight, this is called the man of God, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law does he meditate day and night. Delight, delight, delight, delight, delight. The world's trying to get our delight. Man is trying to steal our delight. I mean, uh, I like the Orioles since I moved out here. Matt, I'm sorry, but since I moved out here, I've kind of they're playing the Cubs tonight too, and it was a hard oh it was a hard game to watch. I didn't know who to root for. No, I'm just kidding. But you know, the the the world wants to steal our delight Our flesh wants to steal our delight too. He does, guys. He wants us to think about things that aren't necessarily Not necessarily bad, but not necessarily good. You know, Bob Jones Sr. said that a good thing bec can become a bad thing if it gets in front of the best thing That's what we have to guard against. We really do. Be careful what you delight in. It just kills me when I see people buying these lottery tickets. I think, what in the world? If they would just read, or if they just do a little study, and just come to the understanding of what happens to a lot of these people that win these big winnings. Uh one of the ones the lady in Chicago hired a hitman to kill her husband because of all the money he wanted. I mean kids threatened the hitman before but it wasn't because of money. So meditate, respect, delight, and not forget. Not forget. David says down here, lastly, he says, he goes, I will not forget thy word. You know folks we keep we have to be careful about that. We do. You know, brother Grandshaw, I uh Grandshaw, I I I started in 1985 college. I graduated in 1992. It took me a while to get through. Raising a family, working two jobs. Sleeping sometimes four hours a night, but staying with it, doing the best I could, gutting it out. Even got myself in a little seminary class, graduated from seminary. But even the doing saying all that, I want to say this. We can forget God's word And what I mean by that is the application of God's Word. You know, sometimes we get to the point where we say, well, we know this. Doctrinally, we're sound. We know this So I really don't consider it important. You know that we can come to that point. I I've I found myself sometimes forgetting God's word. And then I realize that I'm paying a price for that. I really truly am. I'm paying a price because God does not want us to forget. You know, folks, there's people out there tonight that are going down the wrong way in life And they may not want you to stop them. They may not want you to bother them. They may not want you to annoy them now. But when we're all standing before God, they're going to thank you that you stopped them or annoyed them. You know, we all like to I I I think it's kind of a human nature, but we all like to see somebody coming towards us in the wrong way, don't you think so? I mean you're going down a one-way street and you see somebody coming the wrong way It's kind of funny because we get to get all animated and start yelling, Hey, you're going the wrong way, hawking the horn, you know, and doing that I at least I do. My wife goes my opportunity to act out But uh but we want to stop that from going the wrong way because we know what? We know that there could be a problem. We know that there could be a collision. Well I'm here to tell you tonight That if you're not on the right way with God, if you're not going God's way, if you're not going the right way, there is going to be a collision. It's going to be a collision in your life. It's guaranteed. You reap what you sow. God is not mocked. For God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, it also shall he reap. You know, we have to take an account of our life. We must be Mature enough to realize when we're wrong and then try to make it right. But the good news is we don't have to do it on our own. God's there to help us. You know, I've recently come through a struggle, a struggle that I never thought I'd have. And I kept thinking to myself, how in the world? Could I get stuck up in something stupid like that? And then I went to the Lord and just talked to my Savior. I said, Lord, I said, That's not me. That's not pleasure. That's not good. Lord, that's a lie. That's a deceitful, hurtful thing that you know whether it be your mouth, your tongue, your temper, whatever case, whatever. You know, I said, Lord, I'm your child. I said, I I don't want to be like this. I don't want to be like this. I wish I could tell you God failed me. You know what God did? God got a hold of me. God got a hold of me. And God sent some grace. God sent some mercy. And he restored unto me my joy, my salvation. Oh yeah, yeah, I was flipping a little bit. Yeah, I was slipping. I was slipping. But he sent them back. God gave me some great grace. Some great grace. See, we're in a situation right now with my with my wife's mother and father, and we're living in the in the in their home trying to help them through the COVID thing. And the wife is teaching me. Like I told you she's the firstborn in the family. They're the leaders. You know, they have all the forbearance or whatever. I'm the young guy. Okay, I was always the young guy. I was always watching everybody else get in trouble and try to avoid all that all that stuff But a wife is trying to teach me something. She says, Dave, you need to have more forbearance. Forbearance. So we're in a car and she goes, say it. Bears. No. For bears. Say it. I got the bear part down. I've got that down. I'm I'm a pretty good bear if I want to be. I don't have the it's the four in the ants that I have a problem with, right? So if she goes say it, I go Say it nicely Forbearance. Good. They should tap my hand. Good point. So the wife is working on me because I don't have forbearance. I'm not a patient man. Actually I'm a complete mess. But God's good to me. God is good to me. God loves me. And I love the Lord and I'm glad for what he's done. But folks, we need to take into consideration some things concerning Psalm 119. We need to meditate. Okay? We really do. Really take that time and spend it with the Lord. When I was fired, I was fired in 2019 for what they call sexual harassment. Been there twenty-three years. Worked around women all my life. Never had a problem. But I have a supervisor who didn't like my testimony. And he set me up. And I knew it. I knew it. And so this girl who was who I was training on doing the inspections, the federal inspection on the on a railroad equipment. I told her, I said, you need to check the shock absorber in the B truck. I said in order to in order to do that you need to get up and look in the truck. Because she was like one of those people. That's good. He said, no, it's not good. I said over a hundred people ride this car. I said you need to make sure that truck that that was that shotgun's over his right I said get up out of your seat, stick your head in there, and take a look and tell me if it's dry or if it's wet. If it's wet, then it leaks, and then we'll change it And the way that I am, I made the remark, I said, what man would let his wife work here? Well that got around. Because that's not the way it's supposed to be in today's world. So she got upset because I said that. And I don't think she did this on purpose. I think God did this. She stood up to get in there to look at that shock, and then when she came back, she tripped. I put my hand down. What a man does. I caught her from falling. Realizing what had happened, I went to my union steward. I said, hey man, just so you know, this happened during the inspection. Psh, don't worry about it. That's nothing. I went to a friend of hers who worked there also. I said, hey look, this is what happened. I didn't that I had no nothing. No no but he had no intention of doing anything silly. Well don't worry about that That's nothing. Two weeks later, I'm going to investigation. They gathered the evidence together. And they had every mark I made too. I said, what man will let his wife work here? But it's okay. I'm good with that. I worked just long enough. I qualified for retirement December the first of twenty eighteen They fired me February whatever that was 2019. Send the check. Send the check. I'm good. I'm again ever since then. But I know one thing. That I was able to spend time in the mornings in the Word of God with my Savior, and it was the most sweetest most exalting time that I've had in such a long time. It's just so good to spend time with God. We live in such a hurried world. We do. We live in such a hurried world. And we had to live in such a distracted world. Our world's distracted. We're we're we're living around a bunch of distracted people in distracted situations. But you know what? If you could just dedicate some time, just dedicate some time with the Word of God to meditate, to delight, you know, to just uh to follow and not forget his statues, his precepts, his testimonies, as such. What a blessing that could be for your life. Because we want you to live in victory. I want you to live in victory. I want to live in victory. I don't want to live a defeated life. I have nothing to be defeated about unless I live in sin. If I'm in sin, then I should be defeated. Okay? If I have an odd against a brother or sister that's that's wrong, I'm not living in victory. If I have a known sin, I'm living with, I'm not living in victory. Okay? If I have the wrong attitude, even a wrong attitude destroys my victory. You know, self-examination is a big deal. Dr. McNeely, and I'll say this publicly, is the greatest professor I've ever encountered in my life. Doc, if you're listening, thank you for what you did for me. He taught us a lot of good things. He was a man's man. I love that guy. But he told me one time, he said, Dave, if your devotions are dry, you're not getting the devotion you think you'd like to have, you can always go to the book of Psalms. If you go to the book of Psalms, babe, you'll find something there. And I did that. And I did that. And I'm still doing that. And I want to encourage you to read Psalm 119. Not for me, but for you. I've already read it. I continue to read it. I love it. I love it. But just remember, beloved, that God wants us all to be victorious. And you know what? We can be. Because we have what? We have the Word of God. We have the Spirit of God. And we have the strength of God to guide us, direct us, and lift us up from our quagmire, our our our tar, if you will, the tar of the world, the tar of the flesh, the things that draw us back, the things that keep us from going on for God. These things that will determine our future can be so destructive. You know, Solomon said he said in the book of Ecclesiastes, he said, he says, it's the little foxes that destroyed the vine. You know, we all look out for that great big grizzly bear, we're looking for that great big monster. It's the little guy. It's that little fox that's destroying the vine