You can turn your Bibles to the Book of Titus In the New Testament there all of the T's are together, if you don't know that already, but First and second Timothy, first and second Thessalonians, Titus, Philemon, they're they're all together. So if you get close, you know it's but Titus is such a small book, it's easy to just turn right past it. But if you get out of the T's you went too far. So you're getting to uh Titus there chapter number two. We're going to give you some pretty practical uh things tonight. But we see in Titus chapter two, verse number eleven, twelve, and thirteen, he says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world Looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. I'm going to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on living in this present world. And what we're going to do is really kind of uh Bible study of this chapter, ch chapter number two here. We're going to systematically go through it on it uh Wednesday evenings at FBU. I was actually talking to Ms. Joyce uh about how I feel like I'm I was born out of time. Like I should have been born fifty years ago or a hundred years ago or like I just feel like I would fit better. Now I enjoy the technology, I enjoy the modern conveniences, I like having that air ride in the car, you know, those kind of things. I'm glad I'm not on a horse and buggy, but I do feel like just my personality and what that I that I should have been born a long time ago. But you know what? God's called me to live in this present time. This is where God and His infinite wisdom has designed for me, for Caleb Betrell, to live and to minister and to raise his family and to encourage others, is in this present world. I was speaking with Brother Taylor just last night, I believe it was, uh, about the condition of this present world. We're just chatting about the the the the signs of the times are everywhere. You you consider and think about the the wars and the rumors of wars. You you consider the pestilence and famines and and the uh extreme weather events that that are happening at it seems like an exponential rate today. Like it's just happening and y you look at it and you say, man, surely our redemption draweth nigh Surely the Lord's return is coming close. But until he calls us home, until he returns, until he breaks that eastern sky, we're called to live in this present world. And there are a lot of things in this world that are challenging. There's a lot of things that are frustrating. There's a lot of things that we look at and we say, Man This is so bad or so wrong or so hard. Why boy, it would be nice if the Lord would just return, you know, just come back and and but until then we've got to live in this present world Paul left Titus in Crete, left him there to encourage, exhort, to put in order the things in the church there that may have been lacking, and he's writing to Titus and he's giving him some clear instructions Look at the ending verses here. Look at verse number 15, Titus chapter 2, the very the end of this, he tells them, he says, these things speak And exhort and rebuke with all authority, that no man despise thee. He said, These things speak, these things exhort. He says, I want you to share these things with the church. The church needs to hear this. And don't let them despise you, like he told Timothy, let no man despise thy youth. He says, Don't let them despise you. You give them these truths. They need to hear this They need to see what it is that God expects of them as they live in this present world. And what we're going to do is we're going to go back to the beginning We're going to walk down through this these twelve verses and come back to our text verses that we read tonight and see the motivation for why we are doing what we're doing. This chapter is divided up really kind of by a segment of people that have been named. So we see in verse number two, he names a first group of people, and that is the aged men. The aged men. In verse number three, he mentions the aged women. And verse number four, he mentions the young women. And verse number six, he mentions the young men. And then in verse number 9, he mentions servants. And we get to verse number 11, and he he he just kind of sums it up and he says, all men. So we're going to see very clearly the instructions that he gives tonight to these different groups of people. Now, I don't have a biblical Definitive marker for your age and where you fit I don't know if you fit into the aged men or the young men. The Bible doesn't really define that specifically Doesn't tell us for sure like who is an aged man and who's a young man, when do they have, you know, there's some pictures of, you know, the the gray head and and so on, but We don't have a definitive age bracket. So I'm just saying you could put yourself in whatever age bracket you want. And you can determine, well, that's me. I'm in that age bracket. And so that those things that he says to him are are for you. So we're just going to kind of walk down through this. We see first of all here, just again in a very practical way, he addresses the aged man. He says, Agent men, this is what he's supposed to speak. This is what he's supposed to tell them. He says, tell them that the aged men be sober. Grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, and in peace. So this idea of being sober means to be circumspect, watchful, cautious This is what Strong defines this word to be. You know, there are some aspects when men and get a little older, they tend to maybe get more watchful because they don't want to fall down the stairs. They they may be a little more cautious about certain things. But I think sometimes The tendency could be to be a little less watchful. Let me give you one word and it'll describe it for you. Grandpa. You know, when when he was dad, boy, the letter of the law, man. I mean, this was the rule, this was the law, this is the way things were, but now that he's grandpa Oh, it's oh hey, it's gonna be okay. It's all right if he has ice cream at eleven thirty at night. You know, oh it's okay if he you know uh what I mean what I'm saying is sometimes there's a tendency uh when we get a little bit older to relax a little bit, to maybe not stay with that same level of tenacity or commitment that we once did. So he says, hey, let's let's be sober. watchful, cautious, guarded. Even in our older age, he exhorts him to be grave, he said. That means to be honorable. That means to be honest. And again, I would expect this to be the character of a man who has lived his life and at this point almost wouldn't necessarily need the admonition to be honest. This would be part of their character. And so I guess I would say he's saying, hey, keep on doing what you've been doing. Stay faithful. Keep on being honest. Keep on being grave. Keep on being honorable Handle and carry yourself that way. He says to be temperate. Temperate that means self-controlled. You know, you gotta stay in control of yourself. Be self-controlled. It doesn't matter that you're 60 or 70 or 80 or whatever your age is. He's speaking to the aged men now and wherever you want to put that that bracket in there but obviously the exhortation that the Holy Spirit felt that we needed is to remember that we need to maintain some self-control Even in our latter years. And as I pondered and thought about it, in which way would maybe uh aged man be less temperate than a younger man. Maybe not as careful with his diet. Just eat whatever because after all it doesn't matter anymore. Uh maybe he would be less temperate with his uh sleeping habits. I mean he's retired. Doesn't matter if he sleeps till noon. I mean who cares? Now a lot of times you get older and uh your body won't let you sleep till noon, right? Your body gets you out of bed at ungodly hours, you know. Uh it's sad. I'm only fifty, but Mm my body's already starting to waking me up and I'm not a morning person, so this is really going against me. But uh I I'm dreading th as this continues to get worse. I'm just thinking that That for some reason the Holy Spirit felt that we should be exhorted and encouraged these aged men to be temperate, to remain in control, sound in your faith, sound in faith. Beloved, there's some things that you should have settled. When you reach that portion of your life, when you're aged, when you're stable, you should have some things settled in your mind. You shouldn't be tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine in slight of men by cunning craftiness where they lie in wait to deceive. You should be sound and settled in some things. You ought to have some convictions. And I'll tell you what, the church needs some aged men that are that are this, these kind of men. They're temperate men, they're sober men, they're grave men. They're men that are sound in their faith. They've got some things settled concerning what they believe, and they're not so quick to jump on the bandwagons. You know, the young men, they're going to be quick to jump on some bandwagons and say, oh, let's try this newfangled idea But sometimes you need the older men. And hey, new ideas are are nice, but you sometimes you need some older men to say, I don't know if that's real wise. We might ought to exercise some caution with regards to that. And they bring some stability to the church and to your family. He exhorts and encourages him in charity, in love. Boy. You know, you you think about the stereotypical Grumpy old man, right? The that that just that crotchety old man that doesn't have any patience for anybody that that just It it bites everybody's head off and the neighborhood kids all know don't go down that street or don't go by his house because he's gonna yell at you, you know, that that grumpy old man. You know, beloved, if if you have the love of Christ in your heart Then you won't turn into that. Because you're gonna let the love of Christ shine through. And he says, hey, even in this old age when when it's uh the the body gets a little less patient with things and sometimes you you You've got to be careful and guard against that, but he's saying, hey, be careful and watch it because you need to be continuing to function inside of the realm of charity. And he says patience. Patience, this word literally means cheerful endurance. Now Keith was talking to me before church tonight, and he said, don't get old. It's terrible, man. It's terrible. Don't get old. I was trying to decide if that's better than the alternative or not. I don't know. But but you know just there's some things that the body does not function like it used to It it does not have the strength it once did. There's some aches and pains and there's some problems there. And you know, sometimes you just have to endure. But he's saying there's cheerful endurance. That kind of patience there is cheerful endurance. Yes, you've got to endure some things, but there ought to be some cheerful endurance that goes with this. Now, the aged women must be more spiritual than us men because there's not near as much stuff for them. They they there's not as long of a list here. There's just a couple things for them. So the, you know, Paul tells Titus here, hey, let the aged women know a couple things. He says in verses 3 through 5, but uh it kind of because the aged women are instrumental in instructing the younger women. We'll see that in just a second. But the aged women specifically, he says, the aged women likewise, that their that they be in behavior as becometh holiness. Now this behavior that becometh holiness, I believe, is a descriptive characteristic, or a a, maybe you could even say like a title. Of what's to follow, saying, here's behavior that becometh holiness, and gives you some points behind that. If you didn't want to separate it out that way, obviously, uh, ladies, we need to be holy. Amen. We ought to have behavior that becometh holiness. But then he kind of describes that or he says, hey, here's some things that they need to do. This is the kind of behavior that becometh holiness, first of all, not false accusers. Now, this is amazing, the description here. When you look at Strong's, under the description is of false accusers, is a slanderer. Um a accuser as in Satan Do you know Satan is the accuser of the brethren? And he is the false accuser. He is the one that's going to throw out slander. And can I just tell you, according to this description, when you go around spreading lies, you're acting or you're being an instrument of Satan. Satan is using this. And although there's not much that Paul feels the aged women need to know, he does tell them very clearly, listen, you need to tell the ladies to watch this mouth right here. Let the aged women know they need to put a guard about this. They need to control that tongue because there is a tendency to let the tongue wag. There is a tendency, and it it may be on its surface in initially was not intended to be hurtful, wasn't intending to be slanderous It was just a casual conversation, but it digressed. You need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit. I can tell you there's times that I have been communicating or talking to somebody and I say something that comes out and immediately the Holy Spirit says, You should not have said that. And there's numerous people in here that I've had to go to and I've had to apologize and say, hey When I was communicating with you, I I said this about this person and I want you to know that was not meant to be derogatory or negative. I was giving it as a fact. I want you to know I love and appreciate them. And I was by no means speaking ill or bad of another brother or sister in Christ here at the church. I want to be very careful and cautious. And and listen, sometimes it comes out you need to put a watch before the mouth. You need to be careful. In a multitude of words there wanteth not sin. Sometimes we just maybe ought not to talk quite so much. And then we could avoid that problem. Listen, this is there have been many churches that have been hurt greatly and maybe even destroyed because of wagging tongues. I would just exhort you, encourage you, like Paul told Timothy here, you need to tell the aged women, listen, they need to the behavior that becometh holiness is that they're not false accusers. Now they're not given to much wine. That means ladies, you can drink a little bit, just not too much. Now uh you guys know of course from other scriptures that that's not the case. Um I looked I tried to dig into this to see in the Greek or whatever, like why would this be listed as not given to much wine. Like why wouldn't it just say no wine? And uh I did not you know usually a lot of times when it the word wine is used it's talking about the fruit of the vine. Um and other times it's talking about uh fermented wine that would uh hurt you or physically hurt you, but you know if you take all of Scripture in context Scripture does not contradict scripture. So God is not going to, Jesus is not going to in one scripture tell you to not even look at it. And then tell you somewhere else, well it's okay for you to have some, just a little bit. There's something that we don't quite understand. I tried to dig into it and I had a lot to cover here, so I didn't I didn't keep pursuing that out to try and I did not see just in the Greek anything besides the fact that it says much and it says wine. That's what those words mean. So I don't know, maybe I need to do a little more research, but was not able to determine exactly why that is listed that way. But then we see that they are to be teachers of good things. You know, here is something that you can use this tongue for, that you can direct towards a good thing. Teachers of good things. Taking time, energy, and effort to teach and help others. And we see here specifically they are instrumental in helping the young women. So in verses four and five, we see that they may teach the young women. And what are they supposed to teach the young women? And this is what young women have been instructed to do, okay? Is to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands. Man, young women have lots of stuff here. This is a big list for them, young ladies, but uh the aged women are supposed to be instrumental. You know, there's a lot of things Uh you ladies that are aged and you ca I'm not putting anybody in any group. You decide where you fit. But I'm just saying that there's some things that these younger ladies would take far better from you than they would from the pulpit. If you had a heart and a mind to try and help them understand and to grow and to mature in in what God is called them to do and to help see help them see some things, they're going to take that from you because you've lived through it. They look at me and they say, you're a man you do not understand. And I say amen. I do not understand. I do not there's no question there. I do not understand. I I I just cannot uh you know uh my boys Uh Andrew and Tim, you know, they're at that age and sometimes they're like, girls, oh my goodness, like what in the world? Say, don't just get used to it, son. That's just the way it is. I don't understand. That's why you aged ladies need to help these younger ladies. Help them to grow and to mature and to see. And he says some specific things here. Teach these young women to be sober, to be serious-minded, not to be not everything's a joke. Teach them to love their husbands. You know, beloved, when they first get married and they come home from the honeymoon, you don't have to teach them. But you see, right now they're living the dream. When they first get home from the honeymoon, their eyes are still glazed over. They're still in that honeymoon phase and everything is magical and he can do no wrong. But give it about six or eight months. And she's going to find out that he doesn't pick up his clothes. That that uh he eats a lot John and he that that he eats a lot and they're gonna find out that you know what he he puts clean clothes on every day Gets food every day and never says thank you. What kind of a bum is that? She's gonna find out that he stinks. That that that sweet aroma he had while you were dating, he was he was putting on a pound of uh deodorant to cover it all up Now it's gonna come out. You're gonna find out. And you know what? That that what I'm saying is the dream turned into a nightmare. And sometimes younger ladies need some older women to come alongside them and say, you know what, it's gonna be okay. You need to still love him. You need to help him. You need to stay with him. You need to you know sometimes I mean I I've been shocked because I have counseled people married less than a year that were ready to throw in the towel. Ready to leave each other saying this is done. I praise God that they're still married. But sometimes they need some instruction, they need some encouragement, they need to realize, boy, it's not it's not all that you and your mind envisioned it was going to be, but it still can be good It still can be right. Still can be what God wants. And they need an older lady that's walked through those d days and endured some of those challenges to say, listen, it'll be okay. Here's how you get through this. Here's how you handle these situations. Young lady's going to find out that for some reason your husband has money to buy a $300 tool whenever it's needed. Because I mean he's spiritual, amen. But there's not money to fix the sink. There's not money to get the washer fixed Whatever that I mean you're going to find out that what's going on? Why is this happening? But you love anyway. This is the message that Titus is to share with the young ladies. That these older ladies are to come alongside to love their children. Some people say, Well, why in the world would you have to say that? Can I tell you there was times when I came home from church, the kids were younger. I don't have any keys on me, but I would come through the door and Mary would say, Okay, they're yours. See ya. She was like, I'm out of here. I I I have had it up to here with These kids. Uh I love 'em, but right now I don't like 'em. And uh I'm I'm out. I'm I'm leaving. Sometimes that is just the way it is And they need some older ladies to come alongside and say, Let me help you with that. Let me show you how to love them through this. Let me show you how to lead them past this. What can make this more endurable? How can you get through that? And you older ladies can be so instrumental. in the lives of these younger ladies in the church. And that's what God calls you to do. To love their children, to be discreet. This discreet here literally is self-control, but I just want to encourage you to help them to be careful what they say and do in front of the kids. To be careful what they say and do in front of others. Careful what they say and do in front of mom and dad. You know, young lady and I'm saying young married lady, when you go home and claim complain to your mom and dad about your husband, that's the worst thing you can do Because I can tell you your mom is gonna hate her son-in-law. And you love him. You married him, you still love him, you know sometimes he stinks. You know sometimes he's a jerk, and when you were mad you went and complained to mom about him, and now mom only mom doesn't have her love, that love in her heart, and now all she sees is her son-in-law jerk. You gotta be very careful about what you share with other people about what happens in your home. There was numerous times when Mary and I were dating that we were somewhere and some lady was talking about her husband and we were just dating and I looked at her and I said, If you ever want to be with me, you will not talk about me like that. That is unacceptable. She should not communicate to the other people about her husband that way. That is that is she's undermining her own home. It's like shooting yourself in the foot. And you've got to be careful and cautious about that. Sometimes because you're mad, you want to say it. And older ladies need to help the younger ladies to be careful about that To be chaste, that means to be clean, to be innocent, to be modest. You need to be modest, ladies. Older ladies help these younger ladies with that. What does it mean to be modest? Now, let me just throw this out here. I'm not saying We have a visitor that comes to church for the very first time that you need to go to her and tell her, listen, you need to get into a modest dress. Please don't do that. We have no idea where they're coming from or what their background is. At this point, we're just glad that they're in church and we want to minister to them with the word. And uh you they they've got to know how much you care before they care how much you know. And so just be please don't do that. People are welcome in church however they can come and we want to minister to them where they're at. And they're welcome to leave church whenever they want to. E even even Keith. He's coughing. I know how hard that is. And when the more you try not to cough, the more you cough. So go go get a drink and some cough drops, brother. Don't worry about it. We're just teaching tonight anyway So we see here there's to be keepers at home, helping them to understand now this is very unpopular today. That word keepers at home literally means stayer. That's what the Greek word means, stayer Boy, ladies don't like that today. A stayer at home. It means domestically inclined. Now, I don't think that it is wrong or a sin for a lady to have a job outside the home. I don't think that that's wrong. You know, sometimes That may very well be the most beneficial thing that she can do to help the home. That may be the situation that you're in. This is the most helpful. This is how I can be the biggest benefit to my family, to my husband, to my kids. But I do think it's wrong when ladies pursue a career over their family. When they pursue a career instead of their family. When they uh the the children are a burden because what they want to do is be a doctor or a lawyer or A candlestick maker. Doesn't matter to me. Whatever it is. They want to pursue a career instead of pursuing. This is what he's saying. Teach them to be a keeper at home. That heart passion, the desire should be to be a keeper at home. The family should come first And maybe the way that you put the family first is is by helping financially for a period of time or something. That is understandable and okay, but it ought to be your heart's passion and desire to do the most you can. Uh let me throw this out here. If you get the privilege of being a keeper at home, then your home should be clean. Now if you some of you uh your husbands uh you know you have to go out and work, then the husband, you need to help with what's happening at home too. You can't expect your wife to go out and work an eight hour day like you do or a ten hour day like you do or whatever and come home and cook all the meals and wash all the clothes and clean the whole house and do all the normal stuff a keeper at home does. Plus go work a job like you do. And then you get to come home and just sit. Okay, that that is that doesn't work that way. You you have to try and balance those things Because what you're asking of her is to help meet the needs of the family financially, then you need to be willing to help meet the needs of the family in the home. Help carrying that burden. So to be good, help them to be good, to know what's good and how to do it, to be obedient to their own husbands. That is another very hard one today. That word obedient there literally means subordinate. It is quite, it is, it is a position. It is God's plan. It does not mean anybody is less than somebody else or not as important as somebody else or has an inferior place. It is God's plan, God's position. in the home. It is just the fact that you are supposed to be subordinate to your husband. That he is the one that is supposed to be leading. That means men, you're supposed you're supposed to be leading. You should be leading. Now, you know, it doesn't matter if she is smarter than you. I can tell you without hesitation, she is smarter than me. Mary's way smarter than me. Now practically, with hands-on type stuff, I've got her beat there. With bullying, she's got me beat with bullying. There's areas where she's going to be stronger or I'm going to be weaker. That doesn't matter. What matters is God said, here's how it's supposed to be set up. Father, you're supposed to be the head. Ma'am, you're supposed to be the subordinate. Children, you're supposed to honor and obey. That's how God designed it. Today we have the whole thing flipped around backwards. The most homes, the kids are running the home, and dad is just trying to exist in the middle, and mom's a manager. But it's not the way it's supposed to be. Let's get it in line with what God wants. Amen. Then we see the instructions to young men, and I gotta hurry, because we got Long ways to go. Young men, likewise, I'm going to go faster here. Likewise exhort to be sober-minded in all things showing thyself a pattern of good works and doctrine, showing up Uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, sound speech that cannot be condemned, that he that is of a contrary part may be ashamed having no evil thing to say of you. So to be sober-minded, that means teaching them literally that sober-minded there means right thinking. Teaching the young men how to think right. uh teaching them to be a pattern of good works. Young men, whoever fits into this category from the youngest men in here, which I'm guessing probably is Matthew Jr. in here. Yeah, from Matthew Jr. , probably he's probably the youngest man up until wherever you want to break it off and say, Well, I'm in the aged category, so this is not for me. Wherever that is, young men, you're you're the ones that have the strength You have energy. You have the capacity to do work. You should be setting here a pattern of good works. Do you know it is never going to be easier than it is right now? You guys right here, you don't even have wives. And Paul said, boy, I wish you could be like me I wish all men would not have to have the burden of a wife. That's what Paul said. Now it's not God's will. Most most men, most ladies, you're going to be that way, but some God has chosen, some very few But you know, as long as you don't have that bur the wife is you've got a responsibility now. You've got to care for her. You've got to meet her needs. The kids were talking about this this afternoon Uh you've got that responsibility, so your time is not as free as it was when you're this age. If you can't get to work party when you're this age, when you don't even have a mate, your priority's in the wrong place. And you say, oh well now I've got a mate. Yeah, but you don't have any kids yet. And you have no comprehension of how much work it is to have a kid. And the parents are saying, Amen. And you say, well you have one well y you have one kid. You have no comprehension. of how much work it is to have three. I'm going to say three or more, because really after three it don't matter. I mean after three, throw another one in the mix, it don't matter. Have six, eight doesn't change much. Uh but you know up to three, there's big changes take place from one to two, from two to three. That three is real big change because now you got them going every which way, all at different stages. And literally really after four you know get four or five, it doesn't change that much after that. But I'm telling you, you try and get out of the house in on a Sunday morning with five kids. It's drastically different than when it was just you and your wife. What I'm saying, beloved, is there ought to be a pattern of good works, and that starts when you're young. When you have the energy, listen, Brother Crane used to come down here. He was at every work party. Brother Crane used to come and hang doors for us. He would come and and work here all the time. During free time, he would take off from work and come over and get stuff done for us. But you know what? His body won't let him do it anymore. But it's amazing how he could find time to take off work and come down here and get something done when he's got a wife and a family and all this, but but uh young men can't find the time. You know why? Because you're too busy playing video games. Because you'd rather rather play a video game than serve the Lord. And you know what? Your rewards in heaven are going to reflect that. I said, Well you're being hard on them. They're young men, they can take it. Young men can take it, amen. They need to be serving God. They should have a pattern of good works. You ought to, young man, you ought to make it to revival meetings. You ought to be a part of soul winning. You ought to be setting that pattern of good works. In doctrine, you know what doctrine is. If we describe doctrine or say what is doctrine, what would it be? Teaching. So it literally means teaching. Doctrine means teaching. So he says here in doctrine that what you should say or what you should share with others, their doctrine should be several things. He describes it here. Their doctrine should be uncorrupt. That means sound. It should be with gravity. That is with all deportment. With such as commands respect when you're teaching, it should be such that commands respect. And with sincerity. That's genuine. And then sound, that's healthy, spiritually healthy. Now, last group here is servants, and we're going to try and wrap this up quick. Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters. and to please them well in all things, not answering again, nor not perlornning, but showing all good fidelity that they may adorn the doc the doctrine of God, our Savior in all things. Now I just went through this chapter and did a Bible study yesterday or Friday, I think it was. No, I don't remember. Uh but I was studying this chapter out and just looking up these words. What do these words mean? What do they mean for us? And you know, obviously the idea is teach them to be obedient. That again means subordinate. And this is applicable to all of us 'cause we all are servants to somebody. We all work for somebody. We're all subordinate in some way to somebody. We all have somebody that's over us. And it doesn't matter how old we get or how many you know, you guys like, well you're the pastor, I know, but Essentially I'm subordinate to all of you. You guys are all, you know, I I don't get to vote. You guys vote and decide what happens. And and I I try and lead the church, but ultimately And uh so that the pastor gives guidance and direction, but we uh are all subordinate in some ways. So we work to please our boss And boy, this is contrary to modern thinking today. Workers today think their boss and the job the place of employment exists just to give them a job. Like they're here for me instead of the other way around. They hired you for them to accomplish a job for them They don't exist to give you a job. That's not why they're there. They're there to make money, they're there to provide a service, they're there to grow the company, and they hired you to help with that, not just so that you could get a paycheck. You've got to look at it correctly, and so we are to be subordinate. He says, not answering again. That means don't argue with your boss. Don't contradict your boss. Function and live with some humility and stop advancing your own opinions. You are the employee. So that means you're the subordinate. Not perlorning. Okay, that word perlorning l literally means to embezzle. That's what Strong says in the to embezzle. To steal. Don't don't don't steal something that belongs to your boss. And by the way, that includes time. He's hired you to work. You know, yesterday, you know, Melissa just started her job. She had three days on the job. And one of her brothers texted her and asked her for an address about some place that he was supposed to go to j to work, and she was at work. And she's like, well no, I didn't answer you because it's only a third day on the job and I didn't want the boss coming in and see me on my phone when I'm supposed to be working. And that's right. And so he had to get the address somewhere else because you're supposed to be working, not on your phone. Not not watching the YouTubes. Not not My kids are laughing at me Not not you know you're supposed to be working. Amen. You're stealing time if you're if you're not doing what they've expected you to do. Obviously, anything you take that's not yours You know, a lot of times servants will try and justify their appropriation of goods. You know, they say things like, well, I'm not getting paid what I'm worth, so it's okay if I take this. This will be my pay. Oh, I was supposed to get that day off and he didn't give me the day off, so I'm gonna I'm gonna just do this instead. I'm just taking the rest of the afternoon or whatever, and you you've got to be Very guard against it because human nature is going to want to try and steal, try and forlorn. In good fidelity, that means consistency. In good fidelity. You know, this I think is something that's missing in just extreme way today, consistency. How consistent are you? How consistent are you to show up on time? How consistent are you to be at work? I read a story the other day and I was looking for a story. I had read one several months ago about a UPS driver that had worked at a at this place. uh yeah uh uh I'm sorry, not a driver. He worked at UPS in the plant and worked there for many years and uh never missed a day. And I was trying to find that story. I couldn't find that story but I found this one. Mabel Maven just retired this last year at 90 years old. She worked 74 years at Dillard's And in 74 years, she never missed one day of scheduled work. Now, I I venture to say she probably went to work sick a few times. I read some other stories that you know people in 25 years only miss ten days, stuff like that. But you know what? Nowadays young people miss ten days in a month. I I talked uh article after article after article I read about companies that they don't even care if you're qualified for the job if you just show up. They said if we could just get workers that would be here, we'll train them. We'll we'll we'll teach them. But they just can't get people to show up. And you know what? There's always a good reason. There's always a good reason why you can't show up. Today it's a flat tire. Next week it's because I'm sick. The following week it's because the kids got sick. The following week it's because my wife got sick and I had to take her to the hospital These are all good reasons, but why is it that one person can somehow be there for 74 years and never miss a day and somebody else every week and a half there's some reason why they can't get to work It's a problem. And Christian, we shouldn't be that way. We should be at work. We don't feel like it. It's cold. It's wet. It's a nasty day. Or maybe you just would rather be fishing. Doesn't matter. You're scheduled for work. So you go to work. Well, like the country preacher said, that went over like a screen door in a submarine. Yeah, no, I know you guys know this. But what I'm saying is I know that we think sometimes we have the best reason. Like, oh it's a good reason. I can miss because of this. We really ought to have a better, a bigger commitment than that. And then he deals with all men. Verse 11, 12, and 13. I want you to see that the truth that's given to us here. We began with this. He says in verse 11, 12, and 13, and I'm no longer turned there, so I want you to see He says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation, you see that next word there? Is that present tense or past tense? The grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared. Past tense. So I want you to see that verse 11 is dealing with the past. Verse number 12 is dealing with the present, teaching us to deny ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. And then verse number 13 is dealing with the future. He says, looking for that blessed hope in the glorious appearing of the great of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. So we see here that really what he's giving us is a threefold purpose for why we live godly in this present world. He's given it to us, he's saying, hey He says, teaching us, beloved, it's the grace of God that teaches us that we are to live soberly. That is how we live towards ourselves. We live soberly, we live with temperance, uh with many of the things that were described, but then righteously, that's how we live and our relationships with others And then godly, that is how we live in relationship to God. As we see in verse number 13, the looking forward. This purpose that we do this is because we look back and we see the cross. And we say, wow. Yes, God has called me to live presently. godly in this world, here's some and clear instructions of how I'm supposed to live, but I do so, why? Because I look back and I see the cross. I see what Jesus did for me. I see that he bled and died and gave himself for me. That he purchased my redemption and paid my sin debt. And as I look back at that, I say, boy, I need to live presently today. as God would have me to live. But secondly, I also need to live presently today how God wants, because as I look to the future, I realize that, you know what, God's coming back. It may be today, maybe soon. We don't know exactly when, but it's he's coming back. And so we need to live godly In this present world, where we are today right now, regardless of how bad things are out there, we are called of God to live a certain way. And we do so because as we look back we see the cross, but as we look forward we see He's coming. He's coming again. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?