You can turn this evening in your Bibles to Romans chapter number six. We will be there in a few minutes. I don't have one particular text tonight. We're going to look at several passages of scripture as we consider the thought for this evening. I have here a very younger uh and uh skinnier And uh more hair. Uh Pastor Caleb, this is uh our wedding album. That album that captures the day, uh, you know, friends that you haven't seen for thirty years uh uh the events of the day. Uh it's it's much like uh the wedding albums that maybe many of you have. They uh are not taken out very often but they have on film captured uh the ceremony. They have taken it and you can go back and see uh each aspect of the ceremony, maybe the exchanging of the rings, uh, or the lighting of the unity candle, or the uh you know, even that first kiss And those those things that you look back to and that ceremony and how how special it is and how fun it is to remember. To think about. But you guys all know that in actuality the marriage Is lived out after the ceremony. That the reality of life and the commitments that you made there at the altar are lived out in the actions and the decisions and the steps that you take after that day. We joke about being in the honeymoon stage where everything is still sweet and nice and and you know you haven't had your first fight yet It's been all of twenty-four hours and you guys still aren't mad at each other, you know. You're you're that honeymoon stage where you haven't had any disagreements and it's still all amazing. Uh but You know, time comes and life's challenges come and the fact of the matter is, is if we're going to do it right We've got to realize that life really is lived after the ceremony. I would like to talk to you tonight for a few minutes about living beyond the ceremony. This morning we had the privilege of observing the Lord's table, much in the same way, where we remember We think back to the day, the hour, the time when we put our faith and trust in Christ and we recall what Christ did for us on the cross. It is a special ceremony. It is a meaningful ceremony. It is a time that touches our heart and it stirs us But the Christian life is lived after the ceremony We were able this morning to watch as Tim followed the Lord and believers' baptism. He took that first step of obedience in the Christian life and was baptized. And as meaningful and as special of a ceremony as that is, and out in the on the steps out front here or the the patio just before Tim and his family left, he stopped and shook my hand and with tears in his eyes he said, I I I could think of nobody else in this world that I would have rathered Take me through this step, then you. And he said, thank you for encouraging me to do what God wants me to do. And uh just that it was very moving for him, it was very emotional for him that that that being obedient and doing what he knew God wanted him to do, and and it should be But beloved, that is not where life is lived. The fact of the matter is, is life is lived after the ceremony. And tonight I want to talk to you about a couple of things with regards to living beyond the ceremony, and we won't be very long, but I want you to see That the ceremony brings us back to a place that allows us to remember when our life was renewed in Jesus Christ. We see in Romans chapter 6 and verse number 4, the Bible says, Therefore we are buried with him by baptism unto death. That, like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. We are to walk in newness of life. Baptism is that picture of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. It is the picture of Old things, our old life, what we used to believe, how we used to live, all of those things are buried, they're dead, they're gone, and we are raised to walk in newness of life That's what the picture of baptism is. It is to encourage us to say, okay, I'm going to let go of all those things, and I'm now going to live a new life in Jesus Christ. A new life. That's what we're supposed to do. As we partake of the Lord's Supper, we think about the fact that it is his shed blood that has purchased our new life. I wonder, beloved, if Some haven't taken that grace in vain, if they haven't received that forgiveness in vain. God has purchased a new life for them, but they're not living in a new life. They maybe have claimed the gift of salvation and only God and Th that individual knows that for sure. Listen, we cannot this side of heaven, we can't know, and we've got to be very careful. There's a caution about that with regards to separating the wheat from the terrors. That's a responsibility that God is going to to do and we can't determine uh individually for sure whether somebody's saved or not. A beloved, if we're saved we ought to act like it. There ought to be a new life we're living. We should have a renewed life in Jesus Christ. There ought to be a commitment to Him. I believe that the it's less important how often you observe the Lord's table. As it is how often you get alone with God. What I'm saying is are you living the life of a Christian and yes this is a special time, but what are you doing on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday What are you doing Thursday and Friday and Saturday? What are you doing when the house of God comes together and and the church is called in? We're going to have a service like tonight where the church family is meeting Is that a priority for you, for your life? The sacredness of this table cannot be over-emphasized But I think it's a sad thing that somebody would come and observe the Lord's table and then not be in church for three weeks. What I'm saying, beloved, is that what we do around the table should change how we live. This is not just a ceremony whereby we can feel spiritual for uh the day or for the for the moment or for the afternoon, but It changed our activity afterwards. You know, beloved, the fact of the matter is, is when I stood at the altar and uh I said I do, somewhere in that uh commitment, I'm sure there was something along the lines, and forsaking all others. There was a forsaking of all others. There was something that brings her to the priority and to the forefront and to the focus. The Lord's table reminds us that we have a renewed life in Christ and that we are to be living a new life in Christ. Titus 3:5 says, Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost, we have a new life. We're empowered through the Holy Ghost to live a new life in Jesus Christ. My encouragement this evening, and I won't be long, is that we would indeed be different, not just Observe the Lord's table. Not just partake of the elements and say, oh, that was wonderful. But that it would be meaningful enough to change how we live on Monday and Tuesday. We see that we have a recentered life. Turn your Bibles to Colossians. To Colossians. As we observe the Lord's table, it brings us back. It causes us to remember. Like looking at the pictures from the ceremony of your wedding Like having a anniversary dinner, sitting down with your maid and just Thinking about the life that you've lived together. And yes, there's been hard times, but there's been wonderful times. And you've gone through the hard times together. You both weathered those storms. You've enjoyed the highs and you've weathered the lows And you kind of get re-centered in your relationship. Well, beloved, the Lord's Sepulchre put us back re-centered on our life in Christ. Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 4. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, he says, come on, if you've been risen with Christ, if you have a new life, if Jesus Christ has saved your soul. Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above and not on things on the earth. For you're dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Our lives should be centered on Jesus Christ. As a child of God, I need to remember and understand. That my life should be centered around him. He should be the focus. He is my strength. Just as my mate took a central role in my life. And there are things, there are conversations that aren't appropriate for me to have because I'm married. There is kind of a a guard that's set up, a a little bit of protection if you're doing it right. There there ought to be some, you know I'm very cautious and careful about the relationships that I have with ladies. How close I get to them. How Connected I can be with them. Why? Because I'm spoken for. My heart is spoken for. I don't belong to me anymore. I belong to her. And I'm refocused, re-centered. And we need to remember that we're not our own, we've been bought with a price. That we are recentered on Jesus Christ. Beloved, when you try and live life without a center, without a focal point, you're going to be tossed to and fro. They're going to be carried about by every wind of doctrine and slight of men by cunning crafts through this whereby where they wait lie in wait to deceive. Listen, you've got to have a focal point. The observance of the Lord's table gives us that focal point. It brings us back. It recenters us. It's like an anchor. It's like a a goal, a target, something to shoot at. You're thinking about how Jesus Christ should be center. Beloved, we shouldn't be going after things of this world. Set your affections on things above, not on things in the earth. A fame and fortune should not be our ambition here in this life. Now, if God is in his infinite wisdom choose to give you either one of those, he may give you a measure of fame that you could use to influence people for Jesus Christ. He may give you a measure of fortune that you could use to win lost souls or to support the work of God. When I was younger, I told God I would do it if he would give me a lot of money. Said I'll support the work. I'll do it, Lord. And he did not think I was honest, I guess, because he didn't give me any money. I don't know, maybe he knew I I would get too tempted, it would be drawn away and it would ruin me. So he said, Well, that's not for you, but maybe that is something that God is gonna see fit to give some of you younger people As you grow and mature, God may bless you uh financially and give you, but that's not what you should be chasing I'm saying if you have the option of being in the ch in the Lord's house or going and making an extra two hundred dollars or extra four hundred dollars or extra five hundred dollars For extra $5,000? But I'm saying, what price do you put on your spirituality? At what point is what you know to be right for sale? You say, well, no, I'm not going to miss church for fifty bucks. No, that I mean church is too important. But you'd miss it for 500. But you'd miss it for 5,000. I mean at what point are you for sale? Or or is there something in your that says, hey, this is right? This is what I'm going to do, and I'm going to leave it up to the the the results I'm going to leave up to the Lord. I'm going to honor him. He is to be the center point. That's what the ceremony of communion does for us. It helps us to refocus, to remember what he did, to put our mind back on him. Well of it, let's not just get moved with compassion because of what Christ did on the cross. But let's be moved to commitment because of what Christ did on the cross. Too many people today they love the idea, the the the feeling, the emotional uh, you know, oh, this was a very powerful service. And I'm glad when a service speaks to somebody that We we work hard. But you know I'm far more interested in what you do On Monday or Tuesday. We see lastly this evening, not only does it bring us to a recentered life, but beloved, when you ha have a renewed life and your recentered life It brings you to a refreshed life. Turn your book turn your Bibles to Acts chapter number three. Acts chapter number three. When you have been renewed, when you have been given a focus on Jesus Christ, I believe that as a natural byproduct is you will be refreshed. It is a refreshing that comes not from having a lot of rest. There's times that you need rest, and rest is what will refresh you, but you know, there's some times that God can supernaturally bring this spirit of refreshment to you, even in the midst of great labor, even in the midst of great, you know, you're you're working and you're just plugging along and doing what needs to be done, but God is able to refresh you in your spirit. Renew your spirit day by day. We see this in Acts chapter 3. Look down in verse number 19. He says, Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. When the time of refreshing shall come. from the presence of the Lord. Beloved, there is a time of refreshing when you get in the presence of the Lord. David talked about it, how he encouraged himself in the Lord. Getting alone with God and being able to be strengthened. To have your spirit renewed, to have a refreshing of your just overall spirit because of having been with Jesus. What a privilege that is. You you can't help it. This really, I think, is what revival is Revival is when nothing in your schedule changed, but you've been refreshed. Because the Spirit of God came, met with you, did something in your heart, your spirit was renewed, your focus was reset. And your spirit was refreshed. This is what should happen following the Lord's table. We should be set out with a new ambition and a new goal to reach the lost and to live for Jesus Christ because of what he did for us. It's not just remembering the past, but it's it's letting the past change our today. As we gather together in unity in the house of the Lord and observe the Lord's table, That refreshment and that spirit of strength comes from even our brothers and sisters in Christ. This is what Paul was talking about in 2 Corinthians chapter 7. When he said to them in chapter 7, verse number 13, he says, Therefore, we were comforted in your comfort. Yea, and exceedingly the more joyed. We for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all. His spirit was refreshed by you all. A refreshing that the your your spirit is refreshed and When you come into the Lord's house and maybe you've had a long, wearisome day, maybe you've had a just got off the phone call with the IRS and You are just fit to be tied and you come into God's house and your spirit can be refreshed by getting around God's people. Just spending some time with them and and they don't even know the weight you're carrying. They don't even know what the burden is you have right now, but you just begin to be with them and you open up and you spend a little time and By the end of the evening, you go away refreshed, man. It's been good to have been in the house of the Lord, to be with God's people. It is a time of refreshing. Is it not that as we follow the Lord, He tells us that He'll take us into those green pastures? He'll lead us beside those still waters. Is it not there that he says that he will restore your soul? He restoreth my soul. That's how God works. Living beyond the ceremony The thought tonight is simple and direct, but much like the married couple. That is faced with the reality that just saying I do and does not make it all work Just standing there with, you know, stars in your eyes and hopes and dreams for a bright future is not what makes a marriage work. It takes commitment. It takes work. And so does the Christian life. And just observing the Lord's table and having a wonderful time around that and being reminded of those truths and But what are we going to do tomorrow? Is it going to cause us to give out a gospel track? Because the world is lost and they don't have Jesus Christ like we do. That cause us to spend some time in prayer and thank him for the sacrifice that he gave. Is it going to cause us to spend some time with the Savior and let our spirit be renewed? Our spirit be refreshed. Living beyond the ceremony. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?