And we're back on that. We know uh that the fruit of the spirit, uh you know, somebody, who knows when, but uh defined or classified these fruit into three different groups. The first of the fruit dealing with our relationship with God, love, joy, and peace. Relationship with God and things that God provides and gives to us. Long suffering gentleness and goodness is dealing with our relationship with others. How we respond and act with other people, we should have long-suffering gentleness and goodness. And then faith, meekness, and temperance is what we have internally, our self and what God gives us and what we should have as far as our spirit. But all of these are fruit of the Spirit. that are produced in our life. Today we're going to be looking at the first of the second set of fruit that deal with others, our relationship with others, and that is the fruit of long Suffering. Long suffering. We all need some long suffering in our life. Amen. That's something that will help us in our relationships, that will give us know, it it's just something that when you consider uh today uh how hard it is for so many people to get along either with one another or even with their family. Um We need some long suffering. We need some long suffering. One of President uh Lincoln's associations was scolding him. It's kind of humorous to me to think about the fact that one of his friends Lost their long-suffering with him because he was too long-suffering with his enemies. They were mad at him. They said, his friends said unto him, he said, Why do you insist on trying to make them your friends? To which he went on and he said, You should be trying to destroy them. To which Lincoln replied gently, Am I not destroying my enemies? When I make them, my friend? Have I not succeeded in accomplishing both? But they were upset with him because he wasn't destroying his enemies, because he was too long suffering as he was speaking to others about his enemies during the Civil War. Lincoln is reported to having said this Insane as it may seem, I hold no malice toward them. I have neither the time nor the energy in this life to hold that kind of resentment. To be long-suffering. We need long suffering. We need it in our homes. We need it in our relationships. You know, sometimes it's amazing to me the person that we are the least long suffering with is our mate And we say, well, just because they should know what I like, you know, they should know what I want. I mean the person we love most in this world is the one we're the least patient with I mean some stranger on the street could come up and ask us a dumb question and we'd be we it would be okay. But our mate asked us a dumb question and we're and we get all sarcastic with him, right? It's just amazing how how we do that. They should know that answer and I shouldn't even have to answer a question We just lose our long suffering. And we need that uh in our homes and we need that in our relationships. This week, you're gonna need that at work. Long suffering. Something's gonna happen. Something's gonna come up. Somebody's gonna do something or say something to you at work. And you know, you're gonna need some long suffering. Long suffering. I guarantee you that this attribute would greatly help us as Christians. in the relationships that we have. So let's look at this idea this morning on the principle of long suffering, first of all. The principle of long suffering. What what is it? What is long suffering? What does the Bible uh teach about this idea? Um you know, anytime you see in the Word of God the words forbearance or patience You're touching the hem of the garment of long suffering. You're getting into the edge of what long suffering is, but really long-suffering is beyond that. Long suffering is more than patience. Patience By definition, it's cheerful endurance. But long suffering goes beyond that, as we see this idea defined in Webster's 1828 dictionary. He says, bearing injuries or provocation for a long time. Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time. You see, this goes contrary to modern thinking We feel like, well, I shouldn't have to bear that. God wouldn't want me to bear that. God wants me to be happy and loved and enjoy life And we get this idea that anything that's uncomfortable we shouldn't have to endure. And we we we okay bearing injuries And provocation. How much does it take to provoke you? I mean how quick are you provoked? Uh you know, you could use a biblical term as or idea in this not we're to not we're to be not easily provoked. We're not to be easily provoked. That's how I should have said it. You know, but are you easily provoked? Do you or do you have long suffering? Are you able to endure provocation for a long time? I mean if somebody was kicking you After about the fourth time we're like, what are you doing? You know, I mean your s your child or somebody, you know, pulling pulling your your coat sleeves or or you know, just somebody trying to get attention or or get it get a hold of you and and You know, you say, Man, what about your your cell phone? You know how when you get a text? The group text. And they just keep coming. Uh or or if you don't look at it, it keeps buzzing like every two minutes, you know, it's like buzz it and I'm like I know who that is, I don't need to get my phone out. But then it buzzes again, buzz it and you gotta get it out just to push the button so it stops buzzing at you. You know. Uh what does it take to get you provoked, to get you, you know, to get your dander up, you know, to really just uh well, long suffering is not easily provoked. In the Hebrew, uh the word means long, patient, slow to anger. In Greek we see the words that I gave you already, the idea of forbearance and patience. Um as I studied this, there's different men, uh commentators. That have studied this out, and several of their comments I'll share with you here this morning. One said that it is the steadfastness of the soul under provocation. The patient endurance of wrong under ill treatment without anger or revenge Patiently enduring, being treated wrong, without anger or revenge. I mean we want to get back at at whoever did what, right? Uh or if they act if they have a flat tire, serves them right. I mean boy they were you know, they did me wrong. They treated me wrong and and And we need to be patient, long-suffering. Barnes said this: it denotes the state of mind which can bear long when oppressed And provoked. And when one seeks to injure us. Vine said this: it is the quality that does not surrender to the circumstance Or succumb to the trial. Long suffering doesn't, you don't end up getting underneath the circumstance. You don't end up succumbing to the trial that's in your life, where that is what defines you. And that is where your attitude and your spirit is controlled by whatever circumstance is coming. You see, long suffering allows you to endure that without it defining you. And so many people today are defined by the situations they're going through. I mean, they feel like I have a right to have a bad attitude because whatever it might be. I have a right to be angry. I have a right to voice my opinion in this matter because, but long-suffering is the opposite of that. Trench wrote this, and I I like this one. A holding out of the mind Before it gives room to action or passion. A holding of the mind before it gives room to action or passion. You know Like the idea of what does it take to provoke you? What is it what does it take to stir to stir you up? You know, inside there's sometimes some things that happen and and You might get mad. But a Christian has the Holy Spirit, which should act as a check valve. You know, one of the ladies in the church she tells me, she says, I ask, I pray, I put it right on my She says, I just I say Lord why help me to watch my mouth. So I uh she She tells me that and you know, that's what it is. We ought to have a watch about our mouth. We ought to have a filter, amen. Ough to be able to control what comes out of this thing. It ought not be that, you know, some something happens and all of a sudden we go off, you know, we just go off on somebody and then later we feel real bad and uh, you know, if you're a Decent Christian, you're gonna have to apologize. I don't like apologizing. I would rather control it. I'd rather have the Holy Spirit put a watch about my mouth, have the Holy Spirit be that chelk that check valve that controls it before it turns into action or passion. When you're filled with the Spirit of God, he goes on, you will be able to relate to other people. You don't just blow your stack every time something happens or something doesn't go your way. Oh, you might have a trigger, he says And it might go off, but it is subtle and it is silent. It is inside. Because the Holy Spirit checks that. You write that mean letter, but you never send it. You throw it away. You stick it in the fireplace. In your mind you evaluate what you would like to do to that person, but the Spirit of God checks that and you say, well, that wouldn't be very Christ like And before it happens, I mean man, I'll tell you what, we could stop a lot of the issues we have to deal with later if we could if we could control some of this up front. Amen. When you think about this is defining this idea, the principle of long-suffering, but what about it being displayed Long-suffering displayed. Can you think of a Bible character that displays this spirit? Job. He is uh yeah, he he embodies this, doesn't it? Just enduring and enduring and enduring. And you know, though he cursed me, yet will I trust him. Just enduring through long forbearance. Just continual trial and test. What about another Bible character? David, Paul, continual persecution, suffering? Joseph. Joseph, Joseph. Oh man, I mean think about Joseph and his brother sold him in slavery. So unjustly and then and then you know he he m builds up and is able, God blesses him and and he becomes the head of a house and then he gets thrown in prison. He's like, You you know have you ever felt like you can't win for losing I mean that's probably how Justin felt. He's like, Man, I just can't get ahead of anything I mean, I'm over here in this land and and he gets thrown in prison and God brings him out and of course see his long suffering just continually just wherever he's at, rising to the top. You know, cream does that. And if you've got the Spirit of God in you working You'll see this coming, rising to the top. 2 Peter 3:9 says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering. Long suffering, the Lord Jesus Christ. Actually, long suffering is is an attribute of God. There certainly is not anyone who Has displayed more long suffering than God. And why does that verse say? Because he's not willing that any should Perish, but that all should come to repentance. This idea, the word long suffering appears 17 times in the Bible. All of the Old Testament references to long suffering Are directly related to God and his dealing with mankind. Every one of them. They are all related to God. It's an attribute of God. Every reference in the Old Testament is dealing with God's long-suffering with man. And my hasn't God been long-suffering with us? As we look in the Old Testament, we see in Exodus 34, verse number six. And the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth. This this description here is talking about uh when Jesus or God passed by the children of Israel after Moses had come down from the mountain. and found God's people worshiping a calf, dancing around this calf in an ungodly way. These people that God had delivered and brought to this place, that God had sustained and miraculously brought them across the Red Sea, and here they so quickly turned their hearts away from him. And yes, God judged them, but God in that verse is as as Moses went back up the mountain to get the law the second time. It's a description of God's long suffering. Because God could have just wiped them all out. God could have said, okay, I'm done. But God is long suffering In Numbers chapter 14, verse number eighteen, he said, The Lord is long-suffering and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third. Third and fourth generation. This situation in numbers is dealing with the spies that came back with a bad report. 12 million spy on Ken and 10. were bad and two were good. These men came back with a bad report. God told them what they were supposed to do. He had promised them the victory. They they knew what God was expecting, and they came back with a bad report and they weren't going to go into the promised Again, the Bible says specifically that God is long-suffering with his people. And during that time, when they didn't do it, he says, okay, if those of you that don't have faith to go in. You can stay in the wilderness and you'll pass off. You're going to die here. But those, the next generation, I'll give them the land. And they got to go in. Again, God's long-suffering. David prays about his God and how he himself experienced the long-suffering of God in Psalms 86:15. He says, But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion. Gracious, long-suffering, plentious in mercy and truth. Gracious, long-suffering. Do you experience that? Do you feel that? Do you realize how long-suffering God has been with you? I mean, it's just if you really sit and evaluate, if you really sit and think about it. God, who knows everything about you. He knows every thought that you've had. He knows every action that you've done. There's nothing hid from his eyes. You know, it's coming out re in recent days because of the the availability of these tiny wireless cameras? It's coming out where these people are using these wireless cameras and in in different places like i in a hotel uh where they put these cameras in in like twelve of these rooms and then people online paid uh to be able to watch people unawares in their hotel rooms. And uh a a uh B. Um they they somebody one of these just recently, this last week, uh a couple staying there, um found um a wireless little wireless camera that they were unaware of, that their privacy was gone. I mean more uh in today's world more than ever before in history I think we kind of get a picture of every single action being recorded. And you think about that, that God sees everything. Every every thought, every betrayal. And and we're still alive? Not only that, he still loves us. He still helps us. We can still come to him in prayer. I mean if somebody treated us like that, we may say, well, I'm a good Christian, so I'm not going to kill you. But don't come and ask me for something. Don't come and I mean don't you have the audacity to ask me for something after what you did to me? I don't think so. That's how we are, but God is long suffering. That's a David experience. He says, man, God, you are plentious in mercy. You are long-suffering. You're so good. You know, it does will do us good sometimes to just contemplate and think about that with God and experiencing his long suffering. In Jeremiah 15, 15. Jeremiah said, O Lord, thou knowest. Remember me and visit me, and revenge me of all my persecutors. Take me not away in thy long suffering. He says, take me not away in thy long suffering. You see, Jeremiah, you know he was the weeping prophet, but Jeremiah was, he realized who he was. And as he thought about himself, he said, God, I don't know how you don't just take me away. I don't know why I'm still here. I don't know why you you are so long-suffering with me His situation had got him to the point where he was down. He was discouraged and he was complaining of what he had to endure. And you said, God, with all my complaining and how upset I am, and you know, I don't know why you put up with me. I don't know why you're so long-suffering. You know, sometimes we feel like we endure a lot more than we actually are enduring. I mean we we the the situation sometimes the problems that we have in our lives uh really aren't as big as we make them out to be. I mean it's like a smash thumb and it just takes over everything, right? It's like, oh you know, uh can't do anything else because I you know, how that small thing is just like Now the rest of my life is until that goes away and sometimes our our problems uh aren't really as big as we think they are. And I'll tell you what, we were made abundantly aware of that during missions conference, weren't we? As we think about what these people in other countries are are living with day by day. And we think You know, man, I had a flat tire on my thirty thousand dollar car. I've got it so hard. I don't know, I just can't I don't understand why God allows these things to happen to me Right? Why you put up with me? Because God really is good to us. The other day Melissa was moving some wood and uh it was when the mission Missionaries were here and they were helping us move wood. And Melissa was carrying these logs. She had this round. We cut it down into rot rounds and we're loading them on the trailer. had this log and she's like she was she was making all this noise like she was about to die, right? So Stephen, uh He ran over there and oh let me let me help you with that and Melissa goes, Oh it's not that heavy, I just like making noise. She's just like it's not that bad, I just like grunting I think sometimes in our life it's really not that bad. We just like grumbling, you know. We just like grunting. We just like expressing our frustration. It's not that bad, you know. Kinda like Melissa there. It's just We just like to let it out, you know. It's long suffering. It's what it is. What about the production of long suffering? Where does it come from? Where does long suffering come from? You say, Man, Pastor Caleb, I uh you're right. We need some long suffering in our lives, and and I see that. According to the scriptures, that's what we ought to have. But where do we get it? Well, it's called the fruit of the Spirit. It's the fruit of the spirit. You go to an apple tree to get apples and to an orange tree to get oranges. And you go to the source to find the fruit of the Spirit. If you're not more long-suffering, And you say, boy, I want to be. You know, it doesn't just happen because you say, Yep, I need more long suffering No, no, it's a fruit of the Spirit. You've got to let the Spirit work in your life. You've got to let the Holy Spirit produce this fruit. You know, Tozer said this: you can paint the handle of the pump as nice as you want But that will not make water come up. You can paint the handle as much as you want. You can make it look as pretty of a pump. I mean it can be a beautiful pump, but that's not what's going to make the water come up And we can say, boy, I I want more uh long suffering in my life and and I'm gonna try and put this in and I'm gonna I'm gonna do to take these steps and I'm gonna do this to have more long suffering But that's not what makes long suffering. Long suffering comes from the Holy Spirit. That's where the power comes from. be long suffering. It is the opposite of the works of the flesh. We have this constant battle between the spirit and the flesh in our lives. You know it's our human nature to be short. It's our human nature to not be long-suffering. Given the opportunity. Outside of the Spirit of God, we go back to our human nature. You know that a tiger? By nature. Is a carnivorous carnivorous uh animal. It eats meat by nature. And they found out in more than one occasion. That tigers don't make really good pets. I don't care if you've had it since it was a pup. I don't care if you've had it since then and and your your five year old was able to wrestle with it and play with it It has a nature. And they have found on more than one occasion that these Animals, when they get to a certain size, when they get to a certain age, something might happen, and all of a sudden, they've killed somebody. Oh man, it went back to its nature. And our nature is not to be long-suffering. And sometimes that flesh comes up and the long suffering goes out the window. And we draw the line in the sand and we say, bless God, we're gonna gotta make it spiritual amen. And uh we're gonna chop somebody, you know. I mean this they did this, they did that. I mean somebody cuts us off in traffic, and there goes long suffering, out the window, buddy, boom, road rage, here we come Long suffering. We go back to our nature. Everyone here says they need more long suffering. I need it for my family. I need it for for my work relationships. Hey, you know what? We even need it in the church house. Long suffering with one another. I mean how many times has Bob whacked you with his cane? I'm just fed up again whacked with that cane, you know? I tell him, man, you miss me again, Bob, you know. The devil can take the smallest little things and get you bent out of shape if we aren't walking in the Spirit. We don't get more long-suffering because we say, Boy, I want it, and we just run around and search for it, and I'm going to go dig up some long-suffering here, get dig up some long-suffering here. No, how we solve the problem of a lack of long-suffering. As we get to the Spirit, get with the Spirit of God. And He starts to produce that in our life. It might take a little bit. Some people are a little more patient than others by their personality. Some people in this area need more of God's Spirit to help them maintain that in their life. There's as we talk about these different fruits, some of these fruit, uh you know, some people are just they're just more loving. That's their their character, that's their personality. They're more of a loving kind of a person. To exercise and to allow that fruit to grow in their life is not that much work for them. But for others, to have love for other people, to put down and not be so selfish, God's got to really do something in their heart Maybe in this area is something that God really needs to do something in our heart to bring this long suffering out. You find the source and you find the fruit. I wrote this down, it was fun. You know what? You don't need lessons in love. You don't need the journey to joy. The pathway to peace. A long look at long-suffering. You don't need guidance in gentleness or goodness. You don't need flattery for faith or ministrations in meekness or tutelation. What you need is the Holy Spirit. You need the Holy Spirit. And that's where it's going to come from. Now that's all on the Holy Spirit. And we like that part. Amen. But you know, you and I all know we know how hard that part is, really, to walk in the Spirit. We're going to deal with something in the morning service that that goes very very close to this. But do you know that God will build Your patience, your long suffering through test. Oh man You've got to be careful praying for patience. Asking God, Lord, I need to be more long-suffering. He's going to teach you how to be how to be more long-suffering. He's going to bring some tests into your life James 1, 2 and 4 says, 2 to 4 says, my brother, encounter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh. Patience. God's gonna try your faith and build long suffering. Build patience in your life. Where does it come from? It comes from the Holy Spirit. And as we yield to Him, God will continue to allow that fruit to mature and to grow and to bring forth more fruit. So the practice of long suffering. What does it look like in our life? What does it look like this this long suffering day by day? I I actually had a a whole list. I thought, well I'll just have a whole nother Sunday and and we're just going to look at these through the scriptures, taking every place in the scripture that you see the idea of long suffering and what it looks like in the life of a believer. But I shortened it to uh three uh words with the letter P here. What does it look like? First of all, let me say this, that it's expected. It's expected. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear and Slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of God worketh not the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God It's expected as believers that we're going to be long-suffering. We should be. Ephesians 4, 1 through 3. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy Of the vocation whereon you are called. As Christians, we are called to walk a certain way. He says, walk worthy unto the vocation wherein you're called with all lowliness. and meekness with long-suffering and forbearing one another. It's understood that a Christian would be long-suffering My, if we want to act like Christ, if we want to show Christ to the world, this would be an area that you can do it. it pretty easy because the world loses their temper so fast the world loses patience so quick somebody messes up and they get their head chopped off You you show and display some long suffering, and I think they're going to be like, man, there's something different about them. Normal situation. They would they would be going off right now. You'll be displaying Christ if you walk in the Spirit. I you know, a husband and wife You're saved. You both know God. There's no reason that you shouldn't be able to get along. No reason at all. If that's i if you can't, then one or both of you are not walking in the spirit. Because Because the Spirit is not at war with itself. This verse number three I didn't read I didn't read of Ephesians says, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit Spirit in the bond of peace. The unity of the spirit. The spirit is not at war with itself. If we're walking in the Spirit, it'll come out. Let me give you these three and we'll be done. Long-suffering is patience. The example we have for that is God with Noah. He waited 120 years. He was patient. We're going to be patient in our life day by day. You say, what does it look like, Pastor, if I'm long-suffering, you're going to be patient. You say I'm not very patient. Pray for long-suffering. Pray that this Spirit, the Holy Spirit, would bring this into your life. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husband waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth and hath long patience for it. until he received the early in the Ratarain. It's an aspect of the Christian life. He's supposed to be patient. Long-suffering also praises. Praises. You see, when you're going through something that many others would lose their patience, many others would uh fly off the handle or or be irate. Somebody that's experiencing long suffering that's in That's it doing that. That they have the check valve, they've got a filter, the Holy Spirit is they may have a trigger that went off but they stop it We praise. Colossians 1, verse number 11 says, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. We're long suffering with joyfulness. Man, I'm gonna be long-suffering, but I have to enjoy it too. That wasn't in your introduction Joyfulness, praise. You can still praise God even in the midst of the trial. Hebrews 12, verse number 2. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. Endured the cross, the joy that was set before him. You can have joy, you can praise even in the midst of it, and in long-suffering also preaches. Second Timothy 4, verse number 2. It says, Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. I think you're preaching a pretty strong message. When in normal situation you would fly off the handle. You want your family, your loved ones to see God working in your life? Get your spirit under control. And they'll be like, man, God's doing something. God is doing something. Because boy, he normally would be mad as could be right now. Especially those that really know you. They'll see that. They'll see the Holy Spirit working in your life. And you're going to be preaching a strong message when you are long-suffering. Let me close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Well, we thank you for your love. We thank you, God, that uh this fruit of the Spirit, which is so vitally important and necessary for us as believers, is in fact given and provided by the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit of God. I pray, Lord, that we as Christians would walk in the Spirit and have the joy of experiencing this fruit being brought forth in our lives. My, how necessary and important it is for our day-to-day life to have peace with men. I pray that we would be preaching the message of the Holy Spirit working in our life. With all those we come in contact with as we portray the spirit of long-suffering in each situation. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.