Chapter number four. Isaiah chapter number four. I mentioned to you this morning uh as we were closing out the service that I'd be speaking this evening on change my circumstances, not me. I played around with several ways to uh label this, but uh the heart or the idea is a group of people uh that ultimately wanted uh to have God meet their needs and provide protection and change their situation, but weren't really ready or willing to let God change them. And we have to be cautious and careful as God's people, uh especially when we've been saved for a while, when we've been going to church for a while, we kind of get into our comfort zone. We get into our area where we feel like, hey, things are going pretty good. I feel all right. And God brings something into our life maybe i in a desire to teach us something. And instead of us learning what it is that we're supposed to be learning, we're just asking God to take that out of our life to remove that from us. And so we want to look at that. Look in Isaiah chapter 4, just verse number 1. It's kind of a different verse that we're going to use as a text tonight. But uh you see Isaiah chapter four verse one, he says, In that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own bread. And wear our own apparel, only let us be called by thy name, take away our reproach. So uh the beginning uh chapters here of Isaiah, God was judging his people Turn back to Isaiah chapter number one and just see some, I'm sure you're overall familiar with the general idea of what takes place here, but chapter number one, then division of Isaiah, we know that this is who's talking, that he is uh the prophet underneath uh these men, King Uzziah and Jehohatham and Hezah and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Verse number two, he says, Hear, O heavens, and give Ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken, I have nourished, and I've brought up children, and they've rebelled against me The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass is master's crib, but Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider. A sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters, they have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel into anger, and they are gone away backward. We see we're not going to read all of these, but turn to uh chapter number three. Look at chapter number three, the beginning of chapter three, he says here Uh verses two and three, I believe, um he says, the mighty men and the men of war, uh I'm gonna read the first verse so that you see what he's saying here. He says, For behold the Lord The Lord of hosts doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah. So the Lord is going to remove from Jerusalem, from Judah, the stay and the staff, the whole stay of bread and the whole stay of water, the mighty man, the man of war, the judge, the prophet, the prudent, the ancient the captain of fifty, the honorable man, the counselor, the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator. God is saying, hey, listen, I'm going to judge you and these people are going to be removed from you. Then we get to chapter number four and verse number one, and we're presented with this kind of unusual verse But again he says, and in that day, that would be in the day of judgment, in the day when they see their current state, will Find a group of ladies here. He says, In that day seven women shall take hold of one man. What he's saying is the day is going to come when the ladies are going to outnumber the men seven to one. Because of God's judgment, He's going to remove from you the men of war, the princes, the orators, the leaders, the the counselors, all these men that are crafty with their hands, the men of your city because of you God's judgment, you're going to remove all these from you. It's going to be so bad that there's going to be seven ladies that are going to say, hey, that's my husband. And six other ladies are going to say, nope, that's my husband. They're going to be calling for one man. They're going to be laying hold on one man. Sometimes in college you might have that ratio. Uh you have several options to that li normally in in a in a co a Baptist college the ladies outnumber the men It shouldn't be that way, but the fact of the matter is a lot of times ladies are more spiritual than men. And uh they're they're there and these a lot of young men decide they want to go out and and earn a bunch of money and not really interested in pursuing uh you know whatever God might have for them in that regard and so there's not sometimes there's a d deficiency of men in in a Bible college Uh and you're in a situation where there are several options, but here he's saying this is going to be seven to one. And these ladies are going to be calling for the one man. You know, the problem with the children of Israel is not just that they had rejected God's authority, but they did so still wanting his protection and his provision. You see, they had looked at the, they desired and enjoyed the position of blessing, being God's child, God's chosen people. They enjoyed that and they wanted to be recognized as God's chosen people. They wanted God's protection and God's provision, but they didn't want the responsibility of having that position. They didn't want the responsibility of being God's chosen people. How that pictures the church today. Let me call myself a Christian, but let me live however I want. Let me put church on the front of the building. We're going to call it a church, but by and large, what happens inside those doors does anything but represent a church. That is a sad commentary on our society today. We want God to fix our problems. We want Him to heal our hurts and meet our needs. We want our circumstances changed and our people problems adjusted. We want our programs changed and our plans changed. But for heaven's sake, don't change me. After all, I'm not the problem. It has to be somebody else. It has to be something else. There has to be something else that's the issue that God needs to deal with. It certainly can't be me. Thomas Kemp said, We desire to have others perfected, and yet Do not correct our own faults. We would allow others to be corrected, and yet we will not be corrected by others We seldom weigh others in the same balance through which we weigh ourselves. How true is that? We seldom weigh others in the same balance in which we weigh ourselves. We look at others and see their problems and think, man, that would really be easy to fix if you just did this and this and this. And yet we have our own problems we haven't fixed. We have our own situations that we haven't dealt with. I think it's funny sometimes, and and I'll even tell them myself, uh here I was a young man, didn't even have any kids yet. And a pastor who was interviewing me for a position wanted me to come and serve there and I was desirous to sound knowledgeable and and uh So I asked him some questions about parenting and what he believed about parenting and his philosophy with regards to discipline and such. And then I proceeded to tell him what I felt about discipline. Which in hindsight, down the road, I mean, I'm looking back and I'm thinking that pastor must have thought this funk kid does not know anything. Like it would be the worst thing for me to hire this guy. He is an idiot. I mean uh that that conversation in itself has plagued me for all these years. I'm like, what was I thinking? Like that, I didn't even have any kids. And here I am telling him about how to raise children, you know. This is what needs to be done, bless God, you know So dumb. We we we look at others and we can solve everybody else's problems, but w our own we just don't even see. You know, in our text we have this situation Where these ladies wanted the reproach removed, they said, just let us be called by thy name Let us take away the reproach. They wanted the blessing of the position, but didn't want the responsibility that came with it. We see, first of all, that they didn't want to change their appetites. They said, we will eat our own bread. We will eat our own bread. They wanted the Lord's name, but had no desire to be interdependent. They had no desire to be dependent upon him. They hungered for the natural things instead of the spiritual things. They wanted to continue to eat their own bread, not to look to him to provide their bread. Now, their lives had problems that the Lord could solve, but they were self-satisfied. They were self-sufficient. They didn't need God to do that. They desired what they could get from God, but wanted to maintain and live their own way. It's amazing but true that a blood-bought, born-again, redeemed child of God can experience the grace of God Daily bask in the goodness of God, live and enjoy the mercies of God, and yet continue in the ways of the world. This is what he's saying. Look, I understand and I want to enjoy the blessings of God, but I'm not wanting really to meet the responsibilities of being God's child You know, as I thought about this, I thought, you know, i the the uh an illustration would be something like if uh somebody lived in a home And they started getting really, really sick. And they found that they were they went to the hospital and through a lot of tests, they found out that their liver had been poisoned. And then ultimately, through more research, they determined that the water that they've been drinking in their home was poisoned from the chemical plant that was right down the road That the entire water table had been poisoned by the chemicals being dumped in the ground by this this plant down the road and they've been drinking this water and ultimately it has damaged their insides and And so the doctor says, we we know what we need to do, and they treated them, they gave them medicine, they were able to get the poisons out of their body and restore them to health. And then that guy decides to go back home And keep drinking the water. Somebody may come by with a fresh uh you know, bottled water from somewhere and say, hey, listen, you you need to drink this bottled water. Don't don't drink that water. And he's like, no, I'm gonna I'm gonna keep drinking this water. God has in his mercy and love he's saved our soul he's he's repaired and fixed the sin problem that that lies inside of us and has given us eternal life But so many Christians say, oh, thank you for the position, Lord. Now I'm going to go back here and drink the water. I'm going to go back and live the way I wanted to live and do what I want to do My appetites haven't changed. I still have a desire to go and experience the world and the flesh and all of these things. And I don't have a desire to take and the Bible says, oh taste and see that the Lord is good. But I don't have a desire for those things. I have a desire for the appetite is for the world. How sad. That they served a God, the children of Israel, they served a God that could make a table in the wilderness, and yet they wanted the leeks and the onions of Egypt. And that's what we have many times for Christians. You know, when you're filled with the junk food, you really don't have much of an appetite for the good food. You hear parents tell kids all the time, you're gonna ruin your appetite. Don't eat that junk on Friday night. The interns were gonna go over to Pastor Augustus for dinner. And I had heard that they were gonna have crab cakes. I came in the office and them boys are sitting there eating gummy bears. And I said, what are you guys doing? It's like four o'clock. They're supposed to be your house at five o'clock for dinner to eat crab cakes. And I'm like, you guys are gonna ruin your supper. Zach's like, oh I'll put him away. Like, uh let's close them up. Yeah. They were just sitting here and I said, I know what it's like To try it, I mean you sitting here working and and uh that's why it's better to work outside because you know you can't snack while you've got a shovel in your hand. You're sitting in the office, man, I'm snacking all the time. It's terrible Uh but you know you're ruined what I'm saying, get back to the illustration, is that a lot of times when we're when we're full of junk, we're not very hungry for the good stuff. And the reason maybe we don't have as much of an appetite for spiritual things as we should is because we're full of junk. We're full of the junk of the world. We don't have a hunger for the spiritual things. I mean we'll sit down and watch a ballgame that takes hours. But if church is over an hour and fifty an hour and ten, fifteen minutes, we're like, man, it's time to go, isn't it? Like we're kind of getting running along today, aren't we? You know, we went to a ballgame with the interns a few weeks ago and we got there so early we couldn't even get in the park yet. Place was still locked up. And we got in and we got to sit down and and I mean they're still raking stuff off the field. They're watering the grass and leveling everything and we're there for an hour and a half watching everybody else do all of this stuff before the before the game even started. None of that bothered anybody that was there. Nobody had any problem with that. But in church it's gotta be clockwork. We've got to get here, get here, gotta get this done. I mean we gotta okay, we gotta get out so we can do what? So we can consume what we really have an appetite for Instead of consuming what we have. We want the position of being a child of God. We want his provision, we want his protection, but don't really want to change our appetite. But God wants to change our appetites. I mean, if you are honest with yourself and seriously ask, am I really hungry for the right things? Do I hunger and thirst after righteousness? Am I hungry for the presence of God in my life? Am I hungry to see the power of God in my life? To see the work of God in my life Am I hungry to do and fulfill the will of God? Am I hungry for the Word of God? You know, there's some foods that I could take or leave. There's some foods I just really don't like. There's some I could take it or leave it. I wonder how many Christians are that way about the Word of God? Like, oh yeah, it's enjoyable when it's served up on a platter for me. But are you really hungering for it? Do you desire to get into the Word and just enjoy the time? We want God's salvation, but not really his spirituality. We want him to change our eternal destiny, but don't change who we are. We see first they didn't want to change their appetite, and we see secondly they didn't want to change their apparel. He says, and they they said, and we wear our own apparel. So they wanted to eat continue to eat their own food. They wanted to continue to wear their own apparel. They didn't, you know, they wanted to continue to be clothed in the same old garments. I suppose this would be fine if their desire really was not to be a bother to the husband, if their desire was to not be any mu any part of a burden, they just were very content and said, Hey, no problem, we're just we're we're just gonna wear these old rags, that's fine. Listen, praise God for a content lady. I'll tell you what, young men, you will rue the day you marry a discontent woman. You marry somebody that can't be made happy, always has to have something else, looking for something else, uh you know, I'll tell you, praise God for a content lady. Very, very important. But the problem was they didn't want to wear what the husband was going to provide. This really is a reference to a lifestyle. It's a reference to changing the way they wanted to live. They were content with their own lifestyle, they were content with their own conduct and behavior, they really didn't want to change. Give me the security of a home and a husband. But I'm going to continue to run around like I'm not married. I've told you before about how when I went back to college as a married student Things had to change. Had to adjust my habits a little bit. I didn't think anything of it the first day I went back to college and And got my lunch tray and went through the lunch line and went into the lunchroom where all these people were and I sat down at this table with all these girls. All these girls were friends that I had. They were friends. They were, you know, we were all buddies. But uh right away that was not comfortable to me. Right away I said there's something wrong with this picture. My wife is at home and I'm sitting at a table with a bunch of girls So I had to make friends with some guys in order to have some guys you sit and eat lunch with. Yeah, Amen is right. You have to change your your behavior is supposed to change when you get married. Some years ago I was counseling somebody and this young lady wanted to continue to have all of her boyfriends. She said, They're just friends. I said, but they're boys. She's like, Yeah, but they're just friends. And and obviously her husband had a little concern about how much time she was spending with them. And I I concurred. Tried to help her see that I know they were friends and you guys used to spend a lot of time together, but now you're married, your behavior's supposed to change. And you no longer have boyfriends. You gotta spend time with your husband or find some girls to be friends with That's just the way it's got to change. And you know what? When we become saved, when we have a relationship with God, our relationship is supposed to change. We're not supposed to be as comfortable out in the world as we once were We're supposed to be friends with him and friends with people that love and follow him. Our conduct is supposed to change. There's been a great change since I've been born again. Has there been a great change for you Zechariah 3, verse number 4 says, And he answered and he spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away thy filthy garments from him. And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with a change of raiment. He said, listen, I'm going to take away those dirty old rags. I'm going to take away those filthy garments. I'm going to take away those things that you got so nasty with the sin and the filth of this world, and I'm going to clothe you with righteousness. But too many Christians don't want to change the clothes. They don't want to change. They just want to keep wearing what they were wearing. They want to keep doing what they were doing. We know Ephesians chapter 4 tells us that there's some things that we're supposed to put off, some garments that we're no longer supposed to wear, garments of worldliness in the flesh, and we're to put on godliness. Ephesians 4. 22 324 says that ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corruptible according to the deceitfulness of lust, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on the new man. Which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. How can a Christian be saved and still be satisfied to live the old way? That's not God's plan. That's not God's design. We shouldn't be satisfied to continue to live in the old way. We should allow God to change us. I know tonight I'm preaching to the choir. I'm preaching to people that have been saved for years and years and years, and you've been going to church for years and years and years. But as I cautioned you just like we began, what what what tends to happen is we tend to get comfortable. We tend to find that place where we kinda we we kinda fit in and we're we're okay and I'm I'm alright with my level of spirituality. And so God may bring something into our lives like He did to the children of Israel here. He was judging them, He was bringing punishment into their lives, He's bringing something to try and get their attention, and they they said, Well, no We see the problem, but we want delivered from the problem we don't want to be changed. When what we need to do is let God change us. James chapter 1, verses 2 and 4 says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that she may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. What he's saying is God's trying to do a work in you. God's trying to bring about some change in you. And we want delivered from our circumstance Instead of changed. Instead of letting God change us, we want the circumstances changed. We often come to Jesus seeking that he would change our circumstances. Many times our prayers are by and large a request that some circumstance or situation would be adjusted. But what if we would pray, God, would you change me? You see the difference, beloved, is what is it you're seeking after? You see if what you're seeking for is happiness, you're always going to ask God to change the situation. Because ultimately we just want to be happy. But if what you're really seeking for is holiness, then you're going to look at it and say, God, change me. God, change me. The trying of our faith is the opportunity for God to do something When God brings a test, when God brings a challenge, when God brings a situation, or I should say God allows. Sometimes it's not something that God did, but God allowed something to come into your life. And we need to look at that and say, God, change me. Help me to see where I need to grow. Help me to see where I need to be drawn closer to you. Help me to see where maybe I've been drifting, but God, would you change me? It's beloved when we seek after that is when we will come to God in all sincerity and say, change me. God, I need to be changed. I need to be made new You see, they desired the rights of bearing his name, but didn't want the responsibilities of bearing his name. Many today don't mind being called Christian. They're just not real interested in living or acting like a Christian. We need God to change us. We need God to help us. I wonder, do you want God to change you or change your situation? You know, many times God wants to change your situation. But he's waiting until he has the opportunity to change you first. If we could just come to that place where we see we need to be changed and let God do that, I think I would say okay Let's change the situation. Let's fix the problem. See, God might want to change your mind. Sometimes we need a changed mind. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. He might want to change your heart. Sometimes we need a new heart, as the psalmist cried, Lord, create in me a clean heart, O God. Ezekiel 36, 26 says, a new heart also will I give you, a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh and will give you a heart of flesh, a new heart. Sometimes God wants to do something that really just is down in our heart, and God wants to change our heart. But too many of us fight against that. We resist that. And we just want the situation changed. We need to let God and actually seek for God to change us.