We'll be there, and so if you're like me, like alright, Daniel, uh I can find Daniel, Hosea, Joel, like that. Okay, so not too often is the book do we preach from the book of Joel, but I think that There's something, of course, we can learn from every book, and uh Joe would be a minor prophet. He was prophesying before the Assyrian invasion, and that would be the invasion of Assyria. to what became uh Israel as opposed to Judah. And they were put under terrible terrible harsh treatment of that nation. So when you read the book of Joel, it's good to remember that he's prophesying to a people who are going to going to in a very short time from then go through horrible, horrible, horrible things. There's, if you go to Chicago, the University of Chicago, there's a place called the Oriental Museum. And there, it's free. You can tour it there. And they've got relics and things from all the way back. And one of the things is a an impression on a uh, I forget what they call it, but it's uh it's uh it's just a a a a large statue sort of thing, but on it they imprint things and it tells the history of uh what was the Assyrians and we have there uh people being flayed, their skin being pulled off, and just horrible, awful things. And although The people there don't realize it. That's the Assyrians and how they're treated how they treated the Jewish people. And it's right there. So it was a horrible time. And so if you can imagine, just for a second, just think. You're the prophet of God, and you have to go to God's people and tell them what's going to happen. And so in that, with that understanding, Joel gives this prophecy. If you recall, recall, uh Peter when he was preaching in Acts chapter 2. He makes reference to Joel. We have in the book of Joel a reference to Armageddon and that battle So although it's a bit of a sombre message, and I guess I've I I think every pastor that I've preached for has said that. He's preaching a sombre message. I I don't do it on purpose. But I think I want to try to be an encouragement to you Because we have to get s serious about some things. Because this world is serious And if you've lived enough years, I'm fifty-five, there are some here that are of course older than I am, and there are some that are younger. Uh but as you go through the years you realize uh how serious life really is It's very serious. And if the devil had his way with this church, I think we would see in our mind's eye terrible, terrible tragedy. And horrible things. And very much like the nation of Israel, here the Lord is really painting a picture through the prophet Joel. This is what's going to happen to you. And really the book of Joel is kind of a is kind of a uh uh an object lesson, really. And he gives the object lesson of what he calls here locusts and palmer worms and and uh canker worms. And he envisions these insects going through somewhere and completely demolishing everything that's there and eating all of the vegetation and leaving the land, as you can imagine, completely bare, completely changing the landscape, utterly different And so that's the picture that the Lord gives. But in it all, it's always amazing. I think about that verse, the Lord does judge, but his hand is reached out still. And although that's true, the Lord is always merciful, and let me tell you that there's always a way of repentance. So sin is something that we have to battle always. And it gets it conquers us sometimes. Sometimes it does. And we fall. But the Lord is always there. Always, always. Please remember this because the devil would have you think otherwise. God is always there and is reaching forth and he'll pick you up again. So as time goes by, sometimes, and there may be some here, that maybe Satan would have you look back on your life and look at all the time you've wasted. If you're like me, I've done that. I've looked back, I got saved when I was twenty-seven. And I thought to myself, if I could have gotten saved when I was younger, like my wife, like my brother-in-law, then maybe Ah boy, I could have used those years for him. But the Lord didn't afford me the opportunity. And if I sit and think about it enough That thought I'm I'm I'm going to prove to you tonight is just not the Lord's will for us. It's not. He doesn't want us to look at things that way at all. So, in uh Joel, if you're here, if you go to chapter 2, I'm going to read verses 21 to 27. And here the Bible says, fear not, O land, be glad and rejoice. Well the Lord will do great things. So this is after the message of destruction. Be not afraid, verse twenty-two, ye beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree Tree and the vine do yield their strength. Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God, for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter rain. in the first month. And the floor shall be full of wheat, and the fats shall overflow with wine and oil. And I will restore and I will restore. Now here's what I want to focus on. And I will restore to you the years that the locusts have eaten, and the canker worm, and the caterpillar, and the palmer worm, and my great army which I sent among you, and you shall eat in plenty. And be satisfied and praise the name of the Lord your God that hath dealt wondrously with you, and my people shall never be ashamed. And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and none else, and my people shall never Be ashamed. Back up in verse 25. I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten. I can't explain that to you Because he doesn't say here, from now on, the years that you live will cancel out those other years. He says, I'm going to restore them to you. How can can God restore, in my case, 27 years of not serving him? And then maybe if somebody here has been saved, but you didn't live for the Lord, And now you came back and are living for him. How can God restore those years? I don't know, but he says he he does. I'm just telling you what he says. He says, I'll restore to you that time. I want to talk about that, and I want to talk about lost years. Let's pray. Father, thank you, Lord, for your love for us. And now I just pause for just a second, Lord, and ask your Spirit to help me as I speak. Give me the words to say. Thank you for these your people. They're your people. Or they're your people. And this is your church. And I have the privilege, humbly so, to stand before your church and give them your word. But it's not my word, it's yours. I know it is. And so thank you for your love for us and thank you for this time in Jesus' name. Amen. The incredible eating habits of the locusts. Let's review this. It is said that the locusts, very much like us, I suppose, sometimes we're excited about things and sometimes we're a little bit somber about things. And uh it is said of the locusts that they actually change their behavior and they change their color. And so there is a phase called a solitary phase of this locusts where they're very docile. And they're not at all uh this eating machine that we uh or or eating machine army, if you will, that we think of it. Locusts have always existed. And oftentimes they're just very harmless. They're a very drab color. But when the conditions are right, It is said that they literally change their color and they take on a brighter hue and then they become a voracious army. It is said That they can at at that point become the most destructive animal in the world. And their harm could be on a global scale. It's called the gregarious phase, which just means the eating phase. They can cover, and it has been recorded, migratory swarms of eighty million locusts per square kilometer. So I'm not saying 80 million total. We take a square kilometer and pack 80 million locusts in there and then for as long for as far as they're eating, think about that. With each locust consuming up to two grams of vegetation every day, if we calculate that, a swarm the size that size can travel up to 90 miles a day, consuming the same amount of food. as thirty-five thousand people. And it's no wonder then that they're considered some of the most devastating of animals. So when the Lord wants to talk about the devastation of Israel, he talks about this locust. And so maybe the Assyrian army could be a place there, and maybe they're docile for a time. But when the conditions were right, they became a devouring army, and they completely decimated the children of Israel. And the by and the book and the prophet of Joel here, in the book of Joel, is telling them that it's because of their sin But then amazingly in all of this he says, I can restore to you those years. Now, God has a way of restoring things. In verse 25 of chapter 2, the Bible says again, I will re he let's just I'm going to read it again, I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten. It is as if the Lord is saying, In a short time, this army is going to come and completely destroy you utterly. But then I'm going to restore those years to you. And I think to myself, are there things that we allow in our life that have a destructiveness about them? And the answer to that is we do. Sometimes we're complacent. Complacency can eat away like a locust. You just get into a rut, as it were, and become complacent. Nothing moves you. You haven't been to the altar in forever, and it's the same way with me. We can become complacent. And we understand that we're living in the midst of the days that the Bible calls our days of evil. They're evil days that we live in. And we have to be careful. And we can't be complacent. The Bible in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 15, talks about redeeming the time. And so we only have so much time. And it says to do that because the days are evil. In other words, God is saying you can't play around. You can't play games. You can't just say to yourself, when the Lord moves you, I'll get to that. And so if I can impress you with this thought, when when is are you going to start getting serious? So, failures, if we're to understand this, will be restored. We serve a God who restores those things. He makes it as if those were never wasted. Wow, that that, as I've heard a preacher say, will make a Presbyterian shout. Even that The Bible says in Romans 13:11, awake out of sleep. And sometimes we enjoy the laziness, we get into a rut. Maybe that locust in our life is a locus of laziness. We just get lazy about the things of God. We're good about making money. We're good about charging forward and manipulating things of this world to make it happen. We have to do that. I'm not Well we can be lazy, it's so easy for us to be lazy with our Bible reading with prayer and with not only church attendance but listening to the sermons. We can become lazy and we can become complacent, and that's a locust. It's going to eat away at your life. Sometimes And I've mentioned this already, sin. You allow sin into your life and you fall, oftentimes the same sin. And then if you become bitter against God, then you're in a bad place. Bitterness will eat away your life. I've seen it happen before. I've literally seen that tear somebody's life to the point where they died early. Bitterness will eat your life away, and that is a sin. So maybe there's a locus of sin in your life, and it's starting to eat away and destroy, it's going to change things. Maybe Uh you have maybe maybe there's you worry. You worry about things too much. That will eat away at your life. Jesus said, take no thought about what you'll wear, about what you'll eat. He says that your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of these things. Seek ye first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness, and then all these things will be added unto you. So even though our Heavenly Father tells us these things, yet sometimes we worry and we fret and we stress. That's a worm. And it'll eat away at your life. You can't allow those things to happen. But you know the Lord can restore things. You've heard of the show, Antiques Roadshow, maybe, where they bring antiques and they want people to give the value of those things Well there was one family that brought a watch. And what's interesting about this is it was just something that they had laying around. Maybe lots of families. If you've got an heirloom or something, it's just sitting there, it's just laying around Well this person thought that they would bring it onto the show and it was valued. It was a watch that was made in 1914. And it was valued at that time for about $6,000. And you say, well that that is a good price, and it is. But then, when they found out what kind of watch it really was, and I won't get into all the details, they re-evaluated it at $250,000. It sold that pocket watch for one and a half million dollars. To date, it is the largest uh difference in in sale that has ever been on the show. I thought about that and I thought What what they had it sitting there in their house. This valuable thing just sitting there. They had no idea what the value of it was, and it was sitting there year after year after year after year. They could have gotten the benefit of it, but they didn't know. And that, unfortunately, is the life of a lot of people. They could use their life for something, but year after year, their life could be valuable. They could reach their neighbors. They could reach their unsafe family members. They could do what they can do. But year after year after year goes by, although they there could be their life could be valued that way. It's wasted. Yeah. Boy, they could have sold that watch a long time ago and have that have had that money and and but they they didn't know. And they just let it sit there. A story is told of a diamond cutter. And uh they would, as they were cutting the diamond, a bit of it, this is years ago, a bit of that diamond or a chunk of it flew off somewhere. Now it's one thing when you're maybe I don't know, whittling a piece of wood and a piece of wood falls. Who cares? But when it's a diamond, it's it's a bit more of a grave situation. So he was trying to find that bit of the diamond. He couldn't find it. They they looked and looked and looked and looked and looked. They could not find that diamond Years later, many years later, year after year after year went by, and they sold that business, and as they were redoing the inside of the building, they took off an outlet cover. And outdrop this little diamond. It was found after years and years and years. That diamond could have been sold. It could have been used. It could have been used because it was valuable, just like your life is, and just like my life is, but it was stuck in an outlet cover year after year after year. So why do we waste time? What is the nature of these lost years? Why do we lose time that way? And let me remind you that you cannot ever take it back. What is today? June twelfth? Okay. What's the year? Okay. June twelfth, two thousand twenty-five. How many June twelfth, two thousand twenty-fives are there? One. And once it gets to midnight, it's gone. You can't take it back. You can't ever take it back, it's gone. So in our way of looking at things, and in our way of looking at time and calendars But praise the Lord our with our God it's not that way. Somehow He puts that day back again. So why do we lose years? If this is so important, if we only have so much time and if we realize that, and everybody here would admit that. Why do we lose years? Why do we waste time? Why? I think it's because we're just not putting the most important thing first. That's I know that's not deep. But I just read, I just quoted the verse. Jesus said, Seek ye first, first, first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness. And then all those things will be added to you. But first, in other words, put God first. Number one. Before I got saved, that was the thought that really led to my salvation. I was a young man, again out of the military service, and very unsettled, moving in, it seemed like ten different directions at the same time. And I knew that I couldn't keep doing that. I knew that I had to settle. I knew that. I didn't know how to do it. I couldn't decide. I was just very unsettled. And so I thought to myself, well, it made sense to me. It was logical to me to decide what's the most important thing in life and to make sure I took care of that first. Well, I grew up as a Catholic. And although, okay, it's Catholicism. But I will tell you that I believed that the Bible was true. I did believe that. I did. Maybe not all Catholics do, but I did. I just never read it. And I can remember thinking to myself, well, the things of God are the most important. I mean, after all, who gives us breath? Who allows us to be able to walk? Who allows us to be able to exist any of these things? So God has to be, if He wanted from one day to another That would be it. But he allows me to go another day. And he allows my heart to beat another time and another breath and so forth. I knew that. I understood that And then I thought to myself, I I the the most important thing. I put it I think I remember writing it down on a piece of paper. There it was in front of me. And I stopped right there. That was it. I can't remember if I wrote it down or if it was in my mind. But I stopped right there and I thought, I'm not even doing the most important thing. So I started going back to church again. Started going back to Catholic Mass again. I even thought about being a priest. Not seriously, but I did think about it for as much as that's worth. And it was through all of that that the Lord led me to salvation. But I first decided what was most important. So, is your life, is your house, is your car, is your job, is your family, are your kids? More important to you than God is. If so, your priorities are not right. Daniel got serious about things, the prophet Daniel, when he purposed in his heart. David, he got serious about things when he said, My heart is fixed. See, it's a matter of the heart. When all is said and done, I've learned this in the ministry: you'll do, and I'll do, what our heart tells us to do. Sometimes even against your own will. People always do what their heart tells them to do. That's what it is. And so what you need to do is get your heart right with the Lord. If the heart can deceive you, of course it can. But it is out of the abundance of the heart that your life is really revealed. So, I Think that even things that and situations that seem bad in life can in this regard be a good thing. I would say COVID was good in this regard because it made us really decide for ourselves what's really important. What is really important? And it revealed what was really important to, unfortunately, a lot of churches even. So define your life right now. Just ask yourself, really, truthfully. You're not saying this to me, you're not saying it to anybody else. Between you and your God. If you're going to be honest with him, what is the most important thing in your life? Write it down in your mind. Think about it. Truthfully. Be truthful. I'm not I didn't ask you what what should be. What is So that's the cause. Because we just don't put the most important thing first, and when we do that, then things go by and years go by. There are some things that will happen, as happened in the ministry, that have caused that have brought this thought quickly back into line again. And it is when you are dealing with somebody about their salvation, they don't accept it, and then they die. Then what's really important comes to light. We were talking earlier today. You can give all the statistics the statistics that you want to. about life, about death, about disease, about if I eat this, I'm gonna, whatever. But all that goes right out the window when you're at the point of death. What does this do I can't say that word. What do those numbers mean? Nothing. Who cares? At that point. So then, what's the most important thing? What did you do for the Lord? It's the only thing you take with you. My dad, when he passed away, uh it's been I think about ten years now. I had an opportunity to give him the gospel one more time. I didn't know I don't know if he could hear me. He was laying down and my wife was with me. And I I just quoted I I was pretty emotional at the time, so but so I just quoted Psalm 23. And I just tried to impress upon my dad, again, I'd witnessed to him many, many, many times, that he would accept Jesus as his shepherd, using Psalm 23. And I don't know if he heard me or not, but I can tell you this. No matter what he did in all of his life, up until that point, came down to one singular decision. And that was a decision to accept the Lord or not. You have to admit there's nothing more important. So there have been times where I pleaded with people to get saved. I pleaded with them. I can remember the the story of Garlos. That was his name. That means Charles. He was I speak Spanish, so I I run the Spanish ministry at our church, and he was somebody, young man that we I was trying to see saved. And he came one night uh to and we were playing football, uh American football. And uh he never played that before, but he showed up and he was he could like to work out that kind of thing. So he came and he basically asked me, how do you play this game? And I it was very simple. If he's got the ball, knock him flat on the ground, then get up and do it again. That doesn't matter. How do you explain it? That's it. So we played for it. He really enjoyed it. And um we we had a good time afterwards. The Holy Spirit was really, really burdening my heart for him. I knew that I had to give him the gospel again And so I walked up to him and I said, I said, Carlos, you know, you know you need to get saved. You've had a good time here. We're glad you came. But you're going to die one day. You are going to absolutely, positively certain you will die one day. You will. At that point you're either going to be in heaven and hell. You know these things. You've heard it before. You know you need to do this. And he hung his head and he said, Yes, yes, I know that. And so I said, well then why not? For whatever reason, he just shook his head. And I said, okay, well, I'll talk to you later. Come to church on Sunday. We'll talk again. See? Gets into his car, leaves. That that next day, he and his cousin were going to work out, and to this day, you'll still see the cross there. On that curve, he crashed his car and he perished that that very next day. His cousin, his name is Javier Xavier, he got saved at that funeral. He was very shook up because of course he was in the he was he wasn't in the car, but he just got dropped off minutes before that happened So what happened to him? All of life, all of time and everything came to one single instant for him. And what became most important became apparent to him. But we're saved, right? We've already got that settled. It's the same thing. Time is timed. So define your life right now. And ask yourself, dads, it's Father's Day and Sunday. Do you want to have a Christian family? Is that your desire? I will tell you that you can, but it's not going to be easy. You're gonna have to d offend the people. You're gonna have to say no. You're gonna have to say no to family. When they want to get together, you know they're gonna be drinking there. And you've told your kids that's wrong. You can't put them in that situation. No. And they're going to be offended and curse at you? Yep. But if you decide that that's what you want, that's what it's going to take. And it's going to take you day after day after day. And I'm talking to dads. Telling yourself, I am going to do this today, and I'm going to cross that line again. Excuse me, I'm not going to cross that line again. Because there is constantly a pull on you. There's con just like there's a constantly a pull on your pastor. Always to let down your standards, to let it down, just ease it down again. You've been too harsh. There's always that pull Always. It never, ever, ever goes away. But if you stop pulling back again, you're going to be dragged across that line against your will. So if you want to have that, you can. But I'm telling you, you're going to have to put what's most important first. And those years can go by and they'll eat away those things. And it doesn't have to be that way. So that's the cause of lost years. Now, what is the cost of lost years? Well, it's a plague, isn't it? It's a plague. I don't know, but I can imagine. I've never seen the loc what the result of a location actually I have on pictures and things, but it's devastating. Complete you you take this beautiful green and this imagine it completely dead. Like it's the dead of winter, gone. Everything. Everything that's green, gone. And so it's wasted. It's a plague. Do you know that in our country there's been a plague? And what once was, too many people cannot even be seen again. I'm not saying completely, praise the Lord, but I can tell you in my 55 years of life, which is relatively short compared to some of you. I've seen a major, major, major shift in our society. Major. So much so that these young people grow up and they they all they see is the devastation. They can't even imagine what it used to be like. And that's sad to me. But God can restore those years. So when you make the A decision, I'll just put it this way. When you make a decision about anything, anything for the Lord, believe me, it's going to be tough. And you're going to have to make that decision in the face of difficulties. Because the Lord is going to bring you to the point to see if you're really serious about that. And it can be difficult. Some of you can give this testimony. I'm standing here in front of you, so I can give it. But I've had my family curse me out. I've had my dad curse me out. I've had my mu my mom and my dad sit my wife down after we were married and tell her all the thing that she got when she got me. All the horrible things I ever did. I think I'd already told those things, so she was all set That's that's what happened. They didn't go to our wedding. I I'm not trying to talk bad about my family. I'm just saying if it can help you. No nobody in my family, not one single person. It's probab there's probably some about your your that happened with you too. Nobody did. Now, and it's not because of the bad weather. They weren't gonna go if it was a beautiful day. They were making a statement. So, is that the cost? Yep. Is it a big cost? Not when I consider the return. Not when I consider the return. So would I do it again? Yep, a million times. A million times. Countless, infinite. I would do it again. So there's been a plague. What things were, they're not anymore, and I've got a bunch of things here, but I think you understand. But even in churches, even in good churches, there's been a plague. Real prayer? Real prayer where you're burdened in your heart When you see that loved one burning in eternity in hell, burning with no way to escape and screaming and crying out Real prayer that puts you to your knees when you see the conditions of something and you feel helpless, maybe, and you know that only God can do it and you need Him to do something. Real prayer. Real focus on revival, real desire to do something for God. When where did the days go where you said, Lord, I'm nobody, I'm nothing? But if you can use me, uh you know, I'm I'm here Where is where are those days? So that that cost, what did Jesus say about discipleship? How many real disciples do we have out there? I've got to ask myself, do you have does the Lord have a real disciple standing behind the pulpit right now? I can tell you what discipleship is going to cost you. Absolutely everything. Jesus said in Luke 14, so likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Salt is good, but if the salt hath hath lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear let him hear. If you're going to be a disciple of Christ, what's it going to cost you? Everything I'll read it again. So likewise, whosoe he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, ye cannot be my disciple. My experience is most of the time the Lord allows you to keep those things. Sometimes He doesn't. We were supposed to be missionaries to Spain. I believe the Lord led us to do that. Came here to this church. As on deputation. And we sold everything. We sold our house. I I had a nice truck, sold that. Sold really nice things that we had been given. We sold everything. Because we were going to Spain. We needed money. Then things happened and it it just didn't have the long story. So I can remember sitting in the parking lot there in my 2000 Dodge caravan with my wife and four kids at that time, nowhere to go, nowhere to sleep. And so it cost. It did. I I don't know. Maybe I've I messed up, maybe I made bad decisions, I don't know. I'm just being honest with you. It costs you. And Jesus isn't pulling the wool over your eyes. He tells you it's going to cost you. So you need to decide. Year after year, or year after year. Year after year, when are you going to get serious? So you see, that's that's the cure for lost years, really. I think the world is full, filled with Christians that have good intentions. Now I'm not saying the Lord is leading you maybe to do some unbelievable thing, but he might be. He might be calling somebody into the mission field. He may be I don't know. But I can tell you this, good decisions are great. But they don't restore anything Some of you are in the Valley of Decision tonight. You know that the Lord wants to make you to make a decision, to serve Him more, to do something, to pray more, to give more, to get saved. And you're you hold back. I I can I can tell you that if you go halfway, you might as well go no way. So I I've witnessed the people before where I I can tell you that there was heavy conviction When I was speaking to them, the conviction was heavy. It's heavy. You can feel it. You know that the Holy Spirit is working on the convincing them of their need. It's very different when people don't care when they're not ready. They're flippant about it. You may as well be talking. But there are those times when God's Spirit is And that person was under deep conviction. I remember sitting at his table, and I pled with him, and I just stopped. And he was thinking about it, and I can remember he just dropped he dropped his head like that, he was thinking. And when he picked up his head again, his face had changed. His his countenance was different. And he said, well, we'll probably see you on Sunday. It was good to see you. And instantaneously the conviction was gone. Gone. And I can I can I could have I could have preached the most incredible message of salvation. It would have made a bit of difference at that time because he was done. He shut it off If that person would have died the next day, he'd be burning in hell, remembering that opportunity he had. So you see, when are you gonna reach out to that lost ant? When are you going to reach out again to that lost uncle? The Lord doesn't have somebody else to lead them to the Lord. He has you. And you can write a letter. You can put a tract in there. I've done that many times. I have a son-in-law. A son-in-law. I have a brother-in-law that I'd like to see saved. His name is John. I have an aunt, her name is Gabriela, I'd like to see her saved. I have an uncle, his name is Alonso, I'd like to see him saved. I grew up with them. They're not saved. If they died as as unsaved Catholics, they'll burn in hell. And I pray for them. And I've sent them letters. Good intentions are great. But until you drop that thing in the mail and send it, when are you going to start getting serious? When is it gonna be, yeah, I gotta do that to it's gonna happen. That's what makes the difference. I'll finish with this illustration. I I love restorations. Ka uh houses and things that I especially like car restorations. And I I think what I like about it is that you take an old car and it's rusty and it's got holes in it, it doesn't run anything, and it's And you look at it and you say, there was a day when that car took people to work and it was functioning, it was. And it sat year after year after year after year after year. And then you see the picture before and after. And you think, wow, it doesn't even look like the same car. It's beautiful. All those years had eaten things away. It was eaten things away. It used to be useful. It used to be good. It used to take people. It was fine. And then It just wasted all those years. But it could be restored. And the Lord can restore those years. So I I plead with you, think about this. Don't sit in the valley of decision. Don't go halfway. Remember the words of the Lord. And if there's something He wants you to do, Then no matter what it takes, do it. And the Lord bless you in that. Let's pray. Father, thank you, Lord, for your love for us. I thank you for this time that we've had together. And Lord, when we think about the example of the of the locust and the palmer worm and the canker worm, when we think about this illustration And then we think about our own lives. And we think about how that we can just cruise along in life year after year after year after year. And the preaching is for somebody else. And look, Lord, what I've done for you so far. Surely you're not talking to me And your unsafe family members, they're not any more saved than they were ever. And the years go by, and the time goes by, year after year after year after year. Oh Lord, when Like we praise you, Lord, but you can restore those years. You can. And you love us. And so I pray you bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen.