Well, in Sunday school, you know, the Bible says in the book of Acts, you cannot help but speak to things which I have seen and heard. And uh all of the study that I'm doing in the Old Testament has uh stirred my thoughts and my heart and mind in in particular areas and uh uh I don't have time in Sunday school to deal with every rabbit trail that uh I would, you know, in my mind I'm like, man, we need to address this. But if I'm trying to kind of not get too deep into the weeds and allow us to kind of keep that bird's eye view to get a full spectrum of the Old Testament. That's the overall goal. Uh and obviously some things are pertinent. But we find in the Old Testament, did I not have that on? Here we go. Alright, so uh character that we find in the Old Testament that I just we've been walking all around but haven't really dealt with is Lot And uh there's so many lessons in the life of Lot for us. Would you turn to Genesis chapter 19? I'm going to speak to you tonight about Lot, the one who lost. Lot, the one who lost. If you've been in church for any length of time, you have heard messages on the life of Lot. The example, uh the real life example couldn't be any clearer or more pertinent for us as believers. We will read verses 12 through verse number 19 by way of introduction and then dive into the thought this evening about Lot, the one who lost. We see in Genesis 19, verse number 12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides son-in-law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place. For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the Lord. And the Lord hath sent us to destroy it. And Lot went out and spake unto his sons-in-law. Wow, what a nice guy. Which married his daughters, and he said, Up, get you out of this place, for the Lord will destroy the city. But he seemeth as one that mocked unto his sons-in-law. And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot. And saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, which are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. And while he lingered The men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters, the Lord being merciful unto him, and they brought him forth. and set him without the city. Wow. Beloved, if you remember as we dealt with this in the Old Testament survey class that Lot was a man that was familiar with loss. But the loss he had endured thus far really wasn't his fault. If you turn back to Genesis chapter number 11, we see in Genesis chapter 11, we showed you this when we were hitting this chapter, but down in uh Verse twenty-seven and twenty-eight, we see that he says, Now these are the generations of Tirah. Tirah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran begat Lot And Haran died before his father, Tirah, in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. So we see here that Lot's father passed away. Lot lost his dad. This is not anything that he did. But his dad and Abraham and Nahor were brothers, children of Taran. They got married and these these men got married. They started having children and having this son named Lot We don't know exactly what happened to him. We don't know how he maybe he got sick and died. Maybe he was involved in some accident. We don't know exactly what it was, but he died. And this is the first time in the pages of scripture, at least recorded for us, where uh a child That is, Haran died before his father. So Lot's grandfather was still living and obviously his two uncles. There's a couple of things that we don't know. First of all, we don't know if his mother was still living or not. We really aren't given any insight into her story. Quite possibly she too had passed. Secondly, we really don't know how old Lot was at this time when his father died. In our mind, we think of a relatively young child, maybe. But as we know that Lot was 75 when he was called, and I mean sorry, Abraham was 75 when he was called to leave his family, his kindred, his children. And Lot went with his uncle Abram. We are probably talking about a young man, but not a child. He probably lost his father and maybe both of his parents As a young man. And maybe Abram's desire to take him in was just a natural compassion. Here you have Abraham and Sari, who are childless And then his brother's son, who is now parentless. And maybe there was just a a natural bond had developed there and when God called Abram to go and he announced, Well I'm leaving and his father said, Well I'm going too and they decided to go together. Maybe Lot said, Boy, I sure would love to go with you. Or maybe Abraham said, You know what, Lot You know, your parents have passed, why don't you come whatever it was Lot chose to follow his uncle Abram We see that in chapter 11, verse number 31, and for the sake of time, we're not going to read that, but we know that Lot made a good choice. deciding to go with his uncle Abraham. You know, it's always a good choice to get around godly people. The fact of the matter is, is you are blessed by association. I've told you how I learned as a child about being guilty by association. Those of you that don't know, praise the Lord. I'll get into it some other day. We're not gonna I I don't have time to tell that story. But you can also be blessed by association. We have here in the story of Lot a more clear illustration of being blessed by association and being guilty or cursed by association than anywhere in the pages of Scripture. We see how Lot was blessed in Genesis chapter 13. If you want to turn a couple chapters up, we're working our way back to 19, but we see in Genesis 13, verses 5 through 7. He says, And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents, and the land was not able to bear them that they might dwell together, for their substance was great. So that they could not dwell together. And there was a strife between the herdmen, Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Pharizzites dwelled there in the land I'm not sure why the end there that the Canaanites and the Paronites dwelled there. Maybe he's saying, you know what, they should have been having problems with the Canaanites and the Parasites, but the problems was between these two. Lot had been richly blessed by association, by being with Abraham. When you're in the right place, you're blessed just by being there. And sometimes we don't even realize how blessed we are because of the environment. As long as Lot was with Abraham, he was experiencing great blessing. He was blessed beyond measure, so much so, beloved, that his prosperity led to problems. His abundance led to opposition. His holdings led to some hurt feelings, and his dough led to division. That was fun. So what I'm saying, beloved, is a lot of times we we we allow the blessings of God to distract us or allow situations to come and to cause division. I just want to pause here and say you've got to be very careful because we see here in life this point. This moment of decision, this small little thing in his heart and mind where he makes a choice to take a step towards the world that was motivated by a little bit of division A little bit of problem, a little bit of contention. Hey, there's a problem with our herdsmen. But you know what? Let's uh Just choose to separate instead of solve the problem. And they allowed the division to settle in. And I want to warn you, brethren, or family of God, that we've got to be careful So use that to destroy and cost you everything you value in your life. It can be a very small heart and mind we think, man, that doesn't really matter, or that doesn't amount to much It's not really worth anything, but you allow Satan to get in and plant that little seed there. You're too apologetic, like me acknowledging to Manda and telling her, hey, I'm mess your and and Amanda's back there like, oh no, it's no big deal, don't worry about it, you know, just let it let it go, you know. Uh you know, but Here's the thing, I know that Satan can use something that small to get into somebody's heart and say, Pastor didn't even remember my mom's name. Pastor didn't even care about it. And here you're here's what you're gonna think important enough for me to go talk to Pastor, but here's the problem. Satan makes it important enough in your mind to keep passing it over. You gotta be very, very careful. I was meeting with somebody this week and they said something very wise. They said there's only two biblical options. You either have to biblically go to that person. Or you have to be able to 100% let it go. One or the other, there's only two right options. One of those two have to be done. And here's the thing, if you are keep bringing it up in your heart and mind If it's something under your, you know, it's got a burr in your saddle, and it's using that to create some division or some problem in in your heart and life, uh, in your mind you think, well, people are going to think it's stupid. Well then let it go. Just let it go. Just add maybe you need to ask God to help you let it go, but you got to get to the place where you just let it go because Satan bring that. And we see here in the life of life, this small thing was a turning point for him, and he ultimately lost it all. We've got to be careful about that. Ultimately, I want you to see here in the life of Lot what it what it was that caused him to be the one who lost it all. First of all, it was his love for the carnal. His love for the carnal. Look in chapter 13, verses 10, 11, 12, and 13. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt. Where did Lot learn about the land of Egypt? You remember that when he went down there with his uncle Abram, which shouldn't have been there? But we see, as thou comest to Zor, then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, turning east, and separated themselves one from the other. Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the land of Canaan. And pitched his tent towards Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Instead of choosing the spiritual, he chose the easy. Instead of choosing what was right, he chose what looked to be rich He thought it was just a small thing. He probably thought in his mind, boy, I mean look at how blessed I am right here. Look at how good I'm doing it's not even that good. Boy, if if I move my cattle and I loop move my family over Boy, I'm gonna really be cranking it in then. But what he didn't realize is his blessing was from God, not from how green the grass was. Is my mic dropping out? Is it distracting you guys? That is so frustrating. I try and Tune that stuff out after I get going. I can't let it distract me or I'll just not be able to focus. But I know from being down there, it's very distracting. W when the mic comes in and goes out and you can hear, but then you can't hear, and it'd be better if it was one way or the other, right? You know You get tuned in at one level and then all of a sudden it changes. So I'm glad we're adjusting it. Even though I was just about to say something profound. And now it's gone. But we see here his love for the carnal, his desire for those well-watered plains, he didn't realize that it was not about how green the grass was, it was about how good his God was. That was pretty profound. It it really is. And we've got to remember that, Christian. That it's it's not about where we are or or what job we have or what you know we're looking at in this way. It's it's about how in tune we are with him. Lot had a love for the carnal. There's no question, beloved, that Lot knew what was right to do. He had been with Abraham long enough to have learned. We know the Bible is very clear. It tells us Lot would, I mean, that Abraham was going to command his household. We we learn that you don't have to turn there in Genesis 18, 19. He says, For I know him. This is God talking about Abraham. He says, I know him that he will command his children and his household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. What I'm saying, Lot was in that home, Lot knew what was right. Lot knew what he should do, but instead he chose to do what he wanted to do, what appealed to his appetites, what fed that carnal nature that he had. And a lot lost at all. This is beloved, this beloved, this is literally the Bible lived out in front of us. And sadly, the longer you're saved, The longer you serve him, the more you as an individual will have real-life illustrations of people who lost it all because they went after a little more world. They just wanted a little bit more of the world, and ultimately they lost it all that all they had. He lifted up his eyes. It started beloved with a look It wasn't long and we see him living in amongst those wicked people, and then before long he's a leader amongst them. Lot's main concern was about his assets, in contrast that to Abram, where his main concern was about the altar. I met with this morning in Sunday school. You see every place that Abraham went, that one of the first things he did was establish an altar. And when he came back to God, when he stumbled or he fell, he went back to the altar. Abraham had a relationship with His meeting place with God. And Christian, we need to have a relationship with the altar, the place where we get back to God, because every one of us stumbles Every one of us falls. Every one of us comes up short from what God would have us to be. And when the Holy Spirit gets a hold of our heart, we need to get back to the altar and let God renew that fellowship with him and that sweet spirit and that sweet communion with him once again. Never again do we see Lot back in a place of worship. We continue to hear about his story, but never again do we see him at the feet of Jesus. Lot was concerned about his assets instead of his altar. He had a love for the carnal. Beloved, if that is your heart's ambition, you are signing your own death warrant. Romans chapter 8 and verse number 6 says, For to be carnally minded is death. You're going to kill yourself spiritually if you allow your mind to continue down that road of seeking after the carnal things of this world. It will destroy you. Beloved, the carnal mind, the Bible says, is at enity with God. Quite literally, the individual who has a carnal mind is an enemy of God. Lot went from being with Abraham, the friend of God, to the enemy of God, because of his carnal mind. Lot lasted all because he never learned to tell himself no. You uh I've encouraged you parents to tell your kids no. You ought to practice it. No. Just tell them no, just because. They need to learn to hear no. They need to accept no with a good spirit and a good attitude, regardless of how old they are. From two years to twenty years. When a parent says no, it ought to impact the heart. They ought to be able to accept it. Lot never told learn to tell himself no. Christian, we need to learn not just to practice tell our kids no, but we need to practice tell ourselves no. This light's distracting too. Especially every time it turns on there's a glare and then it goes off and then the glare's gone and then it comes back. Sure disrupting the service tonight You know, Jesus said this, if a man will come after me, let him deny himself. What he's saying is, hey, if we want to be a follower of Christ, we've got to learn to tell ourselves no. Those carnal desires, those carnal appetites, those things that the flesh wants to go after, we've got to learn to say no Not only did Lot lose it all because he had a love for the carnal, but Lot lost it all because he began to listen to the crowd. Look in Genesis chapter nineteen. We know in chapter eighteen we see the prayer of Abram and the conversation with God over the destruction of Sodom and Abraham trying to save that that's that wicked city. We get to chapter 19 and verse number 2. And he said, Behold, now my lords, turn in, I pray you. Now, we're not going to go back and read the story, but you know the angels came into the city. And Lot recognized these men for who they were. And he called to them and said, Behold, now my lords, turn in, I pray you, unto your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early and go on your way. And they said, Nay, but we will abide in the street all night. And he pressed upon them greatly, and they turned in unto him, and entered into the house, and he made them a feast, and did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat. But before they lay down the men of the city, even of men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people from every quarter. And they called unto Lot and said unto him, Where are the men which came into thee this night? Bring them out to us that we may know them. Beloved, these angels came to visit the city to see the wickedness that was present and with the message that God was going to destroy it and to get Lot and his family out. That's why they had come. They were there and Lot bids them come and stay in her house and they say, No, but we're gonna abide in the street. Lot says, No, we can't do that. You don't know how wicked these streets are. You don't know how bad this environment is. If Lot knew it was that bad, why was he there? Why was he so comfortable there? Why were these men on first name basis with Lot coming up and saying, Hey Lot, why don't you send us out those guys that you have with you? He was living among them. They were comfortable one with the other. The wicked crowd called unto Lot. The sin of Sodom, beloved, is still sin today. Leviticus chapter 20 and verse number 13 says, If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with woman, okay, it can't get any plainer than that. Both of them had committed an abomination. There is no margin for misinterpretation there. I was listening to a preacher this week and he says, boy, I wish the Bible was clear. I wish the Bible just gave me an answer. You know, you ask me, preacher, what about a guy marrying a guy, and I just don't know? I wish I could tell you, but I just don't know. The Bible has the answer. It's still a sin. It's an abomination. This here is the first reference to homosexuality in the Bible. It was the wicked sin of Sodom and has become known as that. The story continues, and it's one of the saddest and most perverted acts in all the scriptures found here where Lot, solution, to appease the wicked crowd. We see, continuing in verse number 7, and he said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly. Behold, now I have two daughters. Which have not known men. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you. And you de you do ye to them as good as in your eyes. Only unto these men do nothing, for they Come they under the shadow of my roof. And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge. Now we will deal worse with thee than with them And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door. You see, the crowd turned on Lot. Can I tell you, beloved, you start listening to the crowd, the crowd's going to turn on you. You allow the crowd to come and whisper in your ear about how somebody at the church isn't doing this right or not doing that right. You allow the crowd to come and whisper into your ear about how, oh, they they did not mean this or they didn't uh uh do that right or or they they meant this when they were saying that and oh you you have every right to be offended about that. None of that's biblical. You're supposed to go to the inferior. individual. But you will listen to the crowd. Let the crowd tell you, oh, it's okay. Why don't you go ahead down that road? Go down that path. Why don't you go ahead and embrace that instead of listening to God? And you'll end up like Lot and lose it all. God has told us what is right. And the crowd that stands as your friend today will be your enemy tomorrow. These men ready to do worse unto Lot than they were going to do to these two strangers. And yet the angel stepped in and struck the city with blindness. Judgment is pronounced on the city Lot goes and tries to save his family, but you see he's already lost his testimony with them. It's too late. I can imagine how he went with them and pleaded. I can imagine the tears coming down his face and heart's cries. He looks at his son-in-law and his daughter and saying, Please would you come? God is going to send the angels and they're going to burn the city. It's it's i everybody here is going to die. Would you come? The Bible says his sons-in-laws looked at him as though he mocked. Like, what are you what are you talking about? You've lost your mind. They laughed at him. Like the wicked men in Noah's day mocked and laughed at him. H. G. Thomas said, When the testimony of our life does not agree with the testimony of our lips, the latter will go unheard. So they perished in the judgment. Lastly I want you to see tonight the reason that he lost it all was because he lingered. when he was convicted. He lingered when he was convicted. We see in chapter 19 and verse number 16 the phrase, and while he lingered. You see, this was Lot's pattern, beloved. He had a pattern of lingering in places that he shouldn't. When it was a time for decisive action, he lingered When his godly uncle was praying for him, he lingered. When the heavenly messengers were sent to him and urging him, he lingered. When judgment was imminent, he lingered. Beloved God and his mercy had tried to reach him. God had sent him a witness, we see in 19 verse number 1, and there came two angels to Sodom. They came, God sent them somebody, and sometimes, beloved, God sends you a friend, God sends you a family member, God sends you a man of God who stands behind the pulpit and preaches the truth of the word of God. And you hear that, but you linger. You don't make a decision, you don't bring change. God brings a witness, somebody to try and point to you the fact that, hey, the road's out, the road's out Stop going, stop going that way, and yet you still charge headlong forward. God is sending you a warning tonight But many times a carnal Christian is too consumed with their own thoughts and ideas. They're too full of themselves to hear the caution or the warning of another, and they will continue down that road of danger. Not only did God witness to them, but God warned them. In verse number 13, they came to him and they said, Listen, for we will destroy this place. Listen, judgment is coming. The place is going to be destroyed because of the cry of them wax great before the Lord. And the Lord has sent us to destroy it. Hey, he warned them and told them this is going to happen. Even Lot's life stands as a warning for you and I. But how many are there that do not heed God's warning? God calls to you and says, boy, you better not head down that road, or you better give up that pet sin that you got You better let go of that desire, that ambition. You've known long enough that it shouldn't be part of your life. You've known long enough that you ought to change that. It's not just pastor's opinion. It's not just something that he thinks is right. The Holy Spirit has convicted you in your heart and told you what you should do, and yet ye linger. You linger. Beloved, can I tell you that we have a long-suffering God? Not only did God wit send a witness, not only did God warn them, but God waited. Look at verse number 22. In Genesis 19, 22 it says, Hasten thee, escape thither, for I cannot do anything till thou become thither. Beloved God waited for Lot to get to safety before He sent His judgment. We have a long-suffering God that will wait and wait and wait because he wants you to turn. He wants you to give it up. He wants you to stop lingering. He doesn't want to judge you that way. Boy, so many people get mad about saying, boy, we've got a uh uh you guys preach a God that stands in heaven with a bat ready to beat you over the head No, God is a long-suffering God that calls you, He warns you, He sends a witness to you, and He waits and He waits and He waits. But the day's gonna come when judgment falls. It's gonna come And if you will not get out of the city, if you'll stop lingering and move, you too will be in the judgment. He lost it all because he lingered even when he was convicted. When God sent continual conviction to his heart. We know this conviction was in his heart because in 2 Peter 2, verses 7 and 8, he says, and he delivered just lot. Vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. For that righteous man dwelling among them In seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. Beloved, day in and day out, the Holy Spirit was beating The heart and the soul of Lot saying, this is not where you should be. This is not right. And yet Lot lingered. The city was doomed, and Lot lingered. The destruction of that city was imminent, and Lot still lingered. Beloved, it was though the very brimstone of God was smoldering over the back fence of his home and still he was lingering The fire that was going to consume the city had already been lit and was approaching and yet he lingered. The countdown had started. The devastation and destruction was on its way, and yet he lingered. How many Christian, or how long will we Linger, the judgment is coming, and God has warned us, God has sent a witness to us, and God has waited and patiently, long-sufferingly looked for us to come back to Him. How long will we linger Beloved, you might tonight be on the very brink of destruction. God has sent his conviction and still he calls you, and yet you linger. He went slow when he should have gone fast. He went backward when he should have gone forward. He lingered when he should have been leaving. The songwriter said, I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delights, things that are higher, things that are nobler, these Have allured my sights. I will hasten, hasten, so glad and free, Jesus, greatest, highest, I will come to thee. I'm resolved to go to the Savior, leaving my sin and strife. He is the true one. He is the just one. He hath the words. I'm resolved to follow the Savior faithful and true each day. Heed what he saith, do what he willeth. He is the living way. I'm resolved to enter the kingdom leaving the paths of sin. Friends may oppose me, foes may beset me, but still I will enter in. I'm resolved, and who will go with me? Are you resolved tonight? To stop lingering, lest we too be like Lot and lose it all