Well you can if you would like to turn to Galatians chapter five, we are looking at the fruit of the Spirit. And uh I as I did last week, I I gave you a lot of scripture and more than one person said you were moving too fast and you You went through the scripture too quick and we'll try and get you something in print that will have these verses listed out for you to try and uh you know, keep these and that you would have 'em for your for your own notes, but in Galatians chapter five, uh, verse twenty two and twenty three where we find the fruit of the spirit are listed, it says But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And uh that these fruit of the Spirit are to be evident in the Christian's life. And we began last week looking at the first one. And that is the fruit of love, and talking about how that should be part of our lives. And we know that the fruit of the Spirit is uh that God would be glorified. We looked at how the evidence of salvation is this fruit being evident in our life. It's a it's what you see growing on the branches. is is a picture and a testimony to uh the fact that you are a child of God, that you are saved. And the first one of those fruits that should be evident is love. We talked about we we We love because it's keeping the law in uh Romans 13. And uh we talked about how that we need to love because it's uh in fulfilling the law. It's a fact that it was was commanded to us, it was commanded for us to love. Because all things work together for good to them that love God, we saw that, that God has prepared great things. for those that that love him and keep his commandments. That those who love God are known of God, that God knows us, that we're close by the heart of God and and And he is we're known of him, and a crown of life will be given. We began looking at how we should love last week. We talked about, first of all, loving indeed. That it ought to not just be uh words. Not just lip service, but indeed. We're to love in action as well, and how important that is that we uh be doers of the word and not just hearers, and that our love for Christ is evident And we taught we ended last week as we concluded with the idea that our love should be without dissimilation or hypocrisy. Should be without dissimilation. That word means hypocrisy. And in Romans twelve nine we saw that, and in first Peter one twenty-two, I don't think I gave you that verse, but he says, Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love. hypocrites in this matter of of love, that we ought to be true and ask God for the love of our brethren and and the lost alike and we We spent some time there last week. Now we want to go on. We also are, according to the word of God, how do we love? We should love. Our love should increase. And abound, the Bible says. Our love should increase and abound. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, verse number 12, he says, And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you. So we are to increase and abound in love toward one another. That's something that as this fruit of the Spirit is evident in our life, as the fruit of the Spirit begins to grow, that there should be an increasing of love. There should uh our love should be abounding. It should be growing. Almost the idea of overflowing. And uh you understand as Christians that if our love for the brethren, our love for God, our love, you know, if you want your love to increase, then you've got to take some time. And invest in that which you love. You know, people that have uh you know they enjoy one particular thing. What you know w will say me, I I I enjoy if I get the opportunity to to do some cooking. That's a better way to say it than my daughter said it when somebody asked her what does your dad enjoy doing and she said he enjoys smoking That's not the way we want to put it, but uh he he enjoys smoking meat or, you know, I even that's just really uh he like he likes cooking is a better way to put it. But I enjoy that and you know what? I I'll read uh you know recipe stuff and I'll I'll watch these other barbecue guys from around the country and they've been doing it a long time and they're recognized and I'll I'll watch and learn a little about their their methods and And I try and incorporate that into mind and trying to improve. And it's something that I enjoy. And so I spend time learning about it. Spend time and effort. And if you want your love to increase, you want your love to abound, you've got to spend some time learning about God. Some time learning about one another in the church. I you want your love to increase. It doesn't just happen because. Just because we're supposed to, it doesn't just happen. You say, okay, God wants my love to increase. God wants my love to abound. If my love's going to increase, for for Brother Kevin and and Miss Margaret, then I've got to spend a little bit of time with them. I've got to talk to them and find out how are things going and and what's going on in your life and be able to share a little bit of time with them. And that kind of bonds our spirit just a little bit. And then we get to grow together just a little bit and over time I can say, hey, I want you to know I'm praying for your son. I know that's a big burden on your guys' heart and I'm praying with you And that grows put gets us a little bit closer. And then, you know, y you begin to build that friendship by spending a little bit of time. It's we're supposed to increase. That's what God's Word says. So you need to look at it and say, what do I need to do? That my love would increase. That my love would abound. That's what the devotional is for, that our love would increase towards God by spending time with God By reading his word, by learning more about him. So we're doing that part of it. We're supposed to increase and abound, and he says here, towards one another, even as we do towards you. So let me ask you, is your love for the brethren increasing? Is your love abounding? Is it growing? Are you investing time and effort in other believers in the church? You know, and that's not just one believer. You know, sometimes a young person will uh begin to get attracted to a young lady or a young young man will will or a young lady will get attracted to a man. And what do all their friends say to them after just a little bit? Man You don't have any time for us anymore. You know, you're just you're always with that person and and and it's like we're not even your friends anymore. And you know, there's just all of their time is invested right there. Well, let me just encourage you, brethren, be careful about that in the church. You need to be careful about I mean if the only person I ever go out to lunch with is Bob and Carol. Now I've never gone to lunch with them, so no no I'm just kidding. I think we've gone a couple of times, but if if if that's all Yeah, well see I'm waiting for Carol to retire this coming June and then then we can go to lunch more often, you know. Um right now she's working, so yeah. You know, she's gotta earn enough money to pay for it, amen. But I'm saying if that's the only person I mean, yeah, you know, we're good friends and we can spend time together, but if th she's the only th she and uh Bob are the only people I ever went to lunch with I'm not increasing and abounding, maybe towards them, but what about the rest of the church? So I caution you need to be careful that you're not always I know we get people we're we're comfortable around and Easy to share with and so on, but we've got to be careful that it's not always the same person. That we spread the love around a little bit. Amen And uh so we need to increase and abound in love, and that's done through effort, through planning, through systematically saying, hey, this is what God wants me to do. I want to increase in this area. And uh 2 Corinthians uh 12, 15 says, and I will verily gladly spend and be spent for you. Though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved. The apostle Paul is saying, hey, I'm willing to be spent, I'm willing to give it all. And the more abundantly I love you. He says, I I just more and more. I'm loving you more and more. This is the example in First Thessalonians three twelve, we read that. We just read that. That one, he says Even as we do towards you. He says, you want to abound in love just like we do towards you. And then the verse I gave you in 2 Corinthians 12. 15 shows how he loved. He loved even though he wasn't being loved back. He says, hey, even though the more I spend, the more effort I give, the more I try and increase and abound in my love towards you, the less I be loved. The less you like it. But he's saying, I love you, I love you anyway, and we ought to be like that. And that leads right into our next point. How should we love? We should love. Our love should increase and abound, but our love also should be like Christ. Who loved us. The Bible tells us in John 15, 9: As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you. Continue ye in my love. We're to continue in the love that God has for us and to love like Christ loved in John 13, verse 34 and 35. John 13, 34 and 35, he says, A new commandment I give unto you That ye love one another as I have loved you. Now what a what a high what a high standard that is. To love one another as Christ loved us. A true one-way compassionate agape love. That's how we're supposed to love one another That kind of way. So all of these other ways would take care of themselves and be summed up if we did it as Christ loved us So next time you're mad at Tiffany because something she hasn't done yet, uh, you know, think think about Christ's love. And how Christ would love in that situation. And uh we're using him because he mentioned that this morning, but you know we're all guilty of that. and what somebody said or how somebody treated us at church or or didn't say or uh you know, the situation that arrived. Every i when something comes up in your heart your spirit starts to think, man, why did they or why don't they? Think about how Christ Loved us. And that kind of love is how we're supposed to love others. And that read the love in Corinthians 13. And think about Christ's love for us meets every one of those standards of what love is. And are we loving that way? So our last point here with regards to this, the fruit of the Spirit. Can you ask me afterwards, Harry? Thank you. So our last point in this area is going to be who should we love? And again, we're just walking down through the scriptures, the pages of the scriptures, and want to see what do the Bibles tell us. And there are many that I know you could come up with, and we've looked at a couple in recent Sundays. We of course know first of all that we ought to love God. We ought to love God. We know that. Let me give you these verses so that you have them in Matthew 22, 37. And Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Verse number 30. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. So amen Matthew 22, 37, Mark 12, 30, and then Luke chapter 10, verse number 27. And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, with all thy strength, and with all thy mind. And thy neighbor as thyself. So we are to love God. Do you love God that way? Is He the center, the focal point, the most important part of your life? Do you love God with all your heart? You know, if you love God, you're going to love the things that God loves. Amen. If you love God, you're going to love the things that God loves. And that's going to be natural. It's just going to happen. Um I remember uh Alicia has always been a child after my own heart. I mean, from the time that she was an in Infant. She always wanted to be with dad. She's always been daddy's girl, and as a child, you know, she just wanted to do whatever dad was doing. She wanted to be with dad and she would go to work with me. And and we'd be working on stuff. She would go ride in the tractor with me all the time and we just spent a lot of time together when when she was a little girl. But she always wanted to have or do whatever dad was doing. It was that love in her heart for for her father that she wanted to be doing whatever dad was doing, she wanted to be wherever dad was, she wanted to have whatever dad had, whatever dad was eating, she Wanted to eat, you know, that kind of stuff And that picture is exactly the way it should be with our Lord and Savior. If we really love him that way, that type of thing is what's going to be be most important to us. That's what's gonna draw us. That's what we're gonna be focusing on and going towards. We can't say that we love God with all of our heart and with all our soul and all our mind. When we don't love the things that he loves, when we don't go after the things of God. And we know also, secondly, that you're supposed to love your neighbor. Love your neighbors yourself. Now there's a number of uh scriptures with this, Matthew 19, 19, uh Matthew 22, 39. Both of those say thou shalt love thy neighbors thyself. Mark 1231. And Mark 12. 33. We can move down to Galatians chapter 5, verse number 14. And James 2, verse number 8. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well. Ye do well. If you love your neighbor as yourself. And you know, of course, uh the biblical definition of a neighbor is someone in need that's Not necessarily the guy that lives next door, although it could be them, but it does not exclude, you might say, well, my neighbor's only three doors down. Beyond that, they're no longer my neighbor I mean it doesn't exclude anybody that doesn't live directly close to you and you say, Oh well I mean Joel he lives in Pennsylvania. He ain't my neighbor, you know. I don't gotta help him or I don't gotta love him, you know. He he's uh you know he's not easy to be able to do it. Even in my state, you know? And so uh but loving your neighbor is is having a compassion and a love for mankind, and we know that. Um those men and women Another command in the Word of God, we know that uh men you are commanded to love your wife. Love your wife. In Ephesians chapter 5, 25 and 28. Husbands, love your wives, amen. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. Ephesians 5, verse number 33 as well. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself. And in Colossians 3. 19. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. You know, uh a lady's greatest need is to be loved. Is to be secure and to know that she's loved. And that is why God commanded men To love. It's not the natural thing for a man, but it's the greatest need for a lady is to be loved, to feel to feel secure, to know that that her husband loves her without reservation, without question, and I know that, you know Maybe in her mind she says, Well, uh, you know, I didn't do this or I didn't do that but those things not being done should never in her mind make her think that he's not gonna love me or that my position in the home is not secure, my position in my relationship is not secure. They need to know that, that this is secure and that I'm loved. And you know what? Just saying that you love her does not give that security. That's shown through action. through consistency, uh, through loving the way Christ loves. And uh command for us, the greatest need for a man is to be honored is to be honored. Even more than the intimate physical relationship is to be honored. That's why Christ commands the lady to honor. to reverence her husband. Because a man needs that. You know that the minute that you begin to uh tear him down You know, I know men are are strong, right? And we have this front where we have everything in control and and we're okay. But you know we get a lot of that strength from our wives who are behind us no matter what, who respect us and love us and and even though we we mess up, I mean, you know, when you as a lady you tear down your husband and you beat him up and say, I told you that was a ton of And you shouldn't have turned that way. You know, you bought this car and you shouldn't have done that and I told you you shouldn't have done that. Boy, you you made some stupid mistakes, but I mean you're just tearing him apart. And as much as you need to be loved, he needs to be honored. You want to have a relationship that works. Follow the biblical example. Men love your wives. Love your wives like God wants you to love them. Make sure they know that they are first, that they are, that their position is secure, that you love them most of all. And ladies, respect Honor your husband. That's what God says that we ought to do. You have a marriage that works because you do it God's way. You're commanded to love God, love your neighbor, and love your wife. You're also commanded, you know that this one, to love your enemies. Supposed to love your enemies. Let me give you the verses for that. Matthew 5. 44. Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Man, it's just hard list that God's given us here. It's just love your enemies and pray for them and you know these these you know, Brother Glover talking about the opposition, the the opposing forces in our lives and sometimes they're the enemy and blessed God we're drawing a line in the sand and you know I mean th I mean but wow God says pray for them Love them. Love your enemies. Matthew 5, 46. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same Yesterday Andrew and uh Timothy were knocking in the apartments in the building next to Melissa and I. And uh Melissa and I came out and Andrew and Timothy Intimity, they came out and they were like, whoa, that was awesome. And I said, What? And they said, We just had a great door. I mean, we knocked on this door and this guy invited us in and we sat down and we were talking to him and You know, he he said, Man, it's great to see young people out spreading the the love of the Lord. And we sat down and and he was telling us, he obviously been in church, he was saved. I mean he knew God and and uh knew about the Bible and he was telling us telling us things and and when we ask them the question on the questionnaire, what can churches do to be more involved in their communities or to help in their communities, he says, you know what, I think that, you know Here's the thing. We need to love people. He said, if you love your family, I mean everybody does that Everybody loves their family, but we need to love people, which is exactly what you boys are doing right now. Getting out and sharing the love of Christ. And before they concluded, he he said, Can I pray for you guys? Can I pray with you? Ask God to bless you as you're going. And uh I mean they were excited when they came out of that door, but he said, Listen, if we love we love our families, what's that? I mean everybody's you know loves their families. They got a family that that loves them back and and y you love your family But we are not just supposed to love our families, we're to love our enemies. And uh that's what the Bible tells us. We're to love our enemies For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same. Luke 6, 27. But I say unto you, which hear love your enemies, do good to them which hate you. In Luke 6, 35, but love your enemies and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again, and your reward shall be great. Your reward shall be great. Isn't that awesome? I mean God could just tell us, hey, you love your enemies. That's what you're supposed to do If you don't, guess what? You know, that's what sometimes my kids are like, why do I have to do that? And I said, because if you don't, guess what? Uh you you're gonna get it done. I mean God could have said do it. But he not only said do it, but he said, hey, your reward shall be great. If this fruit of the spirit of love is evident in our life and we are doing what God commands us to do in this area, yes, it's hard to love our enemies, and it's a challenge, and sometimes we we we don't want to love them, we want to get even with them. But he says, hey, if you do it, you're going to be rewarded. And man, I don't know what that looks like. I don't have a list given to me in the scriptures about how God's going to reward us. But I just take him at his word and trust that we're going to be rewarded. I, you know, it may very well just be in our other relationships If we can love our enemies as God tells us to, maybe He would take the relationships that we have that mean a lot to us, and and man, they'll just grow and flourish and explore And we'll stand sometimes in awe and say, boy, I don't deserve such a great relationship here. Look, this is amazing. That's a blessing of God But what a thrill to think that if I'm doing this, that God's going to reward us. Reward you for loving your enemies the way God wants you to. Great is your reward, he says. Great is your reward. You're going to receive a great reward. Praise God for that. We're to love our enemies. You're also supposed to love the brethren. Love the brethren. Let me give you the scriptures for this. There's a lot of these. John chapter 13. In verse number 34, he says, A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye have loved one another. In John 15, 12. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. In John 15, 17. These things I command ye that ye love one another In 2 John 1, verse number 5, love one another, the Bible says. In 1 John, in 1 John chapter 3, Verse 11 and 23. 1 John 3, 11 and 23. Commanded to love one another. And in 1 John 4, 11. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. I mean, you think about it. If God loves you, nobody knows you as good as you know you. You know, and you think, man, if God loves me, surely I can love others. If God can love me, and I know who I am, and I know what I'm like, and I know how short I come and how much I disappoint and fail my Savior, and if God can love me. If God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. They say, man, I can't love them. They did this. But what did we do to Christ? And God still loves us. And when we think about God loving us, it really shouldn't be that hard to love one another. That's who we should love according to the Word of God, the commands that are given to us how we should love and why we should love. Tall orders, I know, but this is a fruit of the Spirit. This is not something that we're going to be able to just do. We can't just work this up and say, okay, I'm just going to love everybody. And then somebody comes up and stomps on my toe. I didn't appreciate that. Somebody cuts me off in traffic. Somebody does something and and And you know the old flesh rares up and oh man and but the spirit walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh The fruit of the Spirit. This fruit will be evident in our lives. It's not something we have to do. You say, Pastor Caleb, How could we possibly do that? I mean that list you gave us and the requirements with regards to love, I mean in the beginning, you know, I was doing okay, but the list kept going. It kept growing and saying, forget it, this is hopeless. You're right But you don't have to do it. The Spirit of God that worketh in you will do it. If you just yield to Him and let the fruit of the Spirit be evident and grow. In your life. Let's close the prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you, God, for the fruit of the Spirit. We thank you, God, that this command that you've given us, although it is a tall order, we understand we don't have to do it on our own. That Lord, you do it through us and by the power of the Spirit of God in us. And Lord, we pray that the fruit of the Spirit, this fruit of love, would be evident in our life That Lord, truly you would be glorified because of it. And Lord, what a thrill to think that we get to experience a great reward by just being obedient and doing what you've got asked us to do. Well, would you go with us as we go into the morning service, speak to our hearts, and stir us for you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.