Uh that those deal with our relationship with God, that thou shalt you know that love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. That that deals with the first four commandments. If you love God with all your heart, you're putting him first, then you know what? You'll have no other gods before him. Right? You won't set up to thee any graven images. You're not going to take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. You're going to remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Those first four, they're dear with God. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. But then the second commandment is like unto it, and that is love thy neighbor as thyself. And the transitional commandment is the fifth commandment, honor thy mother and thy father. And then, but you know what? If you love your neighbour as yourself, I think that this fits into that, you probably aren't going to kill them You're not going to kill them. The six commandments is, you know, thou shalt not kill. If you love your neighbors yourself, I don't think that you're going to commit adultery. With thy neighbor's husband or with thy neighbor's wife. I don't think you're going to do that. If you love them as yourself, you wouldn't do that to them. You're going to observe that commandment. And then you also probably aren't going to steal from them. Thou shalt not steal. The eighth commandment. And I just believe that if you love your neighbors yourself, you're probably not going to bear false witness. Number nine, thou shalt not bear false witness. You're not going to bear false witness. And if you love your neighbor yourself, you're going to be excited for the way God's blessed them. You'll be happy for what they have. You're not going to covet. and want, number ten, covet. You're not going to try and covet the things that they have. So all of the commandments given to us by God, the ten commandments are summed up in these two commandments. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And And the second is love thy neighbor as thyself. We're going to look at that this morning. Love thy neighbor. Love thy neighbor Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity to be in your house. I pray, God, you'll take the next few minutes as we gather around the Word, Lord, that you would open the scriptures to us, that you would speak to us, you would stir our hearts. Help us, dear Lord, to live in and through the power of God where you enable us to love our neighbor as ourselves. We ask this in Jesus' name Amen. You know, here in our text, if you're in Matthew chapter 22, that's where I had you turn, right? Look down in verse number 37, 38, and 39, we see the verses here. He says, Jesus said unto them, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor. as thyself. You see, if we're going to observe and follow this commandment, I would like you we're going to look at several passages in John. Would you turn over the book of John? I want you to see this in John chapter 13. We w we want everybody to love us like God commands. We want everybody to love us without reservation, without any requirements, without expecting anything in return. We want the love coming towards us to be the way Christ would want it to be. But for some reason, when it's going the other way, a lot of times the love that we want to share or that we want to give to others has qualifications. has some requirements, some standards that, well, yeah, I I'll love you if you oh I'll continue to love you as long as We are not supposed to do that. I want you to see if we're going to love our neighbor as ourselves, we don't need to love people the way we think we want to love them. We don't need to love them by putting up our guides and and our list of rules and qualifications and who's worthy of love and who is not. But we need to love the way Jesus loved. Amen? Let me show that to you in the scripture that we're to love the way Jesus loved. In John chapter 13, are you there? John chapter 13, look down at verse number 34. He says, A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another. What's the next five words? As I have loved you. Ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye love one another. But you see here he says, Love one another how? As I have loved you. Right? That's the standard. That's a pretty high standard. I mean when we put that qualifier on it, that really that Uh you feel like giving up you feel like saying, Okay, it's impossible. Forget it. I can't I can't love him that way. I can't love her that way. I mean uh uh Unreservedly, unashamedly, uh without reservation, without any restrictions, without any requirements. I'm supposed to love like that. That's what God says Not our way, but as He has loved us. And my, if we think about Jesus Christ and walk through the No Testament, we could We could spend the next several weeks just walking through the New Testament and thinking about the stories of Christ and how he demonstrated and showed his love to us. I mean, I know in your mind, probably right away, different stories come to your mind, and visually, if you think like I do visually, I picture the stories that we see in the scriptures. I picture different times and things that Jesus did and how he showed his love towards us. Let me just say that God is a God of love. But he is also holy. He's also just. God never parked holiness. For the sake of love. Yes, we are to love our neighbor as ourselves, and yes, God is a God of love, but understand that God never parked holiness. For love. God remained holy. Just and right is He, the Bible says. He's just. He is holy. Be holy, for I am holy. And there's this mindset that's prevalent in the world today that as long as I'm seeing somebody saved. What I do and how I act and how I live doesn't matter. I want you to understand that that's not true. Yes, salvation of souls is paramount. God's last commission is our first command. Amen. We are to be winning the loss with the gospel of Jesus Christ, to go ye therefore into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We are to do that. But may maybe I'm wrong. You you come to me if I'm wrong. You show me in the Word of God, where God said, okay, as long as you're winning sold, how you live doesn't matter. Come on now. Are you guys awake? Are you are you there? Is you're just looking at me like I like I just said something foreign. Like maybe what I've said doesn't make sense. I I I see the command and the demand of Jesus Christ that we live holy lives. That's what's pleasing and honoring to God. He never parked holiness on the altar of love. Yes, we still love, but we are to live holy. Let me also say that as we're talking about that love, that the Bible love goes directly against and contrary to everything this world teaches. today. The world's philosophy and mindset today is is greater, I mean it the the the gulf that's between The way the average person thinks today, and how the Word of God would have us think, is so great today. Today's mindset and philosophy and idea about love is so far from what God would want. And in every area, I mean the world's philosophy is you've got to love yourself. How can you love anybody else if you don't love yourself? And they push and they promote and they they they I mean with an agenda They push the idea that you first gotta be in love with yourself. After all, God helps those who help themselves. This idea, I want you to understand, it used to be, years ago, the difference between what an average person thought and what the Bible taught wasn't that far. But as the world gets more and more where men and women and people are doing what is right in their own eyes, we're getting further and further and further from the truth of the book. And as Christians, we've got to be sure and give back to the Word of God. And understand, and we we've got to. It takes vigilance to not be impacted and influenced in our thinking by this world Let me ask you, how many hours a week do you spend listening to news, listening to podcasts, watching Hollywood? Taking in sports. I'm asking how many hours a week does the world have an influence on your mind? And you come one hour a week and have the Word of God influence your mind. Now you tell me who is influencing you more. That's right. That's right. You see, if we're gonna think like God wants us to think, we've got to spend some more time in the Word and less time in the world. What we're dealing with this morning is love, loving thy neighbor. But what I want you to understand, what the world sees as love, For the large majority of what is portrayed as love in the world is not love. Most of the time it's sensual and sensual infatuation. It's sexual desire, but it's not love. We are to love our neighbor as ourselves If we're going to love like Christ loved, this new commandment, he says, love as I have loved you. Then there's several ways in the scriptures that uh I mean we could we could give you many different things, but I'm just gonna give you three things Just more about how Christ loved that we're supposed to love as he loved us. First of all, I think that you're to love like a brother Love like a brother. The Bible says in Romans 12, verse number 10, it says, be kind, kindly affectionate one to another, with brotherly love and honor, preferring one another. You know, a brother loves in adversity. A brother loves at a time of hardship, of trial. A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity to the scripture. says. A time of hardship, a time of tribal. That means that we're going to be there when things are rough. When things are going down. You understand everybody can go to the picnic. Everybody can enjoy the barbecue. I'm talking about loving your neighbor as yourself. I'm talking about Loving those that you're friends with, those that you would call church family, those that you would look and say, oh yeah, that's my friend. Everybody can show up for the barbecue. But loving as a brother is when the guy calls you at ten o'clock at night and says, Hey, I'm stuck. Can you help? Oh man, I would love to, but you know, I'm already in bed. I already got changed, I got cleaned up, you know, can you call? I was gonna name some people, but we'll we'll leave the people out of it for now. You know what I'm saying? A brother loves in adversity. That's when they need you most. That's when the the the true display of your love is shown. When we are available at that time of adversity when we Drop whatever else we had when we when we take whatever else we were go doing and put it aside and say, There's a brother, there's a sister, there's a friend who needs my help right now What I had going, I'm going to let go and I'm going to go help. If we're going to love like Jesus loved, then we've got to love as a brother, and that means being available in a time of adversity. This is fulleho love. You know, that comes from the words, Philadelphia comes from that, Phila, the city of brotherly love. This is the kind of love that we are supposed to have for one another. When things are rough, in the hard time. Listen, everyone is there at some point in their life in their hour of need. And if anybody would be there for them, it ought to be the Christian I hope this is sinking in this morning. The only person that's registering anything is Galina. The rest of you are just looking at me. Maybe maybe only Glina needs this this morning. I don't know. You understand there's times that people have needs and we need to be there for them. There's times that they need a brother or a sister to come alongside them when there's a struggle, when there's a challenge, when there's a burden in their life. And too many of us are too consumed with our own lives to make ourselves available to love someone else I think about Jesus' love in the hour of need for Mary, the sister of Lazarus. In John 11, 32 through 36, he says, then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, She fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in his spirit and was troubled, and said, Where have you laid him? Then said they said unto him, Lord, come and see The shortest verse in the Bible, verse number 35, Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him You see, the Jews looked at Jesus and saw his tears, and they said, Look how he loved Lazarus. But you know what I think Jesus is crying for? You see, Jesus, if you know the story, Jesus by providence, by his plan, he delayed on purpose because he wanted to be magnified. He wanted to show the power of his resurrection, wanted to raise Lazarus from the dead. You see, he knew that they were going to be restored. He knew that Lazarus was going to be raised from the dead and that the pain of separation that they felt at this hour was not going to last forever. He knew where Lazarus was. I don't think that he was concerned about Lazarus. I think he was praying for the heartache and the struggle that these Jews, the friends of Lazarus, and that Mary had to feel I think he looked at Mary and he said, Man, I'm sorry. As a child of mine, you had to endure this pain. I'm sorry you had to feel this separation. I'm sorry you had to go through this. so that the God could be glorified, so that Lazarus could be raised from the dead. And he knew ultimately his plan and they were going to be restored. But Jesus cried for them because of what they had to deal with. You see the love of Jesus? This is the kind of love that we're to have. We have friends and loved ones that go on to be in glory. And I think Jesus feels our pain. And he knows we're going to be restored again. He knows that we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. He knows that one day in the resurrection we'll be gathered together. But Jesus here, He shed tears. Because he loved and he knew the pain of loss that they felt. Jesus loved like a brother. Hey, a brother's born for adversity He's there in the hour of need. A brother loves at all times, even when nothing is coming in return. Even when you don't give back that love. You know, sometimes our kindnesses are motivated out of what will this benefit mean? Right. How will this benefit me? You know how you know if your kindness is motivated out of that? Let me ask you this. Have you ever said, after all I've done for them? Come on. After all the times I helped them, after the things I've put up with Well that says is what I did I did because I was expecting something in return. And I'm not getting it. And now we are weighing the differences. I remember one time You know, out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. One time I took is when I was an assistant pastor in another church, and I took one of the other assistants out to dinner, and I paid for his lunch. And we were back, and uh at that time we were working on a printing press, and um you know this is we were putting together a very large five-color press. Each section weighed about 12,000 pounds. And uh we're working on this press and we're using hydraulic rams and working putting this together. I don't even remember the conversation or how we got into this, but apparently this had been the second time that I had taken this guy out and I'd I had bought his lunch. And he was much older than me. But I was just joking. I don't I don't remember how we how how we got to this point, but I said to him Well now you're going to owe me two lunches. I really was just joking, but you know what, out of the abundance of the heart to mouth speaketh, I said that. And he looked at me and said, What? He said, I didn't ask you to take me out. And I didn't ask you to buy my lunch. I would have just paid for my own lunch if I've got to owe you something now. And I felt about this big. He was right. Did I do that so that I could get repaid? Or did I do that out of love for him? See, a lot of times the things that we do really aren't out of love. They're out of how it's going to benefit us in the future. Everybody knows Bob's loaded. He's got all kinds of money. So I'll buy him lunch because he'll be able to buy me lunch next week, you know. He'll let me drive his his Mustang, amen. You know what I'm saying? I mean we we evaluate like that This is one of the reasons why I stop and I make myself take time to talk to Harry Because I know that the time I spend with Harry is for Harry. There's nothing that I can expect or demand from him. But for a few minutes I can check my motives and say, am I loving like Christ loves? If I love like Christ loves, I'll take time for Harry. I'll take time for Angelica. If I love like Christ loves. If I don't love like Christ, I won't stop for him. How evaluate who in the church could be the most beneficial? Who in the church has the most money? Who in the church has the the best influence? And I'll spend time with them. Right? You see, a brother loves. If we're gonna love like Christ loves, we love at all times and without expecting something in return. We just give. We just give. And let God take care of it. Sometimes we even do this in the church. We even do it to God. Have you ever heard or have you ever said, after all I've done for that church? You see, we love like God without expecting anything in return. We love like a brother. Not only do we see that Jesus loved like a brother, we see he loved like a mother. Now I know that there are some selfish mothers. There are some mothers who need a good spanking. They they are so selfish and consumed with themselves and it's all about them and their children are just a burden to them and they they wish they never had them. And that's wrong. But I think for the most part For the most part, moms are the purest picture of selfless love. Because they just prefer children over themselves. They give their kids the best piece of pie. They give their kids all the best of their time. They serve without wanting anything. in return. It's truly a picture of selfless love. Be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love and honor, preferring one another. For the most part, I think moms really are a picture of that. Just preferring their children over themselves, putting others before yourself That's just hard. Putting others before ourselves. That's hard. I mean, sometimes we don't even want to put our mate before ourselves. Hun, the food's getting cold. I'm gonna eat instead of waiting. Man, it's time to go to bed. I'm going to sleep. You come whenever you want. I mean, there's so many things in our lives where it it just becomes about us, even with our mate. And instead of preferring them and say, what would you like? Where do you want to go? How can I help you? What would you enjoy? What would you want to do? Let me do this for you It becomes all about us. And what is he or what is she doing for me? How is he meeting my need? How is she meeting my need? No, I want this. I desire this. I'm gonna do this. The scripture says if we love like Jesus, we are gonna prefer one another. And listen, brother, not talking about husbands and wives. This is talking about your enemies. This is talking about people you don't even know. We don't have time to teach the parable of the uh Good Samaritan, but you understand by that parable that our neighbor is anybody in need. And we're to love our neighbor as ourselves. That means it could be somebody you don't even know, but somebody that's in need. We are to love them that way. And we coming back to the home relationship to the husband and wives, I'll tell you what, it would transform our marriages if all we did was prefer one another Putting someone else before us. I mean, putting others first, that's hard. I mean, let's be honest, how many of you recognize this? There is no way that guy's getting in here. No way. No he I mean he can wait in the back of the line like everybody else. He's not, I mean, you're about to rear in the car in front of you because that guy is not getting in. I mean, forget it. No way. Hey, I've been there. That stinking bum, he could have gotten line back there like I did. Try and come up here and got in line Man, we just that it's a hard thing to do, preferring others. Philippians 2, 3 and 4 says, Let nothing be done through strife and vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Wow. If we were honest, there's not very many people that we think better of than we think better of ourselves We put ourselves up here. And most of the world's down here. And if they work real hard, they might measure up. Right? I'm talking about the way we actually think, not what we say But if we follow the Bible, let nothing be done through strife for being gordily, but in lowliness to mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. You see Look not on your own things, but every man on the things of others. You say, man, if I do that, you see the world's philosophy is look out for numero uno, right? Look for number one. God's philosophy is look out for somebody else. You say, well if I do that, who's gonna look out for me? God will. God will. Do you think you can trust him? Only Gus? Do you think you can trust God to look out for you? God will look out for you. God will look out for you. We are to look out for others. And let God take care of us. I'll tell you what, he's going to do a lot better job than we would. You're going to be amazed at how well God takes care of you. Sometimes you'll be shocked. You'll be embarrassed. You'll say, man, God is way too good to me. I don't deserve this. I've got to hide God's blessing, or people are going to think I'm robbing banks. I mean God is so good. Ain God good to give us so many blessings undeserving. That's what we are. We ought to thank him. Love and praise him a little bit today and a whole lot more tomorrow. That's a fun song, isn't it? Ain't God good. God's looking out for you. But not if you're looking out for you. If you're looking out for you, God says, okay, you got it. But if we love like Jesus loves, put others first, then God takes care of us. This is an agape love This is the kind of love that Christ has for us. That's an unconditional love. An unconditional love. Did Christ love us conditionally Did he say if you do this, this, and this, I'll love you? Come on now, talk to me. No. No. But God commended his love toward us and that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. He loves you just the way you are It's not to say he's gonna accept anything that's in your life. He may encourage and challenge you to grow. But his love is unconditional. He gave it all up for us, became sin for us who knew no sin, that we Might be made the righteousness of God in Him because of His love for us. God's love for us, let me just throw this out. God's love for us, the Bible says constraints us. It ought to motivate us. I mean I'll tell you what, I'm I'm I'm ashamed at how poor of a husband I am for how amazing of a wife I have. But you know what her love for me does? It motivates me. When she shows her love and demonstrates her love for me I say, man, I gotta do better. I gotta be a better husband. I gotta work harder. I gotta step up my game. I can't let this stay like this. I gotta fix this. Because she showed me that love. You know, when we think about Christ's love, that's what it should do for us. God loves us either way. But it ought to motivate us. It ought to motivate us to be willing to make those changes. Lastly, we love like a friend. I'm almost done. We're gonna be we'll be quick. We love like a friend. Be kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. You understand We're to be kind as Christians. We're to be kind. Are you generally kind? Or maybe I should ask, do you your family or do your friends think you're generally kind? I know we all think we are. Our assessment of ourselves sometimes is a little inflated, but what do other people think? Are we generally kind? To be kind is to forgive. Are you willing to forgive? To be kind, to be a friend is to be encouraging. Wherefore, comfort yourselves together and edify one another even as also ye do. We are to edify one another. To edify is to build up to encourage. We're to encourage one another. Are your actions and your words encouraging to those you love? Are they helping them? Are they lifting them up? Are they building them up? Do you know how encouraging it is just to know somebody's praying for you? When you're going through a struggle and a friend says, I'm going to pray for you. And don't just say it. You need to mean it. You know the Bible says that Jesus prays for you? We're going to love like Jesus. Jesus prays for us. We need to pray for one another. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, he says, you need to observe the 10-to-1 rule. He'd tell all of his preacher boys, for every prayer you have for yourself. You pray ten prayers for others. That's what he told all them. So Jesus said, A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you. How are you doing on your love? Last week and this week, this is the month of love. This is February. It's Valentine's. All about love. Do you love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind? And are you loving your neighbor as yourself