Have your Bibles this morning, turn to the book of Mark. Our text this morning is going to come from Mark chapter number twelve. And uh really just a uh two two verses here is gonna be the the focus. In Mark chapter 12, verse 30 and 31, the Bible says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. And with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. This is uh Vision Sunday. uh the beginning of the year when we as a church kind of just look ahead and I don't know any other way to be than to evaluate our ability and our current capacity and where we're at and say okay what what could we accomplish this year and kind of just trying to lay out some goals and I think it's it's good to shoot for something. If you uh shoot at nothing, you'll hit it every time. Uh so sometimes you might shoot for a goal and you you come a little bit short, but you certainly got a whole lot further than you would have if you hadn't been shooting at anything And so our our plan is just to kind of lay out some of the theme and the idea and that by and large will be tonight. Uh we will give away the calendar this evening and let you know what's happening throughout the year on what date so you can uh plan accordingly. Our goal was to uh You know, talking about shooting for something and missing it. Uh our goal was to give you the directory tonight. Uh but we're having a problem with our our printer not b it's it's The color sheets are coming out with extra lines they're not supposed to have on there. And uh so we don't want to produce them that way, so we're working on uh secondary option and That will be coming soon. We are planning to give that to you tonight, but it'll it'll be a good time together, but traditionally I would wait till Sunday evening to introduce the theme for the year But I really felt the Lord wanted me to introduce it this morning and speak on the theme for the year, which comes from these verses. But the theme for this year is loving God and loving people Loving God and loving people. I think we would do pretty well if throughout this year we could increase in our love for God and increase in our love for people. These are the two great commandments. This is the first, the greatest, and the second, like unto it, these commandments given to us by Jesus Christ. This text that we're looking at this morning here, we've uh uh just by way of context, we are in the last week of Jesus' life. Not far from Mount Cal Calvary where he'll lay his life down for the sins of all mankind. He's that's just right around the corner and As usual, the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the Scribes, they would come to Jesus and they would ask questions of him. Most of the time their desire was not to learn or to be taught of him, but it was to trip him up, to somehow try and find a inconsistency or to trick him and get him in trouble. You know, and one of those questions is asked here, if you just back up to verse number 28. The scribe comes to him and says, Here, and one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, he asked, which is the first commandment of all. He basically is saying, what commandment is the most important? Uh the Pharisees had just asked uh the question and said that that question, you know, uh, hey, should we pay our taxes? Trying to trip him up. I mean should we honor God and and everything belongs to God, right? Or wait a minute, should we give something and and Either way Jesus was going to be in trouble except Jesus in his wisdom says, Hey, render under Caesar that which is Caesar's and render unto God that which is God. We have responsibilities in both places and they they of course uh failed in their effort to try and entrap Jesus. But here they asked of him, what's the greatest? What's the most important commandment? What what should what should we be focusing on? Of all of the commandments, what should we focus on? Now, you know, they're of course speaking about the law and there's the Ten Commandments. Uh just by way of review, I'm sure you guys all have uh these memorized, but Number one, one pointing towards heaven. If you know the hand motions, it'll really help you. One pointing toward heaven is what Thou shalt have no other gods before me. God is first. He's number one. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. You continually switch between one and two hands. Number two, you have two fingers. Number two, take what this hand and bows down to this one. Thou shalt not bow to any graven image. Number three, back to one hand, take these three things right here. Number three, you take this and uh you grab it here and So what is that? No, I'm sorry, that's not I mixed up. Number three is you take the three fingers and put them at your at your lips. And so that is thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Then number four is back with four fingers, make a steeple or make a church. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Number five, put it together and salute. Honor thy mother and thy father. Number six, thou shalt not kill. Number six, take six, thou shalt not kill. Number seven, you take two fingers on this hand, the five on this hand, you take these two fingers and lay them down on the bed. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Okay. Then number eight, take these three fingers. Now what I I missed earlier, but you take these three fingers, put them in here, and pull away, thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not steal. Then number Nine is I mean if you can picture the you got your five and four Putting your hand on the Bible and I swear tell the whole truth, nothing but right. So thou shalt not bear false witness and then uh number ten All ten hands just grab and get all that you can get. Just reap and grab and pull it towards you. What is that? Thou shalt not covet. Correct. So those are the the ten uh commandments. And if that that will really help you to remember if you can put it with an action like that, unless you're like me and you still mess them up. Amen. But it it certainly helped me. It actually I think was in 2017 I taught on the Ten Commandments and that's when I introduced that to the church and from that time until this I've remembered them in order uh because of the hand motions So hopefully that helps you, but what he's saying here is, listen, of all the commandments, which one's the most important? And God Jesus here in the flesh, God in the flesh, he gives him his answer, and uh he tells us over in Matthew chapter 22, don't turn there, but he says, on all on these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. He's saying, listen, on these two commandments, you could every every other commandment would fit inside of these. So not only does he give them the answer, But he takes it one step further and moves it into what would be the spirit of the New Testament believer. That is, we obey the spirit of the law out of love, not a set of rules out of duty. In the Old Testament, the law was observed out of duty. It was kept because it was necessary. But in the New Testament, we move to be obedient and to follow the law because of love. And so we obey the spirit of the law. And that's what he says. If you love God first, you're going to do all the rest of the commandments. If you love your neighbors yourself, you're going to do all the rest of the commandments. four commandments have to do with loving God. The first four that we talked about, they all are our relationship this way. Number five is kind of a transitional. That's the hinge between our relationship with God and our relationship with man. Honor thy mother and thy father. Then the rest of the commandments have to do with our relationship with man. So all of the commandments are summarized in these two commandments. Where he says, Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. So I have two points this morning, loving God and loving people. Loving God and loving people. So we see here, first of all, that the admonition here, forgive me. I do have a cough drop and I'm going to use it. The admonition here is given to us to love God, to love God supremely, most of all. You know, true love is a surrendering of your will. a surrendering of your will, giving of your will over to another. True love is not an emooring. It is a decision, a decision to sacrifice and to give yourself for another. You you see that idea of true love even in our relationships. Uh just the Bible tells us there in Ephesians Submitting yourselves one to another. There is I I mean I understand I know in the husband-wife relationship that biblical roles and responsibilities should be adhered to and followed and the man is to be the head of the home. He is to be the leader And the wife is to be following. But I want you to know the Bible is also very clear that there is a mutual submission that takes place. We are submitting one to another. We are as men are dwelling with our wife in knowledge, the Bible says, knowing what her needs are, what her desires are, what her wants are. And if I truly love like I should, I will want to meet those needs And she would want to do the same for me. Why is it that I I will be sitting in the chair and Mary will come in and say, hey, would you like something to drink? Can I get you some tea or mountain dew or something? I mean why why isn't she come in and say if you weren't so lazy you would get something to drink yourself? No, because she's because she loves me. She has she's motivated by love and I'm still uh I'm still shocked by that how She desires or wants to do for me even something simple like that or can I help you some way? And what what motivates that? It's love that motivates that And that's what we should have is a all-encompassing love for God that allows us or motivates us to surrender our will to Him. We choose if we're going to love Him or not. Brother Taylor said as he talked about the discipleship program here that uh you know you want to sin less, let God decide. You want to uh you know be more s submitted to him and and that idea of Not stewardship. Sanctification, the idea of sanctification where we are slowly conformed into the image of God's Son and we are made more and more like Him, that process where God changes us, it is it takes submitting to Him. And it is a daily choice, where daily we have to decide and determine if we're going to do it. J. B. Phillips said, the man who does not love God is really just in love with himself. He's in love with his own position, with his own success and his own pleasure. You know, many people today are truly in love with themselves. In in our uh Instagram and uh selfie society. I can I can uh you know, throw a filter on here and remove uh the the gray hairs or give myself hair. Um you can uh you can, you know, I I think it's funny I'm not gonna go down that road. I'm gonna get myself in trouble, so I'm gonna I'm gonna leave that alone. Sometimes the things pop in your mind, you know, it's better left unsaid, amen? All right, so we see that many today are truly in love with themselves in this self-promotion society. That's really what it's all about. But what we're talking about this morning is a wholehearted love for God where we as God people truly love Him with our heart, our soul, our mind, and all of our strength. Not just a Sunday morning love, not just a uh uh love at a distance, not just a love that we know about, but a love that we pursue after, that we desire to know him, the kind of love that forgets about self and lives in continual obedience to him. That kind of love. A love that surrenders his will, a love that submits his work. We are serving him, beloved. When we love him, we serve him. Our our what once was duty becomes delight. Because of love. It becomes a delight to serve him in whatever capacity or in whichever means you are able to using your gifts and talents and skills for God and for his glory it becomes a delight unto you because of your love for him Paul said, it is the love of Christ that constraineth us. It is his love for us that motivates that reciprocal love. Beloved, we love him because he first loved us. He loved us when we were unlovable. He loved us when there was no possibility of anything of value being given in return. He loved us, all man, when man as mankind rejected him. Yet he still loved us. It is that love that motivates us, that should sustain our worship. Is your worship motivated by love for him or by what you get out of it? You know, for some, worship really is just a matter of uh wanting to feel spiritual Wanting to come in and and kind of check that box and and I did my duty for the week and now I can go out and do what I want to do. Just what they could get out of it. Or is your worship your cause and motivation for gathering in the house, God's house even today? Is it motivated because of love? A. W. Tozer said, we must repudiate this great modern wave of seeking God only for his benefits. The sovereign God wants to be loved for himself and honored for himself, but that is only the part of it, for he wants the other part to be that we would know him. That he is all, and all we need Beloved, I ask of you today, are you a student of God because you love him? You know, when you love someone, you want to know them deeply. You want to get to know them. When Mary and I were dating, we would sit in the dining room at college and she would sit across from me and I would look into her eyes. And I would say, talk to me. Talk to me. Tell me about yourself. Tell me about. And she looked at me and she said, one day. you're gonna look at me and say, Would you stop talking? I I want you to know I have not asked her that I have not said that, but I have asked her to get to the point a couple times. Get to the point. You want to know them. I wonder how bad do you want to know God? Is reading his love letter to you a duty? A drudgery? A battle Or is it you're seeking to know the one you love? Wow. Understand, beloved, I'm not talking this morning about something that would be nice. I'm not just talking about something that would be good if Christians everywhere would do it. I'm talking about what Jesus Christ, who was God in the flesh, said was the first and greatest commandment in red letter in your Bible He said, you are to love the Lord your God above all else. With all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. That's our motivation this year. Our goal, our ambition, to try and love God with all of our heart. John Blanchard, I would like to tell you his story. John Blanchard stood up from the bench and pressed his Navy uniform down, tight around him, looking and searching through the crowd for The young lady whose heart he knew very, very well, but whose face he had never seen. You see, it's interesting because many months before, the relationship began when Mr. Blanchard was in a library. And he pulled a book off the shelf and he was captivated, not by the text of the book that he had grabbed, but by the notes that he found in the margin. The penmanship was eloquent. The comments and thoughts were were provoking and seemed to show some real uh character and meaning. And he he looked through the book and found in the front uh that the previous owner had written her name there, Miss Hallis Mainwell. And Miss Hallis Mainwell, he just was captivated by her. And so he This is many years ago. We're talking about World War II. There was no internet. There was no just Google her He was determined to find this lady. And he searched high and low and ultimately found her and found out that she was living in New York City. So he wrote her a letter and asked to communicate via letter and they began to correspond. Shortly after their correspondence began, he was uh called up and he was sent off in World War II. Thirteen months he was out on the battlefront, and those thirteen months she was a constant friend to him, a companion. They grew and actually a a romance was budding. Even though they had never even met, there was something there, a spark in his heart, and boy he longed to know her. And so he wrote and he asked her, Could I get a picture of you And she said, no, uh I'm not going to give you a picture of me because if you really love me, what I look like doesn't matter. So they continued to write, and then they had established this day that they would meet in Grand Central Station. She wrote to him and said, You'll know me because I will have a red rose in my lapel. He stood there and as the train disembarked he straightened his uniform and began to survey the crowd. Yeah. Searching for that one whom he knew he loved, but whose face he had never seen before Let me allow him to tell you in his own words what he saw. He said a young man, a young woman was coming towards me. Her figure was long and slender Her blonde hair laid back in curls over her delicate ears. Her eyes were as blue as flowers. Her lips and chin had a gentle firmness. And in the pale green suit she wore, she was like springtime come alive. I started toward her, entirely forgetting to notice that she was not wearing a red rose. As I moved, uh a smile curved up on her lips, and she said to me, Go in my way, sailor. And as she moved I saw Miss Hollis Mainwell. She was standing almost directly behind this lady in the green suit. And Miss Maywell was a woman well past forty. She had her grain hair tucked under her worn hat. She was more plump than slender The girl in the green suit was quickly walking away. I felt as though I was split in two. For a moment my desire was to follow after this wonder of beauty that was getting away and yet my heart longed to know the one I had spent so much time with in Penn. And there she stood. Her pale, plump face was gentle and sensible. Her gray eyes had a warm, kindly twinkle I did not hesitate. My fingers gripping the small leather-bound book that was to identify me to her. I walked right up to her, realizing that this was going to be something special. Squaring my shoulders, I saluted and I held out the book to the woman, even though while I spoke, I felt a little choked up at my disappointment. Yet I said I am Lieutenant John Blanchard, and you must be Miss Maynell. I am so glad that you came to meet me today. Would you mind if I take you to dinner? The woman's face broadened into a tolerant smile, and she said, Well, son, I'm not real sure about that. But that young lady in the green suit who just walked out begged me to put this rose in my lapel. And she said, if you ask me to dinner to tell you that she's in the restaurant across the street. Beloved Victor Knowles said, the biggest test we will face is loving a God whose letters we have read, but whose face we have never seen. But we don't get to walk with him right now. Oh, that time will come. But between now and then this is how we know him. Do you long to know him? Do you long to love him most of all? Not only are we to love God, but we're to love people. The second is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Beloved, if you're not obeying the first commandment, you'll be unable to obey the second. But if you are obeying the first, you will be unable to avoid the second. Because if we are loving God as we should, we are going to love the things that God loves, and God loves people. God loves people, and he gives to us a commandment to love others here, and we will love what he loves. He loves them so much he died for them. Oswald Chambers said, If I work for God because I know it brings me good opinions, of those whom's good opinion I desire, I am a Pharisee. But if I love Jesus Christ, I will serve humanity. Though men and women treat me like a doormat. You see, the love of God loves people regardless of how they love us. Our love too many times is simply reciprocal, but not a Christ-like love that we love them regardless. God gives to us comparison of here. He says, love them as you love yourself. That's a pretty strong love. No man yet hath hated himself. Beloved, we take care of ourselves. We have a lot of patience for ourselves. A lot of times we don't have much patience for other people. But boy aren't we patient with ourselves. I mean how many times has you let you down? And yet you still love you Somebody else that lets you down, you're like, I'm done with them. Forget it. Fool me, fool me once, shame on me, fool me tw shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me, right? I ain't letting that happen again. But that's not the love God has. We need to love people with a godlike love. He does not put any limitations on this love. We're to love all men. Matter of fact, the Bible tells us very clearly we're to love our enemies. Matthew 5, 46 says, For if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? I mean everybody loves the guy that loves them. But oh, if we could, with the power of God Love the one that doesn't like us. Love the one that doesn't want to spend time with us. Love the one that has said derogatory or negative things about you. Love the one. Why? Because that's what Christ commands us to do, and because that is what Christ would do. Oswald Chambers Committing to love even if people treat him like a doormat. But in today's world we feel we feel justified To treat them back that way, right? Rendering evil for evil. You know, a biblical principle of overcoming. We are to be overcomers. And you overcome with the opposite attitude. A calm uh word turneth away wrath Love overcomes evil. The opposite way is which we become overcomers We need to beg God to give us love for all men. Listen to the words of the poet James P. Kinney. He said, six humans trapped by happenstance in a bleak and bitter cold. Each one possessed a stick of wood, or so the story goes. There, dying fire in need of logs, the first man held his stick back. For on his face, around the fire, he noticed one man was black The next man looked across the way, saw one not from his church, and couldn't bring himself to give the fire his stick of birch The third one sat in tattered clothes and he gave his coat a hitch. Why should I this log bestow to warm the idle rich? The rich man just sat and thought of all the wealth he had to store, and how to keep what he had earned from the lazy, shiftless poor. The black man's face spoke of revenge as the fire passed his sight, for all he saw in his stick of wood was a chance to spite the white The last man of this forlorn group did nothing except for gain. Give only to those Who gave was how he played the game. Their logs held tight In death's still hand was proof of human sin. They didn't die from cold without They died from the cold within. Beloved, we are admonished to love all men. Red and yellow, black and white, rich, poor, educated, uneducated. Those that have a personality and those that don't. We're commanded to love all men. This is not a suggestion. This is the second and greatest commandment, and all of the other commandments which fit into this And I believe that God could use this to transform Hunt Valley Baptist Church in the coming 12 months if we would purpose in our heart to love God more and love people more. All people. It is the sad reality that even men who call themselves followers of Christ would live in such a way as described in this poem. Beloved, our love for God will reveal itself in our love for others. We're going to love Those who give to us and those who do not, those who are for us and those who are not, those who forgive us and those who don't, those who serve us and those who don't, those who sacrif Your your love is going to be evident in how you respond to those who are around you. Let me ask you this, I bring this to a conclusion. Do you love God as you should? Are you ready today to surrender your will? True love submits, surrenders. His will. Are you submitting your work to him? Serving him out of delight instead of duty? Are you sustaining your worship with love and instead of what you get out of it? And are you loving people like God wants you to love people? I know at times it can be hard. But beloved, with God all things are possible. You can love them. Whether they love you back or not. That's the love of God And what a privilege to be able to show the love of God to another. Undeserved, unearned sacrificial love. There was a lady who was going through some counseling and uh her counselor said, I'm gonna give you an assignment. I want you to This week, as many people as possible, I just want you to turn to them and smile with a big smile. And then write down their response. And wouldn't you know it later that day her and her family were in McDonald's and they were ordering. She was at the front placing the order and All of a sudden the people around her kind of backed away a little bit. And she turned around to see like what what's going on, and there behind her were two homeless men that had come in off the street. They really had come into McDonald's to get warm because it was cold. But you can't just come into McDonald's without anything, so they had scrounged together and they got enough to buy one coffee. They went up to the counter and they were gonna buy the one coffee. And then Something in her mind remembered the the session and she turned to them and smiled And they were shocked because everybody else had shunned away from the foul older, from the homeless men. She placed an extra order of food for both of them and carried it over and helped them get seated and gave them food. They looked up at her and said, Thank you for being so kind. And she said, oh, I didn't do it for you. I did it so that I could be used of God to show you God's love. Just a small thing that you would see that God loves you. Not necessarily me and people around here might not love you, but God loves you. And he allowed me for just a minute to be a vessel that you would see God's love. That's the blessing we have when other people shun away to show God's love. And I pray that we would do it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?