This time of love, I thought it'd be fitting this morning to bring a message entitled Loving God. On that greatest commandment, love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. We ought to love God. And as a text for this, as a launching point, as kind of a focus, I would like you to turn your Bibles to Exodus chapter number 20. That passage in which we are given the Ten Commandments. Genesis, Exodus, and chapter number 20. The Ten Commandments are given to us here. Before we read those, let me see how many of you can remember. We went through the Ten Commandments systematically in uh uh Sunday school some time ago and during that time we showed you some hand motions that could help you recall exactly what those Ten Commandments were. If you were ever wondering, uh, I know that there's a commandment, thou shalt not kill, but I don't know which commandment it is. You can right away picture in your mind the hand motion for that and you'll know which one it is. So let's go through those commandments. This morning, the first one is one finger and you point that towards God. And that is the first commandment. He is first. He's number one. That is, thou shalt have no other gods before me. So that one that's easy to remember. The first, gods first, number one, thou shalt have no other gods before before me. Number two, take your other hand. We use both hands. We keep switching back and forth. You have two fingers up. With the two fingers up, one bows down to the other. Two, one bows down to the other. So that commandment is thou shalt have set up to thee no graven images. Number three, back to one hand, three fingers on one hand, you take those three fingers and you put them to your lips. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Number four, back to two hands, two fingers in each hand, put them together, make a little steeple, a roof. So this would be what? Sabbath day. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Very good. Number five, all five on one hand, put it into straight and salute. Honor thy mother and thy father. Honor thy mother and thy father. Number six. Five on one hand, one on the other hand. Take this one and point it at that one. Thou shalt not kill. Number seven, take two fingers, put them together, lay them down in this hand. Thou shalt not commit adultery Number eight, three fingers on this hand, the five on this hand, take this hand, grab these fingers, and pull away, thou shalt not steal. Number nine, five fingers here, put them down on the Bible, four fingers here, I promise to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth. Thou shalt not bear false witness. And number 10, all ten fingers out, reach out, grab, and pull towards you, thou shalt not covet. With those simple actions, at any time somebody says a particular uh Commandment. Not only do you know the commandment, but you know which commandment it is. Isn't that neat? You got them with you all the time. You don't have to have flashcards. You all you got your fingers with you all the time. And you can uh and you can remember that and keep it with you. Let's read uh this passage of scripture where these commandments are given to us Here in Exodus chapter 20, verse number 1. We'll read down through verse number 17 where we see these commandments listed. And God spake all these Words saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I am the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and the fourth generation of them that hate me and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that take his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work, thou nor thy sons, nor thy daughters, thy manservants, nor thy maid servants, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that's within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath and hallowed it Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill Thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor, and thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's We take a moment and bow our heads, ask God to speak to our hearts as we talk about this, the greatest commandment to love the Lord our God I ask you, dear Lord, that you would allow me for a few minutes to step out of the way. Lord, I pray that you would use this message in the heart of each and every individual here, that you would stir our hearts again, afresh, anew To fall in love with you, that we wouldn't be guilty as those in Revelation who are accused of having left their first love. But Lord, we would be drawn into a closer relationship with you. would understand and know the love of God for us and be motivated to love you more. I ask you, Lord, you'd bless this in every way in Jesus' precious name. Amen. It is amazing that in America today, 80% of Americans would say that they believe in God, according to a Pew research study done April last year. They're glad that in God we trust is still on our our money. Amen They like to hear, they said in this research study that they did, that 80% of Americans they like to hear the phrase, God bless America. They like to hear that. The problem comes is when they are asked, who is God? Only 50% 56% of Americans believe in the God of the Bible A omnipotent and all-powerful God, an omniscient and all-knowing God, an omnipresence, a God that is in every place Only 50% 56% of Americans believe in that God. When asked about who God is, they Say things like, well, we believe that there's a some higher power. We believe that there's something beyond us. What that is, who knows? They believe it could be even something as vague as karma. Something that's in control of the events of our lives. It's sad, but we know what they need is the truth of the Word of God. Amen. They need the truth of the Word of God and begin to be introduced to God that they might know Him. Know his love and the power of his forgiveness. And although the majority of Americans would agree with the commandments, I wonder how many of them could name. Even five of them. Somebody said that less than less than fifteen percent of Americans could name even five of the commandments. I could not verify that statistic. But the statistics with regards to the commandments is quite amazing. The Pew Research Group did a study last year, and with regards to the commandments, it's amazing that 94% of Americans believe that the commandment, thou shalt not kill, is a commandment that should be adhered and followed today. 94% agree with that. I'm not sure what the other six percent think about that. Maybe murder's okay to them. I don't know. But ninety-four percent still agree, but you know, it's a picture of today's world in where every man does that which is right in his own eyes. What they believe about the commandments because only 49% believe that the commandment to remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy is a commandment that God gave. And that we should obey it. So what it boils down to is we get to decide what commandments are important and what are not. Right? I I mean we get to determine. I mean really, you see, ninety-four percent also believe that thou shalt not kill is something that should be observed. Ninety-four percent believe that thou shalt not steal. Is a commandment that should be followed today. But only fifty-nine percent believe that thou shalt not set up any graven images. Do you understand this morning that they're all commandments and they're all given to us by God? God never really gave us the liberty to just pick and choose, to just decide what we feel is is important and what's not. What's for us and what's not for us? I think it's important that thou shalt not kill. I mean I really would frown upon the fact of you killing me. I don't like that. I don't like that at all. You know what? I've got a few things that I like that God's blessed me with and I I don't think you should steal 'em So it's certainly understandable why people think that, but then when it gets a little closer to home and the Bible tells us, Honor thy mother and thy father, well My mother and father, you know, they're not worth honoring. That's not what God said. The Bible says to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might. And if we are going to love God, he says, if you love me, what? You love me. Keep my commandments. He's given us these commandments and others in the Word of God, and I would like to talk to you for a few minutes about This transaction that took place here about God delivering to his people the commandments. You see, the problem today is that men have become desensitized to sin. We are in the world and we are so overrun with the wickedness of the day that the sin of the day does not impact us. It does not affect us. We don't even think anything about the great wickedness that is around us or that we participate in. It's like the mailman that I saw yesterday. Delivering mail in Bermuda shorts. I said, sir The cold must not bother you. He says, no, we got a warm front right now. It's over 40 degrees. He was exaggerating because I had just got out of the car and the car said it was 19. He had been in the cold so much he had lost all sense. The cold didn't bother him. He's out delivering mail yesterday, not just running to the car and grabbing something. He's out walking down the street in Bermuda shorts He was completely desensitized to the fact that it was only 19 degrees out. Today, men and women and boys and girls are desensitized to the wickedness of this world. to the sin that's around us and to the holiness of an Almighty God and what he expects. As we look at this story this morning, I want to Draw our hearts into the presence of God and allow God to challenge us. Would you look first of all at the grace that was delivered to them? The grace that was delivered to them. In verse number one and verse number two, he says, And God spake all these things, all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Out of the house of bondage. You see, beloved, the children of Israel found themselves at the foot of Mount Sinai. You know the story, how they were in bondage in Egypt, and the uh plagues that came, and ultimately how God freed them from bondage in Egypt, and how they came out and Traveled in the wilderness for a while. Ultimately they found themselves here at the foot of Mount Sinai. All of the camp heard the lightning All the camp heard the thundering. All the camp saw Moses go up into the mountain. Turn back into chapter 19. Let's see a few verses here of this setting that we're in right now. In Exodus 19, verse 17 through 20, he says, And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at neither part of the mount. And mount and at and Mount Sinai was all together on a smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire, and the smoke thereon ascended as the smoke of a furnace And the whole mountain quaked greatly. And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by voice. And the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai and the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up Moses went to the top of the mountain to receive from God the Ten Commandments. Look at verse number 25. And so Moses went down unto the people and spake unto them. He came down to them to deliver unto them the Ten Commandments. But before he delivered the Ten Commandments unto them, before he said, Here is what God requires of you, he reminded them. That God delivered them out of Egypt. Before he delivered them the law, he reminded them that God delivered them from bondage. He says, I am the Lord your God. God was saying, I am, to them, to the children of Israel, the I am, that I am, is a personal name for God. they would understand that it just the use of that name was a promise of God's very presence with them. He saying, I am Jehovah Elohim, the self-existent one, God, who was God, is God, and will be God. He knew that they came from Egypt, a land where men worshiped all kinds of things and bowed down and put things up before themselves and and worshiped many different things. Where do you think these people learned how to worship a calf? They were in a land of Egypt where they learned a lot of things like that. And he says to them, I am the Lord thy God, the self-existent one. The one that was here before the world began, the one that was here when you were in bondage, the one that is here today, and the one that is here with us today, and will be here for eternity. God. The one and only God. He knows many people worship other things, but he said, I am the Lord your God. And he says, I delivered you. Could I ask you, what did the children of Israel do to deserve deliverance from Egypt? Had they somehow in Egypt done something that warranted this favor from God? Had they gone after and somehow through a myriad of processes developed a plan to free themselves? No, God said when the time came, it was time for the people to be freed, and He came to them. And He freed them. They could not have done it on their own. They could not have performed those great miracles. They couldn't have brought those plagues. They would have been in bondage for all eternity, but God freed them. He delivered them from the bondage that they were in. He led them with a pillar and a cloud of, he saved them from the death. to certain death at the Red Sea from the Egyptian army. He fed them day by day with manna from heaven as they walked through the wilderness on their journey. He gave them water from the gro from the rock All of this grace bestowed upon them was given to them before the law. You need to let that sink in, folks. God displayed and showed and exhibited and delivered unto them an unmeasurable amount of grace. Before he ever delivered the law. Many people like to look at God and say God is a God of rules and God is a law of God has a law and he demands so much of you and You can't do this and you can't do that. I want you to understand that God is a God of grace. And He first extends grace to you. He doesn't demand anything from you. He extends his grace to you. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, you don't have to turn there. Let me read it to you, chapter 7, verse 7 and 8. The Bible says this: the Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any people. For ye were the fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, Hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen from the hand of Pharaoh the king. He tells it pretty plain there, doesn't he? He says, hey, God chose you and gave you freedom not because you did anything, not because you're such a great nation, not because you can lift yourself up, but because he loved you. Aren't you glad this morning for God's love? Understand that God, the God of the Bible, is a God of love. He is a God of grace. And he first extends grace. He saved them by grace. It had nothing to do with what they could do or what they would do. I'll tell you what, when you follow the story afterwards, they don't do very well, do they? Children of Israel sure do give God a hard time. But God still saved them, didn't he? And he saved him long before he gave them the law. He first gave them grace. And then He said, here's what I expect. Here's the law that I want you to follow. And do you understand that the law was not punishment? The law was given for their good to help them that they would know how to live honorable to him and honorable with one another. That's the same thing that God does for anyone who is willing to turn to Him today. You and I, we don't deserve it. We can't earn it. But God wants to save you today. God would extend grace to you right where you are today. He doesn't demand anything from you. He's not saying that in order for you to experience the grace of God, or in order for you to know the love of God, that you must Do this, or you must do this. He doesn't put any demands upon you to experience and to know the grace of God and the love of God. Amen? He just says, I love you. Herein is the love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us. He sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin because of what God has done for them, and well because of what God has done for us. We certainly should love him enough to follow the law. But the law was never a requirement for their salvation. Do you see that truth in the story today? It's so plain and so clear. God delivered them regardless of what they did. And long before He gave them the truth of the law. But then He says, Hey Look what I did. I am the Lord thy God. I delivered you. Now, here is the law. So I want you to see the grace that was demanded from them. The grace that was demanded from them. He says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. You see, the children of Israel had come out of Egypt and they had seen people that worshipped many, many other gods. And God said, I am that I am. I am God. Capital G. There is no other God. But there are people who worship other things, who put other things in the place of God, and he says, what I'm asking of you because of all that I've done for you. Is that you don't have any other gods before me? That you fulfill the greatest commandment and love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul. And with all thy mind. God gave him this clear command. Nothing was to be before God. Do you know every person in the world today has a God? Even if they declare themselves to be an atheist. They have a God. There is something that they put first in their life. Something that they worship. Oh, I don't mean that daily they get down and they bow down to a wooden image or they bow down to their car out in the parking lot or they bow down to something, but they put it first in their life. God says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. He's saying There shouldn't be anything in our lives that is before God. If we truly love God most of all, then he should be first. Amen? Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. People put many things in the highest priority of their life G. Campbell Morgan said this: It is impossible for a man to live without having an object of worship, as it is for a bird to fly. If it is taken out of the air. The very composition of human life, the mystery of man being, demands a center of worship As much as the necessity of existence, all life is worshipped. The question is whether the life and the power of man are devoted to worshiping the one and true God or to a myriad number of false ones. Martin Luther, in identifying the idolatry of the people of his day, said: A God is that to which we look for good, in which we find refuge in an hour of need. To have a God is nothing else than to trust and believe in Him with your whole heart. As I have often said, the trust and the faith of the heart alone can make both God and idol. Your trust and faith can be given to God or it can make an idol of anything else. Is there anything in your life that you're putting before God? Something that you are making a God in your life? Paul told us that some make their belly their God He said in Philippians 3. 19, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly. Some people, their belly is their God. Satisfying what we're talking about is satisfying the appetites of the flesh. We are living in a day and age when that is very true. Even I'm not necessarily talking about just eating and satisfying the the the stomach's desire for food. Lord knows we do enough of that, amen. I'm not just talking about that. There are some people who are the most fit among us whose belly is still their God. They glory in the fact that they have a six-pack. They glory in the fact that they're fit. Their body is their God. They put it first. They would find themselves at the gym instead of the house of God. That very clearly tells us what is most important to them. Is there anything that you're putting before God in your life? I wonder, with all the love that God has bestowed upon us, how could we so easily put things that are so empty and so vain? in front of him. You know, I didn't even know it was Super Bowl Sunday. On the way to church this morning my my we picked up the donuts for this morning and my wife says at the donut shop they said do you want the sprinkles for the you know donuts with the the football colors on it And she's like, sure, there's some people will like that and I said, What? There's a game today? And she says it's Super Bowl Sunday. By the thousands, people are gonna put that stupid game ahead of God. And in their mind they'll justify it. Even if they normally go to church, they'll say, oh, but it's Super Bowl. There's one every year, who cares? I mean if you really gotta if you really gotta see it, then TVO the thing or or DBR it or or record it and watch it later. I mean, you don't even have to do that now. You all you gotta do is watch the thing later online. You don't have to sit and watch it live and put it before God. I know I'm getting close to home. Oh yeah. Oh, we like our football. But what about I mean football, who uh It doesn't even have to be football. What is it in your life? Some people put their job before God. Oh, but I have to work, do you? I have to do this. I w I want to do that. They put their job before God. They put their pleasure, their enjoyment, their this is my only day to be on the lake. Not this time of year, but It's my only day to go golfing. It's my only day. I mean, what is it in our life? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. If some of you treated your wife like you treat God, you wouldn't be married still. If you treated your husband like you treat God, you wouldn't still be married because There is nothing that you've done that is a display and a show of the affection and love that you have for God It's not just words. God said, Love me, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. He did demand something of them after he gave them. I mean, listen, if I this morning Well, let's say Brother Bob this morning won the lottery and he gave everybody in here a million dollars. See, I don't play the lottery, so I had to use Brother Bob. But let's say he gave everybody in here a million dollars. I mean he whatever won a hundred million dollars so to give every family in here that was nothing. He gave gave all of you guys a million dollars just to be a blessing. And then next week he comes to you and says, hey, I just my car broke down. Could you give me a ride? You would say, Brother Bob, where do you want to go? You want to go to Texas? I'm available. Because I don't have to work. Because somebody gave me a million I mean, you would look at what he's done for you and say, A ride? I'll be glad to give you a ride. I'll go where do you want to go, Brother Bob? Hey come on. I'll tell you what, man I just love to just be with you. We'll just go out for coffee. We'll just go whatever you want to do, Bob. You would count it a privilege to be able to go with him because of what he had done for you. Right? When we look at what God has done for us, and then God says, Hey, by the way, could you just put me first? Oh man. I I enjoy football too much. I'm sorry God I enjoy this too much. I I have to go do that and I'll I'll get to you later Lord. He demanded something of them. But I want you to see the grace that was demonstrated for us. The grace that was demonstrated for us. You see, God loves us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God demonstrated. That word commendeth in that verse in Romans 5:8, but God commendeth his love for us means showed. It means he put it on display. God showed his love for us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ died for you just as you are. He didn't ask you to clean up first. He didn't ask you to change anything. He didn't ask you to be anything different than what you are. He loves you just as you are. So many times a young lady or a young man will say, I just want to find somebody who just loves me for who I am. You found them. God created you and He loves you for who you are And he extended and he showed that love to the measure of which he died, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God displayed his love, demonstrated his love for us. And it is his grace is how he saves us. For by grace are you saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. God saved the Hebrew children long before the law was ever given to them, and he is willing to save you today, just as you are. The law is not a requirement. All you have to do is accept the free gift of salvation offered to you by God today. It is our privilege to know the one and true God. The other side of that coin is that with that privilege comes the request by God to have no other gods before. Now that you know me, put me first. What a wasted life. to worship something so empty and false when we can worship and love and know the one and true God. Are you loving God this morning? Are you loving God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind