Yes, uh it's good to be here with you this evening. We came through in twenty twenty and uh looking forward to being here, heard some good things about the church, your pastor, and came and nobody came to church. It was an empty building was in the middle of COVID. All you are at home watching me in your pajamas and your all of that, so it's good to finally get to meet you all. And uh thank you for this opportunity and your faithful support since two thousand and twenty and and your prayers for us. We thank you so much for that. And uh had uh it's been a joy to get to know some of you as we've talked and uh answered your questions and shared some things with you. This evening, I'd like you to turn to the book of Acts, please. Acts chapter number sixteen. I want to read beginning in verse number six, a story in the book of Acts in the life of Paul that When it comes to missions, it's probably not a story that you've not heard, that you've not uh heard preached on. But I'm gonna read it this evening and I want to make some application, some m application from uh our life in Africa, some things that we've seen uh that I think have brought this passage uh at least in in in our lives uh into a very real thing. So Acts chapter number sixteen, beginning in verse number six, the Bible says this. Now when they had gone throughout Phrygea, The region of Glacia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. After they were come to Mysia, they essayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not. And they, passing by Mysia, came down to Troas. And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia. And prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, Immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samarthusia, and the next day to Neapolis, and from thence to Philippi. Which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony. And we were in that city abiding certain days. Let us pray. Father, I'd ask that you would Be with us this evening. Thank you for these who have have gathered here. Lord, many probably rushed from work and from school and other activities to To be here on this Friday evening, Lord, because of missions, because of the desire to see your word go forth into the world. Thank you for the testimony we heard this evening, Lord, for the presentation we saw Lord, as we examine and talk about this scripture here this evening, I pray that you would Help us to understand it. Lord, that you would motivate us in the area of missions. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. The title of my message this evening, Macedonia Still Exists. Macedonia Still Exists. We find Macedonia mentioned in this portion of Scripture several times. In verse number 9, it's mentioned twice. It's mentioned in verse 10, and again it's mentioned in verse number 12. We read in verse 6 that Paul was in Galicia. And Paul wanted to go southwest to Asia in verse 6. And God said no. Have you ever wanted to do something? And God said no? But here, God told Paul no. Don't go to Asia. So then Paul thought, he says, well let me go northeast to Bithynia in verse number seven. And God again said, No, don't go to Bithynia. So Paul And his team that he was with, they ended up in verse number eight in Troas. And Troas was a town, a coastal town that sat by the Aegean Sea. And here in Troas, Paul had this vision that we read about, what we call the Macedonian vision. He had a clear and a very specific vision that took the gospel of Jesus Christ for the first known time to the continent of Europe. Macedonia was a part of the world that was not on Paul's mind. It's not where he wanted to go. He wasn't planning. It wasn't on his calendar, on his schedule. If we could use our modern vernacular, our modern terms today. We could say that Macedonia was not programmed in Nepal's GPS. Because it just wasn't what he was planning to do. But God gave Paul a vision of this man in Macedonia. When Paul saw that vision, it completely changed his direction. You know, Paul had a choice to make. He had that vision given to him by God, but you know he could have ignored that vision. He could have. Because listen, what Paul wanted to do wasn't bad. He wanted to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in an area of the world that desperately needed the gospel of Jesus Christ. So what he wanted to do was a good thing. And he could have rationalized the vision away, and he could have ignored that vision, and he could have went aha went on to the direction that he had planned to go. And I'd imagine if Paul would have done that, people still would have been saved. Some churches probably would have been started. God's word was not going to return void. But see, Paul would not have been doing the thing that God had prepared Paul for. God would have had to get somebody else to do what he wanted Paul to do. But of course we know Paul did not ignore that vision. The Bible says he immediately Left. When I read that word immediately, I just take it for what it means. That to me that means he didn't try to argue with God about it. And he didn't try to change God's mind and He didn't throw out a fleece. I mean, he just said, okay. And he immediately went. Verse 11, we see that they left Troas and went to Samrathesia. Samarthasiya is a little island in the North Aegean Sea. They spent the night in Samarthesia, and then in verse 11 went to Neapolis. And at Neapolis, the gospel reached the shores of Europe They left Neapolis in verse 12, and they went to Philippi, which was about seven kilometers or five miles away from Where they reached the shore. And in Philippi they began to witness, they began to preach, they began to teach. Began to seek those who wanted salvation. They baptized, and we know that churches were started. Not only in Philippi, but we know in all the regions of Macedonia. The evangelization of Europe began in Acts chapter sixteen. But we know the gospel didn't just stay there, it spread throughout Europe. We know that the gospel went to the very epicenter, the very capital. Of the world at that time, Rome. The Bible talks about Paul's desire even to go onward to Spain. We know that the gospel eventually reached all of Europe, but it didn't stop there, did it? Because it continued west. And in sixteen twenty, some people got on a boat. They crossed the Atlantic Ocean and they went to a new colony called America. And in that colony, as they arrived, they carried with them a Bible, the Bible that we have in our hands tonight. And they began to preach and they began to teach and they began to evangelize and the gospel spread across that new colony until eventually it went from the northern borders to the southern borders, from the eastern borders to the western borders, but it didn't stop there, did it? God used churches just like this church to get a burden for the world and churches in this colony that was started. In 1620, it became the United States of America sent missionaries all over the world so people could hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. Humanly speaking, We could say we have the gospel here tonight because Paul obeyed. God used Paul. That was the one he used So this story really means something to me, and it should mean something to us. Because this is the beginning of Of the gospel spreading to how it reached us. But in telling of this story and reading this story this evening, I want to draw out some points from this story. Just some simple points. And illustrate them from our life in Africa that I hope that you'll remember as you read this portion of scripture in the future. The first point that I'd like to give you this evening is that there are still places in the world today, just like Macedonia. There are still places in this world today, just like Macedonia was, in this vision that Paul had. In our ministry in Africa, as I showed our presentation and talk, we mentioned that God has allowed us to begin going into the Democratic Republic of Congo. It's not a place I plan to go to. Matter of fact, I had no plan whatsoever. When it the when the opportunity was was first presented to me to go there, I I turned it down and I said no. I have no desire to go there. I don't want to go. A pastor from the United States from Connecticut and a pastor from Quim from Quebec, Canada called me on the telephone in Kenya and said we have some Congolese refugees in our church. And they want to reach their families in Congo. And you've been recommended, and we would like you to accompany us on this trip to take the gospel there to those people. I just flatly turned it down. We had just gone through a terrible time in Kenya of election violence. We had a lot of things going on. I just didn't want to do it. It wasn't on my it wasn't in my GPS. And uh they were persistent though. They didn't take that answer and they approached me again, uh, actually a couple different times, and finally God made it very clear, I want you to go. And so I said, all right. And uh we crossed the border the first time in the Congo in September of 2008. And when I crossed the border from Burundi in the Congo that morning, it was early in the morning, with those two pastors, uh I I felt something that I had never felt in all my days of living in Kenya. I felt an oppression by Satan that I had never felt before. It was as if Satan was saying, This is my land, and you are not welcome. That oppression was so great that those two pastors that were with me. Because of the oppression, could not and would not sleep in Congo at night. Every night we had to cross the border back into Burundi and sleep in Burundi. They had just come out of a war. It was still actually going on. There were rebel soldiers in the in the hillsides above us. It was a very uh unsafe place, and uh Satan had it in his grips. But God made it clear to us. He wanted us to begin working there and to start a church in that town that we had visited. If you've ever read the story of David Livingstone, And the story of Stanley, who was hired by the New York newspaper to go into Africa and search for David Livingstone because he had been lost for several years. Stanley wrote about that journey, and he wrote a book on his finding of Livingstone. He found David Livingstone on the shores of Lake Tanganyika. uh right on the area that is now b the border area that is now Tanzania in the country of Burundi. And as they met, um Uh there by the shore there's a large rock that they met by. We have a picture of that rock in our book in the back, and their names are carved on that rock and the date that that they met. Livingstone was looking for the source of the Nile River at that time, and uh and uh he was uh uh spending a lot of time on Lake Tanganyika. And uh Stanley, as he writes about this, got in a boat with Livingstone in Lake Tanganyika, and they traveled to the very north shore of that lake to a river called the Ruzizi River and searched that river for several days to see if it was a source of the Nile. It wasn't, but that river is now the border between Congo and Burundi. They then crossed to the very western shore of Lake Tanganika and they spent the night in a village called Ovira. Stanley writes about it in his book. They gave gifts to the king that controlled that area. He writes all about that area and then they got in a boat and continued down the lake. But it's that village that's now a town called Ovira that we started that first church in the Democratic Republic of Congo. It was an exciting time. God was doing a some wonderful things. I was spending a lot of time there. Um ev we had men from our church in Kenya that were there all the time. We had a presence there all the time as we're getting this church started. One particular weekend I was not there. I was in Kenya at our church in Kenya and on a Sunday evening our men that were there called me. And said, Pastor Mickey, a man showed up at church today. He claims to be a Baptist pastor in a village far from here. And he said that they've been praying for a lot of years for somebody to come and teach them the Bible. And he wanted me to ask you if you would be willing to go to where they are to teach them. He said, and they said, so what should we tell him? And I said, well, tell them no. I said, you know, I'm not looking for anything else to do. Plus, in my mind, I just assumed this guy's looking for something that we're not offering. You know, it's green, you carry it in your wallet. Okay? I thought his motives probably weren't correct. I just I told him, said you know, tell him no, we can't do that. Well on my next trip in the Congo, this so called pastor was waiting for me He's like, oh missionary, I'm so happy to see you. Would you please come and visit us in our village? We have this church and we've been praying for many years and somebody would come and and and teach us. Would you do that? And I I said, I'm sorry. I it's just something I can't. can't do. And he said, Well would you at least pray about it? Alright, time out. Alright? Now let me ask you, in your entire life as a safe person, have you ever told anybody no? If they ask you to pray about something? Right? Have you done that? No. I mean It's just when somebody says, Are you going to pray about something, we'll automatically sure I'll pray about that. And it's not that we're lying, but it's just something we say So I said, sure, I'll pray about it. And I think I did, maybe, once, very quickly. All right. But in my mind, I'm thinking, all right, I got rid of this guy. I don't have to worry about him now. Let me get on with what I'm doing here. But every once in a while, he or somebody from his so-called church would show up there at Ovira and ask our men, why are you guys coming to visit? And the answer was always the same. This went on for almost two years Between a year and a half and two years. I'm in Congo and I meet this so-called pastor again. He said, Oh, missionary, I'm so happy to see you again. When are you coming to visit? And I said, Well, we're not. And he said, well, you've been praying about it, haven't you? And as soon as he said that, right there, man, it was like a knife going through my heart. That conviction. Alright? Because he said, if you've been praying about it, we're sure you're coming. So I looked at Pastor Lo, our Kenyan pastor, who was with me on that trip, and I said, I guess we're going to have to go visit these people. They're just not going to let us alone. So I finally said to him, I said, okay, we'll come and visit you. He said, okay, and he's happy. He said, let me make the arrangements, and we set the date, we set the time. He left. And then I looked at the map and I realized I had made a mistake. Because I should have looked at the map first to find out where this village was. Because this village was not close. It was far. You've got to understand the Democratic Republic of Congo is the size of the United States from the Mississippi River East. There aren't roads in Congo. Alright, I mean they have some things they call roads, all right, but I promise you, we would never call it a road. They're certainly not paved. And where this village was is far away. There's no roads going to where this village is. And it's right in the midst of territory that is under constant rebel activity. It's an area where we would normally uh avoid and I saw that the only way you could get to this village was by boat down Lake Tanganyika Well, I thought that's okay. I've been on a boat before. I mean I thought that might be a lot better than on one of these vehicles trying to go on these so-called roads. But then I went down to the lake and I saw the boats. That went to where this village was. And it wasn't quite what I had in mind. I mean, they floated, and people used them And I thought, well, I mean if the Congolese uses them, I mean uh we'll just have to do it. And so I I I bought a ticket, we bought our tickets, we're gonna get on this boat, we're gonna go to the with the where this village is. We arrived at the boat at the appointed time to leave And when we got to that boat, I'm telling you, I have never seen more people squeezed into such a small area in my life. A boat that we would look at and we would think maybe twenty people would be on that boat. The Lord's my witness, there's actually a picture of this boat and the people on it in the book on our table. There's about a hundred people squeezed in this area. I mean they are sitting everywhere on top of the cargo around the sides. I mean it is full. I looked at that boat and I thought, well there's no way we're going on this trip I turn around, start walking away, and then some guy comes running up to me, grabs me by the arm, is like, oh, don't worry. He said, we have a special place for you What a special place, all right. He says, follow me. He takes me to the opposite end of the boat from where we were to where they kept the anchor. And there was a s there was a small platform about five feet by five feet, wooden, where they had the anchor and a a crew that would take care of that anchor. And they said, you guys can sit right here On this platform. And I looked where all those people were squeezed, and I looked at that, and I'm like, all right, there's a whole lot better place. I guess it's special. So we're sitting there and we're getting ready to leave. But see, there are still people trying to get on this boat. And there's no place for them to go, except my special place. And it wasn't long before my special place. It wasn't very special. Because now we're not sitting, we're standing, and we're shoulder to shoulder with people on this platform on this boat. And they pull up the anchor and they begin to go down Lake Tanganyika. Now understand, Lake Tanganika is 450 miles long. From north to south. And we are in the very northern end of the lake. And so we start pulling down that lake and I uh going down that lake and I'm thinking we we must be stopping at some of these villages here along the way and dropping some of these people off. But about six hours later, I realize we're not stopping and dropping anybody off. This is the trip. I mean, these are the people going We're going down that lake very slowly because it's so overloaded. I'm standing in the hot equatorial sun. It's beating down on me. I mean, I'm growing miserable by the moment. And you gotta understand, every eye on that boat is looking at me I mean they're staring at me. I can't believe this white man is on this boat with us. Other boats are passing on the lake, and as they're passing on the lake, they're pointing at our boat and they're they're talking and they're laughing and I know they're laughing at me I am a white speck in the midst of darkness going down that lake. And I, you know, you can only stand for so long. Until you get really tired of standing. So what are you going to do? And we weren't trying to be mean or or anything or rude, but literally we'd take our elbows and we would just Elbow the people next to us to get a little bit of space so that we could squat. Now I'm telling you, this feels really good after standing for about six hours. Do you know you can only do this for so long Until you get tired of squatting and you gotta stand. And when as soon as you stand that blood comes rushing through your legs and it feels good again for a few moments, but Then that little room you have is gone because somebody else has it. And we're going down this lake. Listen, God is my witness. We went down that lake for two days. For two days before we reached where that village was. Now I can't even begin to describe you my state of mind. What I was thinking. And let me say, not to be rude or crude, but there are no toilets on this boat. The toilet is the side of the boat. I was as miserable as you could be. As a matter of fact, I no longer wanted to be there. As a matter of fact, I wanted to go home. And I said to myself, I'll never, I'll never come back to this godforsaken place. I began to hurt in places in my body that at that point I never knew existed on my body. I began to have thoughts like this. Listen, thoughts in so many words, such as, God, you're not being very fair to me This isn't what I signed up for. This isn't what I agreed to. God, there's nobody in this world worth what I'm going through to get to them. These are the my the way I'm starting to think. Finally, early that second morning. They caught craw they called out from the front of the boat. We're at Kazimia. That was the village we're going to. If you're going to get off here, get off. They dropped the anchor and several of us got off the boat. I just wanted to find a hole to crawl into. But as we got off that boat, there was a large group of people waiting to see us. They were happy to see us. I wasn't happy to see them. That pastor came up to me, he's like, Oh, what took you guys so long to get here? And I looked at him, I thought, oh man, you dirty dog. You set me up, you could have warned me. He says, we've got to go. He says, over there been people have been waiting for a long time by the church. There's a lot of people there. I said, where's the church? He said it's about an hour up that path. And I thought, who's going to carry me? I'm telling you, every step of the way to where we were going, I'm having the world's worst pity party. I didn't want to be there. I wanted to go home. I wanted to get into my bed, and I didn't want to get out. As we're walking that path, we finally reached to where that so-called church was and next to it. was a typical jungle African village house. Very small mud house grass roof That pastor said there's some chairs in there. Go sit. We'll be in in a moment. I went and sat in that chair next to Pastor Lowe. My eyes are closed. I'm just having a pity party. I don't want to be there. I'm miserable. And unbeknownst to me, that pastor, and some men walked in. I didn't know they were there because my eyes were closed. They didn't say anything, but they just began to sing. And it startled me because first I didn't know they were there, but it startled me also because the sound of their voices, I mean it was nothing like I'd ever heard before. The harmony was amazing. And they began to sing a song that I'm very familiar with. It was in Swahili, but it's a song that we sing in our churches here in America. Same words, same exact tune. The song, and I'm sure you've sung it here in your church, the song that we sing called Send the Light. And they started at that first verse. There's a call comes ringing for the restless wave. Send the light. Send the light. They went from the first verse to the second verse to the third verse and they got to that last verse. And they began to sing those words. Let us not be weary in the work of love. And when they sang those words, God broke me. I started to weep and I couldn't stop weeping. Because as these men sang, God began to remind me of those terrible, terrible thoughts. An attitude that I was having. How dare I have such thoughts as there's no people in this world worth what I'm going through to reach them? When God left heaven. And he came down to this world. Listen, and he limited himself. He took on flesh. Sometimes we f we we don't think so much about how he limited himself by taking upon the form of a human so that he could die and sacrifice himself so that I could go to be where he is. God just broke me and I sat there and I wept. These Congolese men they're staring at me and they're wondering, what is the matter with this man? Finally, I got the control of myself. I'm wiping the tears out of my eyes. And that pastor stepped forward, and for the first time. He stepped forward to tell me his story. For the first time though, I was willing to listen to it. He had tried to tell me before. But I just wasn't willing to listen to it. And this is what he said. He said, many, many years ago there was a man after we achieved our independence that got saved, a young man. He was led to the Lord by a missionary by the name of Bob Williams, in a place far from here. He said when he got saved, his n he he began uh to attend their uh training classes, God called him to preach. He began began to get trained to be a preacher. And uh but it wasn't long later he said the the rebels came, the war came. These rebels that came at this time, it was in a rebellion called the Simba Rebellion. These were communist-trained rebels that had uh uh uh taken over the new government. They were communists and so they did what communists do. They killed Christians. They imprisoned them. They they martyred actually several independent Baptist missionaries During the Simba Rebellion, you might remember Brother Darryl Champlin. That's when he had to flee Congo. During the Simba Rebellion. They martyred several missionaries. So the missionaries left. They fled. They left the country And Christians went into hiding. And so this young man who had been saved by the name of Guomolja, he went into hiding. He went and hid in the village of his birth, the village that we were in, that village of Kazimiah. And so this pastor said, when Guamolja got here, he said he knew some things. He knew he was saved. He knew he was a Baptist. And he knew he was supposed to tell people. So he began just to go around the village and tell people about Jesus. He said then people got saved. And after enough of them got saved, he baptized them here in the lake and And he baptized enough of them that a church was started. He said and it was this church. He pointed to the building right outside the house. He said and right after the church got started, he said The pastor and the people began to pray. And their prayer was this, God, there's a lot of things that we don't know God, we just need somebody to come and teach us your Bible. We just need somebody to come and train us and teach us so that we can do things the right way. He said they prayed and they prayed, but nobody ever came. He said those so they just kept doing what they knew to do, which is to tell people about Jesus, and more people got saved than some other churches were started. He said and about five years ago, Guamolja, my pastor, died, and he never saw that prayer answered. He said, I was the assistant, and so they called me to be the pastor, and when I became the pastor, we continued praying. God, please send somebody. He said then about two years ago. He said a letter came to this village by boat. It was written by a young man by the name of Mapya. He had left this village To go to Uvira, to go to school. And he's writing a letter back to his mother, and in that letter he said, Mom, I have some news for you. He said, I met some Kenyans. They invited me to church. And I went to church and I got saved. He said, Mom, I'm going to heaven when I die. He said, not only did I get saved, Mom, he said, but you know, they have a little training institution here. They're training people and they're teaching people and and and and and mom, maybe someday God will let me be a preacher. Be a pastor of a Baptist church. So he writes this letter to his mom. It reaches her. He begins to read it. And she's like, What happened to my son? I sent him to Avira to go to school. Now he's writing about being saved. What does that mean? A Baptist church? What is that? And so she began to go around that village and she began to ask friends and people. Show him that letter. Do you know can you know what my son's talking about here? She talked to somebody and they said, Well, you know, over yonder over there, there's this church. I think they called themselves a Baptist church. Why don't you go talk to them? So she went over and she found that pastor. He said, she gave me that letter, and when I read that letter, I knew God had begun to answer our prayer. He said, so I went to Ovira and I found you people, and now you're here. And I want you to know, you all, you're the answer to our prayer. Church, listen to me, for 40 years they've been praying. That God would send somebody. And they prayed and they prayed and they waited. You know when God looked down out of heaven and said, I think I'm going to answer that prayer, do you know who he found? He didn't find a church in the United States of America. He found a church in Kenya. Who said, we'll go to a place nobody else wants to go, and we'll take the gospel there. And God said, let me use those people to do it. And you know what God taught me that day? God taught me, as I have now seen in many other places of this world, that there are still places today. Just like Macedonia, where people are praying, somebody, a group, they're praying. God send us somebody. I don't know where all those places are, but they're there. Maybe somebody's praying in Taiwan. God send us somebody. Maybe there's a group up in Upper Canada that's praying. God send us somebody. But there are places today in this world. Still. Just like Macedonia. Secondly, not only are there still places in the world today just like Macedonia, There are still people in the world today, just like the Macedonian man. Again, we are in Avira in Congo. Where that first church was started. It was an exciting time. Because you understand the Congolese people, they were being saved out of some of the worst cultural practices that you can imagine. The people in this church were not coming from other churches of like faith because there were no other churches of like faith. So it was exciting. People newborn in their faith. I was preaching on a Sunday morning, the building was full. Uh the Congolese people, I mean, they were singing. I'm telling you, they can sing. You'd think the roof was coming off the building, singing praises to God. Same songs that we sing, except in Swahili. Amazing grace, I'm telling you, to hear them sing that in Swahili is a wow. So I they finished singing and I and I I'm preaching, so I'm ready to preach. I mean you can't you can't help but be able to preach after hearing singing like that and I'm preaching that morning on the subject of hell. And sitting down in this section on the very first bench was an old man. I had never seen him before. As far as I knew, it was his first time to visit the church. And so I preached that morning. That old man, as I'm watching him, he's paying attention. He's listening to every word that I'm saying. Finished the service, gave the invitation. I'm leaving the pulpit area as the service is closing. And that old man walked up to me. Immediately, he grabbed me by the arm and he said this to me. He said, Mzungu Ninaswali Kwa Wewe. White man, I have a question for you. So we sat down on the bench, and I said to him, Old man, what's your question? He said In Swahili. He said, white man, he said, I heard you preach today, and you held a book in your hand, and you said, God wrote that book. And he said, you said God wrote that book to me. I said, that's right. I said, God wrote this book and he wrote it to everybody in this world. He said, white man, you said that in that book, it talks about sin. And it talks about a place called hell and a place called heaven. And you said that everybody, when they die, must go to hell Because of their sin. Unless they get saved. I said, sir, if that's exactly right, that's what this book says, that's what God says. So he sat, stood there, and sat there, we sat there, and he basically repeated to me my sermon. He said, White man, as you preached, he said, I could tell you really believe what you were preaching. I said, sir, yes, because that's what God says in his book. He said, so then that's my question. He said, if God really wrote that book? And he really wrote it to me. He said, then where have you been all of my life? He said, I'm an old man. My days are almost over. Why is this the first time I have ever heard this story Now, I don't know if it's because he's speaking in Swahili. Swahili is not as a descriptive language as English But to me, as he's questioning me, it was as if he was saying, It is your fault, you It's your fault that I have never heard this before. Why have you never been here to tell me before now? I mean I I'm just like anybody else. I I didn't like hearing that. And first of all I'm thinking, what do you mean it's my fault? I mean I I just told you. You ought to be happy. I mean I didn't say that, but that's kind of my attitude. I said, old man, listen, I said, I've been coming here now for a while, and I have yet to see anybody who looks like me. I said, you know, I don't ever see any visitors, any foreigners that come here. I said, this isn't an easy place to come to. I said, look at those mountains right above us. You can see the tents of the rebels that are still camped up there. I mean, this isn't a safe place to come to. I didn't say it, but my attitude was, old man, you ought to just be happy we're here. He let me make these excuses, and when I finished, he said to me this, he said, white man, he said, those rebels up there that you're talking about? He said, When they first came, they came to my house. When they came to my house, they put a gun to my son's head. And they shot and killed my son. Right before me and my wife. He said, now according to what you say today, that's written in that book that God wrote, then that means my son is in hell. White man, he would have never wanted to go to a place like that. He said, if you could have been here If you could have been here and you could have told him, he would have never wanted to go there. So I've got to know. I really need to know that if this is true, if God really wrote a book, And he wrote it to me. Why? Why haven't I heard this before? As that old man was saying that to me that day, I didn't know what to say to him. I stood before him, but what can you say to somebody that has come face to face with the reality of hell for the first time in their life? I stood before him, not knowing what to say, but he didn't stop. He continued. He said, white man, last year my wife died. He said, and I miss her so much. He was how much I loved her. He said, but white man According to what you preached today? According to what's written in that book that you said that God wrote, that God wrote to me, and God wrote to my wife, and God wrote to my son? According to that book, then that means my wife is in hell. And it means that she's on fire. And it means that she's in pain. And it means I can't do anything to help her, and I'll never see her again. He said, so I've got to know I just, you need just to answer the question for me if this is really true. If God really wrote a book. And he really wrote it to me, and he really wrote it to my wife, and he really wrote it to my son. If it's really true, then please tell me why we have never heard this before I had no words. I had nothing to say to him. What could I say? I stood before him, I sat there, and I for a long period of time and finally I'm stumbling over my words and I said, old man, I don't know what to tell you. I don't know why we weren't here weren't here sooner to tell you. And I don't know why nobody else came to tell you. But the only thing I can tell you today is you still have a choice to make. I can't do anything about your son, and I can't do anything about your wife. But you have a choice on what you're going to do with Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you, church. That conversation with that old man that day, it changed me. It haunted me. It's a story I can never forget. After that, I told God, I'll go. God, if there's some more people like that somewhere that nobody's told, that'll listen, send to me. Send me. I don't care where it is. I don't care how hard it is to get to. Or the danger involved. God, if there's some people like that that need to hear and you need somebody, I'll go. But Hunt Valley Baptist Church, I want you to understand something this evening. People like that still exist in the world today, but they don't just exist in the jungles of Africa. They exist right outside these doors. They do. Oh, listen. They're searching for the answers to life. There's a void. There's an emptiness. They're trying to fill it. They don't know how. They don't know the way. So they're trying everything the world offers. And it's still there. And they just need somebody to step up and tell 'em. There are still people in this world today, just like the Macedonian man. Can I give you the last point in It's not a long point, but it comes in the form of a question. And that is this: Are there still people today like Paul? And his team. So simply say, Yes, God, I'll do it. Remember, Paul wasn't going to Macedonia He was going somewhere else. And God said, Paul, no, I have something different for you. You know what God does sometimes In churches like this, sometimes God comes along and he taps somebody on the shoulder and says, you know what? What I have planned for you is a little bit different than what you had planned. I I I think we even heard that testimony here before I preached. Of this young man. I I had my plans. I was gonna be a biochemist. Well, you know what? That's a good thing to do. We need good godly biochemists, amen. I mean if he'd have done that, we'd have been happy for him. He'd have been a benefit to his church, especially if he had a million dollars, amen. I mean hey I I I mean everybody would have been happy a benefit to society uh doing a wonderful thing. But what did God do? God came along and tapped them on the shoulder and said, you know what? What you want to do is good, there's nothing wrong with it But I have something different for you. God does that sometimes. What do we do when God does that? What did Paul do immediately? What do we do? Well, God, are you sure? God, uh, you know, maybe you need to think about think about that again. You know, we try to talk them out of it. We need people like Paul and his team. Well, just say yes, God. Whatever you want. If it is to be a biochemist, praise the Lord. I'll be that. But if there's something else, I'll do that too. If I can draw your attention back to this portion of scripture in closing, show you something here that I find very interesting. And helpful. We know that God used Luke, Dr. Luke, to pen the words of the book of Acts. Luke is writing the history of the spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ from that first church in Jerusalem as God used those men to spread it around the world. And as Luke is writing, I imagine, as you see the way he writes, he's rejoicing about how God is using those people, those men, those women. He's rejoicing about what they are doing. It would be like you walking back in your hallway back here where you have all these mission letters, and you go through and you read them. And you to get excited about what you're reading. And you read one of those letters and you go, you go to your pastor, and you're like, Pastor, man, isn't it wonderful? Did you read that? Did you hear about what they're doing? Isn't that great what they're doing? And you're rejoicing. We do things like that. That's how Luke is writing. But then Paul had the vision. And after Paul had that vision, Luke changed the way he was writing. Let me show you what I'm talking about. Look in Acts 16, verse number 6. Look how Luke initially writes here. Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia, verse 7, they were come to Mysia. They essayed to essay to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not. See, he's writing about what they are doing. Verse 8. They passing by Mysia. Now look at verse 10. Paul had the vision And look how Luke changed the way he was writing. He said, and after he had seen the vision, immediately, we Endeavored to go into Macedonia. Assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us Verse 11. Therefore, loosing from Troas, we. You see how Luke changes? He's no longer writing about what they are doing, he's writing about what we are doing. Now listen, there's nothing wrong in rejoicing about what they are doing. There's nothing wrong with going to your pastor and saying, Hey Pastor, you read about that, what they're doing over there, isn't that wonderful? There's nothing wrong with that. But you know there's a better thing you can do. Instead of you're going to your pastor and say, hey pastor, isn't it wonderful what they are doing in Taiwan? Or what they are doing in Canada? You know what's better? Is you say, Pastor, isn't it wonderful what we are doing in Taiwan? Isn't it wonderful what we are doing in Canada? You say, Brother Vicky, yeah, that's great, but you know, I'm not in Taiwan and I'm not in Canada, so I can't say that. Oh, but you can. See, that's the wonderful thing about missions, about God's plan. You can. See, I find two ways. The first way is through prayer. Read about prayer in the New Testament. Much of what we read about prayer in the New Testament was written to us by the Apostle Paul. When he's asking people to pray for him. Brethren, pray for us. Brethren, pray that the Word of God would have free course. Pray that for our safety. Pray that our message would be acceptable to the saints at Jerusalem. Pray, pray, pray, because prayer moves the hands of God. And secondly, through giving. You know, missions conference, giving to missions. Man, there's a lot of wonderful aspects for it about it. But we give the missions so that we can be part of God's plan in places in the world where we can't be. Because we are responsible for the whole world. Isn't that what Paul said? Paul wrote about that over and over again. What did he say? He said, don't give. Because I desire. He said, I'm content. If I have, I'm okay. And if I don't have, I'm okay too. He said, give. So that the fruit of what I am doing will go to your account You may never go to Africa and you may never get on that boat with me. But I want to tell you something, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. If you pray, And if you give, you are on that boat with me. You are there with me. You are there with us. You are there in these places. And you don't have to sit there and say, Isn't it great what they are doing? You can sit there and say, Praise God, what we are doing, to see the gospel of Jesus Christ. Spread all over the world. There are still places in the world today, just like Macedonia There are still people in the world today, just like the Macedonian man. But do we have some people today like Paul and his team? They'll simply just say, okay, God, not my will, but thine be done. If we can get to that place in our life, then we're where then we are where we need to be for God to use us. We see the gospel of Jesus Christ spread across this world. We bow our heads, close our eyes in prayer. Thank you for your attentiveness this evening. I pray that you'd search your heart. God wants to use you. God wants to use the Hunt Valley Baptist Church in a much greater way in the future. And He can and He will. As a church, you can step forward together as a body of Christ to see the gospel spread. We stand at our seat, please, as we pray. Let us stand. Father. Pray this evening, as we have this invitation time, that we would search our hearts. Lord, I'm sure this evening there are people here with many different needs. Lord, in many different states of maturity in their life. Lord, at the foundation of our Christian life, Lord. Is the fact that you want all of us to be involved and share your blessed gospel to this world. And Father, if you've spoken to us in any way this evening, I pray that we just take a few moments to speak to you about it. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.