You can turn your Bibles to the book of Joel for our message tonight. Now uh Joel a little bit uh smaller uh book there if you get into the minor prophets uh you can dig around a little bit and you'll find it. But uh I'm gonna I'm gonna take a a verse that Yeah I I think probably you've heard. Um I'm not going to deal with it in light of its context. The context is dealing with the day of the Lord, the day of judgment When uh the Bible speaks of or uses the term the day of the Lord, uh that is referring to uh in most instances the second coming of Christ, the day of judgment. And uh but there is a reference here uh that can be used in by way of application, and that's how I'm going to use it tonight in applying. But in Joel chapter number three, in verse number fourteen He says, multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. There are multitudes in the valley of decision. We are going to deal with that from the aspect of the idea that we are often find ourselves in a place where we need to make a decision. This, of course, the the valley of decision here, and also if you read the rest of the text, is called the Valley of Jehosaphat, is a valley of judgment. And we're not going to deal with that tonight, with the context of that, but we're going to deal with the idea that there is a time and many times where we have decisions that we need to make. I hope you understand that one of the unique things about being human is the fact that we have the ability to discern. We have the ability to discern good and evil. We know the difference between right and wrong. The law of God has been written on the heart of man, the Bible tells us. And that ability to discern good and evil, to discern right and wrong, gives us the ability to make a choice between those two things. That is something that God has given us. Now I don't know if Pastor Derrick read it as he was studying and preparing for this lesson or if he something that he said uh in passing and uh I don't know if he even realized the the profundity of what he was saying. But if you remember a couple of weeks ago, as Pastor Derek was beginning his current study, he said in describing liberty That liberty is having the ability to choose. Liberty is something that's given to us by God, and that is the right or the ability to make a choice. And it's a powerful thing when you think about the idea that God from the foundation of the world knew that it was going to cost his sons life. For him to give man liberty to choose, God knew man was going to choose wrong. And he knew that in order to buy back, in order to redeem man from his sinful state, He would have to sacrifice his son. Knowing this from the foundation of the world, he still gave man liberty to choose. This was important for God, for man to have liberty to choose. We get to make a decision. We get to determine our core values that make up our mind and the actions that we're going to take. This liberty given to us by God gives us the ability to exercise it and to choose or to make decisions. Every day. According to psychology today, it's estimated the average adult makes more than 35,000 decisions every day. Now you of course know that Many, many of those are very mundane and don't have that much impact on your life. They the things that we do almost without thinking, I think, are applied into that. Like many people, they put the same shoe on every time. They whether it's the left or the right, they every time they put their shoes on they d they just they choose to put that one on first. And there's many decisions like that that are part of our decision making process or throughout the day that we may make of those thirty five thousand. I don't know how or where they came up from that number, but There's certainly a lot of them. Decisions that we make every day. And although many of them have little to no effect on our lives, there are times when even the smallest decision can have a great impact on us. Even the smallest decision really can impact us greatly. Uh you know, there's uh times when it's not going to make much difference, but there's times that it makes a lot of difference. You boys ever played this game? Which one? Which one? This one? You you sure? You don't want to change your mind? There's a dollar in this one. Oh man. Alright, let's do it again. All right. Which one? This one? Are you sure? Oh man. Should we try a third time? You got you gotta choose, man. You gotta this one. He is sticking to it, man. He is just sticking to it. I'm surprised. Here you go. Here's a dollar. I did not think you would pick that one third third time in a row, man. I thought I was gonna get to keep my dollar There's lots of decisions that we make that, you know, again, ultimately aren't going to have a great impact, but sometimes the smallest of decisions can have a great impact. I have read uh of a barn that I believe was in the state of Missouri that scientists have determined that when it rains Rain that falls on this side of the barn ends up in that ocean, and rain that falls on this side ends up at the other coast. They contract that happens to be sitting at a point where the rainfall would take though that rain into particular tributaries that ultimately get into different rivers that the rivers ultimately end up in opposite oceans. Sometimes just a matter of a few feet can make a big difference for your life. We don't often oftentimes we don't know how critical a decision can be. Something that we consider small can have a huge impact on our future. A father and a son brought home a new little dog, a stray that they found when they came into the house. They looked at his wife and he said, What should we call it? And she said, You can call it mom, because if he stays, I'm going. So that decision could really cost them. Now I don't know, depending upon their situation, if they viewed that as a positive or negative impact, I'm not sure. But it can have that on your life. So there are some guiding principles that I want to give you on making biblically sound decisions. If you find yourself in the Valley of Decision, if you find yourself in a place where you've got to determine what God would have you do if you should do this or do that. And I did not know uh the critical point that Matt would be here literally this week and making d some decisions for his family and uh this future work environment and what he's gonna be doing. Certainly it's applicable to him, but I think it's applicable to all of us. For we all find ourselves in the place of decision. First of all, I want you to to r remember or realize that sometimes we put ourselves in the valley of decision when there really is no decision to make. We are considering some options when really the options are not there for us to consider. What I'm saying is that many times there is present and clear commands that God has given us. And when we have a clear command from God, there really is nothing to decide. Unless it is a matter of fact to decide to obey. When God has given us direction and and that is made clear in His word of in His Word. It's not we don't have a decision to make. You know, in my life, I I've told you before and I count it a privilege to be able to say I've been in church every Sunday morning every Sunday school, every Sunday night, every Thursday or Wednesday night midweek service, and every night of revival, every week of my life. I mean outside of four or five times that maybe I was sick We were in church. It's just how I was raised. Church is important. That God wants us in church. And so we go to church. There's never been a week in my life that it was, are we going to go to church today? There was never a balance of, oh, should I go to church today or should I get this stuff done at home? Should I should I be in God's house today, or should I get my lawn mowed? There is no decision to be made there. Because we know that God says, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together as a manner of some is. There are some who are deciding between their lawn and their Lord. But hopefully, God saved blood-bought born-again believers that know the book understand that's not a decision I got to make. And there are many decisions in our lives that are sometimes we put ourselves there and say, should I do this or should I not do this? And really it's just a matter of if we knew this book, we wouldn't have a decision to make. Some may consider should I go into business with this guy? He seems pretty apt and and good at business, but he's not a Christian. I think there's some clear teaching in the Word of God about that. About whether you should partner up with somebody who is not a Christian and yoke up for a business. If you would seriously sit down and write down your priorities For your life. I mean prayerfully and seriously, not just, oh yeah, you know, God first, family second, church third, and Yeah, uh no, I'm saying seriously you mark it down like these are my priorities. I'm gonna stand on this, this is what's important to me. If you set your priorities out many times, that will answer your question for you. What is your priority? Example, should I date this person? Well, if our priorities are established and the priority is to seek first the kingdom of God, then we look at this relationship and say, okay, is this relationship pulling me away from God? Or is this relationship bringing me closer to God? What is the result of this relationship? Is this somebody that's going to encourage me in Christ or discourage me in Christ? The question gets answered for you. There is some clear commands. Should I take this job Well, is this job going to help me be in church? Is this job going to take me away from church? Is this job going to be an environment that's going to help me to be a Christian or do what what God wants me to do, or is this going to take me away from God. As a young man I was working at Walmart and Walmart's not a bad place to work. I just happened to be in an environment in Val Prazo, Indiana, and I was in Bible college studying to be in a ministry And as a teenager I had got in l I had gotten involved in listening to rock music and I knew all of the current songs and had them in my heart and mind. And here I was trying to turn my life around and make some changes for the Lord. And I'm working at Walmart, and all day at Walmart that music is playing in my head. And and I sing along with all those songs. And then the next morning I go to Bible class and I'm studying the Word of God and these songs are in my head. And Valpraso University was right there and there was college girls coming into Walmart scantly dressed all the time. And I found myself as a young man battling with uh having a clean mind and and being able to focus on the Word of God and and not have to confess my sin every every day. And I just said, Lord, I Do you want me working here in this environment? Walmart's not a bad place to work, but for me at that stage of my life, uh it was something that was challenging me spiritually. I wouldn't discourage anybody from working at Walmart down here. They they want a job at Walmart and in Walmart Tyron. Go ahead. That God wanted to provide something else for me and that pla that was uh a hard decision. I prayed about it and I determined that listen, this is what I believe God wants me to do. And so I talked to my manager and said when would be a good time for me to be able to uh step down and and I'm not going to continue to work here, but I don't want to leave you hanging, so you let me know. And they said, listen, we're doing fine. If you whenever you you're done, just let us know. And so I gave them a date. And uh I quit one week before I would have gotten a five hundred dollar bonus Because they sh they they had profit sharing every April. And if the store was successful, when they reached a certain dollar value, over that dollar value got shared with employees And if they made that much profit, then the employees made that. They shared it around. And I would have got a $500 check for doing nothing if I would have stayed one more week But I really felt that this is what God wants and I need to step down. So I stepped down. I I told him, listen, I'm gonna I'm gonna look for other work. And uh so two days later Somebody came up to me and says, I don't know why, but God wants me to put $500 on your school bill. And uh I'm gonna I'm gonna put five hundred dollars on your bill for you. And God was confirming in my mind you've taken the right step. And I could go on and tell you about the miraculous way in which God took care of me and and bless me beyond measure. But what I'm saying is if you have some priorities in your life and you have some biblically set commands, many times there's not a decision to make. It's doing what you know God has set out for you to do. God, beloved, has given us an instruction manual for life Now I know that men especially are given to attempting anything without reading the manual That is our that is our pattern. That is our I mean, if we can do it without reading the manual, okay. If we have to read the manual, then probably not going to get done. I mean we've been doing this so long, fellas, that uh it has become common knowledge to any guy that knows anything that they always put extra pieces in the box. Right? I mean that's it's just known. I don't know why they do that. It doesn't make sense. It wouldn't seem very profitable. But they always put extra pieces just in case you need them, right? But we build stuff, we put things together. I mean the the term sum assembly required is a challenge for men. Like, okay. That that has whole new meaning with some things you take out of the box, some assembly. This thing is in two thousand pieces, man. This is a uh uh a Lego set or something Uh but we just take it as a challenge because we we don't like to read the manual. And I d honestly don't think it's any different when we're talking about this manual When we're talking about living our life, God has given us an instruction manual. But we don't want to read it. We don't want to follow it. We don't want to take the time to get the wisdom that's there for us. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. The word of God is that clear book, that command, that direction that would set forth for us what we are supposed to do. If we would just read the manual. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Most of the time, the pattern that we are in place we want to go on our own is not right. We need to have a foundation of the Word of God and that an understanding of the principles of the Word of God in order to make the right decisions. In order for us to know the right thing to do, we have to know the right thing. For me to know what's right, I've got to know what's right. I've got to know what the Bible tells me is right. It's not about this world's philosophy or my ideas or or how I feel about a subject. It's what does the Bible say? Is there a pr a present command? Is there something that already clearly delineates the direction that I should go? Just before the outbreak of World War One. A small ship named Endurance set sail with a crew intending on being the first to cross the South Pole. The ship reached the Antarctic, but became ice-bound in the sea Soon they had to abandon their ship, and the 28-man crew took off in their lifeboats. They were trapped in the ice for a year. Ultimately, a desperate decision was made to take four men in a 20-foot lifeboat across the roughest sea in the world, the South Georgian Sea. To fly to So or to reach the South Georgia Islands, over eight hundred miles away. At the helm was a man named Worsley All he had to guide him those 800 miles through to that island was a map, a watch, a sexton, and a compass. But that's all he needed if he followed them precisely. If he was off by just one degree They would miss the islands altogether. He had to be precise with the tools that he had. They set off in their lifeboats That eight hundred-mile journey, the four men endured two weeks on the roughest seas in the world. Often the waves being as tall as ten story buildings and they're just in a twenty foot lifeboat. Two weeks of constantly being tossed, two weeks of of in danger of being capsized and flipped, two weeks of being soaked, very little food or rations. But they made it to the South Georgia Islands. Then the entire crew was saved. Worsley, captains that sailed those seas said that they considered him to be the wisest navigator in the world. His brilliance, although astounding, would have been worthless if he did not use the tools he had with him. It wasn't about how much he knew. It was about how well he used the tool that he had. Those men were saved, and his life was saved because he was willing to and trusted and relied upon the tool that he had to guide him. And they made it safely. Well, we have been given a tool by God. This Bible, the Word of God, is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. But are we using the tool? Are we using the tool? Sadly, many people are just living their life. Even those that claim to be Christians and claim to love God, they're making decisions. consistently in their life that don't line up with this book. There is a way which seemeth right to a man, but the end thereof is the way of death. And people wonder why their lives end up in such a mess. Because for so many years They've left the tool that's going to guide them and give them direction over here and done what they wanted to do. And then they look and they say, oh man, what a mess. Look at this. What am I going to do? Where if we would use the tool that God has given us right now, we could be saved. Beloved, God's will for you will never contradict God's commands. I've had people tell me They they've told me things like this is God's will for me. And I'm I'm just the pastor, so You know, I I I'm not God and I can't know what God's will is, but you know what? There's there's times that people have told me that this is God's will for me to go do this. And what they're saying is is clearly against what this book says. What they're wanting to do is clearly against God's will for any man. And yet they say, oh, it's God's will that we do this, so we're going to go do this. And they head out that direction. I know it's not God's will because I already have a clear command in the Word of God that says it's not. But they do it anyway. Psalms 119, verse number 35, says, Make me to go in the path of thy commandments. For therein do I delight. Make me to go in the path of thy commandments. I'll tell you what, Christian, if you're wondering about a decision to make in your life, make me go in the path of thy commandments. That you'll end up in the right place every time. So there's times when there's not a clear command in your life. There's times when you say Pastor Caleb, there's not a clear command. There's not a definite direction. And here's something that I need to decide between this and this, and it's really not defined in the Word of God, and that's certainly things we face like that often. So what should you do then? Well, first of all, you want to give it some prayerful consideration Prayerful consideration. And our lives, these next three go hand in hand. They kind of tie together. They work together to bring us to the right conclusion So we begin to spend some time in prayer. And we've had lots of lessons on prayer this year, and I'm not going to take a long time to develop this, but the Bible says in James chapter 1 and verse number 5, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally. And abrayeth not, and it shall be given him. If you need some wisdom for a decision that you've got to make, ask God. God, what should I do? And just like Matt was saying tonight, God speaks to your heart. God gives you direction. And sometimes just stopping long enough to actually pray about something And God will give you clear direction in your heart without question. I mean, you're praying and God will speak to you and that answer will be evident. I mean, I've had it before where I've been battling over a decision sometimes for days. And then I'll just stop and I'll say, okay, Lord, what do you want me to do? And it's almost as clear as a bell. It's just the Lord just comes through and He gives me that direction. And I know that it's His will. Many times that's what it will need for God to give you special wisdom about a matter. Just pausing and praying, allowing God to give you wisdom. God is not going to lead you or give you any direction that will not bring glory to Him. In Colossians 3. 17 says, And whatsoever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Doing all we do. Bringing honor and glory to God, and God's not going to lead us or direct us to do something that would be contrary to his commands or against his or steal his glory. The sin makes some prayerful considerations. Thirdly, get some proper counsel. Say proper counsel when you've got a decision to make. Proverbs 11 verse 14 says, where no counsel is, the people fall. But in the multitude of counselors there is safety. And Proverbs 24, verse number 6 says, For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and in a multitude of counselors there is safety. So I purposely put this proper counsel because you understand there is counsel out there that will agree with whatever you want. It's it's a sad reality of of the day and age which we live, and you know what, it might ha I I believe it's always been this way, except it's more prevalent or more readily available today. And that is that it's quite easy to find a church that will agree with whatever you want to believe. You want to believe a particular matter one way or another, you can find a church out there. You know, uh last week or whenever it was, I I dealt with drinking just a little bit and I believe that it's God's will that Christians shouldn't be drinking alcohol. I believe that's clear. I don't think it's even up for any debate. Uh but you know what You can find churches that will agree with you, you can drink, and it's okay. And you don't ever have to feel guilty about about drinking. I mean at that church, it's accepted But what's accepted at that church doesn't matter. So what does God say? What does God say? And and we try and live our life in light of the Word of God, not some church. We go to church for to honor and please Jesus Christ and our Lord, not to honor and please the pastor. So what the pastor believes about a matter is not what's important. What the Bible teaches about a matter. You say, well, I believe the Bible teaches this, and so you know I disagree with the pastor. Well where did God put you? By your testimony, you've said that God wants you here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, under the leadership and the direction of the pastor that's here. So maybe God has given you some wisdom that you should re examine the scriptures. People get set in their ways. They got things that they believe and they just do not want to change it. That they just don't there's so many things coming in my mind right now. You can get some you need to get proper counsel. Counsel that that lines up with the word of God. You know, in James chapter 3, verses 13 through 18, there's a contrast between wisdom that's from above and wisdom that's from the earth, or earthly wisdom. Eternal wisdom or earthly wisdom. Listen to the description and see the difference. He says, who is a wise man? Endowed with knowledge among you. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if ye have bitter endings And strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. Earthly wisdom, sensual, devilish. For envies and strife is, there is confusion in every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure and peaceable, gentle and easily to be entreated, full of mercy and of good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy Pretty high standard for wisdom from above. We ought to be seeking that kind of wisdom. Proper counsel. It's not going to be hard to find somebody to agree with the decision that you want to make. But are you getting counsel that agrees with God's will? Seeking good counsel. It might be uh counsel might come from the pastor. And you know what? I'm just gonna throw it out here. If you're gonna do what you want to do anyway, then don't bother me by coming and asking what you should do Okay? Because I got enough to do without spending time studying and researching something and giving you what I believe the Bible teaches if you're just going to do what you want to do anyway. You know, some people ask me a question, little simple things, like should we have red plates or blue plates? And I'll say red plates and they'll say, Well I wanted blue plates. And I'll say then why did you ask me I really don't care what kind of plate we have. You asked me, I gave you a decision, I said red. You want blue, why'd you ask me what I wanted? You can put whatever kind of plate down you want. I don't I don't care at all. But if you ask me, then do what I said. Does it it seems pretty simple to me. But I can't tell you how many people come to me and ask me guidance for their life, and then they still just do whatever they wanted. Proper counsel. Get counsel from a godly man. Get counsel from there could be godly men in the church. Not just your buddy, but from somebody that knows the word of God, somebody that you believe walks with God and is going to follow the Bible and give you counsel without partiality. Counsel without hypocrisy. Counsel that's going to be full of mercy and of good fruits. Godly counsel, wisdom from above. Get that kind of counsel. And you say, well, that kind of counsel is not going to tell me what I want to hear. I know. We've all been there. I understand that problem. I understand it completely. But that's the counsel we need if we want to make a wise decision for God and his glory. You know men, sometimes, I know you're not gonna like this, but sometimes that counsel comes from your wife. God's given her some wisdom. And sometimes the Holy Spirit, the Lord, will use her to give you some counsel. And you say, oh well, I'm the head of the home. But there's safety in a multitude of counselors, and sometimes that wisdom is there And we ought to be willing to listen. And ultimately, you're responsible and you're going to answer to God as the head of the home. That's what it means. The head of the home means you're the one responsible. God's going to judge you for what the home does and doesn't do So I think maybe I ought to take my wife's counsel a little bit and think certainly weigh it heavily and consider the spiritual depth and wisdom that she has. So get some proper counsel. Get some then maintain a peaceful conscience. Maintain a peaceful conscience. These things work all together to help you make biblically sound decisions. The Bible says in Colossians 3. 15, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts. To which also you are called in one body, and be ye thankful. But letting the peace of God rule in your heart. Listen, if you're a Christian and you're walking with God in any measure, The peace of God is going to be very clear. You're going to know whether you have peace or not. You want to make a decision about something and you're laying awake. in turmoil over it. God hasn't given you that peace in your heart. That peace that passeth understanding God has given each and every one of us a conscience, a conscience that should be educated by the Word of God and empowered by the Spirit of God that will not let us rest when we're making a wrong decision. It's going to keep you up at night. It's going to get you out of bed early. You're not going to have that peace about the decision that you're making. In Psalms 119, verses 97 through 101, he says, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Though thou thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers For thy testimonies are my meditations. I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. I have refrained my feet from every evil way that I might keep thy word. You see the foundation that the Word of God gives us? What I'm saying is our conscience needs to be educated by the Word of God. When we have that knowledge, he says here that you're going to have more wisdom than your teachers. You'll have more knowledge or understanding than the ancients because the Word of God is the foundation We've got to have a conscience educated by the word, empowered by the Spirit. God will not allow your conscience to rest. If you're making a decision that's against him, it ought to become normal practice in our lives that we are seeking that peace of God. Letting that dwell and reign in our heart. And if you have a decision to make, sometimes it can be very I I was talking to one of our members. Maybe I don't know three months ago or something now and time flies, but they were talking about getting a medical procedure done. There's certainly nothing directly in the Word of God about whether they should have the procedure or not. But just in talking to them There was a lot of turmoil in their heart and mind. And I just said, listen, sounds to me like God hasn't given you any peace about this. You've been battling over trying or may getting this done or not getting it done and and you don't have you don't have peace, so I would say don't do it And I'm just basing that off the b off the fact that as a Christian we're supposed to have peace about the steps we're taking. And if God doesn't give you peace, then don't then don't do it. In Acts 24, verse 16, he says, herein do I exercise myself to always have a conscience void of offense towards God and towards man. If we are we are to exercise ourselves, we are to expend energy to have a clear conscience. before God and before our fellow man. That is to have that peace in our hearts. We're to work hard to have that. But you got a decision to make? Is there a present command that that makes it for you? Uh have you put some prayerful consideration into it? Have you got some proper counsel about what you should do? Do you have peace, peace in your heart? A peaceful conscience. Is that something God has given you about making that decision? We want to make biblically sound decisions and here's some guidance in how to do it. Listen, everything that glitters is not gold. And the path of least resistance is not usually right. One man said, when you see a destroyed life You usually can look back and see a long line of bad decisions. A long line of bad decisions. So my goal tonight is to try and help you to make good decisions. And as you make good decisions you will set yourself up for success, not just in Christian living, but I believe in your life in in the situations that you're dealing with, in the job that you have, in in the security that you have, uh in And the planning for the future that you have. All these things, I believe, good decisions lead to towards all of that. And God wants you to have that. But we've got to make the right decisions.