And uh we're gonna conclude, get through that this morning, and hopefully it's a blessing to you. I do need your help a little bit. We'll read the text here. In Colossians chapter number three, verses eighteen through twenty-five is the uh area uh that we're looking at the text for this morning and uh just follow along as I read that it says wives submit yourselves unto your own husbands as is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fear in God. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as unto the Lord, and not unto men Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respect of persons. God's not a respecter of persons, amen. Amen. He he uh loves us all the same, gives us all the same opportunities and the same blessings. And it's all available to any of us. There's no but nobody that has uh that's one of the problems with the uh kind of the older church where there was this hierarchy, this this level of privilege. But we are all equal at the foot of the cross. Praise the Lord. Amen. That's for sure. So we're going to look here. I know that last week we were looking here at the samples that He's given us We talked about our accomplice, verses eighteen and nineteen, wives, submitting yourselves. Um, you know, we spent a little time there and talked about God's plan for that. And that it's not a matter of priority. It's not a matter of one is higher or better than the other. It's just a position under Jesus Christ. Christ is the head He's the leader and he's given each of us a role, a responsibility to follow, and we're supposed to do that. And then husbands have a job to do as well. And if we as husbands did our job correctly, loved our wives as we should For them to submit and follow wouldn't be that hard. It wouldn't be that hard. They would want to. They would desire to. The problem is many times as husbands, we're not fulfilling our role. We're demanding respect. And demanding they follow, but we're not being very good leader. And uh that's the problem. They they they wouldn't have a hard time following if we did a little better job, right, Ned? Husbands, uh, you know, we talked about that, and in children, um we got to the ancestors, um, verses twenty and twenty-one. Children obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. And fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, uh or children to anger, lest they be discouraged. So Proverbs 18, 14, we concluded that uh it is the child is not to obey in all things when he's a youngster. is going to be uh a real nag as a junior and then he's going to greatly disappoint and discourage his parents as a teen because he's got to be taught, trained from From the beginning on. So let's look at verse number twenty two. We haven't got into that yet. Alright, so that's the the agent. As an agent, uh verse number twenty-two, servants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. What a powerful verse here for us. in the world in which we live and I guess applicable for any time, for any group of people, when we're talking about being a servant and doing what God calls us to do. A servant was a bondservant, a slave. Slavery obviously was very common at this time in the world. Half of the people in Rome were slaves There was believed to be about 60 million of them in Rome, people who literally did not have uh any rights. Slavery is wrong. It's reprehensible. There is no justification for any man uh subjugating another man and feeling that they are superior than them. God is not interested in that. We are all created equal. God loves all men from all races and all places There is no superior race. There's no group of men that have a higher intellect. or uh greater ability sometimes. Natural abilities uh you know come to different people. God blessed them with certain skills in different areas, but all of us are created equal by God. Amen? But fact of history is is that there was slavery during this time. And um If slavery actually existed in America, uh let me just throw this out. America didn't invent slavery. America didn't start it. We didn't promote it. And although the world on a national and and global scale wants to hold America responsible, they need to look at their history books. Slavery's been in the world since before Christ came. If we want to get real honest about it, America is a country that did away with slavery. Because we understood these biblical principles that before God we are all created equal. And slavery was wrong. And so as a nation, we did away with slavery. People will say other things, but by and large, the Civil War was about slavery. And God allowed righteousness and justice to prevail and the idea that all men are created equal. And as a nation, we have stood not just for America, but even around the world to free men, men that have been bound in slavery. Christianity is responsible for the ending of slavery, not just here, but in much of the world. But This idea here of servants was written at a time when the people that he was talking to would have been in a position of slavery. Sometimes we we we of course don't don't like that, but uh for us the application is servitude. Uh when we work, when we are uh in a position of service for another, even though we do get paid and you know a a uh hire a My mind's going faster than my tongue. Um, is worthy of his higher. What's the first part of that? Is uh it's a worker, but I don't think that's the bibli A laborer is worthy of his hire. You know, and and so hey, a man's supposed to get uh a fair day's wage for a fair day's work. Amen. That's why we're supposed to treat men. And this is what we're talking about here, an employee or an agent. The word here master refers to a boss, a foreman, a manager, a supervisor, somebody that is over you Somebody that's your master. We are to be faithful in all things. Serve and obey in all things your masters. Not just when they're watching. Not just when the boss comes into the room. Um do you only start working when the boss comes around? There was a factory suggestion box, and in the fast factory suggestion box, there was literally a suggestion that the boss not be allowed to wear tennis shoes. Because they wanted to be able to hear the boss coming around the corner. They wanted him to have like Hard sold shoes, leather shoes, so that he couldn't sneak up on them. They wanted fair warning to begin to work, you know, to to put on a show and really invest some effort when the boss came around But it shouldn't be that way. It shouldn't be that way for us as Christians. Christianity never in this world offered an escape from hard work. That's not what Christianity is. Christianity actually should motivate us to work harder. As a Christian, we should be among the hardest working people on the job. Right. And it should not be a balance of uh I don't remember I was listening to something this week and he said, Yeah w this this guy was talking and if one of you were there, you can let me know. My mind is In a daze this morning. I've had quite a morning. But uh he was talking about well, I was go at work and you know, w we were expected to do a certain amount But we couldn't do more than this because if we did, then the boss would begin to expect that much work every day. That uh we can't there there's a level of we we couldn't really get that much done because if we got that much done then the boss is gonna think we could do that every day. And so they kind of just paced themselves and You know, that's one of the problems with unions. They they they do that. And there's a there's a line where, oh, we could get a hundred units today, but then they're gonna expect that every day, so we're gonna settle for seventy And we'll just kind of make seventy happen and that'll be the norm. And that's not the way it should be. And a lot of times, and I've I have not been in this position because of my work opportunities have not put me there, but uh I'm sure some of you have been in a position where somebody at work has said, Why are you working so hard? Why are you producing so much? You're making us look bad. You're making it look like we don't get the job done. Well you don't. Uh hello. All you gotta do is produce and Christians ought to be among the hardest working people on the job force. We ought to get the job done and and it's about because of the fact that we don't answer to the boss we do, but ultimately we understand. We're serving another master. We have a heavenly father. It is not just I service only, doing just enough to fulfill the minimum demands of the workday. But accomplishing and doing as much as you can. How much of what you do do you do for the Lord? How much would you do if you knew that the Lord was the only one that would see it? The fact of the matter is, is we as people tend to be man pleasers And we are to provoke one another to love and good works. That's good. We can encourage one another. We can help and motive each other, motivate each other. But as we grow in the Lord, what we do ought to be to please God. And it ought to get to the point where I'm going to work just as hard if the boss is not here. Or if nobody else is looking, because I know that my Heavenly Father is looking. Our motivation ought to be to please and to honor God, not just be recognized by others I mean, how many of you would have come to church this morning? Don't raise your hand. I'm just throwing this out. How many of you would have come to church this morning if you were going to be the only one here Yeah. We are to provoke one another to love and good works. And in fact the matter is Sometimes we need somebody, another good fellow Christian brother in Christ, to say, hey, where were you? You know, and and sometimes maybe that's the motivation to get you out of bed and and get to church because you gotta you know, man, brother so-and-so is gonna get on me about missing church. So I'm gonna go. And sometimes we need that, but listen, that ought not be our only motivation. We ought to be motivated because of Christ Because of God. And we're going to do what's right, not just as man pleasers, but to please God. We are to be focused with singleness of heart. Singleness of heart literally means to be folded together. The desire of the employee has been folded together so that he has but one main goal. to perform his very best so that he can be faithful to his values and his beliefs at the same time. Now, there are times when work may conflict with your values, with what you believe. I could never work at a place where I had was required or asked to serve people alcohol. I believe it's wrong. I could not work there and fulfill my duty as a as an employee and give people alcohol. I don't think that that we should do that. And so that would be a conflict where I would answer to a higher power God, then I then I would my boss because God comes first. Now we gotta trust God, the loss of job or loss of promotion, because of the conflict there, we gotta trust God You say, well if I if I don't do what they say, I'm gonna lose my job. Well we answer to a higher power. And the job is not what's most important. Honoring and pleasing God is what's most important, and we put God first. And then and honor and please him, and then we serve those who are our masters, realizing that God observes both the action and the attitude in which we do what we do. He says, Masters, masters, you got uh servants obey in all things your masters According to the flesh, not with I service as men pleaders, but with singleness of heart. Masters Look in chapter 4 and verse number 1. We're going to kind of jump into chapter 4, just this first verse, because it really goes along with what we're looking at. You see you have this kind of These relationships. You got the husband and wife. You've got the child and the parent, and now you have the servant and master. In chapter 4 and verse number 1, he says, Masters Give unto your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that ye also have a master in heaven So this verse goes along with in context with what we're looking at with the relationships here as they continue on giving the servant and the master, the child and the parent, the wife and the husband. The responsibility of the master doesn't begin or end with government regulations I know that in America there's the Equal Opportunity Act and there's laws governing, you know, the the s the slave labor and child labor and and what we can and cannot do. There's uh the minimum wage laws, there's Occupational Safety and Health Act, and other legislation which dictates what the boss can and can't do on the job site. But really, that shouldn't be what controls and governs a Christian. Those are the minimum standards that we can do by law, and certainly we've got to obey the law We know that. But a Christian's held to a higher law. Amen? He's held to a higher law. A Christian is bound by practices and principles that are beyond just the law of the land. But the law given to us in the Word of God. He must obey that law, that higher law that we are bound to. God wants us to be equal and just, to treat others how we would want to be treated. Now I'm not going to get into our deal this morning with the uh gender wage gap. Um But listen, God says that a w a a hire a laborer is worthy of his hire. We we've got to pay people what they're worth. What they're earning. A master should not give one servant more than another for doing and performing the same job in the same way. At the same time, you should not get equal pay just because you happened to hold a particular position. You may very well be able to do a job better than someone else. And if that's the case, you should get better pay. It's not it should not be based on your gender. If you can perform better in that particular position than somebody else, you should get better paid than them. You see, the laborer is worthy of his hire And God is a rewarder of progress and success and what you accomplish. And it should not be based On whether you're male or female. Okay, it should be based on your performance. One of our representatives. You could probably guess which one. declared declared her moral outrage that the CEO the CEO of Walmart makes twenty-three million dollars a year Well, the cashier only makes twenty-two thousand a year. Now, she's declaring her moral outrage at this Well here's the thing, they're not doing the same job. And it's very interesting that she chose that company because the CEO of Walmart has been working for Walmart for over 30 years. And he started unloading trucks on a loading dock, probably for a lot less than $22,000 a year. Thirty years ago he decided to make Walmart his career and he was going to pursue that. There's a big difference for between somebody who's been there thirty years. and has worked hard and sought that career path in somebody who has a summer job working at Walmart who's not going to be there next year. The crazy th th the the the mindset of the the liberal left today that the cashier that comes in for a summer job should make what the CEO makes that's been there for thirty years is is mind boggling. It's ludicrous. If that was the case, there would be no no entry-level jobs. You gotta start somewhere. A laborer is worthy of his hire. There's got to be a beginning point. The beautiful thing, the great thing about America is you don't have to stay there. You can, with hard work and effort, performance, increase your position very quickly If you choose to dedicate yourself and work hard and do right, hey, God will bless you. And you'll continue to excel and go beyond all your peers and those around you. You'll continue to make better and better. And that's the amazing thing about America where men can have the opportunity to improve their position in life. Because we're all created equal under God. And if you've got the skills and ability and the work ethic, and the CEO of Walmart is a perfect example of that, because he started as a dock worker. Probably for around $12,000, $13,000 a year, that many years ago. And because of his hard work, he makes a lot of money today. But he's worked his way up through the company. The consideration is that you have a master in heaven. We work hard not just because we we want a paycheck, not just because others are looking, but because we have a master in heaven. Would you want him to treat you how you treat those under you? This is talking about the masters. How are we supposed to treat those that are under us? How are we supposed to treat those that we have leadership over? Hey, how do we want God to treat us? Employers and bosses in general are answerable to God, and they're held accountable by God. So I want you to see next to verse number 23, our approach. Our approach. And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as unto the Lord and not unto men. What we do, we're supposed to do heartily. We're supposed to do it with uh you know all our might. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Put your heart into it. It makes all the difference. One task needs to be done heartily, out of the soul, with great enthusiasm. And listen, that will get recognized, that will get promoted Whether you want it or not, you're just serving, you're serving as unto the Lord, not unto men, and people see it. They recognize the performance and what you're getting done. You can tell if someone's heart is in it or not. If you're getting paid as a Christian, you should put your heart into it. You've you've been agreed you've agreed to work for whatever it is. You should put you say, oh I found out that he makes two dollars more an hour than I do. So I'm gonna work two dollars an hour less than him. You agreed to work for whatever you agreed to work for. Just because you happen to, through the grapevine, find that somebody else gets paid more than you, somehow you feel you've been slighted. You agreed to work for that. That means you give your best for what you agreed to work for. The audience is the Lord. Heartily is unto the Lord. We're not serving the masters here on earth. We're serving God, even in our positions here on earth, even the jobs that we do. If our work is for the praise of men, then when we have received that pat on the back, that good job, there's no further reward. I would much rather be rewarded by God than to get a good job from my boss and that be the end of it. If all I'm working for is just the praise of men, then that's the extent of what I receive. But if I'm serving and working to be, to honor God, then God is the one that will reward you. And God will reward you above and beyond anything that you could ask or think. Amen. A person can spend his life pursuing the praise of men and find it means nothing. They've actually accomplished nothing worthwhile. Their wall of plaques and trophies are as empty and meaningless I remember the governor, I mean the uh the mayor, I believe it is, of Lancaster County in Lancaster, California, giving a testimony at a conference I was in, and he was talking about one day he was so discouraged and downhearted. He says, I was looking at the at my I love me wall. He says, all my plaques and things that I've earned, all my honors and my degrees and my awards from the city. And you know, all of my areas of service and everybody recognizes, I was looking at my I love me wall. And he said, I realized that it meant nothing. All of that meant nothing at all, and his life was empty. And he was looking for something. And God led a soul winner to his door. He trusted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, and he today is a soul winner. Have you ever felt like what you do is useless? There's no eternal value in it. Why am I pursuing this? Paul wrote these verses we're looking at today. He wrote these verses to many who were slaves. And yet he still admonished them To do what they do is unto the Lord. You can have eternal value in what you do, no matter what it is. If you do it as unto the Lord. You say, oh, well, I'm just pushing carts in at Walmart. There can be eternal value in that. If you do it to the best of your ability to bring honor to God and not just for the praise of men, it'll go so far beyond As far as giving you fulfillment in your position or your job or what you're doing, when you look at it as bringing honor to God and doing it to the best of your ability to be the right kind of representative of Jesus Christ, do it to the Lord and not to men. The audience that we're performing for is not the men around us. It's to please God, to bring honor and glory to Him What we should be doing it for and how we should be doing it is something that should be fit for a king, not the not second best. Nearly 200 years ago, the editors of the Times had a great embarrassment that almost every copy they produced had typographical errors in it galore. Finally, they told the compositors of the printing staff that the first copy off the press was going to be sent to the king. And immediately the area the errors disappeared. Realizing who they were making that that for. Cause them to be motivated to do their best. And hey, we can't let the king see all this junk in here. We've got to do a better job. And they changed that and went When we, as Christians, realize our service, whatever it might be, our labor is not unto men, but unto the Lord, it'll motivate us to do our very best. Everyone wants to give their second best to God. It's a problem that we have. We feel like, well, God will be happy with that. We give God the worn-out stuff. We give God the the things we don't want anymore. And we feel like we're being generous. Oh, look at what I've given God Listen, there's times and places that we can be a blessing to others and and and praise the Lord for that, but understand we're supposed to give God our best. We give God the time that we have left after we've done everything else that we want to do, instead of giving God the first. What is your motivation for what you do? Is it that others may see you? Is it motivated by the reward that's coming? And praise the Lord, God gave that to us. There should be motivation for that. Maybe you're motivated by the punishment of of not doing what we know we're supposed to do. That's possible too. I'll tell you, parents enjoy it when the kids Say, hey dad, watch this. Dad, look at what I can do. I mean, the parents like to see their children doing a good job and excelling at what they've been taught and and And learning how to, whether it's ride a bike and they're, man, good job, son, whatever it is. But when we do right, we're pleasing our Heavenly Father. And that should be a motivation for us to please God. A young assistant In the shop one day was working. The owner was out to lunch and a traveler passed through the store and he suggested some shady transaction. He suggested getting something for a little less and he the the traveler would give the laborer a little bit of money and the laborer said no no I mean he seemed to hesitate and the traveler said hey it's all right Your master is not here. He's out to lunch. And the laborer looked up towards heaven and he said, listen, my master is always in. Our motivation to perform should not just be because the master happens to be in the room, the boss happens to be around, but because the master is always there. And we're serving and working to please him. And if we do so, we get a great reward. Verse number 24 and 25. It says, Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of an inheritance. For ye serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Ye serve the Lord Christ. But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respecter of persons. The source of this reward is God Himself. Hey, your earthly masters, they may not reward you correctly. You may work like nobody else on the job and some other bum that calls in sick and comes in late and goes home early and takes a two-hour lunch, gets a promotion or or gets a raise and you're looking at that like what in the world? Hey, your master knows. And your master is keeping score. The source of our reward is from heaven, is from the Lord. And he's keeping track. And the day is coming. When the rewards will be passed out. Your time on the job that you're at right now is really short compared to eternity. It's not going to last that long. We one day are going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ, and you're going to be rewarded for the things done in your body. Hopefully more things that are good than bad. The supply of the rewarder is limitless. He says he's going to reward them of the inheritance. The inheritance that he has is limitless. Any inheritance we receive here on earth, there is an end to it. You may have some wealth wealthy uh in-laws or outlaws, whoever they might be. You may have somebody that has some money in your family somewhere And when they pass on, that that's going to be divided among the kids or whatever. And you've been praying no, you haven't been praying. Uh that the day's going to come, maybe, maybe some of that inheritance is going to be given to you, but you know there's a limit on that Have you ever seen these these uh class action lawsuits? Twenty-five million dollars was raised. They punished this company and then they divide it up among all of the plaintiffs and you get your twelve dollars. You know Oh, wow, thank you. You know. But hey, the uh amount that the Lord has is limitless. It's limitless. There there's not a boundary on that. The supply is limitless. And our inheritance comes from the Lord because we're serving him. You know, he is no respecter of persons. A servant, like Paul was writing to here I can imagine how revolutionary these thoughts were for them, because a servant didn't receive an inheritance. The servant continued to serve, and his children served, and they did not get part of the inheritance. The inheritance went to the children. But praise God, we are part of the family of God. And we receive some of the inheritance. God is not a respecter of person. This applies to both the servant and the master. God will get you will give you what you have coming. Under the Roman law, a slave could not possess any property. Whatever he did, all of his work, he was promised nothing. But from God we're promised a just reward. A just reward. He will remember us when the time comes, and the balance will be Even greater. I was gonna say it's gonna it's gonna all balance out in the end, but I think that God's gonna be give us far above that which we would ask or think. He's he's gonna reward you. Everyone can reach him. No sinner is so bad that he can't do it God's way, and no sinner's so good that he can do it his own way. Everyone can come to Christ. There's a reciprocal obligation here in all of these relationships It's neat that the Lord had him put in here all of the contrast. You have the servant and the master. You have the child and the parent. You have the wife and the husband. All of these relationships, and there's a reciprocal nature in all of them, that Always the servant does first in each of these relationships. You see the servant, then the master, the wife, then the husband, the uh Yes, the children and then the parent. But there's a reciprocal nature that's supposed to happen. As we do what is right It opens the opportunity for them to do what is right. It lays the groundwork for that. It is never Just one side or one person's duty. Husbands have just as great as obligation as their wives do. Parents have just as binding of a duty. As their children do. Masters are just as responsible as their underlings are. There's a reciprocal nature, and God holds us all accountable Everyone in their position, in their place. There's a mutual responsibility, and therefore it becomes the ethic of a Christian to fulfill his duty. As an obligation to Christ, not just a position. Let me remind you of the old hymn, hear ye the master's call. Give me thy best. For be it great or small, that is the test. Do then the best you can, not for reward, not for the praise of men, but for the Lord. Here we have examples, responsibilities, the practical side of Christianity. Yes, Paul gives us a lot of doctrine. Teaches us what's expected, but then he says, hey, this is what it means. Here's the examples. If you're going to be a Christian. Let's get it down where the rubber meets the road and let it impact our life on a daily basis, not just something up here, this this pie in the sky philosophy or idea. You want to be a Christian? Then you live this way and bringing honor and glory to God because of it. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and your love for us. We thank you for the teaching, the practical teaching in these lessons here. As we conclude chapter number three, Lord, we pray that you would help us. To fulfill our roles, our responsibilities before the Lord. Not as I service, not to please men, but to please our Heavenly Father, to please God. And Lord, we know that you'll reward us accordingly. And Lord, we're grateful for that. Certainly undeserved. But what a privilege it is to know that a reward is coming. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school. Lord, we pray you'll be with us in the morning service. We ask this in Jesus' blessed name. Amen.