But as I said here by way of introduction, uh we here this is the first Sunday of the year, uh and we've You know, we're we're we're into 2025. It's hard to believe a quarter of the century. I mean I back I remember you know the year 2000, Y2K, the world was gonna end. uh everything was gonna be done and and oh everybody the fear that was around during that time and I rem it it seemed like uh you know just I can't can't believe it's been twenty five years since then You know, and here we are uh at 2025. And the fact of the matter is is is time flies by quickly and if we don't, as was stated last Sunday, live life on purpose, uh year after year will come and go And there will be no change. Things are going to be the same. One of the greatest areas that seems to have the biggest impact on individual people is uh finances. the the correct handling of our finances. Uh matter of fact w with the over fifty percent of marriages that end in divorce the large majority of them say a big contributing factor with regards to their divorce was money uh the the whether the conflict over money really not even so much whether they had money or didn't have money, it was disagreements over money, over how to handle the money, where the money was being spent, who gets what money. I mean just the the disagreements over that money impacts our life in a huge and direct way, which is why there's so much in the Word of God about money. You would think that there would be a much greater amount in the Word of God about prayer But uh there's fractional amount uh about prayer in comparison to what God said about money, about our finances. God knew the impact that this would have on us and the picture that it tells about us Now let me just say we all have desires. We all have things that we wish we had or could do or that were part of our lives and we have our dreams and aspirations, you know, things that we would like to get or to have And there's nothing wrong uh with those desires. However, most people are living from paycheck to paycheck or even From behind the paycheck. Their paycheck is already spent before it even even they even get it. It's already gone. They don't see how they can make any changes. They don't see how anything could be any different They've been planning to or wanting to make a change for many, many years, uh, but have never done it. It is heartbreaking to me when I read stories and I hear about people that are fifty, sixty, seventy years old and they have no savings. They have nothing put away. They have not planned or thought ahead at all and they're in that condition of their life and they're still paying off their house. They're still trying to just get through. Uh and it shouldn't be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. Let me encourage you this morning that there's hope. God gives us hope. We're going to look at scripture, and I've got a lot of ground to cover, but turn to Psalms chapter 107, Psalms 107 with me. I want to just show you a couple of verses with regards to this that there is hope. God is the God of hope. And He's in the hope-giving business. He specializes in helping the broken and lifting the fallen and restoring the wayward. And if we would come to him, if we would follow his principles, we could see life-changing victory this year In Psalms 107, verses 1 through 9, he says, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. God is good. Amen. For his mercy endureth forever, let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy, and gathereth them out of the lands from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way, they found no city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. So we see here a position of hunger, a place of thirst. They had to reach that place first. And the question I have for you today is, are you thirsty for change? Are you hungry for something to be different? Many people continue to live in a condition of behind uh you know not being able to catch up, always chasing after uh because they haven't been willing to make the change and what it boils down to is they're not hungry enough. He says, are you hungry and thirsty? Their soul fainted in them. He says, look at what happens here then You see, after they got hungry, after they got thirsty, after there was a desire in their soul, then cried they unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distress. That's when they turned to God, and He led them forth by the right way, that they might go to the city of habitation. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Verse number nine, for he satisfieth the longing soul and filled the hungry soul with goodness. So if you're hungry enough to make a change today, if you desire to have things be different, it's possible you have to determine and to start to do so right now Let God deliver you. Now let me just say, he's not going to deliver you by like some people say that, oh, God's going to dump a bunch of money on you. That if you'll do this, God's going to give you a whole bunch of money and you think God's going to deliver you that way. That's not how God's going to deliver you. You see, the fact of the matter is, is even if you got a bunch of money dumped on you, that's not going to fix your problem Because your problem is you. Oh, yeah, see that's the problem. Like like Dave Ramsey says, is uh financial success is 80% behavior. And I think it's a lot more than that actually. Because it's really not so much about how much you make, it's what you're doing with what you make. It's how you're stewarding what God has blessed you with I read a story this week about Dave, who is 33, and his wife, who is 37. Their combined income was $192,528 a year. I'm I venture to say that anybody in here would feel they could certainly live on $192,000 a year. They could certainly be on top and and l in in in it like man we would be in the money. The fact of the matter is they had making $192,000 a year and they had accumulated $528,000 worth of debt. And they were living paycheck to paycheck, couldn't even pay the creditors one week out to the next, just just robbing Peter to pay Paul, just trying to stay ahead of the creditors. Even though that see, it's not about how much money you make. I know we in our minds we think it is, but it's not. It's how you're managing the money that you have. So beloved, look back there at verse number seven in Psalms there, he says, and he led them forth by the right way. You see, there's a right way that as God's people we're to be managing our money. We're to be managing God's given resources to us, and we need to let Him lead us in the right way. He's going to lead us in the right way, and I've got to try and move pretty quickly today. Would you turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 12? We'll be there just a moment, Luke chapter 12. But I want you to know we need to first uh correct our attitude concerning money. We need to have the correct attitude. Our our mindset needs to be right. Our heart needs to be right. The communist attitude regarding money is that money belongs to the state. The idea of the state, you know, that's socialism. The state owns it all. And uh if we are not careful and we don't prayerfully elect the right people in our country, we will reach the point where the state owns it all. And that's not biblical. The capitalist attitude is money belongs to the individual. Now the capitalist attitude, that mindset, does not necessarily have to be wrong. I do want you to know that uh capitalism is biblical. God says a man is worthy of his hire and that uh he should earn for what he accomplishes, what you do you should get paid for And uh that is for you, and that is that is biblical in practice, but the Christian goes one step beyond that, and the Christian has the mindset that everything belongs to God. That's the difference between somebody who's maybe just uh livling living and somebody who is living for God Psalms 24, 1 says, The earth is the Lord and the fullness thereof, the world, and they that dwell therein. Beloved, we understand that God owns everything. That it was all from Him and for Him. And therefore we need to remember the principle of stewardship. You're in Luke chapter 12. Look down in verse number 42 and 44 through 44. He says, And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward? You see, beloved, we are to be stewards. He said, whom his Lord shall make ruler over his household to give them their portion of meat in due season. Blessed is that servant whom his Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. A wise steward is blessed and he is given more responsibility and he is given more blessing and he's given more to manage. because he has been a wise steward of what he already has received. And we need to understand, beloved, that we are stewards of what God has given us. We're stewards why? It all belongs to him. First of all, he created us You are fearfully and wonderfully made. You are made in the image of God. We go back to creation. If we believe the word of God, we believe that God created it all. Amen? Okay, and then we are created by him. You individually are fashioned in your mother's womb by the hand of God, and God uh shapes you and molds you into what he needs you to be, we were created by him. Not only were we created by him, but we were paid for by him. What? Know you not that your temple is the body uh temple your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost You're not your own. You've been bought with a price? Jesus Christ came and gave himself on the cross. He died for you and I. He paid our sin debt. So not only has he created us, but he paid for us. Not only that, day by day, how many of you would agree that He provides for us? God provides for us day by day. Yes. God owns it all, and in his infinite wisdom and his grace, he continually, day by day, gives to you and I the ability to work and to go out and to earn. Deuteronomy 8. 18 Says, but thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. that he may establish his covenant which he sweareth unto his fathers as it is this day. He says, it's he that gives thee the ability to get wealth. Understanding, beloved, God provides for us. You say, well, I go and I work a job. Yes, but who who gave you the job? Who gave you the ability to work that job? Who gave you the strength? to do that job, who gave you the physical capacity to do that job, the mental wherewithal to do that job. Those are things that you know, what hast thou that thou hast not received? The fact of the matter is is uh you're Exactly who God made you to be. Sometimes we may desire to be something different. But the fact of the matter is, is God made us, the wherewithal, the skills, the strengths that we have is who God made us to be, and that ability to earn comes from Him. So we need to remember the aspect of stewardship. Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. God gives it to us. And so we're just stewards of it. He is the maker of them all. Beloved, Jesus is, you know, if you're here today, Proverbs tells us that He makes both the poor and the rich. If you're rich, Praise the Lord. You should glorify God in your body because, not because he made you rich, but because of who he is. And if you're poor, you should glorify God in your body. It's not about the measure of wealth that gives you cause to glorify God. God is good all the time. Proverbs 22, 1 says, The rich and the poor meet together. The Lord is the maker of them all. So whether we're rich or whether we're poor, we understand that that is God's blessing, God allowed that to be our situation, and therefore we should glorify God with what we have and who we are in Him. We need to remember, beloved, the principle of stewardship. What is a steward? Somebody that manages or oversees another person's property or interest. And so we we're that's what we are. We're just managers That's why I titled this managing money. Because we realize it's not it's not our money. And so we need to re remember our attitude needs to be right. Our attitude needs to be one uh first of all of knowing that he's a steward and therefore it needs to be we need to remember the principle of submission. Submission to God. If I gave Ten thousand dollars to each of these young people here on the front row and said, I need you to manage this money for me. I want you to take one thousand dollars of it and I want you to uh put it into uh Coca-Cola and I want you to take $1,000 and and give it to missions and I want you to take $1,000. Whatever instruction I gave them to do with that money They would have no problem with that. Why? It wasn't their money. I gave it to them to manage. And I blessed them with it and said, hey, the last thousand dollars you can have and spend however you'd like. Boy, that's even better. Wow, and now I've got some money I can spend, I can even spend. Why? Because I if we understand the principle of stewardship and know that we're just stewarding what God has given us, then we don't have a problem when God tells us To do something. Let me ask you this. Do you believe that God wants what's best for you? God wants what's best for us. Beloved, the principles regarding stewardship. Are not for him. They're for you. They're for me The principles that God gives us in the Word of God regarding how we steward what He has given us is for us. The Bible says, I would encourage you to look up the word, the phrase, that it may be well with thee in Deuteronomy. Chapter number six, twice it says that, that it may be well with thee. He says, you need to obey God, follow God, observe his commandments. Why? That it may be well with thee. I don't know about you. I want it to be well with me. I want to be blessed. I want to be in good standing with God. And so we need to understand that as a steward, my responsibility is submission to whatever God's plan is. And that is not painful, and that is not hurtful, and it's not something I should begrudge and be upset about, and man, I wish I didn't have to do this. No, that's exciting because we know that it is God's plan to bless us and it is for our good. Don't you think so? Anybody agree with that? It is. It is for our good. I want you to turn to Matthew chapter number six. We're going to spend a little time there. We're going to look at several verses in this passage of scripture. But beloved, failure to submit to God with regards to our finances is going to lead to a curse instead of a blessing. Read Malachi chapter number three. Read in your Bibles, Deuteronomy 28. When we do not observe or follow the commandments of the Lord, we put ourselves under the curse of God instead of the blessings of God. And I would much rather be under the blessings of God. It is for our good. Now God says here in Matthew chapter number six, and we're going to look at a number of verses here, but beginning in verse number four, he says, That thy alms may be in secret. Now we could read one through three, and he talks about giving of alms and that you want to give, and when you give, give, give in secret Verse 4 he's summarizing here. He says, That thy alms may be in secret, and that thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. But I want you to note we're going to continue because although this is what's dealing specifically with alms, with money, with giving, he tells us a couple other things here. He says, And when thou prayest, Thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogue and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But when thou prayest Enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father which is in what's the next word? Secret. And thy father which seeth in secret, what's the last phrase? Shall reward thee openly. Okay, so he said, Hey, when you're going to give, give so in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. When you pray, pray in secret. Now, just for the sake of time, jump down to verse number 17. He says there, but thou when thou fastest, anoint thy head and wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy father which is in secret, and thy father which is in secret Shall reward thee openly. Beloved, he says when you pray, when you fast, when you give, do so in secret. What he's saying is, if you will be obedient to me over here, When you get over here, I'm going to bless you. I'm going to reward you openly. He says, why don't you just prove me and see if I will not open the windows of heaven? And pour out a blessing upon you. We need to be obedient and honor God in our finances over here. Just trust him. Just say, okay, God, this is what you say. I'm going to follow this principle in my life. And then he says, see if I won't reward thee openly. God's going to bless you. We know that to be true when we pray and fast, but what about in the aspect or the area of giving? The fact of the matter is, is it gets down to it, or the the heart of the matter is it's a matter of the heart. It's what is how our heart views this whole thing of stewardship. Look at verse number twenty-one Read it aloud with me. What does he say here? He says, For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. You see? The heart of the matter is it's a matter of the heart. It's where the heart is. Where your treasure is, your heart will be also. You know, for many, many years, uh I heard people talk about the stock market. I never cared too much to learn that much about it until I had a little bit of money. And I thought, well, you know what? I'm going to take a thousand dollars and I'm going to invest it. And uh so I had to do a little research and figure out where to put it. And so I decided I'm going to put this money in this area. And then I started watching that. It made a pretty pretty vivid illustration for me of where your treasure is, there where you harp you also. For years and years and years I never cared a lick whether they came up and said, well the Dow is down by three and a half percent today or the the the S<unk>P is up by four percent today, never even paid any attention to it. Uh but now that I have money there My ear like, oh. And I I don't check those things every day, but the Bible is very clear and it is true, uh, as can be that where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And beloved, we need to make sure our heart is in the right place. And where should it be? Look at verse number 33. He says, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. You see, beloved, we need to be more concerned with building his kingdom than building our kingdom. That's the difference. That's the heart change. That's where we come to the place where we begin to see God blessing. We don't have time to dig down into it, but what I want you to understand is Jesus here teaching them says, seek first the kingdom of God. If you read the text there, what is it they were concerned about? They weren't coming to Jesus and saying, man, Jesus, how am I going to be able to buy this house over here if I seek first the kingdom of God? How am I going to be able to get uh a new Toyota or BMW if I Seek first the kingdom of God. Oh, how am I going to get the latest and greatest phone if I'm seeking first the kingdom? No. What you look in the text, what they were concerned about is food and raiment. And God tells them, don't worry about that. What? God says, don't worry about that. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. God is saying, if you will trust me and obey me and do what I ask of you to do right here I will reward you openly over here. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. God will bless you when your heart is in the right place. We need to move on. So we see first of all our attitude needs to be correct. Our acquisition of money needs to be correct. I need to go through this quickly, but listen, acquisition of wealth for wealth's sake is not a Christian ambition. It's not a Christian goal. Oh, I'm just gonna, you know, get as much as I can and can as much as I can get. I mean that that aspect is is not a biblical principle. First Timothy six nine says that they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. Listen, the desire of just the accumulation of wealth to get wealth for wealth's sake is not a good ambition. The accumulation of wealth to be used of God to further his kingdom or accomplish something for him, just to submit to him and do what God wants you to do with it, that is a worthy ambition. A wise steward is blessed of God. and what he has is multiplied. We don't have time to turn to it, but in Matthew chapter 25, you could read the parable of the talents, and there go there's the guy that was given five talents and the guy that was given two talents, they went and they they they invested it and they came back with usury. They they multiplied what they were given. But the guy with one talent took it and he buried it in the ground and he says, Boy, I was so afraid to lose it and I was concerned about what you were gonna do. So uh I saved that talent for you right here and God says you should have brought it back with usury It should have multiplied the principle there. And God took it away from him and gave it to the wise steward, the steward that took it and multiplied it and used it wisely. And so we see that the acquisition of wealth should be done through God-honoring methods. God-honoring methods. How you get your wealth, beloved. Robbing the bank is not the means of acquiring wealth, stealing it, or stealing from work, or being dishonest. Or climbing the corporate ladder and stepping on everybody and their brother on your way up so that you can just get that next pay raise and you don't care or worry about anybody else. You just want to excel or move forward. And I know that you guys understand this, but Proverbs 30, verses 8 and 9 says, Remove from me vanity and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with food convenient for me, lest I be full and deny thee. And say, who is the Lord? or lest I be poor and steal and take the name of God in vain. So listen, how how you acquire your wealth is very important. We need to do it in God honoring methods. What honors God? Work. Work honors God. God created man for work. Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands, the thing which is good. Ephesians 4. 28. We are to be working. We are to labor with our hands. That is God's plan for man and how we earn our income. Today, people are fighting more and more to get more from their employers and give less. So many people are mad because uh they've been told they have to go back to work. That is they have to show up at work. You know, uh I read this last week that the largest government building in Washington, D. C. is the Reagan Administration Building And uh I think, don't quote me on this, I'm going f completely from memory here, but I think that they said 60% of the workers in that building showed up less than one day a week for work. And they're really upset now because they're gonna have to get back to work. If they don't show up, they're not gonna have a job. Well, listen, you're supposed to work for what you get. Getting paid to do nothing is not right. That's called stealing. God is not in the get ri get get rich quick schemes. God expects men to work. Proverbs 10, verse number 4, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. You want to get out and earn? Get up and get out and earn. The problem is people want to earn a lot for doing nothing. That's the problem. They want to get paid for doing nothing. And it doesn't work that way. We were to get paid for the work that we do. And if you Are valuable, you'll get paid more. That's the way it is. So we need to, the acquisition of our money, we need to have a correct acquisition. Then I want you to see the administration of our money. How are you managing God's money? This is where we're going to get to our illustration here. But for most people in America, and I've got to hurry here, but we have these uh twelve buckets here. We're gonna use this first bucket. This each one of these is going to represent the average American. I'm hung up on my mic there. The average American, okay, everybody gets a hundred percent of their salary, whatever that is. You go to work, you earn thousand dollars a week. Or you earn $300 a week, or you own $4,000 a week, whatever it is, you get 100% of that, and that goes into your pocket. Your bank account, your savings account, however you have it, deposited, you get 100% of that, you have that. But the problem is, for all of us, is it doesn't get to stay in this bucket, does it? No, because right away actually even before this comes, we have this. Taxes. So taxes taking on average, you might be a little more or a little less, but on average, nineteen percent of Americans They they pay 19% of their income to taxes. And that comes out before you even get your check, before it comes to the bank. So I need to edit this. So this illustration I saw in uh I just have read four books on personal finance to try and improve myself and uh to be better help for others. And this was in Total life stewardship by Larry Biquette. Uh and so that's where this came from, this illustration. But it very vividly illustrates what we're looking at here. So we see nineteen percent uh goes to taxes. Average American 26% goes to housing. So we're moving down. Now we're taking out of this bucket and we're depositing it in here, right? We're we're we're making these payments. Average American, 14% goes to transportation. You know that right now in in America there is let me look at my notes here, but there is I couldn't remember what the fifteen percent of US uh uh consumers are paying over a thousand dollars a month for their car. Fifteen percent. Their car payment is over $1,000 a month. The median car payment right now is $725 a month. That is mind-boggling to me. And most of those loans are at a pretty decent interest rate. But average American there average American 10% is for food. We're we're we're taking this. We're we're dwindling down what we have in this bucket. Average American, nine percent of our income goes towards insurance. Remember, we're managers of our money. The average American six percent goes to health care. That might be doctors, bills, dentist, chiropractor, you know, other things. Average American, 5% we're going to put into miscellaneous. We could decide where you want to put it. We could throw your new phone in there or uh you know we could say that's a gift for somebody or little things can come up, things that you just miscellaneous things, expenses that arrive. Four percent is entertainment. Things that we want to enjoy. The average American spends three percent on clothing and HBA. How many of you know what HBA is? That's all the way back from when I was a teenager and I worked at Walmart and there was one department called HBA and that's Health and Beauty AIDS. So That's what that is. Health and beauty age. The health and beauty that department that smells all the time. Got all that perfume and stuff. And The average American, now any of these can be adjusted slightly for anybody here, but this is just American average. 2. 5% is their giving. That's all giving. That's giving to others, that's giving to charitable organizations, that's giving to churches, that's giving to God. That's that's 2. 5 five percent is what they give. And if you've been keeping track You know that we are at 99. 5%. There's only a half a percent left, so the average American has zero in savings. You see, what happens is things adjust right here. Something might come up and and all of a sudden, oh, the the water heater broke And now I've got an extra bill this month for this. And because 100% of what I have coming in is already committed, and there's nothing down here. What has to suffer? Well, water heater's got to be replaced. I guess both of these are out this month. I can't do anything with those because this came up. And what happens is people don't have anything down there, so they pull out this plastic card here. Because they haven't done any planning, because they have been very poor managers of their money. This becomes their savings account. They use this to cover whatever they can't. And more than likely, instead of cutting clothing and HBA, they'll just use this to do what they want to do. But next month, now you have to find a spot to put in here debt. 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 percent, 50% of their income goes towards paying that minimum payment on the credit cards. And there's nothing down here. That is how the average American manages his money. But you see, we need to get back to the biblical principle of managing our money. There's a problem with this setup. You see, even Christians that are very committed to God, who love God, I mean they they say, oh, I'm going to obey God. They change this to 10% And say, hey, I believe in the tithe. I believe that I ought to be giving God ten percent. And they'll change that to ten percent. But the problem is where it's located. You see, our thinking is wrong. We think, okay, I've got all this money. Well the first thing I need to do is I need to cover my housing or taxes. That I don't even have a choice over that. The government takes that before I even get it. Then I need to cover my housing and then I need to cover uh my transportation, I gotta have that nice car, and then I need to pay for of course food and going out to eat and eating at home. Do you know that food cost in the last four years has gone up twenty-five percent? So if the average American four years ago w this was their budget, what do you think is suffering? Twenty-five percent of what they're making has to go somewhere else now. It has to fit in here because you y you gotta eat So this is a problem. So things down here are suffering more and more. The problem is if we're going to actually function biblically, these two things need to move. Bob and Carol, I just moved savings and giving to the very front of the list. Because they need to be first. We've all heard how to have joy. Jesus first, others second, yourself last. Here's the thing. These two things, we're talking about being a wise steward of what God has given you. These two things need to come first. I've always tithed. My whole life I've tithed since since I was too young to know I was tithing. My dad took my money and put it in the offering for me. So for me, I don't miss it. And you know what? You have always paid taxes. You don't even realize how painful that bill is because you don't even get it. You don't even receive it. The government just takes it I've always tithed. I don't even notice. It doesn't affect me. I don't even think about it. It's not even a matter of debate or question. God comes first. But one thing that I did not always do is save. You see, for me, for many, many years, this was down here. And how many of you know when you get down here, there's nothing left? It does not matter. You could get a 25% bonus this month, and from here on out, you're going to be earning 25% more than you make today, and I can guarantee you within two months, you will get down here and you will still have nothing left. Why? Because 80% of financial success is behavior. How you manage your money. You need to move, it needs to become something that you just do. Up front, first thing, we give to God and we start to save. Those of you that are younger in here, this right here could change your life. If you don't do this, you're going to get to be 50 years old and you're going to wonder where did it all go Where did it all go? It it it doesn't matter. Listen, if you would just take, you're going to give God 10% or beyond, but if you would take 10% and give it to God, if you would take 10% and And put it away, pretend you don't have it, start saving it, and then live off of the rest. When you get down here, there's going to be nothing left, no matter what. But hey, you've put 10% away and you just do that consistently, it'll change your life And it does not matter, beloved, how old you are or when, you know, I mean I know you look at your life right now and you may say, man, I should have started this many years ago. I agree. I should have started many years ago. It would be drastically different. But that's why I'm trying to help these young people, and I'm encouraging you, you could change how you handle that even today So what we need, what first comes first is sharing, giving to God, blessing others It's more blessed to give than to receive. Are you a giver? I don't mean have you given? Are you giving? But are you a giver? Is your spirit, your nature, a giver? We give to God and give to others before anything else. And then we we save. Are you saving it? When you are actively saving, it can become exciting. You begin to see that savings account grow. I mean I know when you put the first hundred dollars in there you're like man it's just a hundred bucks. That's like it's doing nothing. I mean what's a hundred dollars? I should just spend that and go out to uh Texas Roadhouse couple of guys, it'll be gone, right? That quick. But if you start saving that, you give it a few months, you got a thousand dollars in there, you got four thousand dollars in there, you got eight thousand dollars in there. It gets kind of exciting Seeing that grow. Like, oh look at the savings account. Now it's growing. And oh man, look at that. Boy, I I'm excited about seeing that savings account grow and we're we're starting to get a little bit in there and I'm in a position now where I don't have to function from behind. Amen. It's fun to watch that investment grow. You know, beloved, when we have the right attitude with regards to honoring God with our first fruits, it changes how we look at the giving. Look at Matthew chapter 6, verses 19 and 20. Matthew 6, 19 and 20. What does he say here? He says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth where moss and rough does corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through his seal. Here's what I'm saying. We get excited about watching the investments and our savings account grow We look at that and say, man, I have got some treasure. I have got some income. I have got some money in the bank. I've got some money in stock. Man, this is exciting. Oh, it's going up, it's growing, man. That's awesome. When we view it correctly, we will look not at this as a matter of giving. We will look at this as a matter of laying up treasure in heaven. And you get to the end of the year and you get your giving statement from the church and you say, Wow, look at that, man. Praise God, look at what I was able to Send ahead. Look at the treasure that I laid up for God this year. It's something that I've given that I will never lose All of the other things here, you're gonna lose it all. It's all gonna burn up. That car you're paying 14% of your income to maintain or to have It's going to be gone. It's going to wear out. You're going to have to get a new one. But anything over here is a treasure that we've laid up in heaven. Amen. And again, we talked about the beginning, this is not for God, it's for you. Because God says when you Follow and are obedient and do what I command you. I will reward you and bless you openly. We want to lay up treasure. Lay up treasure in heaven. Begin saving, preparing for the future. This is a biblical principle to save. And it's not a matter of hoarding There are some that want to just hoard and get all they can and they just want to they they just that's their security. Proverbs 18. 11 says the rich man's wealth is his strong city as a high wall in his own conceit. That's not what we are gathering wealth for. But we the Bible says to consider the ant God told Joseph to take the seven years of plenty and prepare for, to save up for the seven lean years. And the problem is, is as Americans, we have gotten so used to using this plastic for the lean that we have not saved up anything. We have not prepared And we have our head in the sand if we think there are not going to be lean years. We all know it, but we just think, oh, it'll be all right. So we ought to be saving. Are you being a wise steward? If you look at this right here, just picture this. Think about this. The average American, 90 What is it ninety basically ninety-seven percent is spent on numero uno. 97% of this budget for the average American managing their finances is spent on me. But that's not God's way. It's okay, you can spend it. You need to spend it wisely. Stop buying what you can't afford. Start functioning inside of a budget Beloved, a budget is not restrictive. It is liberating. It's freeing. Most people that get onto a budget, they say it feels like they got a raise. Because all of a sudden they they y you have freedom to your budget says hey you can go out to eat with this much money, you can go eat and don't have to worry about it. You don't have to wonder am I going to be able to pay the light bill? No, because you've budgeted it out, you know how much money you need for the light bill, and that money is already set aside. Spend your money wisely. Listen, we ought to all want to do it God's way. Be wise stewards of what God has given us and it should thrill us. It should thrill us to get in line with God's plan. Amen? That's what we want to do. And this this is a very practical lesson this morning, but I believe it is life-changing. It could change your life. Outside of salvation and and submitting to God This idea of handling your being a right steward of what God has given you can make the greatest difference in your life, in your relationships, of anything that I know. Let's do it God's way. Let me close it.