Now she was blessed. Among women she was blessed and and she was favored. But do you understand that there's not anybody here that also could not have that title? I mean, you anybody here could hold that title. Anybody here could be blessed of God. Anybody here could have favor with God. God can choose to bless whom He will. We're not to light candles to her. We're not to build altars to her. We're not to raise up statues or images of her. Uh w we're not we're not supposed to do that. I mean, you know who would not want you to do that? Besides God, of course. God tells us in Leviticus 26, 1, ye shall make no idols, nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image. Neither shall you set up any image of stone in your land. I mean that's pretty clear. So of course God wouldn't want us to raise up or lift up any images, but you know who besides that would not want you to lift up or raise any images? of Mary? Mary. Mary. Mary wouldn't want you to do that. Mary doesn't want you worshiping her or praying to her or exalting her. She wants you to worship and praise and exalt the Messiah. God, Jesus in the flesh. That's who Mary would want us to worship and to praise. She was an ordinary woman that God used to do an extraordinary thing. In fact, in her own words, look in Luke chapter one and verse number forty nine. We're not going to read the entirety of this. There's like fifty-six verses that deal this there's a lot more than that, but that deal with Mary. But we're going to jump around in this passage and see some different things that we can learn and and glean from it. But in in chapter one of Luke and verse number forty nine it says, For he that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. She herself said, Hey, he that is mighty Hath done unto me great things. She is acknowledging that God, the creator of the universe, the mighty one, is what did this through in and through her. He did this for her. And she is giving honor and glory to him. The people of Judah disdained the Jews. From the region of Galilee. Because they didn't, from their perspective, they didn't live a separated life from the Gentiles, from the Samaritans that were in that region And the Jews would have nothing to do with them. And then in on top of that, in that region there was Nazareth. And the people had despised Jewish people despised those people from Nazareth. In John 1, verse 46 and 47, and Nathaniel said unto him, Can there any good thing Come out of Nazareth? He said, is there anything of any value that could come out of Nazareth? It'd be like saying, Yeah, there's some good junk in the landfill I mean and and somebody else would be like uh I don't know. Could you really get anything of value out of the landfill? I I don't think I'm not sure you could And that's the kind of the spirit they had towards that region, towards Nazareth. But praise God. In his divine wisdom, he chose a young lady from that region To be the mother of the Messiah. You know, this is not the lesson, but let me just throw this out that it doesn't matter where you come from. It doesn't matter what your background is. It doesn't matter what past history you've had or what your upbringing might have been or what community you came out of, God can still use you. It's the devil, the accuser of the brethren that comes and taps you on the shoulder and says, Oh, God can't use you because this is in your past. Or because of this, you know this happened way back here, and and the devil wants to put that in your mind, but listen, God can still use you. Just like he used Mary. Hey, it doesn't matter what your past is or where you came from. Now, just as we should not worship Mary, The same uh principle is true that we should not relegate her to insignificance. You see, God gave us her story. God told us about her for a reason. And God did bless her and use her to bring the Messiah into the world. And this certainly is noteworthy, so we should not relegate her to insignificance and say Mary doesn't matter at all. There's nothing that we can learn from Mary, or there's no value in what Mary did, for certainly there is. And we can learn from her. Look down at verse number 41. 41, 42, and 43. He says, and it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. And she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And whence is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me Hey, Elizabeth recognized the fact that Mary was being used to bring the Messiah into the world. She recognized the fact that there was deity in her womb Jesus, you are serving as the mother of the Messiah. And it certainly is noteworthy and something that we should pay attention to. Indeed, Mary was an ordinary person that God did an extraordinary thing through. But God is sovereign and he can bless whomever he will. Correct? But I want you to understand there are some principles in the Word of God that are that are very clear for us. That it you can put yourself in a position to be blessed of God Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate daily. And night. There's some things that you can do that put you in a place of blessing. So what I want you to understand this morning is Mary was blessed. Mary had favor with God. And It was not just I don't think it was just a random oh uh Oh Mary, we're gonna God God didn't do that. God chose Mary for a reason. There are some things about Mary that God saw, and you see and understand that through the Word of God as you see him choose individuals. All through the Bible, the principle of God sought for a man. Is there where he was looking for somebody that could be used, somebody that was willing to be used, somebody that was in a position to be used. And God looked and saw and found Mary, this woman. Who was favored. And so what can we do to put ourselves in that position of blessing? What can we learn from Mary that maybe would help us? Or challenge us to be ready to be blessed. First of all, I want you to see her willing surrender. Her willing surrender. Look back in Luke 1 there, down back down to verse number 26. And we're going to read uh just through verse number thirty to start with here, but in verse number twenty-six through thirty it says, In the sixth month the angel Garibel was sent from God into the city of Galilee, named Nazareth. To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying And cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor. With God. We see here in verse number 28 and verse number 30 that word favor mentioned twice. She had favor with God. You can put yourself in a position to have favor with God. With God. I don't know about you, but I I want to be in that position. I want to be blessed by God. I want to have favor with God I think that that is because she had a surrendered heart. She had a surrendered heart. She was ready to surrender and do what God wanted her to do. You know, a surrendered heart starts with humility. You're never going to surrender to the will of another unless you recognize their supremacy. Unless you recognize And you yourself are humble. Jesus himself made himself of no reputation, but humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. It started by the the submission starts with the humble spirit. And I think God looked down and saw Mary here, this humble woman, and said, boy, she's not going to be all lifted up in pride that she brought the Messiah into the world. She's not going to be declaring this unto everybody. Look at me. Look at what I've done. I'm so special. No, she was shocked. She didn't feel that she deserved this. The Bible says there the angel appeared unto her, and I think if any of us had an angel appear unto us, We might be a little troubled, right? But that doesn't, it's not, it doesn't say that she was troubled at the appearing of the angel. It says that she was troubled at his saying. What the angel said about her. The angel came to her and says, hey, you're highly favored. You are blessed. And she was shocked by that. She's like, she she pondered his saying, like, what manner of salutation? I mean, I'm blessed, I'm favored of God. She didn't see herself as anything special. She didn't see herself as this magnificent lady whom obviously God kills me. I mean, that's not how Mary saw herself. She was shocked Actually, Wearsby says this about this passage of scripture. He says, Mary's response reveals her humility and honesty before God. She certainly never expected to see an angel and receive any special favors from heaven. There was nothing unique about her that any such thing should happen. If she had been different from any other Jewish girl, as some theologians claim, then she might have well looked at the angel and said, it's about time. I've been expecting you. You know what I'm saying? She was not in her mind like, well obviously God chose me. You know. She was shocked. She was she was what? God's gonna use me? And believer? Christian? We should have that kind of spirit, the privilege and the joy that it is to serve God in any capacity. Boy, what a thrill. What? God could use me to do that Hey, there's nothing special about me. There's nothing extra gifted about me. I don't necessarily deserve this, but I'm willing, amen. And I'm excited to be able to do it for God. This is the spirit that Mary had. She was humble, and that humility allowed her as soon as God came on the scene and says, Hey, this is what I want you to do. She's like, You want me to do that? Wow. She said, Oh God, I'm I'm not sure that that's really for me. She was thrilled. You know, she was uncomfortable with the exaltation, with the praise that was given to her. She was troubled at his saying. She cast her mind in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. You know, some is humble's not real comfortable with praise. that exaltation and being lifted up and it just mary here kinda turned her head down and nah that's not me. I'm not anything special, Lord. Her devotion to God was never about getting more from him But loving him more. I think sometimes Christians we strive for a devotion to God because of what we want from him. There's nothing wrong with praying and nothing wrong with desiring to have our prayers act answered. There's nothing wrong with wanting God's blessing on our life, and I think as a Christian we should desire those things. But is our devotion to God motivated by what we can get? Or is it motivated out of a heart of love for him? You see, God loved us when we didn't love him at all. God loved us and while we were yet sinners, he died for us. for us. God loved us from when we cannot, could not ever do anything for Him. Do we love God that way? Or do we only love Him because of what we can get? Because we have our our needs list that we want met. She surrendered because she wanted to submit to God's purpose for her life Look in verse 31, 31 through 33. She said, And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth the Son, and shall call his name Jesus, and he shall be great. And shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom there shall be no end. He says, hey, you're giving birth to the Messiah. This is my purpose for you. This is my plan for you. This is what I want you to do. And she surrendered to what God's plan for her life was. We need to be willing to surrender to God's plan, Christian Whatever God's plan is for us, for whatever He wants us to do, we need to be willing. There should be nothing outside of God's will for us that we say, oh you've heard how many missionaries have you heard to say I told God I would do anything but go to Africa? Or I told God I would do anything but be a preacher. I told God I would do anything. Listen, there should be nothing outside of God's will. Anything you should say, God, whatever you want. I'm willing. Whatever your plan is for me, God, there's no job that I would that I wouldn't take or that I wouldn't let go. I remember in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, when My dad bought an old Presbyterian church. It happened to be across the the street from the church that he was pastoring there that he started in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and um he was going to turn it into a house. And we we worked together with dad and we we built a house out of the old Presbyterian church. Had a big grand uh foyer, twenty-five foot ceilings in there Walked into the living room one one year we had a twenty-five foot cr tall Christmas tree in our living room. We we took we had a eight he dad put a eight foot bay window, eight foot square bay window in. Well in order to get the tree in, he had to take the window out of the house. So he got the tree back and he's like, how are we going to put this in the house? But he took the eight foot window out of the house, put the tree in, and it put the window back. Uh nice that you have those skills, right? We had I mean huge chandelier. Uh we had a balcony, big balcony, bigger than this room that overlooked our living room. And uh I mean we had uh mom had a sewing room and dad ha dad had an office and you know all the kids had rooms and except me, I was a vagabond. I I I lived in the hallways and slept in all my siblings' rooms and all that. Um but I just kind of traveled around the house and spent tonight with whoever uh would have me. Um but huge basement I mean I remember we one time I split my head open because we were racing go-karts in the basement. And uh not motorized. They they were push carts. But we were pushing carts around and and my brother he he turned a corner, went into the laundry room and and he didn't clear the uh uh washer and dryer. It caught the washer and dryer and I flew out of the go-kart and hit my head right on the corner of the washer and dryer and p then uh blood started running. But a big house. We had a we had a uh sauna in the basement Nice big cedar sauna. We had a eight-foot in-ground whirlpool in the basement. Beautiful house. But dad told us when we were doing it, he says kids it's just a house. It's sure nice and we're glad we get to enjoy it, but one day we may leave it. It's just a house. And and we did. Ended up packing up and hitting down the road. Lived for a long time in a all all uh eight of us in a 35-foot motorhome. For a while, for over a year we lived in that. Uh got bought a little house in the desert of El Paso, Texas, where got where dad God led dad to start the church in El Paso. But what I'm saying is just There is no value in it. Just yeah. It's just a house. Nothing you won't let go of for God. Is there anything in your life you're holding on to say, God, don't take that. Don't that that's that's mine. You know, it could even be a loved one. It's not anything that we should value more than God. And sometimes, I mean, I know you've heard people say, Well, I couldn't live without you. Listen, Christian, there should only be one person we can't live without. And that's Jesus Christ. God. We love them. They're a valuable part of our lives and and we certainly would miss them. But you could go on without them. One of the reasons some people sometimes they get so angry at God is because that's the one thing they did not want God to take. And they they get so angry at God because God and his wisdom determined it was their time. And they lost that thing that they held on to more than God. Is there anything that you won't let go or that you won't do for God? If m hey, Mary was surrendered to God's will. You say, well, of course. I mean to bear the Messiah, I mean, who wouldn't want to do that? Well You understand she had to bear some reproach. The fact of the matter is, you know how people are and they weren't any different back then. I'll bet you she had family that wouldn't invite her over. Because in their mind, she was unclean. In their mind, she had defiled herself And she could explain and plead with them and say, No, I've never known Joseph, we've never been together, I'm still a virgin. And they would look at her and say, You're a liar. She had to bear that. You see, she submitted to God's plan, but she also submitted to God's performance, God's way of getting it done. You know, she maybe she looked at God, she could have looked at God and said, Oh God, you want me to bear a son? That's fine. Uh here in about six months or eight months. I'm going to get married and Joseph and I will have a son for you. But the way God wanted to do it was invisible. And really impossible. But she said, whatever you want to do, God. Whatever your plan is, God, however you want to accomplish this. Sometimes we say, Lord, I'm willing to do this for you, but I'm going to do it my way. I'm gonna fulfill it my way. I'm gonna accomplish it my way. But we need to be willing to do it however God wants us to do it. Amen? She submitted to the process how God explained to her she was going to conceive. Amazing. Look at verse number 34. Then said Mary unto the angel, how shall this be, seeing I know not a man? This was not a question of unbelief, but of just looking for understanding. And you understand, believer, it's okay to say, Lord, I don't understand this, or this doesn't make sense. Help me understand. Help me know what it is you want. And she looked at it and said, How I've never known a man. And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee Therefore also the holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. She believed and just looked for some understanding of how it was going to happen. The angel explained it to her. You know we see again her humility in in uh verse thirty seven. She says, For with God nothing shall be impossible. And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord. Be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. She called herself a handmaid. A handmaid was the lowest kind of female servant in that day. She said, Listen, I'm your servant. Whatever you want, Lord. Whatever you desire for me. Here in this verse we see that she said, God, my body, is yours. I'm not my own. I've been bought with a price. Whatever, Lord, whatever you want for this body. That's a far cry from many of the women of today. It's my body. I can do what I want with it. You ready? You can't tell me what's right and wrong. This is my body. She said, God, thy thy handmaid, I'm your servant. Whatever you want for me. It's amazing. Look at verse number forty-six. We're gonna we're gonna kinda look at this twice here, but in verse number forty-six First of all, in 38 we see that she said, Lord, my body. Whatever, whatever, Lord, is yours. Then in verse number 46, she says, My soul doth magnify the Lord. She said, My soul magnifies thee, God. My body is yours to do whatever you will. My soul is here to magnify you. And look at verse number 47. She says, My spirit hath rejoiced. In God, my Savior. She said, body, soul, spirit, Lord, it's all yours, it's all for you, whatever you want. I'm here and I'm willing Isn't there a scripture that tells us as Christians we should love the Lord thy God with all that all that mind? Amen. I just thought it was amazing when I saw that how Mary said, listen, it's all yours, God Whatever you want, whatever your plan, whatever your your purpose for my life, however you want to perform your will in me, I'm submitted to it. And you understand She called herself the handmaid of God, not the queen of heaven. As some do today. But submitting to God in humility and seeing God use you in such a great way will bring about for you, it'll put a song in your heart. And so I want you to see that her worshipful song. Not only her willing surrender, but her worshipful song. Look in verse number 46. Follow along with me as I read a few verses here down through 50. It says, And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaid. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed For he that is mighty has done to me great things, and holy is his name, and his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Boy, she had great joy because she says there, my Savior, because she had a savior. If you have a savior, you should have great joy. If you've been forgiven of your sins and you've trusted Jesus Christ and He has become your Savior, the Savior of your soul, it ought to put joy in your heart. You ought to be able to have a smile on your face, and you ought to be excited about even the life that God has led you to live because, hey, you've got a Savior. Man. Her worshipful song was rooted in the fact that she had a Savior. It was rooted in the fact that she was selected by God to do an amazing thing. Listen, whatever you do for God is amazing. There is no small positions or small jobs when it comes to the Lord's service. Every position, every opportunity, every assignment is a blessing. And it counts for eternity. It counts for eternity, however small or insignificant in our mind it might be. Do you understand when God looks down what you're fulfilling is obedience? And God is thrilled about that. I mean just amazing to think about the fact that no I could say straightening the chairs in here Well, that's not that very big a deal. I mean probably nobody even would ever know I did it. But God touched my heart about making this look sharp and good for for Sunday school, and so I came in and I got it ready to go. Nobody else knew, but I was obedient to the Spirit of God. And that's important. It's valuable, and God is happy because I submitted to him and did what he wanted me to do. There's no insignificant task. He was selected by God, and we should be excited about it. I can guarantee you this morning, if somebody of great renowned from the world today called you up this afternoon, you would be like, me? Why why are they calling me? I mean I I didn't know President Trump even knew my name. I didn't know Elon Musk even knew I existed. I didn't know Mark Cuban had extra money for me. I mean if anybody of great renown today, some of the richest men or most well-known men in the world, they called you up this afternoon and says, hey, I'm kind of in a bind. Could you run down to the post office and mail this letter for me? You think, wow, what a privilege to get to do this for I mean You would tell people about it. Hey, you know what I did this afternoon? Elon Musk called me this afternoon. Yeah, maybe one day I'll get to ride in a Tesla. Uh you know, uh I I mean you you you would that would be something that when you were as old as Bob, you would you would be t you would be telling people about. Hey, you know what I did one time? Elon Musk called me at my house and ask me to do this. Little little job. But I was glad to do it. I mean, hey, who else got to do that? I did. Why do we ri relegate what we do for God to insignificance? It's God, it's the creator of the universe. And he reaches down through space and time and touches your heart and says, sing in the choir. And you say, oh, that's not that big a deal. But when you're obedient, it puts joy in your heart, it puts a song on your lips, and it puts a smile on God's face. That's why it's so valuable. That's why it's so noteworthy. She said, My God selected me. She's been selected. Real joy will put a song in the heart of the Christian You know, when you're filled with the Spirit of God, you have a song, Ephesians 5, 18 and 19 says, And be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. When you're filled with the Spirit of God, you'll have a song on your lips. You'll have a song in your heart, ready to sing. I woke up this morning, looked out the window, saw the frost on the ground, I turned to Mary and I said, Well, this is the day that the Lord has made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. Hey Puts a song on your lips. You know, when you're full of the scripture, it'll put a song on your lips. We just looked at it, but in Colossians 3. 16 he says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace and hearts unto your Lord. Hey, when you're full of scripture, you'll have a song. You have a song in your heart that you want to sing For the Lord. You know, the devil flees when the believer is on his knees or when he's praising God. The Bible says that we come into his presence With praise. We get into the presence of God by praising Him, by lifting Him up. Luther said this, after theology, I give the highest placed and greatest honor to music. Music has an amazing effect on us. We ought to have a song in our heart. Look at verse number 50 through 55. We see that joy is evident to others. He says here, and his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation He hath showed strength with his arm. He hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seat and exalted them of low degree He hath filled the hungry with good things and the rich he hath sent empty away. He hath opened his servants, Israel, and remembers of his mercy. As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. Hey, we don't have uh time to get into it or study it out this morning, but it might be a good study for you to look at. Eight times there in those verses, he says, he hath. And just study out what it is that he's done. People see what God is doing, and it's evident unto them. He hath done many things. God remembers and fulfills all his promises to us Whatever promise God has made to you in and through the pages of Scripture, it's a promise you can hold to and trust that He will fulfill We looked at a prophecy last week about the coming Messiah that was given 700 years before Christ came. Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign, behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And it happened, didn't it? It happened. Whatever God has promised, whatever God said will come to pass, it will come to pass. We can trust it. God will find a way. Mary was eligible and ready to be blessed by God because she had a submissive heart that surrendered to His will God looked and saw a young lady that was humble and she he said he looked at her and said, She'll be willing. And when he approached, she was willing. So are you willing? Christian, are you willing? Do you have a desire? Whatever God wants, I want to do, whatever it is. Or is it, well, I want to do whatever God wants as long as it is this. As long as it's this or that, whatever capacity No, we need to be willing to do whatever. She was blessed because she was willing to surrender because she had a worshipful song on her heart Are you worshiping God? Are you lifting Him up in praise, singing and making melody in your heart unto the Lord? I hope so. Let's close in prayer this morning. Lord, we thank you for today and this lesson and what we can learn and glean from Mary. Lord, her willingness to just do whatever you wanted to do. For her willing to bear the reproach that I'm sure cost her a lot of pain. I'm sure there was days that she went back to her house in tears for the mocking and the jeers and the Shunning that she received from those in the society of that day and maybe even her family or some friends. But she bore that willingly for you, God. Well I think of Moses who said it was would rather bear the reproach of Christ than all the riches in Egypt. I pray God we'd be willing to do whatever He wants us to do. Or give us a heart surrendered to you and filled with a song of praise for you. And we'll thank you. In Jesus' blessed name. Amen.