I want you to turn your Bibles this morning to Luke chapter number one. We'll let the young people make their way out to uh class and uh I know that they'll enjoy this morning in their class there. So glad they could be up here and sing with mom. A special thing. Thank you, Moms, for being willing to do that. Mother's Day, what a special day. A day where we pause and ponder and hopefully express gratitude for All the work that our mothers have done for us and continue to do. You know, my mom seems like she's always thinking of me little things here and there. She comes to town and she has all this stuff she brought for me. You know, she's like, oh I brought this. I knew you would like this. I was somewhere and I got this for you. When I come to her house, she's like, I need you to come come over here and she'll have a whole stack of stuff. She's like, I've been collecting this for you, you know, throughout the years. She's been picking up these things and And she's got this stuff for me. She's like, Can you use this? This last time we were there to do the work on the on the garage, that's why I was there, but she came out, she had a whole stack of books. She's like, I've been collecting these books. I thought you might enjoy them. Anything you don't want I'll just donate, you know, to Goodwill or something, but look through 'em if there's anything there. And so I did take about ten or twelve books uh out of the stack that she had there and some of them I already had. But you know, just that's a mother's heart, always thinking of her kids And I'm not the only well I might be the only one she does it for, you know. Just kidding. You know, mom always looking out for her children and uh I hope you honor your your mother today. Send her a note Uh, you know, and I I like the idea that you know many have done this morning, uh, placing these flowers in honor of of their mother who impacted them in such a great way and we're we're grateful for all of that God has chosen in the book of Luke here that we're going to be reading to honor a particular lady. And allowed her to be the mother of Jesus. I mentioned in Sunday school that we were going to be looking at Mary, a chosen mother, this morning. Mary, a chosen mother. Look in Luke chapter 1 and verse number 26, reading down through verse number 31. That'll be our text for this morning as we ponder and think about Mary and We want to honor her. We desire this morning to learn from her example. Not because she was divine. But she was devoted. There's nothing in the pages of scripture that give any implication that she was sinless. But there is no question that she was surrendered. And this is what we want to glean this morning as we ponder and think about the example that she left For all mothers, and not just mothers alone, but for all of us. Would you look in our text, Luke chapter 1, verses 26 through 31? And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God into a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the Virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came unto her and said, Hail, thou that art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. The angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son. And shall call his name Jesus. Do you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts as we ponder and think about Mary, a chosen mother? Lord, we love you this morning. We're grateful for the privilege that's ours to gather in your house this hour. Free of harassment, Lord, free of trouble, Lord, we can come and worship you and read your word and Ponder and think about the truths that are shared there. We thank you for the example of Mary given to us in the scriptures, and I pray that we would learn and glean from her this morning truths that would impact our lives for today. Thank you, Lord, for our mothers who have so richly blessed us and ministered to us in a way that only a loving mother can. Lord, I pray that you'd be with all of us today. Bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I pray this morning that we would indeed learn from this dear lady who is given as an example for us, Mary. First of all, I'd have you see that she was prepared. When God was looking for a woman to bring forth her his son into this world, he found Mary. He found Mary that was prepared. And let me just throw this out. I'm not going to park here very long, but Beloved, just as God had a plan for Mary to bring forth his son into this world, God has a plan for you. Now he's not to bring forth Jesus, that's that's been done already, but God has a plan for you, and God has prepared you, God has brought you to where you are today, and you can with his help accomplish what God's plan is for you to do. God had prepared Mary, but she was also ready to be used. Can I tell you God has done his part? God will do his part to prepare you to accomplish his will and what he wants you to accomplish, but we have to do ours. Can I tell you that the Mary was pure? Had she gone out and messed up her life regardless of God's plan and what God's desire was for her to accomplish, had she gone out and done that, can I tell you that God's plan would not have come to fruition there. He would have used somebody else, but he knew and found Mary here to be pure, to be a virgin. She was not perfect, but she was pure. Can I tell you this morning that the virgin birth of Christ is of utmost importance to our faith? We need to remember that that's what the Bible teaches. That Christ was born of a virgin. She was miraculously conceived In John chapter 1, verse 14, the Bible says, The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as the only begotten of the Father. Listen, the Word of God communicates to us there's only four ways that people come into the world. You have Adam who is created. God could bring somebody to the world that way. God created Adam. You have Eve, who was formed out of the dust of ground and out of the rib of man, and God gave her life. You have the means by which all of us and everyone else outside of Jesus Christ was brought into the world through natural birth. But then you have Mary, who Jesus was immaculately conceived Through divine implementation. Now I know that today's world we have technology and the means to implant IBF they can make this process possible and you can give birth to a child, but can I tell you that in the process, there's still a man involved. What I'm saying is that the sinful nature of man is transferred in wherefore is by one man sin into the world, that was Adam. Therefore, all who sinned, all men are sinners because we we continue that seed, we could carry carry that sinful nature down From Adam all the way through time. And so every man that's ever been born of natural means was born as a sinner where man was involved, but here man wasn't involved. She was pure And God miraculously had her bring forth his son, Jesus. Can I just take a moment and encourage the young people here in our merrily our morally bankrupt society? Stay pure. Stay pure. Don't let this world convince you that you need to go out and and give your body away and cheapen that which God has given you. From the the youngest person in here to uh even all of us who are married and are older, can I tell you we still have a sinful nature? And the Bible says that the eyes of man are never satisfied, and although by and large, pornography is a sin that men partake of, it is not only men. I want to encourage you to stay fear. If we're going to fulfill and accomplish God's plan, if you're going to raise your kids up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and direct them in the way that they should go, you're going to have to maintain a pure life. You need to stay pure of heart, pure of mind. And I tell you, beloved, that if you keep your mind here, you won't have a problem keeping your hands pure. It starts up here. The battle is won and lost in the mind. Many years ago, probably in the early 90s, I heard Dr. Larry Brown. Shut the door, that guy. I heard Dr. Gary Brown preach a message titled The Fall Before the Fall. The entirety of that message is the fact that men, long before they went off and committed adultery and left their mix, They lost the battle in their mind and started looking at somebody at work they shouldn't look at. They started pondering and thinking about the guy that they used to know and They went ahead and got on Facebook and just just not really meaning to do anything with it, but she was just going to say hi. See what he's doing, some old flame. That's where it starts. But I encourage you to keep yourself pure. That's good preaching. Yourself pure. It starts in your mind. We're blessed with the story of Mary because she kept herself pure, the Bible's clear to tell us that she was a virgin. Beloved, I'm thankful for the grace of God and the goodness of God that is able to forgive and to restore. Let me just throw this out here. If life and sin has had their way with you, don't let Satan say you're no good. Grace of God is sufficient. God's grace can bring healing and redemption and forgiveness Satan has won victories in your life that leave you ashamed. Put it under the blood of Jesus Christ and let God take care of that and stop carrying that guilt. Stop carrying that shame and let God do with you what he would do with you today because God's grace is deficient. Don't let Satan say you're no good or you're useless because of something that has happened in the past. We have a Savior, and He came to seek and to save that which was lost. We need a Savior, amen. We're all just sinners saved by grace, and I just want to throw it out there as we extol and recognize the purity and how God used Mary, we exhort and encourage the young people to stay pure without hesitation and without apology. But at the same time, I let you know that God's grace is sufficient. You can experience and know the forgiveness of God and let go of that guilt. You can live in victory from here forward. Praise the Lord. We see here that she was promised to Joseph. What an amazing thing. I can imagine Joseph was as overwhelmed as Mary. They were engaged, they were committed to one another. All the promises had been made. Then Joseph, verse number 20, Matthew 124 says, Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bid him, and took unto him his wife. And he knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. Listen. She was virtuous, but that didn't keep her from being vilified. You know what people are like. Come on. You know how people were talking? People down around the didn't have any water coolers back then, but down the down by the well You know, down by the outhouse. The people were down there chatting and and and boy did you see Mary? Yeah, she's starting to show. Can you believe that? Unbelievable. And by this. I can't. Oh, immediately. She had to bear that. And just trust God. She was promised, but she was pregnant, man. That's not a good look. But she did so for the glory of God, until she was positioned where God could use her. She was ready, able to be used of God because she was pure, because she was not in rebellion to God's plan. She didn't reject God's will. She didn't say, no, no, no, no. I don't want to do that. That's not something I'm ready to take on, Lord. What do you mean? No, let me ask you: are you open to and ready to submit to the will of God for your life? What God calls you to do, what God is asking of you, or are you resistant to that? What if Mary would have said, no, that's not for me? I'm not ready to bear that. I'm not ready to take that on. But she did so. Position so God could use her. Beloved God wants to bless you. Are you positioned so he can do so? Or are you resistant to what he would do, to his will? Encourage you to get right, stay right, stay in church, walk with God, be in a position ready so God can lead you and do something miraculous in your life. We see not only was she prepared, but the Bible tells us that she was favored. And the angel, verse number twenty-eight, and the angel came and said unto her, Hail, thou that art highly favored. She was highly favored, beloved. This literally means one that has been granted or extended a great measure of grace. Highly favored. An extra measure of grace. Beloved, she was the recipient of God's grace, not the source of it. That's biblical truth, that's doctrine right there. You need to hold on to that and remember it, put it in your mind. He was the recipient of grace, not the source of grace. God is the source of grace. Jesus Christ is the source of grace Beloved, she needed God's grace. She was highly favored. She needed God's grace to do what God called her to do. Can I tell you, beloved, that because you're favored doesn't mean you're not going to have struggles? I mean the scripture here says she was highly favored, and listen, her high favor led her to a stable. Her high favor made her uh have to give birth in a stall that's come people hospital. I'm saying it's taking a source of people a bill of goods that, oh, listen, if you're in the favor of God, this is the whole word of faith movement, prosperity preachers. Tell you if you're if you're in the favor of God, boy, you're gonna be blessed, you're gonna be driving a Cadillac and or Cadillacs aren't that special anymore. Let's go out, let's up and you know. So you're gonna be driving a Mercedes, you're gonna be living high on the hall, boy, you're gonna be wearing your your your huge rings and your thirty, forty, fifty thousand dollar watches, and you're you know you're gonna be standing in the nicest streets Those guys are running a racket. Get sucked into that stuff. Mary was highly favored. You find somebody more favored than her, and she had to give birth to her son in a stall. Don't think you're doing something wrong. You know, sometimes mothers they think, man, if I'm doing it right, why is it so hard? I ain't a mother. Hallelujah. But listen, I was married to one. And Baba's work is never done. The struggle is real, isn't it? Burden you carry, the battle for the hearts and minds of your children, and uh you know the just will it ever end? And and is this gonna get any better? And why is it so difficult? Why did I do this? How did I get here? Listen, just because you're don't don't think you're not favored because you've got some battles Mary was highly favored, and we see in her life she endured some real struggles. God had Selected her for a purpose, and I'll tell you that he extended his grace, and his grace was sufficient for Mary, and his grace will be sufficient for you It's a blessing that we find in the pages of Scripture that God chooses the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And beloved Mary wasn't sinless, but what she was was surrendered. You don't have to be a perfect mother. Just a surrendered mother. Just a submitted mother to the will of God and Be willing to admit when you make a mistake and ask God to help you do better and move forward from there. Beloved, what I'm saying is this morning you might feel inadequate as a mother. You might feel that you're consistently overwhelmed the Th the the struggle of it is just too much and you go to bed completely wore out and broken down every night and you think, my goodness And I tell you that God's grace is sufficient. You can know the favor of God, and he will carry you through. So much of what a mother does is unseen and unrecognized. All the cooking Kids just come to expect it. What's for dinner? When are we gonna eat? Why are we having this? I heard about a kid. The school lunch program. They they they lost power at school. And they were like, what are we gonna do for lunch? And uh man this is like the the the teachers, workers, everybody in the kitchen trying to figure out how are we gonna serve all these kids lunch and so they scrambled and they ran out and they bought a whole bunch of peanut butter and jelly. The kids came in and one of the kids said, Oh, finally a home-cooked meal. Hey, kids, sometimes you get peanut butter and jelly. Listen, mom's doing a lot. You can't, you know, make your your favorite every day, every night. You need to remember to be grateful and thankful for what she does, all the cleaning, those with younger children, all of the diapers. All the time in prayer, all of the late nights, all the loads of laundry And I tell you what I see when we look at Mary is we see somebody that God recognized for faithfulness. Here's what I'm saying, mom. Times that kids don't recognize it. Until they get old. That's what they do. Oh, there's better than we have on back now as well. Oh, what I'm saying this morning, Mom, is that God sees your faith. God sees it. Sometimes even your husband might not recognize all that you do. He comes home from work, you know, feels like he's had a hard day. You're sitting there thinking You got to talk to adults all day today. You got to go to your office and hide for a few minutes. You know. Sometimes maybe Dad doesn't even recognize it, but God sees your faithfulness. God recognizes it. Beloved Mary was not favored because she was extraordinary. She was favored because God loves to take a surrendered vessel and do the extraordinary. And God will use you to do the extraordinary if we're surrendered. We see lastly this morning that she was blessed. And verse number 28. And the angel came unto her and said, Hail thou that art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. Beloved, she was blessed first of all because the Lord was with her. What a blessing to know that the God of heaven is with you. He says he'll never leave you nor forsake you. Man, when you're there laboring at home and the days are long and the struggle is hard, you can remember that God is with you. You too are blessed because God is present and He's there helping you raise those kids. You know it's it's a hard struggle to raise kids It is a battle to try and build a home, to try and have a right spirit in the home. And boy, we all long for and want to have such a special home and that place of quiet peace. The blessing that that home can be. That doesn't come so easy, does it? But listen, God's there. And God will bless you. God will do that for you. His power, his grace, his presence will enable you to do what you cannot do yourself. She couldn't endure it. She couldn't go through it. Except the grace of God was sufficient to bring her through. You, like Mary, may have to endure some things. Look in Luke chapter 2 and verse number 35. Luke 2 and verse number 35. I was on the wrong page. Look what the Bible says, she's going to have to endure. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also. She was going to know pain in her heart. From the very beginning, God was introducing to her the sorrow that she was going to have. Some didn't die from sickness. Some didn't didn't die from unavoidable accident. Son was taken by an unruly crowd, crucified, arise. The Bible says she was going to have to endure something. She was obedient and willing to do it. As a mother of Jesus Humanity She was not the mother of God. She was the mother of Jesus' humanity. God the Father. was the father of his son who was God. How to reconcile those two is something on the capacity of our Had to have humanity in order for us to know that he endured and he was tempted in all points like we are. And he knew pain and he felt loss and endured sorrow Listen, you like Mary may have to endure some things in your life, but you are still blessed of God. Blessed art thou, the scripture says. Despite it all, she knew that she was blessed. Look at Luke chapter 2 and verse number 19 And Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. I tell you, she pondered them. She thought. I hope today that there are many other people that say thank you and express their gratitude and recognize your sacrifice. We need to remember And you can ponder and think about those things and truly know the blessings and the goodness of God. As she pondered them in her heart, she began to realize the implications that it was for her, really for all mankind, she was going to bring this boy named Jesus into the world. He was the only one that can do that. That's done. But God has a job for you to do. He's blessed you with children. And he's asked you to bring them up and to guide them, prepare them that he might use them. You know, they they talked. He did this time. I had a cross. As he said, he rose from the dead. What I'm saying is sometimes family and friends and other people they may they may mock, they may laugh, they may say, why do you bother going to church? That's the way it should be You raise your kids in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The world may say you're nuts. In they rise up and call you blessed. In conclusion. Listen, Mary should be an example to every mother here. Really, every Christian here. How do you respond when God speaks to you? God came and said, this is what I want for you to do, and she submitted. Okay, Lord, I'm ready. She was prepared. He was already living a life that was in line with the principles of the Word of God and she was pure and ready to be used. And are you too y you expecting great things from God without doing any preparation? Without being prepared, without laying the groundwork this morning. Everything, yeah. I've already given you. This is what we see. Are you an obedient Christian? Are you available? Following his word. What about you today? Oh, Mom, you too can be like Mary Favored. And you can experience the grace of God. She had grace extended. Harry Earthford. Blessed. Can be and are blessed of God. Under that prepare. God prepared you. Stand with your head's found. We close the service this morning. We want to have a moment of invitation and just thank God for our mothers. Maybe you want to just come and pray and thank God for the mom you have and ask God to give her strength, to bless her, give her grace. Whatever the Lord has done in your heart and God's spoken to you in some way, you do what God wants you to do. Ganis please altar is over