Turn your Bibles this morning to Matthew chapter number 19, Matthew 19, verse 16 through verse 24. I told the people I was speaking to a definition of faith. And I said, You know, it's a fact that I'm here and that you're here. And it's a fact that I am talking I said, but it's faith that this guy, which I was talking to the interpreter, I said, it's faith that he is saying what I'm saying. And of course when he translated that, they found that quite humorous because sometimes he was not saying what I'm saying. Brother Moti, who speaks Hindi, uh he said, for the most part, he got it pretty close, you know Sometimes he added stuff and went on and then you know I so I told my interpreter, I says, Motiz checking you. He's watching you, making sure that you are saying the right thing. Um so We won't have that problem this morning, although I may say some things a little goofy because of jet lag, right? Uh but we're getting close back to a normal schedule and that's it. That's wonderful. Matthew chapter 19, verse number 16. Well follow with me as we read along down to verse number 24. Matthew chapter 19, 16. three twenty four. And behold, one came and said unto him, Good master, what good thing shall I do? That I may have eternal life. And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one that is God But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. And he saith unto him, which Jesus said, thou shalt do No murder. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Honor thy father and thy mother, and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up. What lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. But when the young man heardest that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of an eagle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom. I want to talk to you for a few minutes this morning on a topic, the idea of materialism. As I walked the streets of India and met the different groups of people I had the privilege of talking to and meeting there. I was over and over again struck with how truly blessed we are in America the great abundance that we live with day by day. So I would like to challenge you and encourage you with this thought of about materialism this morning. Would you bow with your heads with me and let's pray and ask God to speak to our hearts? Lord, we come to you this morning, and once again I am grateful, God, for the opportunity to preach your word. I stand here, Lord, an unworthy vessel, uncapable of doing justice to the truths that are in your word, but Lord, you are powerful and you can bring the heart of this message home to each and every person. I pray, dear God, that you would stir in our midst, that you would speak to hearts, that you would draw us close into thy presence this morning. Would you speak to us? Would you do something that only you and your power can do? Lord, I can stand before these people and share my thoughts on your words, but only you can apply it to the heart of every individual. I pray, God, we wouldn't just gather here for another meeting and we wouldn't just meet for a few minutes and walk away saying, well, that was good. But God, you truly would meet with us. And we He would have walked away saying it's truly been good to have been in the house of the Lord this morning. And we'll thank you for it, dear Jesus. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Here this man comes to Christ and he calls him good, an attribute which Christ says is attributed to or belongs only unto God. So what he was saying to this individual, he says, if you recognize me as good, then you must recognize me as God He was drawing that line for this individual here, this rich man. And at least indeed, in practice, this man kept the law. But Christ told him. What he had to do to be saved. He was not telling him to keep the commandments to get saved, but what Christ was doing is he was bringing this man face to face with his own sin. You see, this man and many of us are like that, and many in the world are like that today. He says, what lack I yet? He said, I've kept the law. The law was a taskmaster for him, and for him he saw the law as a duty which he must fulfill in his mind, in his eye, as far as how he perceived himself. He says, hey, I've kept the law. I'm good. He even went so far as to look at Jesus and say, I'm so good, what do I lack? What do I lack yet to get to heaven? And Jesus, realizing the truth that was in his heart and where his heart lied, he says, Hey, why don't you go sell what you have? You understand this morning, selling what you have does not get you into heaven. But what Jesus was doing is he was bringing this man face to face with what his heart really held dear. He the law had had been a taskmaster, but now Jesus was using it as a mirror. And he was holding up the law to this man, and this man had forgotten about the first and the last of these commandments. Thou shalt have no other God before me, and thou shalt not covet. When God held that up as a mirror to this man, the scripture tells us here that he went away sorrowful. You know this morning each and every one of us have to come face to face with the fact that we're a sinner if we're ever going to go to heaven. If we're ever going to know God's love and His forgiveness, we must first see ourselves as a sinner. We must realize what it is, the wicked nature that's in our hearts, and ask God, a holy God, to forgive us of that sin. You know, the stark contrast is seen between this lady and that lady, I mean this man and the lady in the book of John, chapter number four, the woman at the well. She too God brought face to face with her sin. You remember, he asked her, he says, hey, where's thy husband? And she said, Oh, I have no husband And he said, Yeah, you said a mouthful there, lady. He says, You you y you're right, you've had five husbands, and the guy you're with right now is not your husband. And God brought her face to face with her sin. You see, believer and individual this morning, we must realize that we are a sinner. Before an Almighty God who is just in demanding payment for the sin and loving in providing that payment for us. He brought that lady face to face with her sin, but you see the contrast is that she repented of her sin. She confessed and forsook it. Followed after God, and the Bible says in John chapter 4 that she went away rejoicing. But this man here. He saw, he came face to face with his head and he said, Oh, I can't give that up because I have much goods And he went away sad. Believer, this man's Holding on to his materials, holding on to the possessions that he had acquired in this life, kept him from going to heaven Kept him from knowing the forgiveness of God and receiving the joy of the Lord in his heart. He would not repent of his covetousness. He wouldn't repent of what we today, the term that we use, materialism Materialism and covetousness are very interchangeable in their word, in their terms Materialism, according to the dictionary, is a great or excessive regard for worldly concerns. A great or excessive regard for our worldly concerns. You know, the Bible tells us to be careful for nothing but in everything. The Bible tells us to give no thought. To the things of this world. But we, as people who live in a truly blessed nation, have become addicted to materialism We have, especially this time of year, with all of the you know, the launch of this season with Black Friday. And that wasn't sufficient, so they've added Cyber Monday. And then it's Black Friday extended. And Black Friday deals held out for one more week. Please get yours before it passes. And there's that focus and that drive for this whole time and this whole season where we are trying to acquire more and more goods of this world. This morning I'm burdened with this blow that the devil has weighed on us. Of materialism. One of the greatest hindrances of following Christ is a wrong attitude concerning material things. It is such a problem that a large portion of the New Testament is dedicated unto it. The largest amount of Christ's teachings, although he taught on many things, the largest amount of his teaching deals with the acquiring of goods. In fact, we barely break into the New Testament before we're hit square in the jaw with this truth. Turn back to Matthew chapter number six with me if you would. We're just six chapters. Into the New Testament. Six chapters in to this message which would hold the gospel of Jesus Christ and All that follows the gift of the church, and so on, in Matthew chapter 6, verse number 24, we see, no man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and man Believer, this morning I want you to understand this thing of materialism is one of the greatest hindrances to us as Christians being and accomplishing all that God would have us accomplish. And I became I became convinced as I walked the streets And in some places, not really a street, just a thoroughfare, just a path that had been established as a means of getting through from one area or one section of homes to another. I became convinced that as Americans we are consumed with materialism. Satan has indeed Given us here a masterful blow at our Christianity with this thing of materialism. I've got three simple four points for you this morning. We're going to look at the description of materialism, the danger, and then ultimately the destruction of materialism in our lives, hopefully. First of all, the description of materialism. We've got to understand what it is and how it affects our lives. Several thoughts I want to give you as we look at the description of materialism. First is that there is no inherent virtue. or spirituality in being poor. There is no inherent virtue or no measure of spirituality that is inherently given just because you're poor. You're not spiritual just because you don't have any money. Even though there are those like the Buddhist who would uh say that you need to uh deny all of these things and try and live a uh life of um reproof and and to to get away from all of these world's comforts and that gives you a measure of spirituality. I want you to know it's not true. Uh many times as I was told by the missionary the the these people will come, they don't even have they have no money at all, but they sacrificially bring money and give it to the temple. And these monks in the temple have large screen TVs and the latest phone and the most uh top of the market devices and they have all of these things well these people that are that are living on nothing are giving of their meager means. They're not doing it. But those that would portray this kind of lifestyle believe that there's a means of spirituality gained. by living a poor life. You know the poor can just be as be can be just as wicked, just as materialistic as the those with money. They just have less means to do it with. You know, we were shocked because we would be we would sit in uh in a house In a not really a house. There was one Punjabi neighborhood that we were in that uh the it was actually part of the city that had broken down. The walls were busted and And uh people lived inside these walls, but there was no roof. And they would just find scrap metal and things to lay across the roof to give them some type of of a roof over the little room. that they had as a home. Most of the homes, this platform here, if you if you included the the choir loft would be four of the homes. This space. Most of the time they would have one little bed, a small walkway, and a small shelf that they could put a few things on, and that was about it. And mom and dad and whatever kids lived in that House. One home we were in, there wasn't space for grandpa, and grandpa slept on a cot outside with a little tarp pulled over the edge of his bed. That's where he slept for nights. We got to meet him. But you know what was amazing? We were in those houses. They dirt floors, sometimes no door, and there on the bed Sat a kid with an iPhone playing a game on an iPhone. You understand? Just because you're poor doesn't mean you're not materialistic Doesn't mean that you're not seeking after the things of this world. There is no inherent spirituality gained by just being poor. I'm certainly not promoting poverty as a path to spirituality this morning. One can be spiritual without renouncing all of the comforts that are available to us. Although there is often a connection to great spirituality is connected often to great sacrifice. Just as there's no inherent virtue or spirituality in being poor, there is no inherent virtue or spirituality in being rich. Unlike the prosperity gospel people want to tell you. You see they talk about how If you don't have any means, if you don't have riches and blessings and fullness in your life, then you probably don't have enough faith. Or you probably don't uh aren't following God sincerely enough because I'll tell you what, if you if you love God like you should, He's gonna pour His riches down upon your life. That's the prosperity gospel preaching. You know that there is not no inherent value or spirituality gained because you have money. It is not directly connected to God's blessing on your life just because you have money. God has no special regard for the rich Over the poor. We see that very clearly in Job chapter 34, verse number 19. He says, How much less to him that accepteth not the person of princes? Nor regardeth the rich more than the poor, for they are all the work of his hands. They're all the work of his hands. God has no greater regard for those who have money than he does for those who do not. They are all created by him. They're all the work of his hands, and he loves them all the same. He loved them all so much he sent his son to die for them. You know. Don't buy in to the prosperity gospel. That if you follow God, you'll have riches in abundance All you got to do is look at the New Testament and each of those that took up their cross and followed Christ. You don't see them living in mansions. You see them like Jesus without a place to lay their head. And most of them gave their lives. I don't know how anybody could get away with preaching a prosperity gospel that God wants you to be rich. Now God may bless you, but he may not. Either way, he's still God, and we still trust him. Amen. You know, many times riches are a curse. We look at those riches as blessings and we say, Man, look at all that money, and boy that wouldn't that be nice. And we think about how our lives would be much simpler if we just had money to take care of these needs. And uh, you know, many times bless the the money is not a blessing, it's a burden. In Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse number 12, it says, the sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he little or much. Saying whether you had food to fill your belly or not, when you go to bed at night and you you've labored and you've worked hard, your sleep is sweet. That verse goes on. It says, But the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. That riches has brought them to a place of burden, not a place of blessing. If we're going to understand materialism, we need to understand the heart of the problem. What is it? The problem is not being content with what God has given us. Wherever you are in your life, whatever your measure of means or your ability to provide for yourself and put food in the fridge or food on the table or a roof of your head Whatever your ability to do that, whether you're living in a double wide parked on a rental piece of property or you're living in a million-dollar mansion, regardless of where you are, you need to be content With what God has given you. Do you understand that ultimately God is in control and He lifts man up and He puts man down? And God is the provider of our needs. And what we're saying when we are not content is we're saying, I'm not content with what God has given me. I'm not content with where God has me right now. Ultimately, what we're saying is, I'm not content with God. That very familiar verse in Hebrews 13, verse number 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have. We're told to be content with such things as ye have, but does anybody know what the conclusion of that verse is? The conclusion of that verse, in context of him telling us to be content with what you have, he says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. You see, in the context of God saying, listen, wherever you're at, whether you're rich or whether you're poor, whether you have means or you don't, you should be content with what you've got because you've got me. I'm with you. Wherever you are in your life, I am the creator of this world, the creator of your life, and the savior of your soul. And I will never leave you, I will never forsake you. I am always with you. So no matter where you are in your life, be content because you've got God with you. And when we are not content, we're saying, God, I am not satisfied with you alone. You, God, are not enough. The problem is that we envy what others have. We talked about this some last night in looking at a gift that somebody else gives, gets, and thinks, man, it'd be nice to have that. We could take that beyond the childhood gift of uh of this prize or that and you know get it up where we live and somebody comes to church in a new car. Man, it would be nice to have a new car Man, it would be nice to be able to drive that. Boy, you know, we get to the place that you want to see the wickedness of our hearts. Sometimes we even we can't even rejoice with them that rejoice. We look at that and we say Well it's not fair that they get that. What have they been doing that they deserve to get that blessing? Why didn't I get it? We would almost wish that they didn't receive it because we didn't receive it. Because we didn't get that. We envy what others have. The fact is, is materialism is an addiction. Materialism is an addiction. The acquiring of goods and the over-emphasis in our lives with gaining and achieving and having more. It's an addiction. It has things in common with any other addiction out there, like this. These are things in common. Any addiction gives you some of these characteristics. One is it creates a predictable and reliable sensation. A predictable and reliable sensation, the the achieving or the acquiring of a possession or any other addiction that you have is something that you know is going to happen and you you you You look for that. You try and achieve that, whether that be that high or that thrill or that excitement, once again, that predictable and reliable sensation. It becomes a primary focus of your life. Any addiction, it becomes a primary focus of your life. There's other things that are more important that you know you should be doing, but you're focused on that. Why? Because it's an addiction in your life. It provides an artificial sense of self-worth, of power, of control, or security. Many times it exasperates the problem that it was sought to remedy You know, I'm a drunk, and I've got this addiction to alcohol. And I want to drink to wash away my burdens and all of the trials of life and my problems that that are just they're too much for me so I just got a drink to wash that away but when I get drunk I miss work And my problems are exasperated and made worse. And we've got this addiction to materialism and although we're having a hard time paying our bills and The credit cards are calling. For some reason we feel like it's okay to buy one more thing, to acquire one more possession. It becomes a focus and it exasperates the problems that we already have. The fix that's given doesn't last. You know the high that you have from shooting up, it goes away. And you gotta shoot up again. You know the thrill and excitement of getting that new car? The new car smell. You know there's a taxi driver, not taxi we in in India you hire drivers to take you places, you just hire a guy. Um and the guy we hired to drive us around, he had an air freshener in his car and it smelled really good. And I asked him, I says, that air freshener smells good through Moti. Moti was translating for me. And uh this smells really good. Where can I get one? He's like, Oh, I'll give you one. And I said, I need about 70 of them. He's like, What? I wanted to bring them back and give them all to you. But he's like, Oh, I don't know where you can get seventy of 'em but we tried to find 'em. I wasn't able to get that and bring 'em back for you. But you know, we like that new car smell. You know the new car smell wears off. The excitement of driving that new vehicle wears off. We start looking down the road. You know Lincoln has a new navigator that's awesome. The Lincoln Navigator's coming out next year. You know, we look at that next car and think, wow, it has this feature. and has that. You know they have the Lincoln Navigator has a 32-way comfort seat. The seat adjusts 32 directions. I don't know what they are, but it's just an advertisement. You know, companies spend millions of dollars to feed our material lives. The fix that we get from acquiring that new thing is very short-lived, and all of a sudden our eyes are looking for the next thing, whether it be small or great. You know, unlike the other addictions that we might have, alcohol, drugs, sex, whatever addictions we might have in this life, the sad thing is the addiction of materialism Is not discouraged. In America, the addiction of materialism is encouraged. It's promoted as the American dream You deserve it. You can have it. Get a house, get a boat, get a car, get a bunch of debt. Have the American dream. You can have the American dream and it's promoted and it's pushed And it's it's like you're not succeeding in life unless you are experiencing the American dream. Promoted materialism. I want you to think for a few minutes about the danger of this thing, this matter of materialism. You see, we understand the danger of not having enough We're real familiar with that. We don't have enough to pay the bills. Oh man, what are we going to do? There's lots of danger there, but we're not very familiar with the danger of having too much. And there is danger in having too much. First Timothy 6, verses 9 and 10, the Bible says, But they that will be rich fall into temptation. And a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. I'll tell you what, you ought to write that down. We didn't take time to look at it, but you talk about the dangers of having too much. That verse just describes it out. They've pierced themselves through with Many sorrows. You see, having too much many times is the greatest hindrance to doing and being what God wants us to be. He says there, but they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare. The problem is, is that everybody in here, in your mind, You're not rich. You see, you say, yeah, you're right, Pastor. Them rich people need to watch out. They're in trouble. That that's that that being rich is just boy, uh one day maybe I could be rich. You understand that every single person in here by the standard of India, you are filthy rich. Filthy Rich. Do you know that the average worker in India earns $165? A month. Not a day, not a week, a month. Most of those are salaried positions and they have to do whatever's required of them. One of the young men that works in the church that we met, he spoke English, he was a college student. He was working, he was faithful, loves God, wants to be at church, and goes visiting, and he's a part of their church. He's working a job, and after a couple of months, he became a manager. Still making the same pay. Now he's a manager. He sighed on for eight hours a day. He was working eight hours a day and now he assumed the responsibility. They said you need to open the store every day. So he had to be there before everybody else and open the store. Still making the same pay. Then they said you need to close the store every day. Now he's working over twelve hours a day, six days a week, for the same pay. $165 a month. We hired a driver to drive us around. He came and he worked for us for three days. He had to be available for 24 hours. Ever twenty four all twenty-four hours a day. Anytime we needed something, he was there. He slept in his car outside, waiting for us to come and say, Hey, it's time to go. We didn't feed him, he had to provide his own food He was there for three days. And we paid him the going rate. He made about $47 for three days worth of work, 24 hours a day. Couldn't be home. You understand that we're rich. In India, if you have an education You have a college degree, you have on-the-job training in tech or some other field like that. Brother Pratt was telling me the average person can make $300 a month If you have all of that, we're rich. The Bible says that they that will be rich fall in to temptation and a snare. The danger of materialism is that riches and wealth they hurt our relationships with God. You see, we begin to trust in gold instead of God. 1 Timothy 6, verse number 17 says, Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Do you understand this morning that our security does not come from our bank accounts? Our security and assurance for this life does not come because of our 401k or how much we have in the bank or in a safety deposit box or What kind of a house we have over us? Do you understand that all of that could be gone in one day? Wiped out, it's history, nothing but a mystery But our security as Christians ought to be come from the fact that we serve a living God who's in the world today We follow him and trust him. We know he's in control. And whatever means he may bless us with here on earth, praise God for it. But that's not what we're trusting in. We're trusting in him. I hope you are this morning. What happens when we become full and we become increased with goods? We think that we have need of nothing like the Laodicean church. They were full and increased with goods, and they thought, Lord, we don't need you. We don't need anything. But they didn't realize how wretched And poor and undone they really were. Christian, we hurt our relationship with God when we are overly concerned with materialism and the acquiring of the goods of this world. You know that we should ask to be kept from riches? You say, Pastor, I've been praying for riches my whole life Proverbs chapter 30, verse number 8 and 9, says, Remove far from me vanity and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with food convenient for me, lest I be full and deny thee. And say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and take the name of my God in vain. He says, God, give me just enough. In the airport one day there was a pastor who was sitting and waiting for his flight to come or somebody to arrive, and there was a mother or daughter who were saying goodbye. This is back in the days when you could could actually go to the gate to say goodbye. You remember those days where, you know, no all none of all this security and all that stuff. You could just go to the gate? Here, this this will make you feel real safe traveling. You know what happened? We left here. I can't tell you how many airport security checks we went through. But on our second flight of three flights coming home. After traveling all over the, you know, flying everywhere, going through so many airports, my bag, my check-in bag to get on the plane with, the guy says to me, he says, you have a screwdriver in your bag. And I said, no, I don't. He's like, you do, you have a screwdriver in there. So he pulls it out and he starts digging around. Maybe it's the zipper you're seeing. I I don't know. So he sticks it back through the security thing and he sees it. He's like, yep, it's in there. There's something in there. So he empties my bag and he pulls it out. He pulls out a six-inch steel drill bit. Out of my bag. After all those security checks that I went through, nobody else caught it. That'll make you feel real safe about all that security you're going through to fly on a plane. But this couple was at the gate saying goodbye, a mother and her daughter, and the mother said to her daughter, I wish you enough. And the daughter turned back and said, I wish you enough. They said their goodbyes, and his mom was standing there watching the planes a taxi out, as pastor turd, and said, I couldn't help but overhear your uh goodbyes with your daughter and I'm just curious what is that comment that you said to one another, I wish you enough. And she says, oh, it's a it's a family thing. that we've had handed down from previous generations. In time we part, we say, I wish you enough. She paused for a moment and looked up into the sky as if to try and remember or think about what it what the background of that statement was, and she says, it goes something like this, I wish you enough sun to keep your attitude bright. But I wish you enough rain that you might appreciate the sun you have. I wish you enough happiness that you would keep your spirit alive, but I wish you enough pain that the smallest joy May be appreciated and valued as a blessing. I wish you enough gain to satisfy your want, but I wish you enough loss. That you may appreciate all you possess. I wish you enough hellos to get you through your final goodbye. I wish you enough. You know, as Christians, we need to just ask God for enough. Enough. You remember Judas? He hurt his relationship with God for thirty pieces of silver. How many Christians are hurting their relationship with God for some money. We hurt the relationships with our families. Many family relationships are sacrificed on the altar of money, where men and women work way beyond what is necessary, not because it's needed, but because they want more Mom works outside of the home and the kids are passed off to somebody else and cared for by an institution or by a daycare center. when when it's not necessary, but they just want to be able to go on that big vacation or they want to be able to acquire that boat or to have that new furniture and so they they work and they're sacrificing the things that are most important in life. the relationships that they have on the altar of more materialism. You remember Lot's wife? Lot lost his whole family and ultimately his wife. Why? Because he made a materialistic decision. He turned and looked on the fields, and he says, hey, these well-watered plains. It was a materialistic decision, a decision to move there in order to get more gain, and hey, my cows will flourish there, my crops will grow there, I'm going to go that direction because of the material benefit of it. And you know how many Christians get up and move from a good fundamental Bible teaching church like this and move to a town where they've got nobody teaching them the Word of God because of a job. Because of the gain of a little bit more money? Man, the benefit of being there is going to be good, Pastor. And they may even spiritualize it and say, This is what God wants me to do when they know in their heart they haven't prayed about it They know in their heart they don't have peace from God about doing it, but that's where the money looks good, and so we're gonna go there. You don't understand the damage that you're doing to your family And you're seeking after money, most of all. You know your kids know what's important to you. It's not what you say. Is important. It's what you do that shows them what's important to you. If your children were to compare your enthusiasm for money with your enthusiasm for God, How would you fare? Would they find the Lord to be the most important thing in your life? Or would it be the pursuit of gain? On our deathbeds, we will not wish we had spent another day at the office. We'll not lay there and think and ponder and wish we had spent a few more hours in labor somewhere. Or had gained another possession. But we'll wish we had spent some little bit more time with those who we love and hold dear We hurt our relationship with God. We hurt our relationship with our families, and we even sometimes hurt the church that we say we love. Many times that which should go to God goes to a higher standard of living. God has blessed us in a way which we could meet and provide the needs that might be there But we increase our standard of living instead of our standard of giving. God is not impressed with our gift, but with our sacrifice. Someone said it like this: it's not. What I give to God is what I keep for myself. That shows my sacrifice. You know, in India the Waiters and and people that you know hotels that carry your luggage to your room and so on, you know. I asked Brother Pratt, I said, Am I supposed to tip them? Should they? And he's like, Yeah, they they get tips. And You know, I said, So what should I tip them? I don't know what, you know, and he's like, Oh, just, you know, maybe ten, ten rupees, twenty rupees or something. something and I look in my pocket as a guy's coming up with his you know bringing my suitcases to my room and all I had is a hundred hundred rupees hundred hundred rupee bill Like man, he's gonna love this dip. Like, oh here you go. I gave him a hundred rupees. That's about a dollar twenty That's for me, that was nothing. I had literally thousands of rupees in my pocket. To give $1. 20, to give 100 rupees to this man was nothing. But it was a great benefit to him. He was loving me. It's not about what we give God, it's about what we still have in our pocket. Oh God, I I I want to bless you, Lord In Mark chapter twelve, verse number forty three, he says, And he called unto his disciples, and he saith unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, this poor widow hath cast more in than all they which have cast into the treasury For all they did cast in of their abundance, but she of her want did cast in all that she had. If you can stay with me for just a couple of minutes and I'll be done. I want to talk to you just briefly about the destruction of materialism. This thing that has us in a death grip here in America. That controls our thoughts day by day. And we don't even realize how caught up in materialism we are. How can we destroy materialism in our life? How can we put it aside and get rid of it and stop living our lives like the average American consumed with this acquiring of more goods? Let me give you a couple of thoughts and we'll be done. Materialism, the Bible clearly teaches that wealth is not inherently wrong. There's nothing wrong with God having blessed you, but there are some real dangers in it. What we need to do is we need to ask God to teach us to be Content. We need to ask God, be a matter of prayer on a regular basis, to say, God help me to be content. As the Apostle Paul said, to be content in abundance and to be content in want, whatever situation you are in your life, to realize God's in control and say, God, help me therewith to be content. You need to ask God to show you what is enough. Do you understand there's nothing wrong Uh brother Pratt was talking to me about the the caste system that they have in India where people are literally uh kind of locked into a a class of people. They're locked into their their status of life and they're told through different faiths that are taught there that listen, you're in this cast. This is where you are. You should not try and improve You should be where you are and be content where you are. And to be spiritual is to be content where you are and to not try and improve yourself. But I want you to understand that's not biblical either. You see, God has given each of us an ability. And what we are, what whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. It's not just saying, Oh, I'm content, so I'm not going to try. I'm content living in the slums, so I'm just going to stay here. I'm not going to try and improve myself. That's not biblical either. We are to take whatever ability we have. And we are responsible before God to be good stewards of that which we have. And if God has given us the ability to step up, to do better, or to do more, then we can do that with God's blessing. But inside of that, we need to say, God, my aspiration is not for more things. My aspiration is to be all I can be for you. I want to do the best with the abilities that you have given me that I might bring honor and glory to you, not that I may acquire more. Let God bring the increase. Let God bring the blessing. If God chooses to bless you, then praise the Lord. But you choose to honor him. Ask God to show you what is enough. And then when he does, put a cap on your standard of living. This is a new thought for America. Put a cap on your standard of living. I mean, is the five-bedroom house big enough? Just because you have the means and the ability, is it do you say, oh well I ought to have a 12-bedroom house? What are you going to do with it? There's only two of you What are you going to do with a twelve-bedroom house besides pay taxes on it? When is enough enough I mean we look at our we're driving a Pinto and we think, man, if I could get a Honda Accord, we'd be good. And you get a Honda Accord and you're driving a cord and you say, man, if I could get a Lexus, that would be nice We're driving a Lexus and we say, boy, if I could get a Mercedes, that would be awesome. We get a Mercedes and we think, man, if I could get, you know, I drove by or I walked by a store in India. And uh there was a Bentley inside this big glass window. When is enough enough. There's people that would buy it's so far beyond our reach that we say, oh man, a Bentley. I mean who needs a Bentley? There's a market for it. Or they wouldn't make them There's people that will spend that kind of money to own a car. When is enough enough? Put a standard, put a cap on your standard of living. Say, this is enough, God. You've given me enough. You've blessed me enough. And then when God continues to bless you, what do you think he's blessing you for? That you might be a contuit to increase your standard of giving To be a blessing to others. Instead of just increasing, increasing, increasing, and increasing your standard of living. Just say, God, teach me to know what's enough. And yield to God in that. The principle in the Word of God is: seek ye first the kingdom of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Put spiritual things before physical things. And let God bless you with the physical. You seek God first. I'm talking about how to destroy materialism in our life. Seek God first. I talked to the people in India, different groups, and I said, this is amazing that I get to come to India. And I get to meet all of you, and I get to see your beautiful country, and I've seen, I mean, the Tasma Hall and these amazing things here in your country. This is this is phenomenal. They said, do you know what? There's so many people that they work an untold amount of hours of labor to try and get enough money To be able to go and see India. But I've never sought to have enough money to do this. I've just sought to please God And look at what God has blessed me to be able to do. He said, I don't deserve this. But it's God's blessing And when you seek God first, He will bless your life. Seek God first, and that'll destroy materialism in your life. Learn to do without And teach your kids the same. Listen, we're destroying our kids by wanting them to have everything we didn't have? You hear parents after parents after parent after parents say that. You know what made you who you are and gave you the work ethic you have is the fact that you did without as a kid. And you are destroying your children by giving them everything they want. You need to teach your kids to live without, to not have everything that they want. It's okay to be without that thing that you want. Live within your means. Whatever ability you have. Listen, if you have credit card debt, you are living beyond your means. You need to stop that today. Right now, it's materialism that's driving you to purchase things that you cannot pay for. You've got to stop. You've got to rein that in. Say, God, help me to know that I've got enough. I've got to take care of this debt. Ask God to give you victory over covetousness. 1 Timothy 6, 638, but godliness with contentment. Is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us be therewith content As we close this morning, there's two things I want you to go away with as Christians be content with what you've got. But if you're here this morning and you've never been come face to face with your sin, like the man that we read about, his sin was covetousness. To know the forgiveness of God. Realize that we need a Savior. And Jesus Christ wants to be a Savior for you. He wants to forgive you of your sin. Whatever your sin is, this morning we have an opportunity for you To come and meet God and let Him forgive you of that. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Godliness with contentment is great gain. The problem is, we're looking for gain And we forgot about godliness. Dear Lord, I pray you'd be with each and every heart here. I pray, Lord, that as Christians we would Realize the sin of materialism and how it's got a hold of us and help us, Lord, to see the direction we're headed. And as we are in this season, this time of gaining more and acquiring more and giving more and more gifts. I pray God that we would recognize what it is and Lord we would get a heart from you on what is enough and to be content therewith. Lord, if there's one here in our presence this morning that maybe has come face to face with their sin this morning by the Spirit of God, I pray, Lord, they would turn to you and ask for forgiveness of their sin before it's too late. We ask it in Jesus' name. Name, Amen