We have been looking in Sunday evenings at the idea of balance in the believer's life, the balance of the believer. We've studied a couple different areas, categories of our lives where we need to achieve balance. Balance is something that is part of our life from the time that we are an infant. where we are struggling to learn how to walk and dealing with with trying to find our balance to stand up till the day we die. There is always a need for balance in our lives. As young people we learn how to balance uh on bicycles, riding bicycles, and then you might graduate to a motorcycle or something like that. You're you're exercising using your balance. I've always had relatively good balance. and I wasn't afraid of heights at four years old we were having a youth activity and my dad didn't have a uh babysitter for me and so I went with them to the farm. We were uh having a youth activity in a great big farm and then They they had a huge uh hay loft and uh on one side of this big barn was loose hay and on the other side was all the bailed hay and then And through the through the middle was the barn doors that opened, you can drive the tractors through and all that. Well, that middle section was sixteen feet high. And at four years old, I got it in my mind to walk across to four by four uh sixteen feet up in the air from one side where all the baled hay was to the other side where all the loose hay was because we were going to jump off into the loose hay. Now the I've never been afraid of heights and uh that was four inches wide, it's plenty of wide to walk on. Amen. And so I just took off across there. My friend said, I'm gonna go down. Cross the bottom and climb back up the other side. Well we both met at the bottom. Um I took off a cross and made it about three quarters of the way. I still remember it like it was yesterday because they had these cross braces in the in there holding this this beam up and uh so I got about you know a quarter of the way and the first cross face was there and I touched that one and I let go of that one and went and I got the second cross face and I passed that one and as soon as I let go I just fell Actually blacked out immediately. I don't remember hitting the ground. I don't remember anything happened. About four hours later I woke up. And uh what had happened is my friend ran and got my brother. My brother threw me over his shoulder Praise God, nothing had happened to me because he picked me up, put me over his shoulder, carried to me where my dad was. My dad checked my vitals and said he'll be all right. Wake me up, or let me know when he wakes up. So I woke up several hours later. Lo and behold we found out in the middle of the night that I had a broken arm. I told you the story before that we went through a process throughout the night where dad kept putting me off and he says, well if it still hurts tomorrow I'll take you to the hospital So we waited twenty-four hours before I went to the hospital and my arm was broken. But balance, balance is what we need in our lives, and it's something that we have to achieve and It it comes into play in every area of our life, and we as a as an individual tend to get out of balance. It's something we have to check ourselves. We have too much time we spend at work. And not enough time with the family. Too much time serving God. You say too much time serving God? Yeah, if it's costing you your family, you can spend too much time at the house of God. You you need to have a balance in what you do as far as ministry and as far as family time. Now you could spend too much family time and let the world die and go to hell. That's not balance either. You need to have a balance in ministry. You need to have a balance. You can take all your money and give it to God. Praise the Lord. Let me know. But meanwhile, your kids are starving God's not happy with that. He said you don't take care of your own, you're worse than an infidel. So you've got to have balance in what you do with your money. This is something that affects every area of our life and we've looked add a couple of areas with regards to balance and where we need to achieve balance. Last was our work and our worship. Having a balance between our work And our worship. And of course, Mary and Martha, great examples of that and trying to achieve that in our life. But tonight, we want to look at the idea of mercy. If you're in Proverbs chapter number three, look at verse number three with me. He says, Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table. Would you read that verse out loud with me? Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck. Write them upon the table of thine heart. As we look at this idea of mercy and truth, yesterday we were playing a volleyball game. And I knew what my title of today I knew what I was preaching on today. It was so funny. Because we were playing and we had two adult teams and the two adult teams were playing against each other. And the team that I was on was just creaming the other team. Mary was serving, and Mary must have served 15 serves in a row. I mean, just one after the other. I'm just gonna say it's not real important, but it was Gus's team that that we were not that big a deal, just letting you know. It was his team that we were dreaming. So Mary was serving like 15 serves in a row and we just kept nailing them. And Jacob. Says there is such a thing as mercy, you know. He said, I don't think Miss Mary knows what mercy is. And what is so funny is that is about the truth. Because She is all truth. I mean she in the classroom, I mean it's the letter of the law, and them kids better just toe the line because she is all truth There's not a whole lot of mercy in her when you get into those situations. And I just cracked up when Jacob said that because it was so true. But in our lives, we need to have a balance of mercy and truth. Even though these two things are at opposite ends of a spectrum or on opposite ends of the scale. Often in the Word of God, actually no less than 23 times, you will find mercy and truth mentioned in the same verse Because God expects that we as believers will have both mercy and truth in our life. Now, some of you are like Mary. You're all truth. Bless God. There's the line and if you cross it then you've crossed it and that's hey that's this is what it is and that's what it is and and and you you're all truth You enjoy it when Pastor just really gets it, gets gets on it. You like it when Pastor is preaching straight down the line. You're like, amen, preacher, give it to them, you know. Let them have it. That's right, preacher. But then there's others of you here that you're a bleeding heart. You just ooze mercy. You are just mercy personified. And hey, you like it when I preach about having mercy and love and compassion and amen preacher, we need more of that today. But God says we need both. We need to have a balance in our life. A correct balance of the two. God has a balance. of the two. God is mercy and truth. I'm going to give you a lot of scripture tonight. In Psalms 57, verse number three, he says, And he shall send from heaven and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up, Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. That's what he says. In Psalms 57, verse number 10, he says, For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth. Is unto the clouds. In Psalms 86, verse number 15, he says, But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, gracious, long-suffering, and plentious in mercy. And truth. They're both there over and over again. You see these as attributes of our Heavenly Father. God had both mercy and truth. And what I want you to understand is outside of God. Man is incapable of sustaining a balance of these two things. It's impossible. You see that in society today. I'm not just talking about in America. I'm talking about in the world over, if you look at history, when societies have removed God, there is a tendency to one or the other extremes. You get into a society where people cross a line and they're shot and killed for no reason at all, or you get into a society where there is no truth, there is no law, and everybody can just do whatever they want. Because without God, it's impossible to sustain a balance between mercy and truth. But with God, it is possible, necessary, and expected. of the believer to have mercy and truth. We're going to be real simple outline tonight. First of all, what is truth? What is truth? I want to bring this down to simplify it as much as possible. First of all, truth is to do right. So truth is what? To do right. Truth is to do right. Now let me give you some some things. Where do we learn how to do right? Think about this this word truth and think about where do we learn truth Thy word is truth. We learn truth. Sanctify them through thy word. Thy word is truth. John 17, 17. So we have the Word of God, it is truth. God has given us His Word, that is truth. That's why we are to study the Word of God, to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of Truth. The Word of God. We're supposed to study that so that we can know and understand truth. The Spirit of God guides us into all Truth. So God has given us the Word of God, that's the source of truth. God has given us the Spirit of God, that's the guidance into all truth. Hey, you know what? God has given us a church Where we learn about truth. The Bible says in 1 Timothy 3, 15, But if I tarry long that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of So in the house of God is where truth is expounded and extended unto us. It's the job of the pastor to preach truth. In Galatians 4. 16, Paul says, Am I therefore become your enemy because I tell you the truth? That's what a preacher is supposed to do. He's supposed to be preaching the truth unto you. So we have the Word of God as a source of truth. We have the Spirit of God, which guides us into this truth. We have a gift of The church of God, which is where we hear truth, and the gift of a minister or a preacher of God, which extends or expounds the truth unto us As Christians, God expects us to walk in truth. That means to do right. If truth is to do right, then to walk in truth is to do right. As Christians, we're supposed to do right. Bob Jones Sr. used to used to say, do right. Do right till the stars fall. I mean whatever else happens around you, just determine in your heart you're going to do right. Amen? That's what truth is. Truth is doing right. To do right. The Bible tells us that there was going to come a day. When men weren't going to enjoy truth. Second Timothy chapter 4, verse number 3 and 4 says, For the time will come When they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own love shall heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth There was going to come a day when people didn't want to hear truth. They didn't like truth. But we see that the Word of God is the source of truth. The Spirit of God is the guidance to truth. The churches of God's where truth is expounded to us, the pastor of God has been given the job of preaching truth, whether people like it or not. But we're supposed to walk in truth. So as Christians, we're supposed to do right. Amen? Aren't we supposed to do right? Listen, that's what God expects of us. is to do right. And we can, as Christians, draw a line in the sand and say, this is right, and this is right, and that's what right is, and that's why I'm going to do it. And we can stand strong and firm on the truth of the Word of God and what is right, because it is right. And we ought to But what is mercy? Mercy is to be kind Mercy is to be kind. Mercy sees the heart behind the hurtful thing that was said. Mercy sees the person behind the pain that was caused, the struggle behind the sting that was created. The Bible tells us in Lamentations chapter 3 that mercy gives hope. In Lamentations 3, 21 through 23, he says, this I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope. He says, I recalled this, and because I thought on this idea, it gave me hope. And he says, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. He said, I have hope because I have a merciful God. You and I both know if we didn't have a merciful God, we wouldn't have much hope, would we? It is because God is merciful to us that we have hope, that hope is extended to us, and we can look for that because His compassions fail not. They're renewed every morning. It is the extension of mercy that gives hope. Mercy is in fact an expression or a display of love. When you extend mercy to somebody, you are expressing and showing love to them. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4 and 5, he says, But God, who is rich in mercy, For his great love, wherein he loved us. Even when we were dead in sin, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace are you saved. Because of his great love, he extended mercy to us. Mercy is an extension of love, it's an expression of love. You're showing your love when you're able to have mercy on somebody. Or in a situation. Mercy is exercising wisdom James chapter 3, verse number 17 says, But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy. The wisdom that's from above is full of mercy. If we are going to exercise and have wisdom and use wisdom in our lives, we're going to have a heart. of mercy. This last one ought to seal it for you. This is pretty strong. To be merciful is to be like God. You see, he says, Be ye therefore merciful, as your father also is merciful. So God told us that we're to be merciful. So I guess we need to leave off truth because we need to be merciful. Amen? I mean that's pretty strong, all that list there that goes says, man, we need to be merciful. Look at all that stuff that the Bible says about mercy. We need to have mercy in our life. But remember, God is both mercy and truth. So if we were to sum this all up, truth is what? Mercy is what? So if we're going to have a balance of mercy and truth, we are going to do right kindly. We are going to do right kindly with compassion. You don't throw right out because you have mercy You don't throw mercy out because you have truth. You do right because it's right to do, but you do it kindly. Isn't that what following Christ is? He says in Psalms twenty-five ten all the paths of the Lord are mercy And truth. All the paths that the Lord take us down are mercy and truth. It's doing right, kindly. That's what God wants us to do. He says, hey, take my yoke upon you. He says, because it's easy, because it's light. God wants us to do right, but he makes it possible for us to do it. It's been said, and I've said it here before, that truth without mercy is just mean. And mercy without truth is meaningless. Somebody else many years ago said this: truth without mercy is cruelty But mercy without truth is compromise. The Bible says it like this. Speaking the truth in love. That's balance of mercy and truth in our life. lives. So if you're full of mercy and have no truth, that sounds really good. But what it means is that you're not doing right. But if you're full of truth and you don't have mercy, that sounds really good. But what it means is you're a jerk. God wants us to have both in our life. And understand, beloved, this is vitally important for us as Christians. To have mercy and truth, and it's only attainable in so much as we follow after Christ. Because we will all have a tendency to lean towards one way or the other, which is our nature. You may lean more towards mercy. And with God's power, you can balance mercy and truth in your life. You may lean more towards truth. And you need God's power to balance mercy in with your truth. So what does this mean for us as we apply it to our lives? In the absence of mercy or truth, or the imbalance of mercy and truth, is directly proportional to the adverse effect it will have on your life. Directly proportional to how much truth you leave out of your life is how much damage it'll do to you. Or directly proportional to how much mercy you leave out of your life. And rely just on truth is how much damage it'll do to you. We're preserved by having balance in this area of our life. In Psalm 61, verse number 7, he says, and he shall abide before God forever. Oh, prepare mercy and truth which may preserve him. Prepare mercy and truth which may preserve him. To be a good leader, you've got to have mercy and truth. In Psalms 89, verse number 14, he says, justice and judgment. Are the habitation of thy throne, mercy and truth shall go before thee. And in mercy and truth shall thy throne be established, Isaiah 16:5. In mercy and truth is the throne established. To be a good leader, you've got to have a balance of mercy and truth. So let's just talk about your lives just for a little bit, just briefly applying this. Yes, we see that we need mercy and truth. Well, in the home, that means husband, if you told her that you were leaving at six o'clock. And she's not ready at six o'clock. Bless God, the law was set. She knew that we were supposed to leave at six o'clock, and she wasn't ready at six o'clock, so I'm gonna go in and tear her head off. It probably would be good to have a little mercy there. It probably would help your relationship to not be so truthful. Yes, she understood and she knew that it was supposed to be at at six o'clock and everybody knew and and so she's a couple minutes late. It's probably not the end of the world. You're probably gonna do more damage than if you just had a little mercy in that situation. You know kids Does your sibling ever get under your skin? You got a sister sitting behind you there? Does she ever bother you? It's actually probably the other way, sister. Does she ever bother you? The younger ones tend to get under the skin of the older ones, right? You need to have a balance of mercy and truth in your life. So they're getting under your skin a little bit. That doesn't mean that you you haul off and hit them. Maybe they've been a jerk. But that doesn't give you the right to be a jerk back. You've got to have a balance of mercy and truth. Learn. You come to them and say, you know what? It would mean a lot to me. You would stop flicking my ears. I really don't appreciate that. You know, uh uh that hurts and it would help me if you quit doing that Having a balance in your life. You understand you you need to have a balance, but in your home, without truth, the home is out of control. Yes, we need to extend mercy, but without without truth, there's no control. There's no guiding principle for which you decide or discern what you will allow and what you won't allow. So there's got to be truth. But with truth we need to have mercy. At work. Have truth. That means do right That means show up for work on time. That means work hard. Don't steal from the job. Be honest. Do what you're supposed to do. Do what's expected. But you don't have to be a jerk to the other people that are there, those who don't know Christ. You okay, do right. Don't listen to their dirty jokes. But don't stand over there with your nose up in the air like a Pharisee. And somehow you're better than they are. Mercy and truth. Yes, we need to do right. Don't ever throw right out the window. But we've got to have mercy We've got to understand this and ask God to give us a balance of this in our life. You need mercy. And extend it everywhere you can. So you're the boss at work If somebody shows up late, okay, you could doctor pay and write them up, and you might be justified because it was right to do. But maybe you should have some mercy. You know, one time I was in c when I was in college I I've told you before that studying is very hard for me. I have to work very hard to pass a test. In college, I I thought literally, I thought when I went to college, I thought I was going to fail every class. I I did not think I would pass anything. So I had two finals on the same day. And I went to a college that's pretty strict on what you're supposed to do. You're supposed to go to bed at a certain time, get up at a certain time. you only have these hours to study, you gotta do this, you gotta I mean it was it was not like university where you get to do whatever you want. You have to be in class. If you're not in class within ten minutes of the start of class, it's a cut day, five cut days and you fail the semester. So if you miss 10 minutes of class five times, you fail the semester. The whole semester, every class. You don't get credit for any of it. Well, I had two finals on one day and I stayed up the entire night, which was against the rules. You're supposed to be in bed at eleven o'clock, it's lights out. If you get caught with with lights on after eleven o'clock, you're in trouble I stayed up all night studying for one of my tests. I knew that I could no way I'd be ready for two of them. So not only did I break the rules and not go not go to bed when I was supposed to. I stayed up all night, but in the morning I skipped my first final. I didn't even go to it. I went and took my second final and then I went to the dean's office and stood outside his door. I just waited there and they said what you I'm waiting until he comes out I need to talk to him. So he heard that somebody told him I was standing out here waiting to talk to him. I didn't have an appointment or anything. Which is you don't do that either Standing outside the dean's office, he opens the door, he says, Caleb, what do you need? I said, Can I have about five minutes? And he says, sure. So I came in and I said, listen. Last night I was supposed to go to bed and I didn't. I studied all night long to take my I don't remember what it was, English final or whatever, I don't know what finals I had that day. But uh I said to make matters worse, I skipped my other final today. And I said, here's the thing. I didn't come to college to fail. I'm doing my best. There's no way that I was physically capable to be ready to take both of those tests. And if I would have taken if I would have tried to take it, I would have failed it. So I'm in here asking for mercy. He said, okay. He got on the phone, he called the teacher. He says, I want you to put Caleb's test in the library. He said, can you be ready to take that by six o'clock tonight? I said, yeah. So he told the teacher, have it in the library. Caleb, you have that test done by 7 o'clock tonight. I said, okay. Thank you very much. You understand that extension of mercy? Probably that one event right there could have made the difference between whether I was here as a pastor or not. Because if he would have thrown the hammer at me, I would have walked out, got in my car, loaded everything, and left college He would have been right in doing so. I broke the rules. I didn't have permission to skip class. I didn't have permission to stay up all night. I broke the rules. But he extended a little bit of mercy. And it made a huge difference in my life. Who do we need to be extending mercy to to make a difference in their life? Proverbs 20, 28 is a verse that I've looked at often in my life when I'm dealing with people, and I learned as a principal of a Christian school that you need to extend mercy. Proverbs 2028 says, Mercy and truth preserveth the king. Now anytime you see the reference to a king or the throne, it's talking about authority and leadership. He said, Mercy and truth preserves the king, and his throne is upheld by mercy. So we need to have a balance of mercy and truth. But beloved, especially in a position of leadership, the throne is upheld by mercy. So if you're going to err, err on the side of mercy. In the church house, we need to have a balance of truth and mercy. Without truth, we destroy the reason for having ministry in the first place. Which sadly is the direction that many churches are going today. All truth is out the window. There's no standard, there's no right or wrong. Bless God, everything's okay. Hey, without truth, there is no reason to have ministry in the first place. Our liberty in Christ was never meant for us to be free from our responsibility. You remember when Paul was dealing with Onesimus, that slave that run away? You remember when Ismus got saved? You remember how Paul told him, hey, you're saved now, so you're free, go do what you want. Is that what he told them? No. He says, go back and fulfill thy responsibility. The liberty we have in Christ is never meant to remove our responsibility to do right. We still have to do right. But we need to do it kindly. Without mercy, we will destroy the opportunity for our future ministry. Will you turn to Luke chapter 9? Okay. Luke chapter nine, this is probably one of the most familiar passages of scripture to have to do with the idea of the lack of mercy. It's quite amazing uh when you see what James and John wanted to do here. In Luke chapter 9, turn to Pastor Derek's smiling already. He knows where I'm going. Turn to fifty one and fifty through fifty-one through fifty-six. He says, And it came to pass when the time was come that he should receive up. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And sent messengers before his face, and they went and entered into a village of the Samaritans to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though it would go to Jerusalem. And when his disciples, Jamie and John, saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elias did? He said, God, would you do you think we should just burn them up? I mean they didn't want to they didn't want to have you come and see them, so let's just I was listening to a message this last week by Paul Kingsbury. Paul Kingsbury is the founder of the Are You Ministries and it's called Pyro Ministry. That was his title. Pyro Ministry. And it's from this text. And he's like, Yeah, let's just burn him to a crisp in pyro ministry. He says, Could you imagine? And he goes through a lot of illustrations, but apparently Brother Kingsbury was saved at si at five years old And he says, can you imagine if I had the mindset of James and John, anybody that wasn't saved by the time they were five, burn them up. Bless God. They waited too long. They lost their chance And this is the mindset of especially of churches like ours that we really try and hold to the truth and be as true to the truth to the Word of God as we can. We want to hold high to the standards of Jesus Christ, but beloved, without mercy we destroy the opportunity for future ministry. You have to admit, if they would have burned the Samaritans up, there wouldn't be much opportunity for future ministry. That would have pretty much been done. And this is what we do because bless God, we're right, and we want to hold the line. And we ought to hold the line. But Lord, please help us to do it kindly, in love and with compassion. Do right, yes. Don't ever stop doing right But we need to have kindness and balance that in our ministry, lest we destroy the opportunity to future minister to others. It is our job to hold high the cross of Jesus Christ. To hold the truth. But we need to do it with mercy. God is the perfect example of this. He never compromised one bit on any ounce of truth, but he always exceeded Extended mercy. By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. Proverbs 16:6. By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. If you ponder that for a few minutes, you think, well, how is by mercy and truth iniquity purged? Well, that's because Mercy and truth met on the cross. Bob Jones Sr. used to tell a story about a lawyer that was trying a capital murder case. The lawyer, the the prosecuting attorney was a Christian, and the defense attorney was not. The defense attorney stood for his closing arguments, and the defense attorney began to talk about how the court system should have mercy on this man. And in his arguments, he brought Christianity into it. And he said, even our prosecuting attorney here is a Christian. And he of all people should know that God extended mercy, and that God would have us. By implication and by his example to extend mercy to others. Having sufficiently argued his point, he sat down. Well, the prosecuting attorney stood up and he says, My esteemed colleague here has adequately described one attribute of God. God is mercy. And God would have us extend mercy. But I would have you consider another attribute of God, and that is justice and right. And I want you to understand, as he addressed the jury, that God never did away with justice. To extend mercy. You see, there was a penalty that had to be paid, sin had to be covered, a sacrifice had to be made. And so God gave his own son to be a sacrifice, to pay the penalty, so that justice could be paid. Justice could be done, but thereby he would extend mercy. So he turned and he asked his esteemed colleague, if you would care to give yourself In his place, then today we could see justice done and we could extend mercy to the guilty, like Jesus Christ did to us. The story is told, they actually saw one of the jurors trust Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior because of those arguments. But do you see how God always extends mercy? But he never does away with truth, with justice, with what's right. Beloved, we need to hold to right. We need to do right. But we need to do it kindly. With mercy. And the balance of mercy and truth is only attainable in so far as we walk in the spirit of mercy. God and let Him work through us. Let me show you this last thing, and we'll be done. Look back at our text in Proverbs chapter number three. The first twelve verses of Proverbs chapter 3 are conditioned promise verses. You see the condition and the promise. In verse number 3, he says, Let not mercy and truth forsake thee, bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thine heart. And in verse number four, we see the promise. Here's what you get if you're able to obtain a balance of mercy and truth in your life. Verse number four, he says, So shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God. And men. Are you having a hard time getting along with some people? Maybe you're not exercising a balance of mercy and truth Because here, a promise from God, if we have mercy and truth, we bind it about our heart, our necks. You will have favor and good understanding in the sight of God and men. You know, the Word of God says there's only two, as far as I know, there's only two people in the Word of God that it says they had favor with God and men. You all know one of them, that was Jesus Christ. He grew in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and men. I believe the other was Samuel. But here we have a promise from God. If you have mercy and truth in you You'll have favor with God and man. Christian, we need to have a balance of mercy and truth.