All right. We've had a full service already, but we want to get to the preaching of the Word of God. Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 17 if you would. Looking down in verse number 5, follow along as I read to verse number 10, Luke chapter 17, verse number 5. And the apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seeds, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root. And be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. But which of you, having a servant, ploughing or feeding cattle, will say unto him, by and by, when he is come from the field, Go sit down to meet, and will not rather say unto him, Make ready, wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me Till I have eaten and drunken, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink. Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. So likewise ye, when ye have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. Beloved, this is our missions month, and the focus is ongoing. The fact of the matter is, is as a church, we have this theme for the year of reaching out. If you're going to write that down reaching out, somewhere in that word you're going to find the message to go. That's part of reaching out. You don't there's there is no reaching out with some without some aspect of going. Going. You know, the facts of the matter is if we're going to meet Reached Guam with the gospel, somebody has to go. If we're going to get to Estonia where Brother Smith is, somebody has to go. If we're going to reach Cambodia where our missionary the Shrax are, somebody has to go. If we're going to reach Kenya where our missionaries the the census are, somebody has to go. If we're going to reach uh Warren Road or Padonia Road or even Shawan Road, somebody has to go. We have to have people that have a heart and a desire to go. This morning I want to talk about the idea of mission sending Mission sending, that is the job of the church to send out missionaries, both here and abroad It starts here at home at home and reaches out to the world. You know, our mission statement is we have a desire to see the world ministered to. And we want to reach the world with the gospel. We give our money, material, manpowers to see this happen We start with those nearest, our neighbors, and all nations. All those groups are are included in that. But somebody has to be willing to go. Christ has very clearly given to us in this parable here, the parable that's known as the unprofitable servant. He's described for us his expectations. In very clear language, he's laid out for us what he as our master requires. And this morning I want to apply it to this idea of mission sending. Of being a servant of Jesus Christ and being willing to go to the unreached people of the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm gonna try and move quick. I am fully aware of the time and uh I I am very conscious of the time. Some people like Brother Crane, he always tells me he's like, I don't know why you worry about the time Don't worry about it, just go. Well, I know people's stomach starts to growl and uh people's minds starts to look out the window and drift a little bit. So I'm going to do my best to uh try and hurry through uh this message, but give you the heart or the meat of it. First of all, we see the service here. We see the servant, the servant in this first chapter, first number seven, he says, but which of you having a servant He describes it. He says, hey, which of you having a servant, the aspect or the idea that we are the servants of Jesus Christ, we need to be reminded of You see, this is a relationship that Christ used often. It's not something that was new to the disciples, and it shouldn't be something new to us. Quite often in the Gospels and in many of the parables, Jesus taught about that servant-master relationship. And that we are the servants of Jesus Christ. I praise God for that. He says here that word having That word having literally means to hold or to possess. Like I have my own Bible I hold this, I possess it, I own it. And he's describing that relationship there of the servants, saying, which of you having, owning, possessing, holding a servant? Would say to him, after he's gone and fed the cattle and worked in the field all day, would say, hey, just sit down here and relax. You've done enough. He says in that type of servant-master relationship there are some expectations. And beloved, we are the servants of Jesus Christ. This is literally a bondservant is is what it is, and we're not going to turn there for the sake of time, but in Leviticus, verse chapter 25, you can write it down Verses 37 through 46, I think it is, you see the description and the characteristics of a bondservant. And that is, first of all, the bondservant is purchased. A bondservant is a is a servant that was paid for. Can I remind you this morning that you and I were paid for? We were bought by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, who willingly gave himself a sacrifice and shed his blood that we could be forgiven of our sin. The ongoing testimonies through today from the the marvelous decision that Gabriel made to put his faith and trust in Christ at eight years old. I said I I text Christina later. I said he's got the easiest birthday spiritual birthday to remember ever because he was saved on Tuesday two two twenty two twenty two. I said that you know two twenty two twenty two Tuesday. I said he'll never forget that. That was his spiritual birthday. And uh that's that's exciting for him. And the rest of us just have to know it was sometime in the fall, right? Or sometime in the spring. I I don't know how well you know uh w the date or the time, but it's not necessarily quite as important that you know the exact date as you know it happened, amen That you know your that Jesus is your Lord and Savior. And if you don't know that today, I want you to understand that that is the message that God wants you to re received today, that he gave his son for you, and that he desires to see you, put your faith and trust in him, and and let that shed blood of Christ wash away your sin. We were purchased by the blood of Christ. Not only were they purchased, but they became a possession. It's something that they owned and they were permanent. Verse number 46 there in Leviticus says that it is forever. I'm glad this morning that my relationship with Jesus Christ is forever. Something that I have not just now, but for all eternity. Some other relationships might change. My description or characteristics, sometimes people will say, well, uh, I'm a mechanic But then you retire and well I'm not really a mechanic anymore. That's what I did and and that that relationship changes or you know you you uh get married and so now all of a sudden well yeah now I'm a husband I wasn't a husband, but now I am a husband. And those relationships change, but your relationship with Jesus Christ will never change. I praise God that uh when I put my faith and trust in Christ, I became part of the family of God I have a privilege to be a servant of God, and that's something that will never change. It's forever. The old songwriter said, Jesus, my Lord, will love me forever. From him no power of evil can sever. He gave his life to ransom my soul. Now I belong to him. Now I belong to Jesus, and Jesus belongs to me, not for the years of time alone. but for all eternity. It's a forever relationship that we have with Jesus Christ, and I praise God that it is forever. And Christian, we need to acknowledge and recognize that relationship, that it is a master-servant relationship. Too many Christians today live their life as Christians as though that was the opposite That Christ is their servant and they are the master. They never peed him any mind, they never consider him, they never pray to him, they never worship him, they never serve him. But bless God, you know the old the old song uh you know Jesus take the wheel. They want Jesus there at a moment's notice when the when the when the wreck is about to happen, they want God to come on the scene and do something They they want God to be at their back and call, but they're not serving or or or being submitted or yielding to God as God's leading them in their life. Below it's not that way. He's not our servant. We're his servant. We are to be submitted to him, and that relationship is there, and we need to submit in every area of our life, for he is the master, and he has absolute authority in our life. He calls us to do work. Sometimes it's hard work. Sometimes it's spiritual work. But I praise God there's lots of opportunities to work. Beloved, you'll never surrender to go to Guam if you won't surrender to go across the street. We see first of all the servant here, then we see the service in verse number eight. He says, and will not rather say unto him, make ready Wherewith I may suffer and gird thyself and what does the Bible say right there? What's next to words? Serve. Serve me. Serve me. I'm glad that we have the privilege to serve the King of Kings. It really is a joy. It really is a a a thrill to serve God and Everything that you do in your service to the Lord is something that lasts for eternity. There's so much that we do in this world that's that's meaningless, that that is is repetitive or endless or of of of very little value. I mean Uh we are you can see the the green sprouts out there just starting to come up but you're gonna have those warm days and and the grass is starting to grow and you're like, Okay, here we go again, gotta cut the grass. Uh and and you know you cut the grass one week and what happens? Next week you've got to cut it again. And and it's almost like, I mean, I like a nice looking lawn, and I like it being well taken care of, and we strive to at the church to do that here, but you know what? That's something you've got to be done over and over. Everything we do for Christ lasts for eternity. You're sending on things in the privilege to serve God. We see the person that we're serving is Jesus Christ. He said, Serve me. What a privilege it is of ours to serve the Lord. Beloved, your labor for God is not in vain. Whatever it is, whatever your service for God is, it's not in vain. Any and all that you do for Him counts for eternity There's such a great variety of work that can be done. Some people might say, well, how can I be involved in missions? This is our missions month, and through the month there'll be emphasis and focus put on missions. And as a church, we have what we call faith. Promise missions giving where we as a church commit to give a certain amount every week or every month. However you feel that of the Lord is between you and God But just the idea of you want to help these missionaries get to the field and you say, I want to be a part of that. So certainly there's that aspect, but you can you can be involved in the missions program by praying for these missionaries. Every Sunday we get up and we give a uh update on our missions program and a missionary and what's going on, and you can pray for that missionary. You can be involved in missions by by encouraging the missionaries Send them an email. Send them we we announced their birthdays here on Sunday morning. Just send and pick one of them and send them a birthday card and say, uh, you know, I know it's gonna get there late because it's mail from here to Africa. takes a little while. Uh mail from here to Cockysville takes a little while, amen. But but you know you can send them a birthday card. Might get there late, but it'll be an encouragement, especially their kids, man. Their kids would be just overjoyed to get a get a birthday card. And uh from somebody in one of their supporting churches, you can you can do that. You can pray for lost souls. You can pray for laborers, praying that God will send laborers into the harvest You can uh go on a missions trip. We got a missions trip here scheduled in in May and another one in the fall. You could go on and be a part of going and helping a missionary directly. Uh there's a lot of different aspects or wait we've got Bible assembly this month. It's only this month if you're going to do it. You've got to jump on the opportunity. There's a sign-up sheet on the Welcome Center, but you could be involved in Bible assembly and be a part of the missions uh this month There's lots of ways to get involved. There's lots of different opportunities. And it all counts for eternity. Amen? Amen. It's something that uh re- is eternal dividends. We see not only that the person in this verse, but we also see the preparation. He says here, he says, and will not rather say unto him, make ready. Make ready. He says there's some things that need to be prepared. If you're gonna make a me how many of you ladies, uh you ladies know this? It's the guys that are oblivious to this, right? But in order to put a meal on the table There's a lot of preparation, right? There's a lot of work that goes in into I mean kids think it all comes out of the microwave But there's a lot of work that goes into I was just as I was thinking about this, you know, last Sunday I I fed the uh trio that was here from the college. I fed them brisket. And you know that preparation started on Wednesday when I went to the store and bought the brisket. And Mary went to the store and bought the salad and all the toppings and the uh mac and cheese and the cornbread and all of that. And then uh Thursday night I began prepping the meat. Friday Thursday night I I prepped the smoker and got it ready to go. Early Friday morning I got the meat and put it into a uh uh got it all trimmed up and the fat all trimmed off and then put a nice uh cherry habanero barbecue rub on the outside. And then uh let it sit for about two and a half hours and went out and uh got the smoker going. Then about 8. 30 in the morning, put it in the smoker. And uh then it smoked all day till about five at night and it was dark outside so I took it out, let it finish in the oven. It already already got all of its smoke it was gonna get. It was just about done, let it finish in the oven And that that was on Friday. Then I had to package it all up and put it in the fridge and then early Sunday morning I had to get it out, wrap it up, put it in the oven at 165 degrees to bring it up to temperature so it'd be ready for lunch. A lot of preparation goes into m to making ready. You know, if you're gonna serve God with your life, you've got to make ready. There's some preparation you need. That's what this discipleship program's about. Making ready, getting prepared, getting tools and and and equipment. A lot of these things, especially in in in level one, they're things we might know in our heart and mind, but okay, how do I t teach this to somebody? How do I share this or how do I take this and use it in somebody else's life? And And they're making ready to be able to do that. If you're going to serve God, you've got to make ready. There's some preparation time involved in getting ready to serve God with your life. You know, somebody said success happens when preparation meets opportunity. It's just not random. Success doesn't just happen because it happens. It's somebody that's prepared and they're ready. And then opportunity comes and you say, oh, look at that. Look at what God did. Look how God used me. You know what? If any of these young people over here, uh if they took the time to learn how to play the piano Later in life, they could be sitting in a church service somewhere and the and the pastor would be like, Man, we sure need somebody to play the piano tonight. And they'll look down and say, Sophia, could you play the piano? But you know what I can guarantee you if they don't learn to play the piano they won't get asked. Some of you are like that's why I don't play That's like uh that's like me was working on cars. Yeah, I don't know anything about working on cars 'cause that's the last thing I want. I don't even want to learn how to work on cars because I don't want to know how to do So yeah, some of us are like that with our service for God. Yeah, I don't know how to do that. Sorry. But we need to make ready. Get the tools so God can use us. He says here to gird thyself. This is personal preparation. The idea in the text here, the word means to wrap around, to cinch up like a belt. You know, I think of pre prep prepping or preparing foods. I mean ladies you you throw an apron on to keep from getting food on you or whatever, you you you gird yourself, you you get ready to serve that food. You know, I just picture this. If this guy had been if you read the text there, he was out working with the cattle. He was out working in the field. I think probably if he's like most men, he came in pretty dirty. He probably didn't smell too good. I think if he was going to be, you know, leaning over and serving the master his food, I think the master probably would appreciate him going to get washing off some of the field. Amen? Sometimes to really make ready, to gird ourselves, to get ourselves ready to serve God, sometimes we need to wash off some of the field. Might be some things we just need to get cleaned off. So we can effectively serve God in this spiritual battle that we have. One of the keys to get the most out of church is personal preparation. Getting ready. I can talk about a lot of practical things here. Personal preparation, some of it just could be as simple as just getting a good night's sleep. Sometimes it's hard to stay awake when you have a boring preacher like me. So you might need some extra rest. And I and I'm being facetious. I know I'm actually a very dynamic, powerful speaker. I I know that I know that to be true, so you understand I'm just joking with you when I say boring That's about it. The Bible tells us he that is faithful in that which is least is also faithful in that which is much. Making ready is taking what God's giving you right now. And using it to the fullest of your ability for God's honor and glory. And you have no idea what He'll do with that. We also see in this in this verse. The procurement or to put it very simply, the pay. He says In the last phrase there, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink. You see, it it was the pattern and the understanding that the servant who was caring for the master would also be cared for by the master. You y you see where we're going? I praise God this morning that we have a master that takes care of us. Yes, we are his servants, and yes we yield to him and we surrender and be willing to do whatever he would have us do, but the Bible still says that my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory I'm glad this morning we have a master that will take care of us, and it's a promise here. He said, afterward, ye shall eat. He said, listen, your needs will be taken care of. What you need to eat and what you need for a roof over your head, whatever burdens that you're carrying God said he would take care of me, shall eat, but we've got to be a submitted servant to him and just trust him, have faith, and know that he will take care of us. Amen. God is a debtor to no man. He's better to us than we deserve. My God shall supply all your needs. Man, the psalmist said, I've been young and now I'm old, and and have I yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. And what I'm saying is that You serve God and God will take care of you. God will meet your needs. You're not giving up anything for God. You know, the church family knows that Mary and I had the privilege of going to St. Thomas for our 25th wedding anniversary just a few weeks ago. And what a joy, what a privilege that was. But you know God did that for us. You see our our our plane tickets didn't cost me anything. It was just points from all my wife's shopping. Now the shopping cost me a lot, but no no The the the the points from just per making our everyday purchases, things you need anyway. So we flew over there for nothing, didn't cost us anything. Our lodging Was provided given to us. Didn't cause us anything. So we went over there All we had to do was pay for our food. And you know what? We were actually planning to eat during that time anyway So that although the food over there's a little more expensive, I'm just saying it wasn't much. I mean on the whole trip Including our gifts and all that kind of stuff. I mean, you know, our excursions and the going kayaking on the ocean and different things that we got to do, we might have spent five or six or seven hundred dollars You know the the couple that we were kayaking with were telling us some of what they paid for their trip. You know, they they probably dropped somewhere between five to seven thousand dollars for this trip. But I'm saying is God will take care of you. Well you know we c we live on Shawan Road, you know that, and I was thinking, you know what, we couldn't have walked over to the Hunt Valley Inn and stayed at the Hunt Valley Inn for that week. For for as cheap as we went to St. Thomas and spent a week at Jake Down. That's how good God is. Now I want you to understand something. You see, we are not very patient people. This verse says afterward you shall eat. There is a waiting time. There is a period here where We're like, okay, I did it, Lord. Where's my blessing? Uh okay, I was fable to you today, uh, Lord. There might be a waiting time. And the time in which God pours out that blessing might not be today, it might not be tomorrow, but if you understand and have faith in God, you know He will bless you. He will bless you. God is so much better to us than we deserve. Then I want you to see, lastly, this morning, the surrender. In verses 9 and 10, he says, Doth he thank that servant because he did the things wherewith Whether they were commanded of him, I trow not. That literally means just I think not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all the things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants. We've done that which was our duty to do. See, Christ asked this question. Does the master have to say thank you? To a servant for doing what he's supposed to? Of course the c the the question is rhetorical. The answer is uh resounding no. This declaration here is the first time I ever really saw this. But do you know the declaration? Is a self-evaluation. Look at it again, the verse here. He says, so likewise when ye Shall have done all those things which were commanded you, say, again, it's yourself, say We are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. It's a self-evaluation. What I want us to understand is how we view ourselves is what's very important. There are some who the only purpose or reason that they would attempt to do something is because they want to thank you. They want recognition. You know the Bible tells us that they have their reward. If somebody recognizes you and and praises you for that then they have the reward. But I want you to understand here that it's a heart matter. It's a self-evaluation. Now I've been as guilty uh as anybody here with regards to this in my mind because I've even said it before and I'm sure you guys have heard it or maybe you've you've said it like me. I I've told people, listen, don't take my reward. by by acknowledging me or by saying thank you or by recognizing me in any way. I I don't want I I want my reward to be between me and God. Okay, that is the right heart But I want you to know you don't lose your reward because you see God doesn't contradict himself. In another passage of Scripture, God tells us, give honor to whom honor is due. So you're there's a command here to of course we're supposed to be grateful. We're supposed to have a heart of gratitude. The the the defining characteristic is the individual's heart. If my motivation for serving God is so the pastor will get up and say, boy, Brother Bob, he's the most amazing guy in the world, man. We all need to just praise him and thank him for all he does for Jesus. Hallelujah. Let's all clap for Bob today. If that's what Bob was doing it for, then he has his reward. But if Bob in humility is saying, no, that that's not I was doing it for Jesus. It's okay to say, hey, let's thank Bob today for his service. He didn't lose his reward because we said thank you. It's a heart matter. How do you view this? And here's what I'm saying in this text we see that very clearly. He says, When you've done all that you were told to do, say to yourself I'm unprofitable. I I have only done that which God told me to do Beloved, I'm going to go quickly through this. We certainly could develop it in many many ways, but I want you to know there's some things that as Christians are our duty to do. There's several in this text. I'm just going to give them to you briefly here, but look back in verse number three and four. Right in this text, right here, together with this parable, we see that we have a requirement to forgive. He says, take heed to yourself, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him. You see, God has given us the requirement to be forgiving. Because of all that God has done for us, we should be willing to forgive others Though we trespass against God over and over and over again, and God continually forgives us every single time we come to Him and confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And yet we have a friend come and say, Man, I'm sorry, I forgot your birthday. Yeah, what kind of a friend are you? And we don't want to forgive. And after God's forgiven us, we have a duty. We have a requirement to be forgiving. Not only that, we have a requirement, beloved, to exercise and have faith. We see the disciples here asking, Lord, increase our faith. We know at verse number six, he says, and the Lord said, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed. Just a little bit of faith. Christian is expected. Our Master expects us to have faith. We know that without faith it is impossible to please him. We've got to be living a life of faith. The Christian life begins when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ for his sacrifice on the cross. We've got a requirement to forgive, we've got a requirement of faith, and we have a requirement, beloved, to follow Christ. To follow him, to be obedient to him. He describes here this servant who came in from the field and was given instruction. And he did it right away. He did what he was told to do. He was obedient. He followed the Master's will and the Master's desire. And each and every one of us, beloved, need to take up our cross. day by day and be willing to follow God to do whatever God wants us to do, whatever He is calling us to do. Maybe somebody needs to surrender to go to Guam Or say, I'm willing to go to the mission field. Whatever field it is, Lord, I'm willing to go. Maybe God wouldn't take you to the mission field, but wouldn't you say I'm willing to go to the field? He's the master, I'm the servant. Every Christian should be willing. Are you willing today to surrender and follow him anywhere? Everywhere we sing the song of World Behind Me, the Cross Before Me. Are you following your Savior today? Beloved, after all that Christ has done for you and I, how can we be not so moved by gratitude? That we'd be willing to follow him. That would be willing to submit completely to him and let him be the master And friend, if an unprofitable servant is one that does what he's supposed to, then if we want to move over into the aspect, the area where we're profitable servants, Then we gotta go a little bit beyond what's expected.