The title of the message this evening is Moses' Path of Preparation. Moses' Path of Preparation. You know we touched on this in Sunday school, how God uniquely uh prepared him and protected him and put him in Pharaoh's home and allowed him to learn all there was to learn and to know there in the home of Pharaoh and then he uh grew up and Ultimately, God took him to the backside of the desert and he spent 40 years learning at God's School of Hard Knocks. And uh that's what we want to look at this evening, this time and this idea. But in Exodus chapter 3, uh beginning in verse number one, we're going to read down through the first ten verses and Just kind of zoom in. This morning was a big overview of all of what took place, but we're zooming in now on just this one story that takes place during this period time period. Exodus chapter 3, verse number 1, reading through verse number 10. He says, Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the backside of the desert and came to the mountain of God even to Hebron. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight. Why the bush is not burnt And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and he said, Moses, Moses! And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God And the Lord said, I surely see the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters For I know their sorrow, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of the land, unto a good land, and a large unto a land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come unto me, and I have also seen the oppression. wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. As we look at this man, Moses, who was greatly used of God, we cannot help but see the providential hand of God, as was mentioned even in our testimony time tonight when you can look back and see God's leading and and God's preparing and get and bringing you to the place uh you know that You know, you look at it and you think, man, there's no other way this would have worked out except that God brought us to this place. And and God directed these steps. And certainly in the life of Moses it's It's the providential hand of God and his protection and providing for him is seen over and over again in his life. Moses growing up in the palace, really enjoying a life of ease, having everything that this world could offer, all of the uh plush uh comforts of life that Egypt could offer during that time. I don't know if he had air conditioning, but he probably had somebody that could fan him. You know, I mean he was he was in i it was as good as it could get during that time period, uh for him, he was enjoying what anybody would call the good life. But we know that he chose to forsake those things to be a doorkeeper in the house of God. Well, God, seeing his heart and having planned to take him to the next stage of his life. uh takes him on a path of preparation that if any of us are ever going to really be used of God in a in a great way, if we're ever going to see God use us in a mighty way We're going to go through some of these things that God took Moses through. If we're going to graduate successfully from God's School of Hard Knocks, then we're going to have to learn the lessons that God taught Moses. Moses went through it. Elijah went through it. Paul went through it. These are three people in the Word of God that specifically find themselves at this Mount Hebron God brought them there for a purpose, but as we look at the situations in the lives of many of the prophets, many of those that God used greatly We can see how God brought them through some things in preparation to prepare them for what He would have them do next. So I have for you this evening three thoughts in regards to what Moses learned on the back side of the desert. What Moses learned in the school of hard knocks by the hand of God. First of all, I want you to know that God had to adjust his perspective. Moses having grown up in the Egyptian home of a Pharaoh in the lap of luxury. He of course you know the story, he goes out and uh uh defends his fellow brethren and you know tries to protect them and ends up killing an Egyptian. The people saw it. Word was, you know hummed about and people uh the it got out and Moses said, Man, surely I gotta uh everybody knows this, I gotta run, and he runs out to the back side of the desert. Well We see that God had to adjust his perspective. First of all, God had to adjust the perspective of who he was himself. And to adjust how Moses was looking at himself, we see in verse number one here, he says, now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law. You see, Moses was somebody down in Egypt. He was the, you know, in Pharaoh's home He was a leader among men. He commanded attention. He had a position. He had some authority. He was recognized. People responded. People stood up when he walked into the room. He had spent his whole life in that type of situation and maybe had become a little narcissistic in his attitude concerning himself. But you see, I read somebody that said Moses spent 40 years as a somebody. God had to take him to the backside of the desert to teach him how to be a nobody. So that he could one day be ready to help everybody. That's God's path of preparation. You see, Moses had As a young man this kind of a spirit of of pride and you can see it in his life a little bit if you turn back to Exodus chapter two In verses thirteen and fourteen, Moses enjoying this position of authority, of of recognition, maybe kind of even among his own people, as well as the Egyptians, because of who he was, but We see in verses number 13 and 14 he says, And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together. And he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? He comes up and he corrects him. He says, Why'd you do this? I saw you hit him. You shouldn't have done that. But notice the response. He says, and he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? You see, Moses comes to them with kind of a spirit, an air of authority, and like he's going to solve this problem, like he's going to fix this problem. And he comes up to them with that kind of spirit and says, Hey, why smitest thou thy brother? You shouldn't be doing that. And they said, wait. Who died and made you king? Uh, you know, uh somebody somebody all of a sudden give you the authority to do this and they said, wait, wait a minute, are you gonna kill me now? Like you killed the Egyptian? And that's where Moses he says there. He says, Intendest thou to kill me? And as thou killest the Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. And Moses goes on the run. God takes him to Midian, where his first job, God has a job lined up for him, and that job is to be a shepherd. Now you guys know that to the Egyptians being a shepherd was an abomination. I'll read it for you back in Genesis chapter 46, or you could look at it just a few pages back, but in Genesis 46, number 34, he says That ye shall say the servant's trade hath been about cattle from our youth, even until now, both we and also our fathers, that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen. For every shepherd is as an abomination unto the Egyptians. Wouldn't you know this young man that grew up in the Egyptian house and had adopted and and and uh probably looked at things from the perspective of the Egyptians many times. His first job, God said, here you go, here's a job for you. What? Lord, that's not my job. I can't do that. I mean, shepherds are an abomination. Shepherds are we look down on shepherds. Lord, is there anything else you have for me? Sometimes in your life you're going to be going through some things and God takes you to a place and he says, Hey, here's a job for you. And you're like, oh, no, no, no, Lord, that's not what I meant. That's not the job I was asking for. I was asking for this job. And uh, you know, we got to be willing to do whatever job the Lord brings us. A spirit of humility. You see, Moses looked at himself a little bit incorrectly, maybe felt a little bit too highly of himself than he thought than he should have, and God had to lower him a little bit. This is how God works in the life of his people. Before God is ever going to lift you up. He finds a way to lower you, to humble you. Otherwise, we would be ruled by pride. Otherwise, we would think it's us doing the job God was preparing a shepherd, the lowest of low, in the eyes of the Egyptian. Do you understand? God was preparing a shepherd to stand before Pharaoh. Of all the people that could have stood before Pharaoh to say, Hey, let my people go, God turned this guy into a shepherd So it wasn't as much about what Moses wanted to do or didn't need to do. You see, God didn't need the son of a Pharaoh. He needed a submitted prophet. To just go and be what God needed him to be, because God needed a humble Pharaoh, and he was going to use this shepherd that he was shaping to be able to go send him a message and say, hey, these are my people. So God turns him into a shepherd. God humbles him. God was preparing him. Moses had to lose his air of superiority. Maybe had to bring his nose down just a little bit, humble himself a little bit, realizing he was not all that in a bag of chips. You know, we get enamored with the lights. We get impressed many times by the large crowds. By the big conferences. And if we're not careful, there can be an air of, wow, look at that great man of God. But listen, beloved, there are no great men of God. There are only men of a great God. And we need to keep that perspective. That we all serve a great God and it doesn't matter who we are or what our position is if we're sending some sheep on the backside of the desert or God takes you into the very throne room of Pharaoh to deliver a message. You're still God's man and God's using you. And if you're standing in front of a junior church class or teaching four kids in a Sunday school class that could stand up here and sing in the morning service this morning or working in the nursery, whatever it is, we still serve a great God. And what we do for him is great because of who he is, not because of who we are, not because of what we've done, not because of who what our position, but because of his position. We need to keep that perspective correctly. You see, God had to adjust his perspective concerning himself. What Moses thought about himself. Maybe had to humble him just a little bit. Then we see that God had to adjust his perspective regarding God. As he comes into the presence of God, we see in verse number two here, he says, And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him. In a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight. Beloved, can I tell you tonight that God needs to get your attention? Something needs to happen in the life of every single believer where God gets your attention, where you recognize who He is. You are come and you you stop on your in your tracks. You stop and it says here that Moses turned aside. You know, sometimes if God's really going to get a hold of you, if God's really going to do something with you, if you're going to really meet with him You're gonna have to turn aside from your normal schedule. You're gonna have to turn aside from your normal habits, your normal five minutes, ten minutes, thirty minutes, or three hours, whatever you normally do. You might have to turn aside from your little devotional in the morning or afternoon or evening. There might have to be some time committed to meeting with God. There's got to be something where you allow God to get your attention and you get a new perspective of who he is. Moses came face to face here with God and God says, hey, hey, Moses, look, look here. And Moses stopped what he was doing He didn't continue with the sheep. He didn't say, Oh, that's interesting, and continue down. No, something God did got his attention. See, God stopped him in his tracks and he turned and he said, Okay, God You got my attention. Speak to me. Tell me what you want me to hear. Beloved, when I was just seventeen years old, I was driving from uh cross it or Pine Bluff, Arkansas, to El Paso, Texas. I was fifteen hours into an 18-hour drive. I fell asleep at the wheel going 65 miles an hour. I drove my car off the right right hand side of the road. My car went up the the guardrail and I drove past through the first three post Flew off the guardrail down into the ravine below. My car hit nose first and rolled end over end twice. Rolled side over side twice and stopped upright Over the next few days, as I laid very immobile, I said, okay, God, you got my attention. You got my attention, what is it you're trying to say to this 17-year-old boy? I'm asking you tonight, what does God have to do to get your attention? What does God have to do to call your number? He shouldn't have to take us through a car wreck. He shouldn't have to bring tragedy or heartache or heartbreak into our life. God should be able to reach us with a still small voice. But are you willing to stop and turn aside so that God can speak to you? That God can be real to you. That's what had to happen. His perspective of who God was had to change He had to realize how holy God is. You see, beloved, he had not only did he get turned aside by a burning bush, but he had a brush with the angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord here is in the Old Testament when you see that description of an angel that is speaking about Jesus Christ Himself. This is, for a theological term, it's a the theophanes, a manifestation Of God and God there with them, a presence of the Lord. It wasn't just Gabriel, it wasn't just an angel sent with a message, it was one, a part of the Godhead He says in verse number four, and when the Lord saw that he turned aside, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush. You see, it wasn't an angel there. It was a God. It was the angel of the Lord. It was God manifested. God speaks to him. Beloved, God spoke to him in an audible voice out of the midst of that bush. God speaks to you in eyes through the completed word of God. God's not gonna give you a burning bush experience, but God wants to get a hold of you just the same. You're not going to hear the audible voice of God, but I can tell you there's times in my life where the presence of God was so powerful and so real, it was though I heard the audible voice. His speaking to me through his word and his presence in that quiet stillness was so powerful that it was as though I could hear him in my very soul. Every Christian that's going to great be used greatly by God has got to have that experience. Where they get a vision, where they come and they meet with God. And I'm not just talking about salvation. You're not even a Christian until you're saved. I'm talking about as a saved, you know, Bible-believing Christian, there's got to come to a place in your life where you're like Jacob and you wrestle with God the whole night through, and you say, I will not let thee go unless thou bless me. A time where God becomes real to you, where his presence and his power is evident in your life, and there is no denying it, there's no doubting it, there's no wondering if this is the Lord or not. I'm saying you met with God Moses had to have a time where he met with God. Everyone has to have a brush with the Lord. When you feel his presence and you come away a changed man. You see, there were some things that Moses had to put off in verse number five. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. You see, beloved, these shoes represent the filth of this old world that we pick up as we travel along. God said, You can't bring that filth into my presence. This is holy ground, and we need to put off some things from our life. There's some things that we pick up as we travel through this old world that we've got to come and be willing to put off to get into the presence of God. And let me just remind you that God no longer dwells in buildings made with hands. We don't take our shoes off as we come into the house of God, although we look at this as a sacred place, as we look at this as the house of the Lord and we want to treat it with respect. But you and I know that God does not dwell in this room. When we are all gone, this is just a room. God dwells in the heart. What know ye not that your body is what? Temple of the Holy Ghost. Jesus Christ, the God, dwells inside you, and what I'm saying, beloved, is there's some things that you've been carrying around in the presence of God that ought not be there. If God's going to use you greatly, you've got to come to the place of realization where you see him, but he says, Moses, take off your shoes. You're on holy ground. And you and I, many times we go through our lives, we live our lives day in and day out All nonchalantly and casually, we sometimes have a whole lot more reverence for this room than we do for the room of our hearts We've got a whole lot more reverence for this building that's called the church than we do for where the Holy Spirit lives and dwells We would be mad at somebody for desecrating this room because that's the church, and you don't treat the church like that. But I wonder what the Holy Spirit is saying about what we're dragging around in our souls tonight Therefore, God's going to use us in a great way. We've got to come to the place where we put off some things. We say, you know what? Going through this old world somehow I've picked up a little bit of dirt here. I've picked up a little filth right here. I notice this is getting a little bit uh uh dirty right here. I need to get that off. I need to put that away that I might be in the presence of God and with a holy God and Speak and commune with him. That's what we need to come to. Is there anything tonight that you need to put off? Has God got your attention? Have you ventured onto holy ground with your Lord and Savior and got a glimpse of who he was? What have you picked up in this life? Listen, beloved, we it's inevitable I think one of the greatest privileges that I have is that I get to serve the Lord full time and I spend my days around God's people. I know for many of you, you go to workplaces And you can't help but come away dirty. The stuff you've got to listen to, the language, the comments, the conversations, just the stuff you hear and and you and look at and have to observe. Y at the end of a day, man, your soul is just beat down. Just weary because of the spiritual battle that you had. It's not as much about the work you did. It's just spiritual battle you had all day just trying to keep your head in line and on focused and right with the Lord. I understand that I'm thankful tonight, beloved, that we don't have to get saved again. You see, this is a picture. You see, he didn't need to get a whole bath. He just needed to clean his feet. He just needed to put that off. And we know that if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Maybe there's some times in our lives where we picked up some things. They've gotten a little bit attached to us. We've been dragging them along, and God's saying, if you really want to be used in a great and mighty way, you're going to have to put off. Because you're on holy ground. Does your perspective need adjusted tonight regarding yourself? Does your perspective need adjusted regarding your God? Not only did he have to adjust his perspective, but I want you to know that he had to announce his plan. He says in verses 9 and 10, he says, Now therefore, behold the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me. And I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh. That thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. You see, God, now that he had brought Moses to the right place, he could commission him. To do his task, to do what he needed to do. And we see here a great contrast. And I know many times, and I've preached it myself, where we kind of knock Moses for his excuses You know saying, God, I can't do it. I can't do it. Let's look at a few of those. Look at uh chapter three there and verse number eleven. I'll be there in a second. This is why I uh print my stuff out because when I gotta turn I take too I I take too long. But it all right, Exodus chapter three. See in verse number eleven, he God just tells him, Hey, you're gonna go do this. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I shall go unto Pharaoh? You see the different spirit there from what we saw there in chapter two? He said, who am I that I should do this? I think that the Moses that walked out of Pharaoh's house, if he hadn't spent 40 years, that he initially would have said, oh yeah, Lord, I'm ready to go back I know my way around the house. I mean, who else would be better to go than me? I mean, I know right where Pharaoh's going to be. I know what time of day I should catch him. But God had changed him. Now he said, Lord, I who am I? Look what he says in verse number 13. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, And shall say unto them, the God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say? He says, I don't know what to tell them, Lord. How am I going to lead these people? I don't know what to say to them He says in chapter 4 and verse number 1, And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me. Nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say the Lord hath not appeared unto thee. He says, Lord, they're not going to believe what I say. I'm nothing special. They don't even know me. I mean, just like those guys, I can picture it like it was yesterday. You know, I tried to fix the problem and they said, who who made you a king? Who who appointed you leader of us? They're not going to believe me, Lord. How is this going to work? And we see his Cry against his own ability in chapter 4 and verse number 10, where he says, And Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I'm not eloquent. I don't have the ability to speak with great words of wisdom or with a level of eloquence. You guys know I try. I I endeavor to do so. But I'm I'm humbled when I listen to gifted speakers. But you know, I c I hear Moses' concern. Lord, I I'm not eloquent. How how can I do that? What I'm saying here is just Th there is some validity to the fact that when God directs us, we need to trust him and know he's going to enable us. And and he'll let us do it. But what I want to point out with regards to our message tonight is that the The change, the contrast in Moses' spirit from who he was to who he is after he spends time with God, after he spends time in the school of hard knocks. God changed this man. And he sat and listened to God's plan. Can I tell you tonight, God has a plan for you? Sometimes He's not even going to show you that plan until you've taken the first steps. Just like Andrew had in a testimony, I think it was last Sunday night, that he you know wished he k knew the whole picture, right? He wished he could see everything that God had. Sometimes God knows you need to take some steps right now. He's not ready to give you that next step or to show you that next plan until you make some changes in you. Until you get a new perspective of who he is and his ability to lead and direct you. And when that time comes, then he'll commission you. to do the task that maybe even he's put into your heart, but he hasn't got you ready to do it. He announces his plan to him. And then we see that to give Moses confidence, that he assures him of his promises. in chapter 3 and verse number 12, he says, and he said, certainly I will be with thee. And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee. When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain. He says, Moses, I'm going to be with you. I promise you you're going to bring the people out. You're going to be back right here. You're going to do it through my power. He promises him his presence. He says, I'm going to be with you, Moses. I'm going to go with you. You know, you can trust God. God didn't take Moses to the backside of the desert and leave him there. God didn't take him to the back side of the desert and forget about him. I know there's been some times where I felt like I was on the backside of the desert and I was all alone. But do you know God knew right where Moses was. God knew exactly where he was. God didn't just randomly light all the bushes in the desert on fire, hoping Moses would see one of them. God knew where Moses was. Moses didn't just happen to walk by a burning bush and God used that bush because it was on fire. No, God put that bush on fire because that's where Moses was and God knows where you are. God knows where you're at in your life, he knows what you're going through, and God is saying, listen, don't forget that I'm there. Moses was not where he started. Moses was maybe not even where he sought to be, but he was exactly where God sent him. And you and I need to realize if we're where God has sent us, that it'll be okay. That it'll be alright. Sometimes our perspective needs to be adjusted, sometimes our spirit needs to be changed. But if we're where God has sent us, it will be okay. God is with us. Not only does He assure him or promise him of his presence, but he promises him his power. Look in verses 18 Down through 21, Exodus chapter 3, verses 18 through 21, he says, And they shall hearken to thy voice, and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt. And ye shall say unto him, The Lord God of the Hebrews, hath met with us, and now let us go. We beseech thee three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go. No, not by a mighty hand. And I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof. And after that he will let you go. And I will have given this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And it shall come to pass that when ye go, ye shall not go empty. And if you guys know the story, they came to the place where they were so ready for them to be gone, they're saying, Go. Take the cattle, take the gold, take the silver, take take whatever, just get what you want and go. God says not only that, hey, when you go, you're gonna say, let my people go, and Pharaoh's gonna say no. But I'm going to perform some mighty wonders in your midst, in the midst of all of Egypt, in the midst of you, and by your hand you're going to see me do some miraculous things so that everybody sees it And when the time comes, they're going to say, yeah, you can go. And by the way, you're not going to go empty-handed. You're not going to leave as slaves that have absolutely nothing You're going to leave as people that have built up your crops and had built up your cattle and your herds and all those things are going to go with you to start and establish this nation. God did it. God promised him his power. Beloved, Moses had to learn that it was not by his might What the prophet Zacharias says, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. Moses had to learn that it was God that was going to do the work, but it was he was promised his presence and promised. his power. Beloved, if God is ever going to use us greatly in any capacity down the road, It's going to take some adjustment. We've got to keep a proper perspective of who we are in this thing If God begins to lift you up and give you a position and you have an opportunity to serve Him in some capacity, take whatever it is. You guys know my testimony many years ago. I did not know. I never looked at myself and said that, well, I was called to preach at 10 years old. or twenty years old. My first call and I mean I believed so much in the call that I didn't even know if I was going to be able to serve God because I believe that God calls people into a ministry and I believe he calls them to do a job, a task. But I was willing. And when the first pastor called me and said, Would you be willing to come and serve at our church? I told him, I says, Well, I cannot tell you honestly before God that I'm called to preach. So if you don't have a problem with that, then I'll let you know that I'm willing. He says, I don't have a problem with that. I said, okay, well, I'm willing And from that day until this, I've just told God if He brought the opportunity, that I wouldn't say no. And I believe God called. I believe you guys know, I believe God has put me here, that it was his direction that did this. But in it all, we have to keep a correct perspective and realize it's him doing the work. It's God's work. It's him doing it. It's never us. We're just a tool in the master's hand. And we've got to keep a correct perspective of who he is. Realizing He's a holy God, and if we're going to continue to be used by Him and continue to be in His presence, we're going to have to put off some things. We've got to be careful, because as we walk through this life, it's inevitable we're going to pick up some junk. We've got to be ready and willing to let that go. Then we need to begin to rely on the Lord. Knowing that we have his promises. This book is full of his promises that are there for us. The school of hard knocks. I don't know if you feel like you're in it right now. Sometimes even though we've been through it in the past, God takes us through it again, doesn't he? Takes us back around that Mount Hebron. Hey, I got another lesson for you. Or maybe you didn't remember that one quite as well. Or let me let me take you through here again. I don't know where you're at tonight But uh I know God used Moses in a great way, and I want to be used of God. But I know I'm gonna have to learn these lessons. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?