We're going to get into the Word of God right now. If you would uh turn to Joshua chapter number eight. Uh Joshua chapter number eight. We have been the last couple of weeks looking here at considering the life of Joshua. the actions of Joshua and the children of Israel as they went into the promised land. We rejoiced with them as they experienced that great victory of Jericho and how exciting, how uh thrilling it is to observe from the sidelines and see God bring and uh a miraculous event take place, a victory that He gave uh the children of Israel on that day in their lives. And we took from that story the fact of the matter is that sometimes there's walls in our lives. that we need tearing down, that we need to be removed, that we somehow need to break through and and that God is able to break through those walls. He's able to bring those walls down. And we walked away from that mountaintop experience as it were that Sunday and Then last Sunday we we walked right into chapter number seven and we learned some lessons from loss as the children of Israel went into the town of Ai. uh believing themselves to be superior, believing themselves to have this uh small group of people uh believed to be around twelve thousand in population there probably only two or three thousand uh fighting age males, uh if that, but they thought they had it under wraps, no problem. And you know the story, they were uh severely defeated. They were sent running home Because their self-reliance was a point of failure for them. They didn't have confidence in God, but more importantly than that, they found out there was sin in the camp. And the sin in the camp is ultimately what caused God's hand of blessing to be removed. And understand, beloved, that God, as quick as God blesses something, he can remove his hand of blessing. God does not have to continue to bless our actions if we're not going in the power and in the will of God. And we learned that tragic lesson last week and saw how they uh failed to accomplish what they were supposed to do. But as we begin this morning in chapter number eight, I want you to see the possibility of moving forward after failure. The possibility of us to move forward after failure. Although failure is unpleasant and many times it hurts deeply. It is possible to come back from failure. Failure does not have to be fatal. Everyone that has lived more than a minute has experienced failure. But beloved, it is a lie of Satan that he would love to sink into your heart and mind that it's never going to be good again. Failure comes and Satan puts it in your mind that okay, it's all done. I'm in the place of despair, I've lost all hope. Our text this morning is Joshua chapter number 8 and verses 1 through 8. For the sake of time, we're not going to read it in its entirety as an introduction here, but we're going to walk through these verses. as we go through the thought this morning, but I want you to understand that there is a possibility of moving forward after failure. All through the scriptures, God has given us example after example of men and women that experienced painful defeat, and yet God lifted them from the valley of despair and restored them to a place of delight. And God can do it for you. You think about Abraham. You think about David. You think about Samson. You think about Jonah. Or Peter, or Elijah, or John Mark. And the list could go on and on these Men that we look to in the Bible and we say, wow, they're they are they are Christians of par excellence. Yet when you look at their life, you see places of failure. And yet God used them in great and mighty ways, and they went on to do significant things for God. God came to Joshua here in our text and found that he was full of fear, that he was discouraged. You know, fear is debilitating. You know, Joshua is where I would be after a failure. Afraid of stepping out again? Afraid of to try to try and do it. I mean I I I tried once but didn't make it. Fear is debilitating. There's a five-year-old John who was in the kitchen with his mom, and his mom said, I want you to go into the pantry, and I want you to get a can of tomato soup. And little Johnny said, I don't like going in the pantry. It's dark in there. It's scary. I don't like going in the pantry. And mom said, but I need a can of tomato soup. I need you to go into the pantry and get it. And he says, it's scary in there. I don't like going in there. And he said, and mom looked and says, it's okay. Jesus will be in there with you. Now you go get me a can of tomato too. So he kind of hesitantly approached the door to the pantry. He looked in there and it was really dark. He said, Jesus, if you're in there, can you give me some tomato soup? Fear is debilitating. Fear keeps you back. We see in our text here that God finds Joshua full of fear. Look what he says here in verse number one. He said, and the Lord said to Joshua, Fear not, neither be thou dismayed. Take all the people of war with thee, and arise and go up to Ai. See, I have given unto thy hand. the king of Ai and his people and his city and his land. Beloved God had said it's possible To go forward after failure. I would like to ask you this morning to let God speak to your heart. And encourage you to be able to move forward. I don't know where you're at in your life. I don't know what's going on in your life. I don't know what failure you've experienced. But I hope that God would stir the faith that you have to be able to move forward. Would you pray with me as we get into the message this morning? Ask God to speak to our hearts about this thought of moving forward after failure Lord, we come to you this morning and we ask God that you would take your word and apply it richly to our souls. Lord, that you would feed us from the Scripture That which only you can do individually speak to hearts that are present here this morning. I don't know who's experienced failure. I don't know who right now is in the grips of fear about taking a step for you or following after you or doing what you have for them to do. But God, we know that you know exactly where each and every person is. And Lord, their hearts cry to you right now. May Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief. And Lord, I pray that you would encourage and challenge us this morning To trust you and to move forward. And we ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I want you to know, first of all, that if you're going to move forward, that you're going to have to acknowledge the cause of the failure You're going to have to acknowledge the cause. This is just a fact of the matter is, is God did tell him that, listen, now it's time to move forward. But if you remember back there in chapter uh seven when we when we looked at the failure of Achan because he stole the stuff from the city of Jericho that as a nation they failed but they said okay what's the problem You remember the story. We're not going to go back in seven and read it, but you remember how God gave divine instruction and said, hey, bring the people before me, and they went through the tribes. And they they determined, okay, narrowed it down to this tribe. And then all the tribes the whole time, you know, Aiken in his heart's like hiding, like hoping he doesn't get to me. And he's like, oh no, they narrowed it down to our tribe. And then all of a sudden they narrowed it down to Aiken's family. And then Joshua called him up and you remember he says, Okay, Achan, no thibbon now. No lying, you tell me the truth. What'd you do? And Achan knew, I mean he probably thought, what, is there is there a sign on my head? How does he know? God told him what he did And Achan had to fess up to the failure that he caused the entire children of Israel to experience because of the sin that he had committed. And they dealt with it biblically. They dealt with it as God instructed. He didn't just say, oh, Aiken, well, hey, listen, if you're real sorry, don't worry about it. No, God told them what they were supposed to do. It's a harsh, it's a sad end to the story, but they had to judge that sin and ultimately uh Aiken and his family were stoned. They dealt with it at how God said to deal with it and God could bless them again, dear friend. They had to acknowledge the cause It's sad sometimes that many believers were questioned God's faithfulness instead of their own shortcomings when they experience failure. Many times we're willing or we look at and we wonder, okay, God, where are you? God, why did this happen? God, this isn't fair, and we question the goodness of our God instead of looking at our own shortcomings. We've got to acknowledge it. We've got to get real with God. We've got to be honest with Him. Now let me tell you something. Just I know you know this, but All failure is not necessarily your fault. All failure is not necessarily because of sin. That is true. That's true. But listen, we need to get honest with God and take our little halos off of our heads. And and just get real, real down to brass tacks with God and get honest and say, Okay, I understand God why I'm here We're acting like we don't know. We're saying, God, why did this happen to me? God, this isn't fair. Lord, I don't understand why I'm in the hospital right now when you know full well in your heart and mind why God is judging you right now. That's the fact of the matter, and we try and ignore it, we try and hide it, we try and say, oh, this is not it. But the fact of the matter is God said he chastens them whom he loves. And sometimes when we're running from God like Jonah, a storm comes and we need to get honest instead of hiding in the bottom of the boat. We need to say, okay, God, it's me. Jonah came up and he said, guys, if you want the storm to stop, you're going to have to throw me over because I'm the problem. There's far too many Christians that are hiding in the pew instead of saying, I'm the problem. Now this is not real popular and I can tell. It's real uh real real quiet in here. But the fact of the matter is, as we're carrying around too much sin and we want to blame the problems we're experiencing and the struggles we have in our lives on everything else except the fact that we've got stuff hidden under our tent. We're pretending like it's not there. We're putting our halos on on Sunday morning and carrying our Bible into church and acting like everything's fine and wondering where the hand of God is. If we're going to move forward after failure, you can't just pretend like it didn't happen. You can't just sweep it under the rug. You can't just hide it. You've got to acknowledge the cause You've got to say, Search me, O God, and see if there be any wicked way in me. You've got to look at it and you've got to say, Okay, Lord, I understand. Here's what I did. But the Bible tells us we've been search we've been studying 1 John on Thursday nights. And listen, let me tell you, if you can, come. Be here Thursday night. We've been studying the book of 1 John, and it'll change your life. It's a wonderful, wonderful study. But 1 John 1 9, what does the Bible say there? If you know it, quote it with me. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Hallelujah. You don't have to leave it hidden under the tent. You don't have to keep pretending it's not there. You can acknowledge the cause and say, Lord, I understand. I realize this is what I've done. I ask you to forgive me, and God said he'll forgive you, he'll cleanse you, and you can have God's blessing back. That's the only way you get to move forward after failure, is acknowledge the cause There's no shortcut back to victory. You know, I I counsel people all the time, and it's a sad reality. But you understand, beloved, if you fall down to the bottom of a hill, you gotta climb back to the top to get back where you were. Right? It's it's a lot of work. Sometimes it's a whole lot of extra effort just to get back to where you were before you fell. Yeah. That's the reality of it. And somehow we want to be able to be like, oh, I want to be right back where I was. Sometimes that doesn't happen. Sometimes you've got to uphill battle. You gotta move forward. You gotta take some steps. You've got to put in the effort. And the further down the hill you fell, the higher, the harder it is, and the further you got to climb. You know, how many of you go skiing or snowboarding? Last time I went with my kids, I went snowboarding and just about killed me. It's lucky I'm still walking. You know, a couple times I was wearing a helmet, praise God. A couple times I fell so hard, you know, that my helmet flew off. The problem is you're on a hill and you keep going down the hill. Anything that falls off is still up there. And hiking uphill on a on a on a mountain is quite arduous. Well, that's what you have to do sometimes when you when you fall down. When you experience failure. You've got to climb back up. And it's a struggle, but I want you to know that it's possible. It's a lie of Satan to say that you can't do it. Because you can. Beloved, the true character of a person is not defined by the absence of failure. It's defined by how they handle the failure. If you'll acknowledge the cause, God says he'll give you a second chance. I praise God, we have a God of second chances. And third and fourth. Amen, Brother Hunt. And fifth. God will will if you confess your sin, He is faithful and just to forgive your sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Well, don't worry about it, Carol. See I I'm having her turn to too much scripture today. She's uh got her thing flipping all over the place. That's all right. Listen. If we'll acknowledge it, God will give you a second chance. He said you've been knocked down, but you're not knocked out. There's a couple times I fell snowboard and I felt like I was knocked out. But I got up again to listen, beloved. Maybe you've experienced some failure in your life. Maybe you've given in to that sin and you say, okay, I'm never going to get victory. Maybe you've begun to be covetousness as covetous as aching dead and And you've letten that rule your life, but you can get victory over it. Maybe you've lost the battle with alcohol and and and you you've stepped back one more time. Maybe you've started gossiping again and you've you've failed there or you you've been involved in the sin of fornication and you you you say, Oh, I've fallen again or I've stepped back again or I've I've done this again and It's not what I want to do. I failed. I failed. I failed. But you can go forward after failure if you acknowledge the cause. And let me encourage you that you need to accept the covenant. You need to accept the covenant. He says here in verse number one and two, he says, arise and go up to Ai See, I have given unto thy hand the king of Ai and his people and his city and his land, and thou shalt Due to Ai and her king as thou didst unto Jericho and her king. Only the spoils thereof and the cattle thereof shall ye take for prey unto yourselves. Lay thee an ambush for the city behind it. And he starts to give him some instruction. What I want you to see here is God promised them the victory. God made a covenant with them. God had given them a covenant that they were going to get this land, that this land was theirs to go in and possess. God had made some promises with regards to that. And what I'm saying to you this morning is you You need to get back to where you realize the possibility of moving forward because God has promised you some victory in your life. God has said, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. God has said that you are more than conquerors. We know, beloved, that we're on the winning side. We know that God is still on the throne, and although Satan is real, that our Savior is more power than He more powerful than Him. And we know that although we've experienced failure, God would have us experience victory, and the possibility is there if we could just trust God. If we could hear his promise and move forward based on the promises that he's given us, God has made a covenant with them. This land was theirs, this land that flowed with milk and honey. God said to you and I, He would forgive the failure if we acknowledge it. Can I ask you this morning, why do you have a hard time accepting the forgiveness of God? God said he would forgive you. Today there's too many people trying to pay for the sin that Christ has already paid for. Satan is pulling that sin back up in front of you and saying, oh look at this. Oh yeah, you're a failure. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. It's already under the blood. It's already been it's already been forgiven. It's already been forgotten. And you're you're still bringing it up. You're letting Satan hold that over you, and you're dealing with and enduring some guilt for something that happened. You've got to accept the covenant of God, the promise of God, that He said He would forgive you. And let that go. Have you ever gone to eat with someone and then you said, Okay, I'm gonna pay for dinner? And you you grab the check? And you put your credit card down and give it to the lady. And they are not real keen on you paying for it. And so they take some money and they put it on the table. They put it out there and you're like, you better pick that up. And he's like, no. It's going to stay there. And then it becomes an exercise of the will, right? It's like who's going to give in? Are we going to pay for this meal twice because we're both stubborn? Or uh or who's going to give in and pick up the money? You're trying to pay twice for something that's already been paid for. You see that's what we're doing. God said, I I've got that. I've paid for it. That sin is covered. And you're saying, wait, wait, wait, I need to pay for it. I I need to pay for it. Somehow I don't I don't feel like I've I've sufficiently paid whatever penance or I've paid whatever sacrifice. No, no, I want to pay for it. And God says already paid for her. You need to accept the covenant, the promise of God that He's given us. Listen, beloved, the victory the enemy had was only temporary. Can you imagine Ai, this small little group of people, after they chased the children of Israel down the hill halfway back to Jericho? They probably got back home and they were like, woohoo! Hallelujah. Man, did you see us whoop them boys? Yeah, you come back and get some more of that. You want some? Come on You could see them up there just giving them a hard time and just being all excited and we're we're winners and look at us and all of that. You know, they only had about 2,000 fighting age males Look look look in the Bible here. Um I gotta roll all the way back here. Uh look at verse number three. So Joshua rose and all the people of war to go up against Ai, and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valor. And sent them away by night. And we're not going to read the rest of the story right now, but you're talking about a city that only has about 12,000 people in it And he's like, hey, why don't you thirty thousand guys? You know what? You and the Lord are a majority. Amen. You've got the the there's more people with you than with the enemy. And if we could see Like God did through the prayers of the prophet when the prophet said, Would you open up their eyes so they can see the great multitude that God has around his saints? that are fighting on the side of the believer. If we could just see what God is doing. Man, we need to accept the covenant. Know that we can trust God, what he's doing. His victory is only temporary to the enemy. They thought they had it, but their victory was short-lived. Satan sometimes thinks he's won a victory in your life, but it can be short-lived. Because you can come back in the power of God. He had given, God said, I've given you this. I've given it into thy hand, the king of Ai, and the people, and the city, and his land. Emory Peck wrote down in a song entitled, Sing and Be Happy. He said, Often we are troubled and tried, sick with sorrow and pain. There are others living in sin, blessed with earthly gain. Take new courage, we cannot tell what the morrow may bring, when the dark clouds vanish away, and our hearts will truly sing. Often we fail to see the rainbow in heaven's fair sky, When it seems the fortunes of earth frown and pass us by. There are things we know that are worth more than silver and gold. If we can hope and trust him each day, we shall have pleasure untold. But we've got to trust him. You've got to believe the promises that God gives. Psalms 37, 3 and 5 says, Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land. And verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Can you commit your way to the Lord? Can you trust Him? Can you accept the covenant that He's given, the promises that He's given? They want you to know if you're going to move forward after failure. You have to acquiesce to his commands. Acquiesce to his commands. Now that might be a little some of these young guys might not know what that is. That means obey. That means yield to. That means submit to. You've got to acquiesce to his commands. Look in verse number 3. Let's read down through verse number 8. We see God give them direction here He says, So Joshua arose and all the people of war to go up against Ai, and Joshua chose out thirty thousand men of valor, and sent them away by night. And he commanded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in wait against the city. Even behind the city, go not very far from the city, but be ye already, and I And all the people that are with me, we will approach unto the city. And it shall come to pass when they come out against us, as at the first, that we shall flee before them. For they will come out after us, till we have drawn them from the city, for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first. Therefore, we will flee before them. Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city, for the Lord your God will deliver it into your hand, and it shall be when ye have taken the city that ye shall set the city on fire According to the commandment of the Lord shall ye do. See, I have commanded you. He said, This is what God said to do. Here's how we're going to take the city. This is the plan. This is God's direction. You know, the first time they went up against Ai, they went up in arrogance. They went up with their own arrangement. They said, ah, we don't we only need two, three thousand maybe guys. You guys go get it. They went up in arrogance, they went up with their own arrangement, they had their own plans But now they are following God's plan. Now they are doing it as God instructed, how God told them Note the difference in the ways in which these battles were fought. J Jericho was a very simple battle, but it was designed to d demonstrate the power of God. It was all God's power, the men just walking around the city. It was a simple plan, but we see here AI, the taking of AI was a strategic plan. We see the military prowess. on display and this is to show God's planning. You know, God doesn't have to do it the same way every time. He can do it and accomplish it in different ways. But we've got to submit and yield to whatever his plan is. Are you learning God's commands? Are you obeying or willing to follow God's commands, whatever they all are? We sang as a choir, Lord, here am I? Send me. I'm ready. I'm willing. Whatever, Lord, here I am. We sang, I surrender all. All to Him I give. You sang those songs, but did you mean those songs? Or are they just words? They just fun to sing. If they don't have any more meaning than jingle bells, then what are we doing? Those songs are meant to draw us into the presence of God. They're meant to be heartfelt prayers and thoughts that we think and and ponder. You know, do you go to Bible study or do you grow in Bible study? Is it just about going? Just, oh yeah, I went to Bible study this week. But are you growing in Bible study? Are you learning the commandments of God and God's plan and his will for your life? Beloved, our time in God's house this morning is important. There's been a tremendous amount of effort put forth in every service. The amount of people that are involved in a particular service is is mind-boggling. I would say probably three-quarters of the auditorium in here today was involved in this service in some way, in preparation for this service. And it started back earlier in the week when people started cleaning in here. Several weeks ago when the choir began preparing to sing this song. The different musicians began to practice and prepare. Those people that committed their time to take care of the nurseries. Those people that serve as security and ushers, instrumentalists and soundmen. But I'm saying is all of that investment in this service is for a cause. It's for a reason. It's so that God will do something in our heart and life that's real That there'll be some growth, some submitting to God's commands. And when we follow God's command, God gives us the victory. Beloved, there's far too many Christians that want the victory. Without following the command. There's people that want the result of righteousness without the requirement of righteousness. That there's the verse somebody help me out, godliness, uh power and godliness. The form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. There is power in godliness. A lot of times people want the power without the godliness. If we want victory, we've got to do it God's way. There's so many areas we could apply this, and I I don't have time this morning to take it. But you want to see God's hand of blessing in your home, in your church, in your relationships, in your workplace, you've got to do it God's way. Submitting to God's plan. Joshua 1. 8 says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. And then thou shalt have good success. Right? And then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. It's after we submit to the way of the Lord. This morning, can you remember that failure is not fatal unless you let it. Thomas Edison, a great inventor. His manufacturing facilities in New Jersey. Caught on fire one night in December 1914. At that time, he lost a million dollars worth of equipment. Not only that, he lost years and years of his research. Many, many prototypes of things that he was inventing. He was 67 years old. And his son was very concerned. I think his son's name was Charlie, but his son was very concerned about him. They're walking around the fire the morning after And his son was concerned about his father, you know, just being totally devastated And he said, son, there's great blessing in disaster because all of our failures are burned up. And we get to start anew. He looked at it and said, you know what? All of yesterdays are gone. I get to start fresh today. And beloved, if we'll acknowledge the cause, God said you can start anew. You can start anew. The failures of yesterday can be taken away. And you can start anew today. Making a difference. Moving forward for God.