Thank you, Brother Petrell. Praise the Lord for the wonderful commemoration today. I just want to say, first of all It's a privilege to be here. I know that we're a perfect stranger to most of you and I rep I understand perfectly the idea that we're kind of stepping in here and everybody's looking at who's this guy. And I I appreciate what God's doing here. I appreciate you as a church. Um I can see the testimony of what God is doing. Um and it's a blessing and coming in from the outside. Of course I've watched the story over the years and uh Brother Betrell has mentioned our our friendship, how it's a blessing just to pick up where we left off, you know, and and it's just a blessing to see God working. So number one, I want to say praise the Lord for the church that God is raising here and the lighthouse that you have. I see it and uh God is using you and I want to encourage you to be faithful. Secondly, I want to encourage you to continue to be behind your pastor. And I want to say this not as a friend but as a testimony When there's faithfulness found in someone that's serving the Lord, God said, Let him that ruleth well be counted of double honor. And um I I think that, you know, you're you're doing that as a church. I'm not admonishing you, I'm encouraging you to continue to be behind the man of God. To find a faithful man who has a sound marriage, who has children that love the Lord and love their parents and love the ministry is a rare gem in today's world. And I want you to be familiar. Again, this is not about a man, but it's about realizing that God is doing something here that is special and continue to continue in that work. And it's a blessing to see what God is doing. And it's a joy to be a part of it. On behalf of my wife and my daughter who's here, I just want to say thank you for including us. If we just came for the meal and didn't preach, it'd be worth it. Brother Caleb showed me his turkey that he uh smoked last night. I'm telling you, my mouth just started drooling. I hope there's some left for me. Uh but I want to say thank you, and it's a privilege. And my heart this morning is to encourage you on this journey that you're on Would you turn in your Bibles to the book of Numbers in the Old Testament, the book of Numbers, and we're going to go to the 14th chapter. We're going to start here this morning. We're going to end up in the book of Joshua. But Numbers chapter 14. I'll give you a little bit of a history in just a moment. But this day represents for you as a church. The twenty-second anniversary of the work that God is doing in this place. And it's a tribute, a fitting tribute, to the faithfulness of God and to his power. No doubt, if we were to take some testimony this morning, we could find that there are people who have trusted Christ. Their lives have been changed as a result of someone sharing the gospel, maybe preaching from this pulpit, or some person going from this church to bring you the good news of the gospel. No doubt there are families here, husbands and wives, who have been strengthened because of the work and the ministry of the Word of God through this church, no doubt. No doubt there are people, children, who have come up and they've learned to love the Lord and serve the Lord. Maybe they've gone out from this place to serve the Lord. Whatever God has done, I'm so thankful for the work of the power of God in this in this place. And it's fitting for us to take time and to attribute the faithfulness of God and to give him glory for it. It's fitting that we do that. As a matter of fact, uh your pastor was telling me out front here several years ago, uh you're commemorating 9-11 and you put a beautiful little patio with the flow uh the flagpole out there. I think it's a tribute to walk in and see that and recognize what it's for. Oftentimes in the Bible we would find places where God would say, I want you to take this and I want you to make a memorial here because when the children come that are after you, ask you what what went on here, Dad and Mom, then you'll be able to tell them of the power of God that has taken place. And I think it's important for you to have little trophies that you could put and say, Mom and grandma and grandpa, what is that for? It's not for our glory. It's to show forth the praise and the faithfulness of God. And it's fitting that we have a meal together today to celebrate what God has done and to commemorate that if we do it for His glory. And so today I want to encourage you in that. And the message that's on my heart this morning really, I believe, will help us as we go forward. in this walk that God's called us to. It's not a tribute again to us or to any people. Although God uses people, I'm thankful for the faithfulness of his people. But the means of God working in this world, brethren, is through the faith of his people in his word And I want to encourage you this morning, God has told us that without faith, it is impossible to please Him. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 told us that. I want to remind you this morning that as a church, we are not sitting here today in the building that God's given to us to steward for him. With the lives that God's given to us to steward for him. We're not sitting here this morning in our own strength and in any capability we have, but only through what God has shown us in his word. And the success that we have today is a direct result of our obedience to His faith or to His Word in those areas. If you have children today that love the Lord, if you have families today that are intact together, husbands and wives that love one another and want to please the Lord, it's because you've taken God's word and you've implemented it into your lives. And I say today that's what faith is all about. So, how do we go forward in faith? And as a church, I think looking back over the last 22 years is very important, but also I want you to remember that looking forward is just as important. And so I want to give us a little bit of reminder this morning of how we can move forward. How can we move forward? The best days are not behind us, by the way. Did you know that? I'm going to preach this afternoon. I hope you'll stick around not only for the food, but also for the preaching. I'm going to preach a message uh about this very idea that, you know, what happened to the good old days And uh sometimes we we get into that mindset. I want to show you how we could be wrong scripturally in that. But notice if you would in our text this morning. The Bible brings us in our context here in chapter 14. The children of Israel are standing at Kadesh Barnea. They have come through the Red Sea. They've gone to Sinai and they've gotten the Ten Commandments from the Lord They've been corrected because they were doing wrong things and God brought them judgment and then they follow the Lord. God protected them from some armies that would come up and and uh fight against them as they're walking through that Sinai Peninsula They come up around into Canaan land and they're on the west, excuse me, the east side of Jordan, and they're looking across Jordan into the promised land, the land that God had promised Abraham a generation or two ago. And now here we have children of God and Abraham who are looking forward to what God has. Man, they're excited about it. And they gather one person from each of the tribes of Israel, the twelve tribes. They send them to spy out the land. You remember the story, don't you? They go out and for forty days they're spying out the land and they come back with a with a a report that is both Encouraging but also discouraging. Let me show you what I what I mean. They come back and say, man, you should see the crepes of or the clusters of grapes that we're able to bring back. I mean it's unbelievable. Carry between two men. And it's indeed a land flowing with milk and honey. It will provide for everything that we need. But there's giants in that land. And there's not only giants in the land so tall that we look like grasshoppers in their sight, but also there are cities with great walls that we are not going to be able to penetrate. And so ten of those spies, as they stood there giving their report back to the people, have said, yes, we see the land is exactly what God said it was going to be. It is exactly what God said. Flowing with milk and honey. It will support all of our people. It's a wonderful land. But we're emphasizing the fact that there is giants, there's impossibilities, there's there's walls that we can't get through. On the other hand, you have Joshua and Caleb standing over here saying, Yes, the land has giants, and yes, they have walls around their cities that are impenetrable for humans. But it is the land that God has promised us. We be well able to possess the land. And so we see the dichotomy between the ten that doubted. And the two that had faith, I'll remind you this morning that they both saw the same circumstances. They both saw the impossibilities of the giants and the and the walls. They both saw the provision of the land. Both of them saw it and acknowledged it, but one group chose to put their emphasis on what they thought they could do. The other group put their emphasis on what they knew God could do. And it was that very dichotomy that caused people to have to make a decision. Can I tell you this morning that our Christian lives are lives that are filled with choices whether we're going to follow our Way of thinking or whether we're going to follow God's. That's very simply what these people were facing. But I want to tell you this morning that that is the difference between going forward in faith and being paralyzed by doubt and fear. And let me tell you, it's not no more true in our Christian lives as it is in our church. When we as a church decide that we're not going to take steps of faith any longer, or we're not going to take a step of faith in that direction, We've effectually become paralyzed as a church. And done for the next forty years. God said, All right, you you don't want to go in and trust me on that. The people, the Bible says their heart melted. Their heart melted. And as a matter of fact, notice if you would verse number 14, or excuse me, chapter 14, verse 31. God is speaking to them. He gives some very stark and very clear condemnation. Verse 29, your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness. Wow, I can't even imagine hearing that from God. And all that are numbered of you, according to your whole number. I'm in verse 29, from 20 years old and upward, which have murmured against me. Doubtless ye shall not come into the land concerning which I have swear to make you dwell with therein, saith Caleb the son of Jephunah, and Joshua the son of Nun. But then notice verse 31. I think probably one of the saddest things that we find here is that how their faith will affect, it often does affect the children that come after them. But God noticed what God did here, and he said, But your little ones, which he should be said, should be a prey. Them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised. You know many times we use our children as an excuse, don't we? Or we use some other thing as an excuse, and here that's what happened to the children of Israel. Hey, we're gonna go into this land and those giants are gonna eat our children like like lifesavers. They're going to consume our children. Our children are going to be destroyed. We can't go in. And under the guise of trying to be a good parent, they actually are throwing their children under the bus of their lack of faith. Let me tell you, don't do that as parents. But you know the blessing is God said those children that you said were going to be a prey and that were you said were hindering you from obeying, they're going to be the ones that actually go into possess the land. I'll tell you, those young people, twenty years old and younger, nineteen and younger, they were the ones that now God could say, you all are going to have the same opportunity that your parents had to go in and possess that land, but you're not going to get it. The parents aren't going to get it It scares me to death as a parent and as a Christian. I don't want to be the one to forfeit God's blessings in my life. And I want to encourage you this morning that as a church, you would not forfeit God's blessings for the coming years. But rather you would move forward in faith. Now there will always be challenges. Pastor he referenced this morning the victories of of serving the Lord, but also we acknowledge many times the battles and the warfare and sometimes the defeats that happen. I'm saying today that God wants us to go forward by faith. They had rejected the direction of the Lord and taken the land of Canaan, but here they were again. And it notice if you would there, I'm just going to quickly go through this and I want to give my thoughts, my burden here, but notice verse 32. But as for you, your carcasses shall fall in the wilderness, and your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years, and bear your whoredoms, which your carcasses be wasted in the wilderness. After the number of the days which has searched the land, even forty days, each day for a year, ye shall bear your iniquities. Even forty years, and he shall know my breach of promise. Now what we find happens now Is that after they had said these things, the people began to mourn greatly in verse 39? They realized what they had done. Now, I I don't think they had a repentant heart, and I'm going to show you why. I think they had a regretful heart. They were remorseful. And they said, well, of course we want to go serve the Lord now, so let's just go now and go over. And we're gonna we're gonna claim the land now. And now instead of going by God's word, which he had already decreed, they were gonna do something to try to make it right, and in doing so it ended in a disaster. The Bible says in verse number 39, Moses told these things to people mourn greatly, verse 40. They arose up early in the morning and gat them up into the top of the mountain. saying, Lo, we be here, and will go up into the place where God had promised, for we have sinned. Moses said, Wherefore do you now transgress the commandment of the Lord? But it shall not prosper. Go not up, for the Lord is not among you. That ye be not smitten, but they didn't listen, and I'll just quickly tell you that it didn't end well for them. They went up against the Amalekites and they were soundly defeated I want to tell you today, church, many times we get ourselves into a situation where we realize what we've done wrong, and then instead of listening to God, we try to make it right in our own terms. We end up making more damage than we did in the first place. The best thing to do is just listen to the Lord. Submit to the Lord. Go forward in faith. How do we do that? Well, I'd like you to turn now to the book of Joshua, chapter 1, and we'll notice where I believe God gives us then this example of how people went forward. Fast forward 40-some years. And we are now standing again at Cadar Sparnia. We're standing on the east side of the Jordan River. This time, Moses is dead. All the people, 20 years old and upward, are dead. If you could do the math, I don't know, many, many thousands of funerals every day in those 40 years. But here we are, a new generation. Young people. Young people that had to bear the burden and the sin of their parents now are standing in the same place their parents were when they made the poor decision Now it's the children's responsibility, who are now the ones who are old enough to be making decisions. I love Pastor's analogy there when the student becomes the teacher. We're facing that in our own church. It's a joy to see those that have been coming up through the ranks and loving the Lord and serving the Lord. Now they're the ones leading. They're the ones serving. It's a blessing. And I'll tell you today, or today, God will find his people. And I'll tell you, young people, may I tell you today that your role in this place is not despised. You have decisions to make, and many times you come to a place like people before you, but you have a new choice for yourself. Are you going to follow the Lord? Are you going to trust the Lord? Are you going to fall away in doubt? And so it is that this generation comes there, same thing, they're faced with the same decision. Are we going to go across the Jordan and claim the land that God's given to us, or are we going to stay here in doubt? And notice the Bible makes it very clear through Joshua. Here's the man, one of those men who was the spies, the good spies. He said, We can take it. We can go over and take the land. God has him now as the leader. And he's taken the children of Israel over. How did they go forward? What was the difference in their mindset than in the mindset of their parents before I'll tell you that's the difference between success and failure as a church and as individuals in our Christian lives. Your success as a husband is dependent on your faith of the Word of God. Your success as a wife is dependent on your faith in the Word of God. Your success as parents and grandparents and servants of the Lord is dependent upon your faith. In the sufficiency of the Word of God. Do you take God for what He says? And do you live it out? This morning I want to encourage you that we find the pattern for this given to us in the person of Joshua. Joshua chapter 1, very familiar portions of scripture. If you'll notice in verse number 7, the Bible is giving us a glimpse into God speaking to Joshua. And here's what he says in verse number 9. Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand nor to the left. That thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. I want to show you this morning that as Joshua became the ruler, and now he was faced with the task of moving the children of Israel across the Jordan River into the promised land. figuratively going forward in their faith, proclaiming the land, taking what God had given to them, being victorious, then Joshua had to have a couple of things in his mind in order to make this true. And for you this morning, I don't know where you are in your Christian journey. I'm thankful for the faithfulness of God's people, but can I tell you this morning, your advancement in your Christian life, your going forward, not being paralyzed in the wilderness of defeat, but going forward in the life of victory is dependent upon, I think, much of what Joshua's spirit was here in verse in chapter number one. So instead of being fearful, God has called him to be courageous. Now, we have um six children Matter of fact, I just gotta say it because uh I turned 50 and I'm gonna be a grandpa all in the same year. Isn't that great, brother? That's amazing, I'm telling you, you talk about feeling old. Okay. Here's the bottom line. I have a son and daughter-in-law who are gonna have a baby any day. She's due tomorrow. And I told Pastor Betrell, if I hear that she's gonna go into labor today, we'll probably leave right after the afternoon service. We haven't heard anything yet, but the point is I'm thankful for the six children God's given to me. But one of our children, um uh who is not here today, is uh was she she was very fearful growing up. She was afraid of a lot of things. Well what I would often do, what most parents do at late at night when we're tired, and a child comes in and says, you know, I'm afraid. The common phrase is don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. You know that's about as effective as as um Screen doors on submarines, I think, Pastor Rutell, because you telling somebody not to be afraid doesn't make them not afraid. You have to give them some reason not to be afraid And I didn't realize that early on, but I would often say, just don't be afraid, just don't be afraid. And yet God, I I think, isn't it wonderful for us that He doesn't just say do this, but He gives us the reason why we can trust Him. And God is not just saying to Joshua, be courageous. Hey, come on, man. Just bucket up and let's get going. Just get a little strength in your. He wasn't telling them just lift yourself up and try to encourage yourself. He was saying, I want you to be courageous, and I'm going to give you a reason why you should be. But I want to encourage you this morning that courage Is that strength of heart, that will of mind that says we are going to accomplish what God wants us to accomplish? There is a courage that comes. The opposite of being encouraged is discouraged. How many of you know what I'm talking about? So discouragement is the taking away of that energy or taking away of that willpower to move forward. I've been discouraged many times in the ministry. Maybe it's because of some action of some person, or maybe it's because of some event that's happened. But it's taken the courage, it's taken the strength even to go and to take the next step. Discouragement is a powerful tool of the devil. And so when God is saying, I want you to be courageous, what he's saying is, I want you to find the strength, the willpower, and that willpower is not in yourself. It's not in how you've looked back and said, Oh, I've done this, all these things before. It's in the power of God's word, which I'll talk about in a minute. I'm saying today, church, if we're going to move forward in faith You've got to encourage yourselves, not in the events of the church, not in some person, but you've got to take courage in order to step forward Some of you today no doubt are discouraged by something that's happened in your life. Maybe it's been some sort of a medical diagnosis. Maybe it's a financial situation. Maybe it's a relational issue. Maybe it's some sort of an offense that you have with someone here in the church. I'm saying today that those things sap your courage in order to move forward in faith. And I'm saying today you don't have to sit in that defeat. I I'm familiar with it. For weeks, a couple of years ago, every Sunday night I'd come home. It could be a great Sunday. We have visitors I mean, or we could be down and we would offerings are down and numbers are down. It didn't matter. I'd come home and I was just discouraged. I mean it was just like Oh, I can't move on. And after about the fourth or fifth week of that on a Sunday night, I thought to myself, what is going on? And I had to realize to myself that I was allowing Satan to have a have a place in my heart, in my mind He was discouraging me. And God says, I want you to be encouraged. I want you to have courage by my word. And I had to fight Satan and say, I'm not going to have this anymore. And I repented and rebuked him. And praise the Lord. I can be encouraged in the Word of God. And really, by the way, our courage is not dependent on circumstances because God's word never changes. You could go forward and you could do all things. You can go forward in faith because of the courage that God calls us to do. Really, it's the matter of being uh it's a matter of grabbing hold of a truth. Courage is not something to the for their own strength. It's something that they needed to grab a hold of. The word means that word be strong is the idea of grabbing hold of a truth, holding on, fastening on to And what you fasten your mind on is what you will live by. If you fasten your mind on the discouragements, you will live by that discouragement. If you fasten your mind on the Word of God, you will be encouraged. The plan of God has not changed in the 40 years of wandering. God still had a plan for his work. And I say today, God still has a plan for Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm grateful for 22 years, but I'm grateful also that if the Lord tarries another 22 years and beyond, God can give victory here But it's going to be because of his people that are going forward in the courage of their mind. And so it is that it's important to have this courage in their mind. By the way, the story of David and Goliath I'll quickly just reference here, but you know, there was two two m mindsets of people there. You had people on the Israelite side up on the mountain when Goliath would come out and defy the armies of the living God. Fear would strike their hearts. They would become discouraged. They would lose their strength, their willpower. Who's going to go and fight this guy? You know why they were you know why they were discouraged? Because they were looking at their own weakness. They were looking at their own inabilities. I can't compare to that. And so discouragement ensues. But David, here comes David, the most, the most Inopportune kind of at least likely candidate to face this giant. As a matter of fact, they tried to help him out here, put on some put on some of this armor, and and he tried, I'm not gonna wear this armor, I can't even move in it. Takes his sling and five stones and his staff and he goes out to meet the giant. But do you know what the difference was? It had nothing to do with stature. It had nothing to do with willpower, in other words, a mindset of just I can do this. It had everything to do with where his trust was. He said, You come to me with your sword and spear, Goliath, but I come to you in the name of God. Let me tell you, brethren, that's not some Sunday school lesson. That is what God is telling us to do. Where is your courage at? If you have courage to move forward, it will be in God's Word. It will be in His promises. And I'll just follow that up. Number one, then, how do we go forward in faith? By the courage of our mind, taking hold of that which God's given to us. But number two Then I want to say then the second way is through confidence in his word. Now, this is a progression. We have courage because of God's word. I want to just say today, church. that your life is based on the very word of God. You say, well I know I love the Bible, you know, it's a It's a great book, and I love carrying the Bible and I love memorizing it. But here's the bottom line. Do you realize that this is our life? This is our sole authority for faith and practice. This is what God's given to us to direct us. Our lives are only successful in so far as we orient it on the Word of God. My family can only be successful and come out the way God wants it, insofar as I focus and I orientate it on the Word of God. Your marriage, your finances, your time, your purpose, everything that God's given to you can only be successful insofar as we recognize the sufficiency of God's word as it relates to that area. The Bible says in 2 Peter 1 verse 16, for we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Here's Peter saying, I I didn't come and make up some fable for you. I saw what I saw You say, that's great, Peter, but I wasn't there. Here I am living in 21st century, and I wasn't there when Jesus died on the cross. So I'm not an eyewitness. How in the world can I have victory? You know what he said? Notice what he says in verse number 17. For we uh let me go down verse 18. The voice came uh from heaven we heard when we were with him in the holy mount. She's talking about the eyewitness things that he saw, but then verse 19, here it is for you and I. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. Whereunto you do well that you take heed as unto a a light that shineth in a dark place until the day dawn and the day star rise in your hearts. What is he saying? We were eyewitnesses, but you have something that is even more sure than an eyewitness. You have God's word. He'll tell you today, we're not at a disadvantage because we didn't see Jesus when he lived on this earth. We are an advantage because we have God's word with us always. Our eyewitness can we can fail, we can forget. You know eyewitnesses sometimes uh of crimes and they've proven this and so forth. You don't always know what you see. Our brain and our minds and our eyes, they don't always register what we see. We can miss a lot of things. We have something far greater than an eyewitness. We have God's word that never changes I can read it today and forget it and go back and read it again tomorrow and be reminded it never changes. It's always the same. Do you believe in the sufficiency of God's word? Brethren, this is the way we go forward in faith. This is the way Joshua and the people were going to go forward if they had confidence in the Word of God I'll say today, you will go forward as a church, you will go forward as a couple, you will go forward as a family, you will go forward as a minister of the gospel insofar as you have confidence in the Word of God. That's what God has taught us. And so the God's word is our security, it's our surety, it's our direction What we need to get back to is the confidence and the sufficiency of Scripture. We need Christians just to believe that the Scripture is what it says it is And not just, I believe it's true, but I believe it's true for me. In other words, if I'm in a situation, the Bible has something to say about where my situation is and what I should do. I'm telling you today, church, your ability to apply that both corporately and individually makes the difference for success. Now notice if you would there, the Bible says in verse number 8. This was the text for the second point. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein. Now I need to talk about this for a minute. And I'm going to move quickly. But notice the word meditate there is a word that I think we're missing as Christians many times. You see, sometimes we read the Bible. You're like me, I read the Bible, and I get up and I walk away and I go through my day and I don't remember what I've read. Or we're in a position like this today, we're here at church, and um You hear the message and you go home and tomorrow or tonight or whatever something comes up and you just you and then you go, I I don't remember anything, or it doesn't cross our mind. Well, James tells us this. Let me give you a quick Bible study here. James tells us in in the book of James, he says that the Word of God is important and we must continue in the Word of God. Okay? Talking about being a forgetful hearer. versus a faithful doer of the word. Alright, so what makes the difference? What makes the difference between a a person who hears it? Everyone's here today. Most of you are hearing the word of God. Alright, I trust. So, as you're hearing it, what makes the difference between somebody who's going to take this and go home and do it and somebody who forgets it? What's the difference? Well, James tells us. He says He being not afraid. I should look it up and read it. But the idea there is the word continueth. He that continueth therein. Now the word continueth is the word that means to meditate. It means to continue until it brings forth fruit. Here's what I'm talking about. You take the Word of God, whether you're reading in your own time or whether you hear it in a message or some other Sunday school time, and you take that word of God that you've heard, and you carry it in your heart, in your mind, like a precious little plant that you've just planted. And like that plant needs constant care of sunshine and soil and moisture and you gotta weed it and you gotta nurture it and and uh even fertilize it. And you take that and you don't leave it somewhere and forget about it, because if you do, it's gonna die. You carry it with you. You keep it precious to you. And and then you know as you see it, oh I I need to water a little bit, I need to I need to continue here. And then eventually that grows and then you get fruit from it, whatever that is. Now the problem is with the Word of God, many times we take that. It's been given to us, all right? So figuratively you're all here today. The Word of God is given to you. Take it in your hands. And then what happens is we go out those doors. Ah I gotta shake so-and-so's hand. I gotta sit How you do it, brother? Oh, I gotta eat my smoked turkey today. Oh, I gotta talk and laughing with somebody reminiscent about the past. That's all great. I gotta go back and we're gonna go home and I'm tired, I gotta do this and that, whatever. And we've left the word of God laying where we set it down. And and we we don't even remember there until we come back next week and we get another little thing and then we sit down because we have some care and some concern. And our whole shelf and our whole life is full of things that we've received, that we've set down, and they've just died, and they're not doing us a bit of good. Because we haven't meditated, we haven't continued in the Word of God until it's brought forth fruit. My brother, I want to tell you today, this is a mental Physical discipline exercise that says you take what you hear every time you hear it and you think about it until God digs it into your heart and it changes you. You are where you are as a Christian right now, and you've taken the steps that you've taken as a Christian right now, only to the degree that that process has happened in your life. Or you've taken the Word of God. You know what I'm talking about. There's certain things that you've learned that you're like, this just changed my life. This changed my thinking. It changed the way that I live. Why? Because it affected you in your heart and you continued in it until it changed you. I'm saying that that's what God wants to do with all of it. Continue in the Word of God. That's why God told Joshua, meditate therein day and night. Continue in the Word of God. And so it is that God's word is sufficient. The thought of meditating here is enjoined in my text as no more a mere intellectual study of scriptures. It's not just a theological point of view, but it's the mastering of the principles of conduct as laid down there and appropriating That is taking it to myself all of the power for guidance and for sustaining that which the Word of God gives us. I'm reminded of one of my heroes, Hudson Taylor. He was part of the China Inland Mission, pioneering mission work in the land of China, and he wrote to his wife in a very difficult, trying time in ministry. And he said to his wife in this letter, he said, we have 25 cents and all the promises of God. Let me tell you. You could have nothing in all the promises of God, and you had everything you need if you believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. I'm just saying if we take God at His word, we will be people of faith that move forward. And if the children of Israel were going to go into this new land with Joshua as their leader. They were number one going to have to have the confidence, excuse me, the courage of their mind. They're going to have to grasp onto something bigger than themselves. And then he tells them what it was. You need to grasp onto God's word. Have confidence in God's word. You see, church going forward in faith requires courage of mind in the confidence of God's word. And then lastly this morning, I'll give you this quick thought, and that is found in verse number nine. Here's another aspect of moving forward in faith, and that is really found there. He says, Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed. And then he gives the reason why. Here's the point. You can tell somebody not to be afraid if you tell them why they shouldn't be afraid. And if that person is convinced that the reason they shouldn't be afraid is worthwhile, then they won't be afraid. And that's what Joshua needed to hear. He needed to hear. You don't need to be afraid. You need to be courageous because God's word is sufficient. And number two, because I will be with you. He was assured of the presence of God. Church, can I tell you today that's not just some nice little cliche? That's not just some nice little Christian jingle. God is always with me. No, can I tell you today? Theologically The presence of God is our very life. As a matter of fact, the Bible says, when Christ, who is our life? Let me just say take it another step. Galatians 2 and verse number 20. Classic verse for Christian living. The Bible says that I, Paul's testimony was, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Brother, when you and I got saved, here's what happened. You didn't add God to your life to make your life better. You didn't just say, I need a better life, I need rescued out of my situation, I need a little more convenience, I need God's help, so I'm gonna get saved. No, that's not what happened. That may have been what you thought happened, but that's not what happened. When you got saved, here's what happened. You said, Lord, I am nothing and I can't save myself. And in doing so, I'm exchanging my life for yours. The Bible says that when we get saved, it is an exchange of life. His life for mine. My robes are nothing, his robes of righteousness are my claim. Now therefore, brethren, listen, the Christian life, can I just say it this way? And I'm not trying to be controversial this morning, but the Christian life isn't try harder. The true Christian life isn't you've got to w work harder, do more for the Lord. Now there is an element of willful activity that we need to have. They had to willfully engage the enemy, no doubt about it. But you know what the the paradigm for all of that thinking was? Christ is doing it. Not me. They didn't knock down the walls of Jericho. David didn't kill Goliath. God did. Listen, the world out there needs to be saved, but it's not going to be because of my effort or energy in myself. It's going to be because God is already doing a work in their hearts and I join with him in that work that he's doing. I am crucified with Christ Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. So your life, Christian, is not do more for God. Your life is let God do more through you. It is the dependence principle. For the Christian living. I'm talking about God's presence here today. It's not just God be with me, prop me up, be my crutch when things are hard. No, no, no. God, you are my everything. If you're doing anything, it's you. God is not a crutch for you to have a better day. He's not a crutch for you to have some sort of a thing. Now I'm thankful that God says if we have faith, we can ask what we will and He will do it. Praise the Lord. But He's not our spiritual genie. It is God working and we're joining with him. That's our privilege. That's why my life, Paul said to the Corinthians, what? Know ye not? That your body is not your own, for you're bought with the price. Therefore glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. Whatever happens to me, it doesn't matter because I'm not my own. Joel died when I got saved. And now Christ is living in me. Now, the degree to which I live by that faith and that principle is the degree to which God can use me and help me in my life. See, that's a different shift of thinking, isn't it, for many Christians? So it is that God's presence means everything to the believer. It's not just a good thing. It's not just the best thing. It is the only thing. God's presence with us. That's why when God says don't be afraid, He's saying, truly, you have nothing to fear because I'm doing the work. You see those big old walls? It's nothing for me. All you got to do is yell a little bit and they're going to fall down. Now who would have thought that their yells would have brought the wall down? Nobody. Everybody knows that's God. Who would have thought that those giants would fall by those people? Nobody, because they knew it wasn't them, they knew it was God. I mean Hunt Valley Baptist Church have a testimony that when people look at it and say, There can't be people that did that. That has to be God. That's the kind of faith I think that God wants us to have moving forward. Moving forward in faith. Courage that does not rest on Christ's presence, can I just say is audacity and presumption, it's not courage. If you're doing anything outside of the presence of Christ and His power in your life, you're just being presumptuous, trying to make something happen that won't, and ultimately it will fail. As much as you believe that God is with you, as much as you will trust Him in your life, God is calling His people to trust His presence and the sufficiency of his word to move them forward in faith. Be courageous in that truth. What is that what you need today? What is it that you're facing in your personal life? Maybe there's somebody here today that is saying, I'm visiting here for the very first time, and I I don't really grasp all that you're saying here, Pastor, but I I want you to know one thing. If if you're new here and I don't know most people here today, I don't know if you're visiting or not. I don't know if you have a relationship with God or not. And really it doesn't matter what I know. What matters is you between you and God. But if you're sitting here today and there's some concern about your spirit, your soul, as it relates to God. In other words, you're concerned about your sin. And if you know anything about sin, if you know anything about God, you would be concerned about it because the Bible says that our sins have separated us between us and God. You see, it's not good people that go to heaven and bad people that go to hell. Everybody is bad. The Bible says there is not one that doeth good. No, not one. You see, Pastor, I don't know what you're talking about. I'm a good person. I mean you should see my neighbor. He's a low-down scum. He doesn't pay his bill. He beats his dog. I mean, I'm better than him. But can I tell you today, the standard is not between you and your neighbor. If it was, yeah, I'd say you're a pretty good person. The standard is not between me and some other person or you and some other person. The standard is between you and God is perfection. Now how do you measure up to that? And if and if you say, well, nobody can f come up to the perfection of God, you would be exactly right. And as such we deserve punishment in a place called hell. But God who loved us, John chapter 3, verse 16 Gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. People say, how can a loving God send somebody to hell? And I would say a loving God doesn't send people to hell, he provides a way of escape. And that's what he did for me. And if you're willing to accept what God has provided for you, he's willing to receive you today and forgive your sins and make you a child of God. It's a matter of faith. You see, the Christian uh lives by faith, but the lost person enters into a relationship with Christ through faith. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, for by grace are you saved, God's gift of grace through faith. Not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Brother and sister, we live by faith, but if you're lost here today, and I mean by that, you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Can I tell you the way that you enter into that is by believing what Jesus did for you on the cross and receiving that for yourself? I accept that for myself. He's standing there with the payment. That he provided. You've got to reach out and take it by faith. It's not a membership matter. Really, not even about this church. It's about your relationship with God. And today would be a wonderful day. As a matter of fact, uh it's not just a good day, it may be your only day to trust Christ. And you're in a place where people love you and love God and want you to come to Him. And if your heart is, I need to know that, there's no better time than today. When we give an invitation here, it's not a big production. We just want to give people a chance to respond to the Lord. And if you're so burdened by this that you think you need to do something today, I would say you are very wise. We're not guaranteed another moment, but may you trust Christ, who paid for your sin debt before God and now wants to restore you to God in relationship. He transforms us. Brethren, the only way we're going to move forward in faith is having courage in the confidence of God's word, trusting in his presence. Seems very simple, doesn't it? But that's really what the Christian life is about, moving forward in faith. Shall we bow our heads in prayer this morning? Let us not go back in doubt. Let us not stand still, per paralyzed by fear, but let us go forward in faith. And my friends, if the Lord has dealt with your heart this morning, I I don't it's not for me, it's you don't have to make any show to me It's really between you and God. But as a preacher, as a as a encouragement to you, I want to say don't leave here. If God's dealing with your heart in some matter, don't leave here. and not take care of that. Essentially what you'll be doing is taking that little precious plant that we talked about and just leaving it in your pew and walking out. Yeah we'll have a good time and your life will go on as normal, but you will not have changed. God wants you to change And I encourage you in that this morning. If you need counsel from someone, you need someone to pray with you, maybe you have a question, or maybe there's some deeper need there that you need to talk about, there's people that love you and care for you here. I want to encourage you that you would take that opportunity. Don't leave here without getting your questions answered. I'm going to pray and I'm going to turn over to Pastor. He can close as he sees fit, but I trust that God would help us this morning. Heavenly Father, would you do your precious work in our lives? I pray that you would use your word as we intervene or interact with it. May it, Lord, do its work in our hearts. We pray. And we thank you for your grace in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor Bachroma