I'm glad that you've gathered in God's house today and I've got a message for you. I'm excited about preaching it. I've got a lot of ground to cover though. I'm going to do a little teaching. And then I'm going to conclude with a thought. I'm going to bring it home. I might get into a little preaching in the beginning. beginning here as we go, but uh I'm really gonna lay a lot of groundwork to bring it all to a conclusion. I'm gonna start here by getting a couple of young people to help me uh with an illustration Um Adair, would you mind helping me? Would you come here? Uh Jalen, would you mind helping me? Uh Melanie, would you mind helping me? So I've got some cash here and we'll explain to you guys in a little bit what this is for, but uh Jalen, I need you to keep this for me, okay? Here's one. Two, three, four, five. Alright, you're gonna keep that for me. I'll tell you what you're gonna do with it a little bit later. Okay, you're gonna keep this for me, okay? Here's one, here's five. There's six, seven, eight, nine, ten. All right, you're gonna keep that for me. Melanie Here you go. You're gonna no I'm just kidding. One Five ten twenty. Well how much is that? Um twenty-six. Twenty-six, uh you're gonna keep that for me. We'll explain what this stuff is for here in a little bit. This morning in our reading in the Word of God, if you haven't read it yet, you'll probably read it sometime later today, but uh we read in 2 Kings chapter number 8. There is in this passage a story of a king, a king who had every opportunity to do right, and yet he failed miserably in his duty before God to lead the children of God as they should be led. He ascended to the throne at 32 years of age, and he ruled for just eight years, but during these eight years the die was cast. And now for these many years we have read of the story of his failure. I want to take our time this morning and try and tell you his story. I want to draw a picture for you of the life of Jehoram. Once we have an understanding of his life and how he lived, this king of Israel. What he did with the opportunities that he had been given. I want to take the last few minutes and teach a New Testament principle that is so rich and so powerful that it should be ever on our minds. It is something that we are familiar with. We even quote it. We say the phrase that comes directly from Scripture at times We understand it, but many times very little is said about it, and we certainly don't live many times in light of it. That New Testament principle is for unto whomsoever much is given of him. Shall much be required. With that as our foundation and the direction, that's our landing pad. That's where we're going. But we're going to start by looking at the life of this king in 2 Kings chapter number 8. His life story is given to us here in verses 16 through 24 of this chapter. It's also found in 1 Chronicles chapter number 21. But we read of him this morning in the passage in Second Kings, chapter eight I would like to start this morning a little bit earlier though than what we read of him. We'll get to him, we're going to get there, but would you turn back a couple of chapters if you're in first second kings already? Would you turn back uh to first Kings? chapter number 15. 1 Kings chapter number 15. We're going to kind of work our way through, get a little bit of history, because I would like to start start with Jehoram's grandfather. Where we see Jehoram's grandfather in 1 Kings chapter number 15, look down in verse number 11. If you're there, say amen. Alright, so verse number eleven and twelve says, And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, as did David his father. He took away the sodomites out of the land and removed all the idols that his father made. This is Jehoram's grandfather, Asa. Asa did that which was right. In the eyes of the Lord. He did what God wanted him to do. Now It says here that he did it as David, his father. I want you to understand that David wasn't his direct father. Abijah was his father. And Abijah was a wicked man. Abijah did evil in the sight of God. He didn't do right at all. He was a wicked king, and yet Asa decided he was gonna do right. Verse number 14, 1 Kings 15, verse number 14 says, But the high places were not removed, nevertheless, Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord. All his days. Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord all his days. As I read that, I thought, you know, this is just a perfect illustration, a perfect testimony of what our mission statement is And that God is not as concerned with where you're at right now as he is with the direction that you're headed. Asa here, by the testimony of God Himself did not do all that God would have had him do. Asa did not remove the high places, which is a place to worship false gods. God would have wished that he did that, yet God also said of Asa that his heart was right with him all his days. The desire of Asa's heart was to please his father, and he wasn't perfect. Aren't you glad this morning we don't have to be perfect? We don't have to be perfect, but Christian, let me ask you, where is the desire of your heart? What is the direction that you're headed? What is it that you're seeking after and who is it that you want to please. You see, Asa just chose not to follow the example of his father, who was a wicked king. He looked passed actually a couple generations back to David. And he said, you know what? I'm going to follow David's example. I'm going to be like he was as a kin of as a king. I'm going to live like that You know you can't blame your sin on anyone but you. You can't blame what you're doing in your life on anyone but you. And now I know in today's world everybody wants to blame it on somebody else. And we sure like blaming it on our parents. You know, kids, you cannot blame what you become on your parents. Now praise God if you've got godly parents that come to God's house and they bring you to the church house and they they introduced you to Jesus Christ and they taught you about the things of God, but how many of you kids know your parents aren't perfect? Your parents aren't perfect. They're going to make mistakes. They're going to do things that aren't right. But you can't blame your sin on your parents. Asa had a wicked and an ungodly father, but he determined in his heart and his mind he was going to do what's right. There was a comedian that was telling, joking around, and he said, I told my kids. That they just need to write down every complaint they've ever had about my failures. Bring it to me and I'll sign it. He said that way when they're 40 years old and they're going through therapy and their therapist wants them to blame it all on me, they'll have a record. He said, We'll get right through the therapies real quick. It'll save us all a lot of money. Listen, you can't blame what you are on the shortcomings of your parents. You're going to stand before God one day as an individual and it's ready. It does not matter what your parent did or did not do, your parent wasn't perfect or or wasn't as holy, or they had some shortcomings in their life. Far too many Christian young people are blaming their backslidden, cold-hearted condition on their parents because their parents weren't perfect. But it is not their parents' fault. Asa had a wicked father. And Asa determined in his heart, I'm not going to live like that. I'm going to please God. He decided he was going to do right. He changed the direction of his family. He did what was right. Praise God for those people who take a stand for Jesus Christ, who say, enough is enough. This direction that we've been headed is not going to go anymore. I'm going to change and go towards God. I'm going to do what's right Even in my own family, my father came from a family that at best was cold-hearted, formalistic, and ritualistic in their worship. There was no fervor, no real drive to please and honor God. He he yes, they went to church on Sunday mornings and occasionally some other times if it was convenient. I mean they went to God's house, but what I'm saying is there was no driving passion to please the Lord. Not searching the scriptures and say, what does God want? for me. And if there's something there that I should change, then I'm glad to change it because I want to please God most of all, not my family. My dad took ridicule and criticisms from his brothers, most of all because of how he was raising us as kids. Roger, why are you doing that with your children? Roger, why are you going to church all the time? Roger, why do you make your kids do this? Why do you do that? And we heard it as young people. And many times as kids we were saying, Yeah, you tell 'em. Why do we have to do this? We were all for our uncles getting on dad, you know. Uh but Dad decided that he was going to be more than just a cold-hearted, lackadaisical, ritualistic, formalistic Pharisee, walk into church on Sunday morning with a Bible and just live like the world and do whatever they wanted the rest of the week He decided it was going to be different in our family, and he wasn't perfect. And as a young man, I like to look at dad's inconsistencies. Boy, I'd like to point out where Dad can't he fell short. Dad gets up there and preaches this, but I saw him do this. Hey, they're not perfect. But we can't blame what we are on them. I'm thankful for somebody like Asa and somebody like my dad who would take a stand and say we're not going to go that way anymore. I'm gonna do what's right. I'm gonna please God. Asa tore down many of the high places. He removed his own wicked grandmother from ruling as as queen. She was a wicked lady, and his own grandmother said, It's more important to me to please God than to please my family. Some of you ought to get a boatload of that this morning. It's more important to please God than to please my family. You ought to put put that on a plaque and stick it on your refrigerator. There you go. You see, Jehoram had a heritage that was being established here. Asa was not perfect, but for 42 years he reigned and he followed God. And the Bible says by the testimony of God that his heart was perfect with God. What a testimony of a granddad. Praise God for family that does right. Then Jehoram's father, look in 1 Kings chapter number 22. Let's move on down the history here. We'll learn a little bit about Jehoram and his heritage. His grandfather was Asa that did that which was right. Then his own father was Jehoshaphat. In chapter 22, verse down number 42, 1 Kings 22, verse number 42 and 43, says Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-and-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azba, the daughter of Shili. And he walked in all the ways of Asa, his father. He turned not aside from it, doing that which was right. What's the next six words? In the eyes of the Lord. Notice this next phrase, and I'm going to give you one quick little plug here. Look at the next phrase there. He says, Nevertheless. The high places were not taken away from the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high place. Now Jehoshaphat was a godly man. He was a great king. But let me just point this out here that he did not remove the high places. What was Asa's problem? He had a heart perfect with God, but what did Asa not do? He didn't remove the high places. Let me just tell you something, parents. I just got out of the kids and said they're going to stand before God for what they do, and this is an individual thing, responsibility before God, yes. But we as parents better understand something. Very rarely Will a child ever go beyond his parents? The level of Christianity that you have, the commitment you have unto God, if you've got just a formalistic, ritualistic religion, you've got just a a casual Christianity. Pretty sure your kids are going to be the same way. You see, Jehoshaphat did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Jehoshaphat honored and pleased God, and we'll will look at more things that he did. But he too did not remove the high places because that you see, Asa was right with God, and Asa had a heart right with God, and he wanted to please God, and and and and he didn't remove the high places, so that must be okay But it's not what God wanted. God wanted them removed, and God took a point to show us here that neither one of them took those high places down. We've got some high places in our lives as parents that we say, oh well it's all right. I want you to understand your kids look at that and they say, oh, it's okay to miss church. Mom and dad did it. Oh, it's okay not to read your Bible. I never saw mom and dad read your Bible. It's okay not to be a witness. Mom and Dad were never a witness. I can be a Christian and be right with God and have my Christian faith. And not do those things. Why? Because they saw the life of their mom and dad. Very rarely does a child go beyond his parents. Now we can back it up, and I want you to understand, young people, you're responsible before God. It does not matter the shortcomings of your father or your mother. You're going to stand before God individually. And it is your responsibility to do what God wants you to do, regardless of what mom and dad do. But parents, we have a responsibility to lift high the banner of Jesus Christ and do what God wants us to do. Amen? Amen Jehoshaphat strengthens the heritage that was handed to him by Asa. Praise God for a godly heritage. The values that you have and the faith that you have being shared by grandparents and uncles and aunts. Some of you here don't have that heritage. You don't have that, excuse me. You don't have that support around you to encourage you and to help your children. I can't tell you what it means to my children. To have all of their aunts and uncles who are serving God and all of their cousins who are going the same direction and all of these families that we get together and supporting each other and And saying that they're not the only ones that are that are doing this and their their cousins are are singing in church and their cousins are in church this morning and their uncle believes the same thing and Their grandma and grandpa on both sides believe the same thing, and I praise God for the godly heritage that's being passed down to them. And if you've got a godly heritage, thank the Lord for it. Somebody had to be an Asa though. You might be an Asa. You might be the first one taking the stand. Listen, the rewards come down the road. You keep being faithful. He followed God just as Asa did. He was one of the godliest kings ever to sit on the throne of this great nation of Judah. His zeal for God brought tremendous prosperity and blessings to the nation, and Jehoram saw it. You want to read the genealogies of the history of these kings, you can look in 1 Chronicles. We don't turn now, but 1 Chronicles chapter number 3. Or you can even go to Matthew, chapter number one, where you'll see these kings listed in order in the genealogy of Christ. But Jehoshaphat had a son named Jehoram. Look in 1 Kings 22, verse number 50. Chapter twenty-two, verse number fifty. And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, his father, and Jehoram his son. Reigned in his said. Now turn to 2 Kings chapter number 8. We're going to get to the Other Horm specifically. So we saw his family We've established the fact that he came from a godly heritage. He had a great example set for him. He knew what was right to do. But I want you to see this morning his folly. In 2 Kings chapter number 8, verse number 16 and 18, he says, And in the fifth year of Jehoram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, Jehoshaphat. Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign. Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem And he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab. For the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did, what does it say? Evil in the sight of the Lord. He did evil in the sight of the Lord. Jehoram comes to the throne. Having a godly heritage and knowing what is right handed to him, understanding what he should do, having watched the rule of his father and the blessings of God on him as he followed the Lord. But he decided he was going to do something different. And he began to rule and live as the kings of Israel. Now you know that the children of Israel as a as a nation, you know they had Saul as king, right? And then David, and then Solomon. And then the nation split, and you have the nation of Israel and of Judah, and you have kings ruling over each group. Well, Israel, out of nineteen kings, every one of them was wicked. Now one of them did what was right in the sight of God, every one of them was evil. Many times in Judah, which of course is through which Christ comes through, the tribe of Judah, they did right in the sight of God, as Asa and Jehoshaphat did. But Jehoram takes the throne and it says that he did as the kings of Israel. He was living like the wicked kings. He was ruling like the wicked kings, even though he knew better. Even though he knew he shouldn't. That's how he was ruling. And not just the wicked kings he was compared to or likened unto Ahab and Jezebel. Wow. Ahab and Jezebel. He did wickedly like them. Now you know Ahab and Jezebel. Right? You guys know they were fine upstairs? No. Wicked people. I want you to understand that largely the reason that he did like Ahab and Jezebel probably It's given to us right here in the scriptures, it says in this verse, that he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and did As did the house of Ahab, giving a comparison to Ahab's house. And then what's the next phrase? It says, For the daughter of Ahab was his wife. You see, he married Athaliah. Athaliah was Ahab and Jezebel's daughter. Don't think for a second that it doesn't matter who you marry. It matters who you marry. I want you to understand that your belief affects your behavior. And when you marry somebody who doesn't believe the Word of God, somebody who is not a Christian, when you marry somebody who does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, it affects their behavior And it will affect your life. Just like Solomon, the wisest man that ever lived, the Bible says, his heart was turned from God. unto false gods by his wives. It affects you. Hey, in Corinthians we're told not to be unequally yoked. It's pretty clear, as Christians we're not to be marrying into the world. You're supposed to be marrying a Christian, not just somebody who professes Jesus Christ. You say, oh well, he's a Christian, but he hasn't been to church since uh 1948 Or he went on Christmas. He went to the New Year's Eve watch night service. Okay. He might be saved, but you're unequally yoked if you marry him. Because he has no fervency and no faith that would motivate him to follow after Christ. It matters who you marry. Jehoram married Athaliah, Ahab and Jezebel's daughter, and he began to rule and reign like them, and did wickedly in the sight of God. Athaliah was not any different than her parents. She was a wicked, wicked lady. She killed her own grandchildren. So she could reign after the death of her son. You want to read that, that's 2 Kings chapter 11, verse number 1, where it tells how she killed her own grandchildren. Just so she could be on the throne. His marriage was one of political expediency. As godly as Jehoshaphat was, Jehoshaphat and Ahab, the Bible says made an affinity. They made an agreement. The only time the two nations came together, and it was to fight the Syrians, they gathered together and they made an affinity in a a a marriage of political expedients Ahab and Jezebel's daughter Athaliah married Jehoram. But Jehoram knew better. And he didn't follow God. Jehoram followed the example of his wife and maybe the leadership of his wife, but he killed his six brothers. As soon as he was king for a very short time, he killed all six of his brothers so he wouldn't be challenged for the throne. Moreover, he made, he set up more high places in the mountains of Judah, and he caused, the Bible says, he caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication. And compelled Judah thitherto. He caused them to live wickedly, not just caused them to by making it available. but literally would persecute those that didn't want to and try and get people to live that way. He caused them to do so. A wicked king. Now God warned him. I want you to see this warning. Turn your Bibles to 2 Chronicles chapter number 21. 2 Chronicles chapter 21. I told you we were going to do some teaching. We're looking at the life of Jehoram. I want you to see the godly heritage that he came from, the foundation that was laid, what he was given, his understanding of what was right. And then his folly in what he did. In 2 Chronicles 21, verse number 12, he was warned by the prophet of God. God sent him a warning for how he was living. In verse number 12 through verse number 15, he says, And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of David, thy father. Because thou hast not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa, king of Judah, but hast walked in the ways of the kings of Israel And hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go ahooring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast slain thy brethren of thy father's house, which were better than thyself. Look at verse number 14. He says, Behold, with a great plague will the Lord smite thy people, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods. And thou shalt have great sickness by disease of the bowels, and until thy bowels fall out by reason of sickness, day by day. You see, God sent a letter, a letter of warning, a judgment, a prediction that this judgment was going to come. And I believe that Jehoram would have turned at the warning. Turned at the reproof that God would have stayed his judgment because we understand that God says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But Jehoram didn't do that. Look at verse number 16. We see the judgment come down. He says, Moreover, the Lord stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines. and of the Arabians that were near Ethiopians, and they came up unto Judah and break it in two. He break into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also, and his wives, so that there was never a son left him, save Johaz, the youngest of his sons. And after all this the Lord smote him in his vows with an incurable disease. And it came to pass that in the process of time, after the end of two years, that his vows fell out by reason of his sickness. So he died of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his father's. Thirty-and-two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired. Albeit they buried him in the city of David, but not. in the sepulchre of the kings. His wicked life brought him to death, not just to death, but to an unmarked grave He wasn't buried with the kings. It says there that the children of Israel had no burning for him. They had no desire for him. They didn't long to have a king like him. They weren't looking to him and saying, boy. We're going to miss him as our rulers, and they were all glad that he was gone. He was judged of God, and ultimately the judgment that God said would come came. And friend, just because God has stayed his hand of judgment on your life, don't think that it's not coming. It will come. I want you to see this morning this failure. Turn to one more passage of scripture with me. Would you turn to Luke chapter number 12? Luke chapter number twelve. In all the way in the New Testament, Luke chapter number 12, down towards the end of the chapter. This chapter's got a lot of verses in it. Get towards the end of the chapter, chapter 47 and 48. Why was God so hard on Jehoram? Why did God judge Jehoram the way that he did? I want you to see it here in Luke chapter 12, verse number 47 and 48. He says, And that servant which knew his Lord's will. And prepared him not self not himself, neither did, according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. That's Jehoram right there. Verse number 48, he says, But he that knew not, and did not commit and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whom much is given, of him shall much be required. And to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. You understand Jehoram was given a godly heritage. Jehoram was given an example. He was given instruction He knew what was right. His grandfather took a stand and did what God wanted him to do, and his heart was perfect with the Lord all of his days. And Jehoshaphat Lived as Asa and followed his father's example. And he did what God wanted him to do. And God blessed and prospered the nation. But Jehoram became king and he said, I know better. I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to live how I want to live. And God warned him and said a judgment would come, and he turned not from his wicked way, but continued after that. And God sent judgment. Because much is required of him whom much is given. This morning I want you to see, beloved, that we have been given much. We have been handed down so much as a people, so many things that we even take for granted on a day-by-day basis. We've been entrusted with them, and I want you to understand that we will be required one day to give an account for the things that we've been entrusted with. All that God has given you and I, we will one day be held accountable for. Jehoram was given much. He knew what was right. He just decided he didn't want to do it. He should have walked in the ways of Asa and Jehoshaphat. He should have torn down the high places instead of setting them up. But he didn't. And you and I, that we've been entrusted with many things. For just a couple of minutes, I'm going to ask you to engage your mind and think about what God has entrusted you with. And what are you doing with that? Because unto whom much is given, much is required. You see, beloved, we have been given the gospel of Jesus Christ in this country. Regardless of what you think, we actually, as a nation, were founded on biblical principles, and there has been in the history of our nation a strong presence. Of the teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to where there is no excuse for anybody living in America today not to know about Jesus as a Lord and Savior. You've been entrusted with the gospel. Maybe you're here this morning and you've heard the message of the gospel many times that Jesus Christ gave himself for you. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You've been entrusted with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but you decided you want to get to heaven some other way. You decided you want to try and earn your way to heaven, or you don't want to just accept Jesus. You want to hold on to your religion or your faith or the activities that you're doing. You've heard over and over and over again, maybe this morning, you're here and you know the message of the gospel. As a matter of fact, you could preach this point if you had opportunity to do so, but yet your heart has still not been given to God. One day you'll stand before God. And you'll give an account for the fact that you knew the truth and you accepted it not. You have the message of the gospel presented to you just as you are this morning. Once again being given the opportunity, saying, trust God before it's eternally too late. Trust him. This morning, as we have a moment of invitation, I extend to you to come and ask me, Pastor, I need to trust him before it's too late. I know the verses, I know the truth. I've been in church a long time. I've done a lot of things, but I have never committed my life, turned my heart over to Jesus Christ and asked him to forgive me of all of my sins. Get forgiveness of your sin today by trusting Jesus Christ and his shed blood on the cross of Calvary. We've been entrusted with the gospel, the good news. You're here this morning and you're saved and you're on your way to heaven and you know that beyond a shadow of a doubt. You've been entrusted with the message of the gospel. God has given it to you, and he said, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. You and I have been entrusted with the message of the gospel. In Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we make it abundantly easy for you to be a witness here. to go out and we have opportunities to do so many different places, whether it's down to the rescue mission or uh going out on so winning on Saturdays or passing out John and Romans or there's a track rack in the foyer you can take some gospel tracts and You can give those to people you come into contact with, but you have been entrusted with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and you, Christian, are going to be held accountable for what you've done with what you've been entrusted with. You've had the truth for year after year after year after year. Can I ask you, who have you given the truth to? Who have you shared that with? What have you done with what God has entrusted you with? We have this Bible, the Word of God. We have this book and we have been entrusted with it. It is so prevalent in our society that we, even God's people, take this book for granted. Who were we just reading about that was produced in the Bibles in other languages? William Carey. William Carey. How many languages did he produce the Bible in? in the New Testament in like thirty-one and he did the Bible in five or six. William Carey translated the New Testament into thirty-one different languages. But his heartbeat was the fact that these nations, he said, he he in the book he was talking about how he just he His heart weeped for these people that could not, he says, How can I present the truth to them when they have no way to read it for themselves? He said, How can I witness to them and give them the gospel when they can't even see the words of Jesus Christ? And nation after nation after nation, if you've ever been to the Bible Museum down in Washington, D. C. There is a an area in the middle that's an oval shape, and there is uh a section of the room that's lined with books all the way around this room. And those b those nations that do not have a Bible in their language are in yellow. And the majority of the wall. is yellow books. One book for every nation that does not have the Word of God. We have been entrusted with the Word of God. What are you doing with what you've been entrusted with? Do you value it? Is it precious to you? Would it matter to you if they came in and said like they have down through ages in other nations where they said, We're taking all the Bibles? Would it bother you? Would you say, Oh, okay, and I won't miss it anyway. Lord help us. You've been entrusted with the Word of God. Do you spend time reading it? Do you spend time sharing it? Is it precious to you, Christian? We've been entrusted with many opportunities to serve our Savior. What are you doing with the opportunity you've been given to serve God? Whether that's singing in the choir or greeting people in the foyer or working in a nursery or cleaning the floors, whatever it might be, the opportunities that we've been given, you've been entrusted with those. Why do so many Christians turn away the opportunity? Oh, it's an opportunity to give and to serve the Savior, but they would say, oh no, I I don't want to do that, or no, I can't do that this week, or I can't do that right now. That was handed to you. You were trusted with it. And you've let it go. We're part of a good church. That to the best of this preacher's ability, which I know has much to be desired at times, but to the best of my ability preaches the truth. of the Word of God. And you've been entrusted with that truth. You've been entrusted with the principles that have been given unto you What do you do? Maybe you're you're like Jehoram and say, oh no no, I don't like that one. I don't like that truth. I don't want to do that. I have my way. I'm gonna live this way. I'm gonna do this. Oh Pastor's just on his hobby horse again. Whatever it might be. I don't even I don't think I have a hobby horse, but maybe I do. You have to let me know. Hey. What are you doing with what you've been entrusted with? There's coming a day when we will be it will be required of us. Why? Because we've been given much. We've been given much We can't just scrape by anymore, Christian, and just do the bare minimum Listen, it's just like any employer that you have, employee that you might have. Some of you here have had employees working under you. When they come into the job the first time And they're there, you don't really expect that much of them. You gotta train them and you've got to teach them and show them how to run the software and to do the cash register and to to to make the product or to complete this task. But there comes a time When you as a boss, you come to them and say, Okay, I told you how to do this. Now you're held accountable. You know what you're supposed to be doing. If you don't do it, you're going to be fired. That makes perfect sense in the workplace. But somehow with our Heavenly Father we just say, oh God will understand. God says to whom much is given, much is required. See, God has Your number. He's given you many things. Jalen? Could you bring me the five dollars that I gave you? A dare could you bring me the Did I give you eleven dollars? You don't even know how much? I don't know either. You could have kept the dollar and I would. Hey, Jalen. Come here. Here, there, this is for you. I'm gonna give that back to you for helping me. You understand? I gave this to them. And they were required to bring it back. She only had to bring five dollars. Because that's what she was given Jalen, what would you do if I would have asked you for twenty-six? She would have to go, yeah, DJ's like she would have been coming to me. She'd been talking to me about it. Uh Melanie, would you bring me the twenty six dollars? You understand to whom much is given. Much is required. Beloved, you and I have been given much. We're dealing with money here right now. I'm gonna make sure you gave me twenty six. Okay. We're dealing with money right now. You understand by the nation's standards, you and I are rich by the world standards. We have been given so much. And I know in the world today and America and poverty standards, we look at it and we say, oh, we we don't have anything But by the by the rest of the world standards, we've been given a lot. You understand you're going to give an account for what you've been given? What you're doing with what God has given you? God help us if we're wasting what He's given us on frivolous, meaningless things when there's a world dying and going to hell. To whom much is given, much is required. God has given all of us much. One day we're going to give an account. One day I'm going to give an account for what I've done here with the ministry at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And it concerns me. Not for what I've done, but for what I should have done With all the opportunity that I have as pastor of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, I'm going to give an account To whom much is given. Much is required. Jehoram failed miserably. He had been given a lot, and he didn't do right. And God judged him for it. What about you, Christian? God has trusted you with many things. He's handed it to you. He's given you the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He's giving you maybe a ministry here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, a Sunday school class to teach or work in, a choir to sing in, a a ministry in the sound the sound booth or or greeting people or serving as an usher. What are you doing with the ministry that you've entrusted with? Some of you have been trusted with kids to raise for the honor and glory of God. You've been trusted with that. God has given you a responsibility as a parent to train them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It's not for us to just do whatever we want with them. You've been trusted with his word. You've been trusted with all the time that you have. What are you doing to whom much is given much is required