And let's turn to the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms. And we're going to turn to Psalm number eight. Psalm number eight is where we will mainly be. I think I'll mention a couple other verses here and there, but we'll uh And we'll focus in on Psalm number eight. And this is probably one of my uh one of my favorite Psalms. And something that I en I I enjoy, I've I've seen sever or I've gotten several uh uh messages from this, but we'll be reading here in the book of Psalms Alright, so as we go to Psalm chapter number 8, this one's a little bit short enough that I'll we'll read through it and then we'll walk through little portions of it at a time. And then from there we'll uh we'll we'll we'll move along to get an understanding of what the scripture is trying to teach, and then we'll go from there. Amen. So with that, as uh the Bible says there in Psalm chapter 8, to the chief musician upon Giddeth a Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth, who has set thy glory above the heavens Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained, what is man that thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Thou maidest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. So as we go through this psalm, We'll walk through a little bit at a time. And we see the first thing, we go to the inscription, and it says to the chief musician upon Giddet. Now again, the chief musician, here we have this reference one more time to the chief musician. And again, this heading, I mentioned this last week, is at the beginning of over 50 Psalms. You have this heading several times throughout the book of Psalms. Sometimes it's just addressed to the chief musician, and sometimes it gives a little bit of further instruction. In this case, it says upon gitteth. Now, we don't know what that means. There's a lot of uh opportunity or excuse me, options that that some people look at. There obviously because it's to the chief musicians, it's possible that it's talking about an instrument. Alright? And there's also a possibility that maybe it's an instrument from GAF. Alright, that term what you'll find over in the scriptures in the book of I believe 2 Samuel and I believe 1 Chronicles. that you'll find it over and over again that the 2 Samuel and 1 Chronicles the term Gittite And there are some people that believe that that's just a reference to somebody from Gath. And so maybe there's a relation there, but for well w w we we don't we don't know for certain what it means, what this that term means. What we do know is that this is the title of three Psalms, Psalm 8, Psalm 81, and Psalm 84. And if you were to read these somewhat hand in hand, you would see that these are very joyous psalms. These are upbeat psalms. These are psalms of joyful, jubilant praises. And so perhaps that term relates to that. So just consider that just for what it's worth. And again, as we we we continue on, this is to the chief musician upon Giddh. a Psalm of David. So then we go into the the the the passage itself and it says O Lord our Lord how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Man, what does that mean? This phrase, if you noticed, is found at the beginning and at the end of the Psalm. So it sandwiches the rest of the psalm. And it begins, O Lord, our Lord. And when we read that, it It doesn't give us a full effect of what it what what the the what it means. We have here two names of God If you'll notice, many times in our scripture, in our English translation here, when the word Lord is capitalized, all caps, you'll see that many m that is a reference to the the name of God which is Jehovah. And then you go along and then you see Lord and that's another name of God. It's the name Adonai And so there's the we have two names of God here, two names that refer to God but from different points of view. And so The idea is it says, O Jehovah, our Adonai. So what do those names mean? Jehovah is the covenant name of God. It's the name of God as it relates to his people. But the name means the self-existent one, the one that exists on his own, the one that is eternal Alright, and so it gives us, again, this is a name, probably the most often found name of the Lord, and it was very specific to He gave it to his people. And so Jehovah is the covenant name of God. Then we have another name, Adonai, and that name means Lord or Master. It means the one who is in charge and in control. It's the one who calls the shots. And so it's one thing to call God by his name. And understanding who he is, saying, yes, you are the self-existent one, the one who is Jehovah But it's another thing altogether to call him Lord, meaning master, meaning the one who is in charge of my life, to let him know and to acknowledge. that he is in charge. It reminds me of a time when you look in the scriptures. Obviously we know that there was one of the disciples who was his betrayer. That was Judas. Now, one interest interesting thing about Judas is that Judas called Jesus, he called him rabbi We see in another passage that he calls him master, which is the same word for rabbi, like master teacher But we see in the scripture that Judas, the betrayer, never called Christ Lord. He never called him Lord. And again, there's a not just an acknowledgement of a name there, there's an acknowledgement of authority. and and dominion, if you will. And so certainly this this this phrase that comes up here at the beginning of this psalm, O Lord our our Lord. So it's really not just not just saying, not just speaking to him by name, but to referring to his authority or David's submission to God, if you will. So then he says, how excellent is your name, how excellent is your i is thy name in all the earth. The word excellent here means great or majestic or glorious. So he's referring to the majesty and the glory of the name of God in all the earth. In all the earth the name of God is is excellent. It's um it's glorious, it's majestic. And so just that thought about how excellent is the name of God, I think that that was w one of the things that I felt should be our takeaway for the week, and that's why I put it there at the bottom of our handouts is How excellent is thy name, is the name of God in all the earth. So he's refer referring to the majesty and glory of God in all of creation. He says, in all the earth. And so we're gonna see why that is, why he's talking here about creation, and what we'll we'll go a little bit deeper into that. But this psalm makes many allusions about God's creation. And that's one of the things that you see. It talks a lot about the different things that God, God's role as creator. So, but we have to remember how wonderful and how amazing the name of the Lord truly is. Alright? It's not something that we should just be flippant about. It's not something that we should be careless about. The name of God is something, and God Himself is just so excellent and majestic and glorious, and it's important for us to consider that. So then we go on, and it says, Who has set thy glory above the heavens? So he has appointed or put or set his glory and the glory of God above the heavens, so beyond space. And we'll talk a little bit about that. Then in verse 2 it says, Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. This is quoted, and I don't know if you want to make a note of this and maybe you can look at it later. This is quoted in Matthew 21, 16. I'll read I'll read it for you, and you can make a note of it if you want to check it out later And said unto him, Hearest thou what these say. Well, let me give you some context of what we're talking about here. So this was during the week of the triumphal triumphal entry, where God where Jesus came and he came riding on a donkey and he was coming to Jerusalem and the people as he was coming what were they saying? Hosanna, what the palm leaves. Hosanna in the highest, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And so they were acknowledging that here again this called the triumphal entry because this is when when there was an acknowledgement of prophecy being fulfilled as Jerusalem proclaiming him their king and uh what an ama amazing thing So that's all happening and then they make their way further along and then there were children that were walking around that had uh that had palm leaves as well and they were saying the same thing. They were saying Hosanna and the highest. They were going around uh in the area and the Pharisees heard them And the Pharisees got upset that the little kids were saying Hosanna to Jesus Christ. And so then from that they were they they were going to attack him, they were going after him. And Said unto him, the Pharisees, the b right before this, the Pharisees were upset about this, and it says that they were uh they their anger rose up in them, and said unto him, the Pharisees said unto him Hearest thou what these say? Do ye hear what these little kids are saying? And then it says, And Jesus saith unto them, Yea, have ye never read out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou thou hast perfected praise. So this is a quote going back to Christ, and it was a reference to when these young children were proclaiming that Jesus was the King. And so what an amazing, uh what an amazing thought. But again, it was what is this in reference to? It's in reference to God's glory. Because we it it talked about yes, he set his glory above the heavens. That was there in verse one, and then it goes on to talk about the glory that was presented or that was put here when he was on earth. And so it was proclaimed by the children. Why? Because of his enemies, because of the people that were around him, because of the Pharisees, and it was to silence the enemy. So if you look at verse 2, it says that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. So it's pretty interesting kind of all all that just uh that prophecy some uh if you will being fulfilled as we're we're looking at just this quote of this of this verse. Again, it's saying the the has thou ordained strength, the the the praise that was coming from these young young children even. So then we go on to verse 30, and it says, When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained, verse 4, what is man that thou art mindful of him? And the Son of Man that thou visitest him. See, there comes a time where we need to consider. And that's where that just starts off, that verse right there. Verse number three. When I consider And so I want you to think about that because how often do we take time, do we step back, and do we consider God for who he is? And as we think about that, we're going to talk about some areas that where God's work or God's hand is at work, and we need to make sure that we consider those things. Consider what God has made. Consider not just that, the complexity of the work that God has made. And then the psalmist goes into some details about that, again about what God has made there. He talks about the stars and the moon which thou hast ordained. And then in verse 4, he says, what is man? that thou art mindful of him. What is man? Essentially, this is talking about mankind. In general, who are we when we consider the work of thy fingers, the work of God's hands, and everything that God has done in uh in the s in the moon and the stars What is man? What are we? Man in general. And then many times the Son of Man that thou visitest him, it's just an idea. So he's saying. Why do you care for man? And then the idea of the son of man is why do you care for mankind? Alright, so God cares not just for mankind in general, but God cares for individual people. And so we get that idea here in this verse. What is man that thou art mindful of him? When we look at it, it seems redundant. But then we go and we see we see that You know, what is man and the son of man that thou visitest him? You see over and over through the scripture that God visited people. And there are many times where he did it where we see that he came down to earth to to to be with his people. Obviously one of those cases uh when Jesus Christ was was walking on the earth uh with mankind But again, thinking about that, what is man? And that's also quoted, and here we go kind of a reference back to last week, quoted in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 2 verses 5 through 9, you can make write that down and look at it later, but I can read it for you. For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak, but one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him or the Son of Man, that thou visitest him. Thou hast thou matest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the work of thy hands Again, this is a quote directly from the psalm that we're talking about. And many times this can also be considered another one of the messianic psalms the Psalms that refer to to Jesus himself. Because even just that passage there, you compare it. Now The Son of Man in the Old Testament is re referencing the descendants of Adam. Now, but there's the there's a completely different play on that when we go into the New Testament, because the New Testament talks about the Son of Man as Jesus Christ himself. And so Jesus again visited us. He came down to earth to dwell among men and to live among men, and uh what an amazing thing. But in that God, being who he is, why would he do that? Who are we that he would do that? Then we go on in verse 5, it says, For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. Now, one thing that's important to consider is that the angels were a very big deal in the Jewish tradition. And so w when when they they many times angels were considered messengers, the messengers of God. And so you you when you see that you see that there's always an emphasis on uh or the he the Jews have uh uh emphasis a lot of times on angels, but here when we see in the Taxonomy, if you will, and the classification of God's creation, God made us a little lower than the angels. Now he did make us a little different, the Bible says. The Bible teaches that, you know, in this passage we see that he made us a little lower than the angels. And there are some things that God has allowed us to do or to have that the angels do not. And so there's something the Bible talks about that the gospel is a mystery to the angels. It's not something that they understand. because they don't there there there are certain characteristics that angels have or that angels don't have that we do. But here in this passage we see that the Bible is saying that God made us a little lower than the angels And then he goes on there in verse five, it says, and has crowned him with glory and honor. So the Lord has Crowned us or given us, bestowed upon us, glory and honor. Now, some glory This is not ultimately fulfilled, but we have been given some glory because the Bible says that we are made in God's image. So we're made in God's image, and then it goes on to elaborate there in verse 6, thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas Here we see that we as mankind, people, are given dominion, and God has given us an earth to tread, and dominion over the land and the sea. And we see all that here in the scripture. And that's one of the things that David is praising and he's thinking about. And then at the end it repeats there in verse 9, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. It's like a chorus. And you know, when I was reading this, I was reading this several times and and I I I thought about it a little bit differently and and there was actually a commentator that said something s something uh uh uh similar along the lines. It's like the psalm opens up and it says, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. And it's almost like it's a statement that is begging for just not justification, but uh uh proof. Uh it's a proposal that's put out there. How excellent is thy name in all the earth. And then you go through this entire psalm, and then it's going through, and you you see how excellent God's name is and how amazing and how wonderful and how majestic and glorious He is And then at the end we see it kind of wrap up almost as a conclusion, almost as a statement of fact, and just kind of wrapping it up and saying, wow, this it's an exclamation. To say, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. And so it's important for us again, it's that same two names there at the end. It's saying, Hey, to the one who's self-existent, What that means is that God doesn't need anything to exist. God doesn't need air. to breathe. God doesn't need, you know, uh blood to flow through his veins or anything like that. God exists on his own. He's eternal. But to that self-existent one, we submit ourselves to you as dependent to you, as Lord, as you are our master. And so that's kind of the idea that we get from this passage there. So what I wanted to look at this evening, just kind of as our as our conclusion there, was to look at four areas. that are mentioned in this psalm that I that are pretty amazing to consider. And we'll kind of come to a point of application there at the end Four scientific marvels that we'll see, that we think about here. And when we go to the, we'll start off with the marvel of the cosmos. The Marvel of the Cosmos. That'll be your first blanks there on your sheet. The Marvel of the Cosmos. Verse 3 says, When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon, and the stars which thou hast ordained. The idea that I get from this passage or that part is that perhaps David was writing this as he was outside and he was looking at the stars and just looking out into the vast space of of uh of our entire universe and our solar system and just appreciating the things that were out there for him to see. And I get that picture in my mind as he's looking and as he's saying uh and as he writes here, he says, When I consider thy heavens, when I consider the space The work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained. How amazing it is. And that's what I I think he was looking at. God's creation. He was looking at the night sky And space is so vast, and the stars are so awe-inspiring. But the Bible tells us That God made them for us. When we look at Genesis 1, verses 14 through 16, and God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to defy the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, and it was so So here we see that the purpose that God made those things was for us. And it goes back to that thought that we're looking at in Psalm 8: that who are we? What is man? That thou art mindful of him. What is man that thou wouldest given us these stars for us to have signs and to seasons and things like that? There's a message that I preach on the vastness of the solar system that's based on this passage of Scripture, and it's called Considering God and and how amazing our solar system is. And we don't have time to go into the the depths of the the the uh the details of that but I'll I'll I'll give you just a couple things just to to consider. If the earth were the size of a soccer ball, which would be usually about 10 inches in diameter, The moon would be the size of a tennis ball, and it would be about twenty-four, almost twenty-five feet away. And so when you think about that, that's that would be similar to what it is to scale. And when we think about the vastness of our of our universe or of our sol, even just of our solar system, if that were the case That the earth is a soccer ball and the moon is a tennis ball, how far away would the sun be? And to scale, it would be about 1. 8 miles away. So from the earth that would be here, the sun would be almost to Shawan Road to scale And when we think about that, we we that's just talking about our universe or excuse me, our solar system. And our solar system, and I I I did different calculations because I I did this message for for some kids one time and I said, okay, if we're ninety-three million miles from the sun, if it were if we were going fifty miles an hour, it would take us 212 years to get to the sun. If we were going 80 miles an hour, it would take us uh 132 years. To get to the sun. If we were to fly there, which average flying speed is about 550 miles an hour, it would take us 19 years to get there And so when we stop and we think about that, that's just to the sun. But our solar system, they say, is about six billion miles. Alright, and our solar system is just one in our galaxy. They've discovered, I believe, over, they've discovered 500 galaxies. And when we think about that, how many stars are in our galaxy? There's about 200 billion stars in our galaxy. How many galaxies are there? That we know of 70 When I first researched it, they're estimated that there's about 50 billion galaxies. And today there are estimates of maybe a hundred billion. So our universe is vast. And when we consider that, and when we stop and we think about the size of our solar system and the size of our galaxy and the size of our universe and we realize that God Himself is the one who created this He is the one that put it all together. He is the one, as the Bible says here, that he ordained the moon and the stars. He's the one that made it to function exactly how it does. in perfect synchronization with what it's supposed to do, we have to stop again and consider how amazing and marvelous and majestic God is. And so we think about that and you know we a lot of times the we'll we'll use the term awesome. But really the idea that that I I mean we when we consider truly who God is and what he is, he is awe-inspiring. He is just If we stop and really just consider that how great and how marvelous and majestic and glorious He is And how he put those things together in the marvel of the cosmos. Then we go to verse 5, and it says, and we'll talk about the marvel of the human body. That's the second one there. Should be the second one, the marvel of the human body. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. See, he's talking about making us, making us as people, and he made us Again, we talked about being made in his image. He made us that way. If there's three parts to us, we talked about the the We taught uh pastor gave a message not too long ago about being the triumvirate. There's three parts to us. There's the body, there's the soul, there's the spirit, and the the So he made us in that way where we're conscious of our senses and of the world around us, our world consciousness, the physical world around us, that would be our body. Then also our self-consciousness, where we understand or we can relate not just to our physical world. but uh mentally and relating personally and kinda who we are, not in in terms of flesh and bone, but in terms of our personality and our thoughts and things like that. And then there's our spirit, which is our God consciousness. And of course that is uh uh our part that i is seeks communion with God But even just in our tangible human body, you know, the how complicated and complex and Uh uh just amazing it is in how we're put together. The discovery of DNA, there were some that said it was in the nineteen fifties. Now they're saying maybe it was in the eighteen nineties But we're saying that we're we we need to realize that there's so much that even up until then we did not understand about the human body and how those things work and how our our body functions, not just the visible parts but the invisible parts and in in in cellular organisms and things like that. You know, when we stop and think about it, you know Darwin did not have a large exposure to microbiology and things that you can't see to the unaided eye. And so when we stop and then we continue to go into deeper and deeper areas of things that we know now, it's amazing to see how God put all those things together, not just in our the human body. But now also, next we'll move to the marvel of creatures. The marvel of creatures. And we see that mentioned here in this passage too. We see verses 6, 7, and 8. He talks about thou hast made made thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet. All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field, the fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the sea. See, God made all the creatures, and he made them for a purpose But he gave man dominion. But we have to look and we have to stop and consider the complexity of some of these creatures that God made. Now we can Maybe things that we don't often think about, but consider, if you will, as we think of the marvel of creatures, a whale. A whale has ears that were made for underwater hearing and pressure And that was they were designed that way. And when you see, when you and I, when we go swimming or we we go in water, we get just a few feet and we already start to feel the pressure in our ear. And that throws us off. And then if we get out of the the pool and we have water in our ear, we're messed up. We get headaches and all that. But when we stop and we think about a whale, a whale has an ear that was made for underwater hearing. Also, he has a respiratory system that's able to withstand high pressure. There's also an elephant. Think about an elephant. Elephant has a trunk, and the trunk is a tool. Now that trunk can be used, they say, to eat to wrap around even a berry. Or it can use it to like lift a log. It can also use its trunk as a snorkel. And they say that an elephant's trunk has over a hundred thousand muscle units And it's in its trunk. Then we think about a giraffe. Now one thing when you have to stop and you think about a giraffe, I remember uh uh uh Brother Wayne used to always uh joke about it and he would say When you look at a, you know, a giraffe, God made a giraffe just for the evolutionists, to look at it and say, you know, how do you explain this one, right? And uh the same thing is true for a platypus. You know, I mean uh a platypus is a very complex creature, but a giraffe, a giraffe, they say have muscles on their veins. And when you think about the s mo a lot of a lot of creatures don't. We don't have muscles in our veins, but they a giraffe does so that it can pump the blood longer distances and at higher pressures. It has a 26-pound heart. to pump the blood through its entire body. It's a marvel. It's amazing to think about. And finally The marvel of the ocean currents. This one's kind of neat. When you look at the end of verse 8. Verse 6, 7, and 8 talk about all these creatures and talk about the the the animals, the beasts of the field, the ox, the fowl of the air, and then it throws this, it's it's out almost like a kind of separate Phrase, but it's interesting. It says the fowl of the air and the fish of the sea and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the sea. So what it's talking about really is it's talking about the animals that are that are that you find in the air and also in the sea, and not just the fish, but whatever's going through the paths of the sea. But there's the marvel of ocean currents that we also have to consider from this psalm. The paths of the sea. There was a naval officer whose name was Matthew Maury. And Matthew Maury was in the Navy, and he's known as the father of oceanography. Because what he did is there was a point where he was sick, I believe, and he was at home recovering, and he had uh a relative, I don't know if it was his son, uh, but someone was reading to him about In the Bible. He he was a Bible uh uh believer and he loved to hear the Bible. And the person who was reading to him read him Psalm 8. And he stopped. And he said, Could you read that again? And he read them again, The fowl of the air and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the sea. And when he he heard that again, he said, if the Bible says that there are paths in the sea, I'm going to find them. And Mari Saw this passage and began to chart the currents and the winds that would be found throughout, especially the Atlantic Ocean. And he wrote a book that was called The Physical Geography of the Sea and Its Meteorology. And so this man charted these paths, these currents. and how to make shipping and moving along water much more efficient. And times that were used to cross down cross the sea were cut down so much because of people because of sailors using currents that were discovered by Matthew Marty as he charted them. There's a monument that was r uh raised in his honor. on Monument Avenue in Richmond, Virginia, and it says Matthew Fontaine Maury, Pathfinder of the Seas, the genius who first snatched from the oceans and atmosphere the secret of their law His inspiration, Holy Writ, Psalm 8. 8, and Ecclesiastes 1. 6. He was also a meteorologist. And uh Ecclesiastes 1. 6 talks a lot about winds and uh uh winds of circulatory winds that are that that are out there. And so here was this man who all he did is he took the Word of God at face value and he read it and saw that the Bible says that there were paths in the sea, and so he looked out to discover them. So what does this all mean? Why is this all important? These things that I want us to consider, these marvels, these four marvelous things, I want us to consider so that we can understand And we can remember and see that God's name truly is excellent. I also want us to stop and to consider for a moment. God the way that we ought to. And it goes back to really the when I was talking about that message that It talks about space and talks about how large our universe is and things like that. The whole point of that goes back to that verse where it says, what is man that thou art mindful of him? And it really goes back to the idea that God is mindful of us. And what that means is that God, we are on God's mind. And God is considering us, we should also consider God. But as we think about that, the whole concept of it is, as vast as our universe is, And if we were to take the example of the soccer ball that we were talking about representing the earth, there's over 7 billion people on that soccer ball. And God cares about each and every one of us. And God is mindful and considers each and every one of them And each and every one of them represents somebody that God sent his son to die on the cross for. And it's this idea that as large and as majestic and glorious as God is. Many times perhaps we don't think of him in that way. And most importantly Our response should be the same as the psalmist here, as in Psalm chapter number 8, or Psalm 8, where it says, O Lord, our Lord. The proper response, the most appropriate response to considering how majestic and how amazing God is And that he's mindful of you and of me, the proper response is to stop and to say, O Lord, our Lord. Self-existent one? You're my Lord. You're my master. You're the one in charge of my life. And that's often not our response. We want to have the reins of our life. We want to control our life. But ultimately, it should be us yielding our life To the Lord, yielding our life to the God who, if He can orchestrate and create all these things, I think if we were to completely yield our lives into his hands, we would be in pretty good hands when we stop and we think about how amazing God is. The God who created all things in space. The God who created you and I in the form that we are in the image of God. the God that created all the animals that we see, and the God that even created and put in place the paths of the sea. That God is the one that we should consider. And so when we stop and think about that, that's really what the takeaway is. How excellent is thy name in all the earth? How excellent, how much we should be praising and thanking God for who He is. And so that's really what our response should be. And hopefully, as you read this and as we went through that tonight, hopefully you were encouraged and inspired to do that. All right, let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you for the day. Lord, we do love you and we thank you that Lord uh Lord you are mindful of us and and Father many times we we do fail you we we should be uh more mindful of you but Lord we should also consider more Lord, all that you've done for us and all that you've made for us. And Father, just help us to Lord, just to to uh Lord forgive us for our our shortcomings and Father help us to put to mind those things that you've done for us, Lord, and to be able to praise you and to give you the praise and glory for it. Lord, thank you for all you've done. Thank you for bringing us here tonight. Thank you for your word. Lord, we ask that you would bless it and that you would use it. That you would help us to think about it throughout this week, and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.