So I actually had a pastor over Sligo Baptist. Wanted me to come down one time and help on uh he said, Yeah, he said, Me and a couple of other missionaries to the Jews are gonna go down and uh we're gonna go knock on doors on Saturday. You wanna come join us? I said, Nope. And uh he said, Why not? I said, Yeah, that's fine. I'll just let me know one day during the week if you want to go, I'll be glad to go with you. Well these these other guys they're they're fine. They said they'll be good. I said, Yeah, we're right ahead So I talked to him the next week. I said, how'd it go? Terrible. Absolutely terrible. He said I it was awful. He said nobody would talk to us. All they did was yell and scream. I said, Yep. That's about right. That's about right. So you learn what works and you learn what don't work. And so I told Pastor I'd be glad to come up and go out with y'all and and try to knock on some of those doors. You know, we uh we used to hit Reysters Town all the time. About every door was either Catholic or Jewish, and many times it was both. And uh and and It was amazing just learning again how when they kept shutting the door, shutting the door, what you finally could do to keep it open. And so we'll try to try to do whatever we can to be a blessing. to help the church there. But if you got your Bible this evening, turn it over to Luke chapter number four. Luke chapter number four. And I'm so grateful for the privilege of being back here this year for your missions conference once again. I hate that I can only make it for the two nights and I'll be heading out in the morning, heading to Indiana and uh be preaching up in Indiana on Sunday and uh got a pretty busy schedule throughout the year and uh It's it's really getting busy and so I I thank the Lord for that. And I thank God that uh that He can use me in some form or fashion. Trust He'll do that tonight Luke chapter number four. Once you find your place in verse number 16, let me invite you to stand in reverence to the Word of God tonight. Luke chapter number four And verse number 16. I want to thank you all, church, those who are taking us out and uh for food and everything. The fellowship has just been phenomenal, and I thank you again for that. Luke chapter 4, verse number 16. The Bible says that he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up for to read. There was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. To preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and he sat down, and the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bearing witness and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country And he said, Verily, I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias. When the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land. But unto none of them was Elias sent save unto Serapta, city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elias the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian. And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath And rose up and thrust him out of the city, and led him into the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. But he passing through the midst of them went his way. Let's pray, Father, we love you. And how grateful we are for the privilege we have to be able to stand here this evening. Thank you, Lord, for what we have heard thus far this these last night and tonight already. And I pray that you would bless Now the preaching of your word. Speak to each and every heart. May you be exalted and magnified in everything that's said and done. And Lord, we'll glorify you for it all in Jesus. Name, amen and amen. You can be seated. Now, here we find in Luke chapter number four, Jesus is going back to Nazareth. And the Bible says again there, he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. Now Nazareth is a very little special place. I love Nazareth. It's one of my favorite places in Israel. We do a lot of work in Nazareth. Nazareth was a city that was built about 150 B. C. So this is during what we refer to as the Inter Testament period. So it's between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Now, Nazareth was built on an ancient trade route called the Via Maris. Now the Via Maris would connect Egypt all the way up to Damascus, Syria. So you would go from Egypt, you would go all the way up the coastal line, you'd go all the way up to the Carmel Mountain ranges, and then you're going to turn right and you're going to go across the Jezreel Valley all the way over to where the country of Jordan is today. It's going to turn and go north, right by the Sea of Galilee. It's going to go all the way up to Damascus, Syria. Many of the old ancient cities were built along that Via Maris. Uh because it was a trade route. That's where the money would be. That's where the people would come through. And Nazareth was a city, just a small city that was built right on the edge of the Via Marath. They're in the Jezreel Valley. Now they estimate the population back in the first century to be around 400 people, which was a pretty good-sized town for that day. They do that. The way archaeologists will date that and estimate that is when they start finding tombs. You see, the Jews wouldn't bury inside the city, they would bury outside the city. So it kind of gives them a size of what the city would have been like. And so Uh they estimate roughly around 400 people. Today is a population of between eighty to a hundred thousand people. Nothing like driving through Nazareth. My first time driving in Nazareth I I I'm driving along, a car comes up behind me, hits me from behind, blows the horn, and then goes around me. That's Nazareth. It's insane. It's absolute insanity. But it's not near as bad as the West Bank You get into the West Bank is a whole other ballgame and you get there. But I mean it was just it was crazy, just the chaotic. Now today it is all m uh it is all Arab. It's all an Arab town. There is a Jewish Nazareth and it's the next town over, it's Nazareth elite. And uh but modern-day Nazareth is pr is all all Arab. Matter of fact, 80% of it is Muslim today as well. So you'll see a lot of Muslims there in the city of Nazareth. But now Nazareth, when you begin to look at Nazareth in the scriptures, in Matthew chapter number two and verse number nineteen is the first mention of the word Nazareth in the Bible. He says in Matthew chapter 2 and verse number 19, But when Herod was dead, behold an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise And take the young child and his mother and go into the land of Israel, for they are dead which sought the young child's life. And he arose and he took the young child and his mother and came into the land of Israel But when he had heard that Archaeus did reign in Judea in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither, notwithstanding, being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee, and he came and he dwelt in a city called Nazareth. Now watch this, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. Now, did you catch that? It was spoken of by the prophets. What? Nazareth was. You see, a lot of people when they like to attack the Bible, do you know where they like to go? This verse right here. Because they said there is no prophecy in the Old Testament about Nazareth, because there wasn't a Nazareth when the Old Testament was written. Remember, Nazareth was established during the Inter Testament period between the Old Testament and that of the New Testament. And so they said there was no prophets. That spoke about it. Therefore, the Bible is not true. The Bible is not accurate. That's what they like to point to. You know, one of the fascinating things about Nazareth or the northern part of Israel is the olive tree. You see, we got a lot of olive trees. And uh all the olive trees, the best olives in Israel are up from the northern area. And you can buy you can buy gu I mean jugs of o of olive oil for about twenty bucks on the side of the road. I mean you can get it cheap up there. There's just olives everywhere. Olive tree after olive tree. What's fascinating about olive trees is Is an olive tree is, you know, you cannot accurately date an olive tree because an olive tree can grow for thousands of years and bear fruit You see, with an olive tree, though, as they grow, it's not like some trees where you can cut them, you know, cut them in in two and count the lines to see how old they are. Because what happens with an olive tree is it begins to grow, it begins to hollow out on the inside. So it dies out on the inside. And what happens is these little shoots that grow out of the base of the olive tree, we refer to them as like suckers. And these little suckers will grow out and they take over and become the tree. And that's how the tree can grow for so many, uh so long of a period of time. I mean it extremely long period of time and still bear fruit. That's neat. When you look at olives on olive trees, you know, you see different olives. You see a black olive, a purple olive, and a green olive. All those grow on the same tree. It's the stages of ripeness of an olive. You know, I always thought you had a green olive tree or a black olive no no it's it's the stages of ripeness. So green is your more bitter and then it'll start getting sweeter as it turns to the purple and then the sweetest is going to be the black Now one thing interesting about an olive is you can't pick an olive off a tree and eat it. You'll do it one time in your life and that's it Just one time. I remember my son Daniel, we first went to Israel the first year we were we were there, and of course everything is in kilos. I don't have a clue what a kilo was And we went to the shook, the market, and we were down there at the market and I wanted some green olives, he wanted some black olives, and I only knew the word one, chut, and uh and didn't know what the word chitzi was half or even quarter, and so I told him I wanted chut. black and I pointed at the black and I caught green. You know a kilo was two point two pounds. We got four point four pounds of olives. He handed me these two big old bags. I looked at Daniel and I thought, oh man, we're in trouble now. I mean it was but but you know Daniel I remember one time we were actually Capernaum and he saw this black olive on the tree and he grabbed that thing and he just before I could say anything he threw it in his mouth. Now he turned about ten shades And he couldn't find water quick enough. I mean he was screaming and running, and there he went. He just took off running trying to find water. Because you've got to take an olive once you pick it, you've got to brine it You've got to soak it in like vinegar waters, and you can put peppers, different things in it if you want, but you've got to soak it for a minimum of two weeks to get the bitterness out of it So very bitter. But you know, when you look at these olives and growing and and watching those those shoots grow out of it, it's interesting because those shoots, as we refer to them as a sucker, in Hebrew they're called a nexan. In Hebrew. Now it's funny because the word Nazareth comes from the word netseret, the shoot that comes out of an olive tree And that's where it gets its name from. You see, when you go back into the prophets, you go back, for example, the prophet Isaiah said in Isaiah chapter 11 and verse number one, he says, And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow from his roots. So growing from the roots of Jesse, King David's uh father, is a branch. You know what that word branch is? You got it. It's the word Netzer. It's where the word Nazareth gets its name from. Right there coming out. Matter of fact, even Zachariah mentions it as well. And so just as the prophets spoke, you see, they didn't know about a city called Nazareth because there wasn't one yet. But you know what? God knows the end from the beginning. And who knew one day there would be a Nazareth and one day his son was going to be there and you know what seven hundred years before he spoke about that it would happen Just like the Word of God has to say. That Bible is so accurate. Oh, it's amazing. It just amazes how accurate the Word of God is. And so uh we see the the then I thought about the message of of of the olive tree. You see, those olive trees, again, they can grow for thousands of years and still bear fruit. What a lesson we can learn from the olive tree. Even in our older age. There's no excuse why we shouldn't bear fruit. The secret is abiding in the vine. It's just abiding in him. And so even in our older age, we should be bearing fruit. Let's go back to our text here, because in Luke chapter number four, that you you find in verse number 17 and verse number 19, look what he says. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written. They literally give Jesus the scroll. He turns it over to Isaiah, Isaiah chapter number 61. Now I'm going to read Isaiah 61 real quick. You don't have to flip there, but in Isaiah 61 and verse number 1 is where Jesus begins to read. So he finds the place and he and he says here, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. Now you can follow me along in the in Luke if you want to, and you're going to notice some differences between the language here, and I'll explain why. They said, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. That's the beginning of verse number two of Isaiah 61. There's a comma there, and he stops right there. That's where Jesus stopped his reading. He closed the book, gave it again to the ministers, and sat down. Now the verse does continue on, and it says this and the day of vengeance of our God and to comfort all that mourn. But he didn't read that yet. It wasn't the time for that yet. But here you find Jesus is going back and he's reading Isaiah 61 You see, every time they read that verse in the synagogue, every year, every time they read that verse, it was speaking about that day. Jesus said, today is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. He said, when Isaiah wrote this, he was talking about today. He was talking about this moment in time. He was speaking about this very moment as they were sitting in that synagogue. And you can only imagine as they're sitting there in the synagogue, the seats would have been lined along the walls. You have stair-step seats that would sit along the edges of the of the synagogue. Most of your synagogues were in on and pretty much all first century synagogues that I have seen in the land of Israel Uh and there's about eight of them in the land. They're all about the same size. They're about thirty foot wide, about forty-five foot long. And and and they would have lined those walls sitting there as Jesus is standing there in the front and he's reading these scriptures. And he said, Today it's the script. Scripture fulfilled in your ears. Now you can only imagine the response as as they responded unto him. I mean, you've got to imagine, you've got to imagine as they're sitting there watching Jesus say this. Now understand this about Jesus. He had to be the example of every child growing up in Nazareth. Think about it. I mean, he did no sin, he knew no sin, he had no sin. I mean, could you imagine? What an example Growing up around Jesus. I mean I could I could I could see I could see my mother now saying, well why can't you be like Jesus? you know Why is it always my son? Why is it always my children getting in trouble? Mary never has a problem with Jesus. I mean he's he's perfect. Everybody knew exactly who he was He was no doubt the example of every child growing up. But he said there, today is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. Now I want you to notice what he begins to say, because once you notice the message he begins to provide here to them. First of all, his message provides hope You see, he said it in this way in Luke, to preach the gospel to the poor. Now he said it over in Isaiah, he said it this way: to preach good tidings unto the meek. You say, why does Luke say it one way and Isaiah says it another way? Because the Old Testament was written in Hebrew and translated into English. Luke is quoting the Old Testament from Hebrew, and it is being translated into Greek and translated into English That's why you got a difference in the words. The meanings are identical. No difference in the meaning between poor and meek whatsoever, but that's why there's a difference in the words that's being used from the Old Testament to the New Testament. It is called going from one language to the next, like that. But here he goes, he says this in Isaiah to preach good tidings unto the meek. I thought about that word meek Now the word meek comes from a Hebrew word anavim. And the word anavim gives you a picture of someone who is who is in submission. They are they are they are they are Willingly enduring submission. They are under under the authority of someone else. I remember one time we was doing a tent meeting up in Boston and And uh we we set up the I've probably told this story here before maybe, but I remember we s we normally set the tent up in a certain area and we got up there and they were doing construction where we set the tent up and And uh so they wouldn't let us set the tent up and the the parked guy comes out and we're walking around trying to figure out where in the world we can put the tent and and unbelievably how nice he was to me. Normally they're hateful and just they don't want us to put the tent up and it's And so he's walking around and he's like, well, we can't put it here. There's water lines, there's electric lines, and it's just problem after problem. And finally he looks over and he goes, he goes, we got this gazebo. He goes, can you use this gazebo? And I thought, you know, I've heard of old-fashioned brush arbor meetings and old-fashioned tent meetings. I ain't never heard of an old-fashioned gazebo meeting, but I'm game I said, let's do it. Yeah. We can get about sixty chairs in that gazebo. We did. We packed chairs in there. We put chairs all around it. And we man, we hooked the microphones up, man. We're preaching and singing and and and just I mean having a phenomenal gazebo meeting. And I remember one night, it was Wednesday, it's always one night, it's just crazy, just gets wild. And and I remember that night we had a lot of colleges out there and they were doing some type of game out there and and uh the first Preacher got up to preach and we had three preachers that night. The first one got up to preach and and all of a sudden we had these hecklers coming out and they're they're circling the gazebo playing music and screaming at us and Brother Brian's kind of Yelling back at him as he's as they're going around and it it just looked like a circus, honestly. It did, it looked terrible. It was just it was just embarrassing, you know, looking at it Well, I watched these people come up and sitting in the chairs and and and and I watched my wife go over and was sitting down next to one of them talking to them, and then she motioned for me and I walked over there. There was a guy sitting there and he had a suit on and no tie and had a had a uh a like a uh a carry bag with him and and there was another guy sitting another chair or so over and uh and and he was kind of arguing with me And we get to argue and and we're going back and forth, back and forth through the whole first preacher, through the whole second preacher. Now I'm going to be the third preacher And and we're sitting there talking and and uh and this guy's just mocking the entire time. Finally, I turned to the guy sitting in the suit. He's never said a word, he's just sitting there listening. I said, listen, I don't know what your name is I said, but I'm just gonna call you you Nick. And he goes, Yep, that's it. And I said, No, I don't know what your name is. I said, I'm just gonna call you Nick is the illustration. He goes, Oh no, that's my name And I thought, oh my, I ain't never, ever used Nick as an illustration a day in my life. That's the first name that just came to my mind. And and so when he said that, I said, Nick, I said, I believe God's speaking to you tonight And I said, let me ask you, I said, if you were to die tonight and you were to stand before God, why should he let you into heaven? He said, I said, why not? I said, Nick, I said, you on the right road, my friend. I said, you're heading down the right path. And man, I'm sitting there talking to him and and this other guy's sitting there listening. And about that time this guy walks up and he takes his shoes off and he's beating himself in the face and he starts yelling at us and He looks at Nick and he goes, We know who you are, and it scared Nick half to death, man. It's scaring everybody half to death. And so finally I grabbed Nick and I took him to the other side of the gazebo and man, Nick was ready to get saved. And and so I'm dealing with Nick. Now that other guy, they had He he had uh he took off running. Now, look at the quick story of him. I remember I was talking to him, and I normally don't witness like this, but I remember talking to this guy and He said he was supposed to be going across the street to some theater. It was just a shooting that had taken place that year and and I told him, I said, You be careful. You be careful going across that road. I said, because if you get hit by a car, you're going to die and go to hell And he just looked at me like, how dare you say that? And I said, you be careful. You get into that theater, somebody comes in there and starts shooting. I said, you better get down. I said, because if you get shot and you die, you're going to die and go to hell. And he just looked shocked. Now, make a long story short, that guy beating himself in the face, was threatening one of the girls, and one of my sons kind of jumped in and stopped him and Joshua tried to stop the whole situation. They've threatened to kill my son so my wife's calling the police and and she called the police and they said, you know, we need an address and she says I'm in Boston Commons. I'm in the park They said, well we need an address. Jesus, you've got to be kidding me. I mean a park, there's no address. There's a gazebo. And they said, we need an address. Find a park ranger. He said, what's the point of calling you? You know what I mean? She was just about to lose her mind, you know. So she sees the policeman way up at the road, so she runs up to the road to get the policeman And she's up there talking to that policeman, and and and so the police come down. Well, a few minutes later this guy gets nicked, Nick gets saved, and I'm going up to preach. I said, Nick, I said, come on, I'm on Just tell everybody what happened to you. And he's walking up there, and somebody's trying to get him a trying to get him a Bible. And they're looking around. They said, We ain't got no Bibles. All we got are these Hebrew-Russian New Testament And he goes, oh, that's okay. I'm from Moscow. He says, my name is Nikolai. He said, I was actually going to the airport uh to go h he said I thought this was a concert. He said, y'all were playing music. I just thought I'd stop and listen to this concert. He said, I ain't never seen nothing like this. He's standing up there giving his testimony how he got saved About that time that other guy comes running up and he's the one, I got saved, I got saved, and I said, You got what? I said, Well come over and tell us what happened. He said, I got over there and I was getting ready to cross the road, and he said and I thought, man, if I get hit by a car, I'm gonna die and go to hell He said, I'm sitting there thinking I was too scared to cross the road. And he said, about that time I saw your wife talking to the police and how that guy that was beating himself in the head was threatening to kill your son, I thought, It could have been me. I could have died and if I'd have died I'd have went to hell. He said I stopped right there and got on my knees and asked Jesus to save me. He came back to the tent meeting every single day. Every single day. You say, what's the point of the story? That guy that sat there and said, I'm not worthy? What a picture of me. You ain't gonna get saved any other way. Submitting. He was once they were you see that's the picture that he's painting here. You see These people were sitting there. The Jews in that time, they were sitting under the authority of the Romans. They were under Roman bondage. And you know, they were waiting for the Moshiach, the Messiah to come to set them free from the bondage of the Romans. That's what they were expecting. That's what they were looking for. As a matter of fact, over in Luke chapter 24 on the road of Emmaus, they said the two walking down the road said this to Jesus. He said unto them, What things had they said unto him concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty indeed in word before God and all the people, and how the chief priest and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death And have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. You see, they were looking for a leader to come on the scene to set them free from the bondage of the Gentiles But what they did not realize is the bondage they were under was not that of the Romans, but it was their sin. You see, they had They had exalted themselves thinking that, hey, we are God's chosen people. Uh the Gentiles, the Goyim, they are they are they are they are evil, they are the wicked. We are God's people. What they failed to realize is they were not, they did not have a real relationship with God. I tell you you see that people today, they'll come to Israel and they'll talk about the ultra Orthodox Jews, how pious they are and how religious they are and, oh man, they're like godly people. Oh, if you could watch them. Oh, if you could watch them go into the tombs and spend all night praying at the tombs to these dead rabbis, trying to get the blessings of these dead rabbis on them. Oh listen, one of them was buried at the end of my driveway. I would sit there and listen to them almost all night long, unbelievable, listening and watching some of the ungodliness that is taking place. But Jesus, his message was to provide hope to those who did not have hope. You see, his message was to provide not only hope, but healing. Notice what he said in Luke. He says to heal the brokenhearted. He says it this way over in Isaiah, to bind up the brokenhearted. Now that word bind comes from the Hebrew word lakh of oce. And it means to set in order. It means to take something that's broken and fix it. It pictures somebody with a putting a cast on something, taking something broken. I collect, I collect braces. I've got all kinds of braces. My kids will even joke with me sometimes for my birthday or Christmas. They'll say, what new brace do you want this year? I got all kind of braces. I got ankle braces. I got knee braces. I got elbow braces, wrist braces, hand braces, finger braces, I've got a neck brace. I've I've broke my nose four times. I've got I mean I've got all kind of braces. You said why you got all these braces? Because I break a lot of stuff You say you clumsy, you accident front. No, no. I just do stupid things is what I do. I have this tendency of doing stupid things and I remember one time I sent my wife a picture one time. I had a ladder sitting on top of another ladder, had two bolts on top of the one ladder. And that ladder was sitting on top of it and it was leaned up and had one of my boys up on top of it. And she said, You get that boy off that ladder right now? I mean, you know, we just we do stupid things. Me and I got five sons. Stupid things too. And and you know we just we do stupid things and we break things all the time. And so I kind of can understand what that word lacavos means. It means to set something in order. And you know that's what Jesus did When he came, you know what he did? He took things that were broken and he fixed them. I mean, we see it over and over. Luke chapter number, in Luke chapter number 5, verse number 12, here's a man that was full of leprosy. I mean he didn't have no hope. There was no hope for this left. In society was an he was an outcast. I mean you go back to Leviticus 13 and chapters 14 and over 114 long dealing with the laws of leprosy. I mean these lepers had no hope. But you know what Jesus did when he came along? He fixed him. The Bible says that he reached out his hand and he touched him and immediately the leprosy departed from him. See, that's what he did. He took people's lives that were broken because of sin. The scars that that sin brings in a person's life. I'm telling you, listen, he can fix those things. He broke broken lives, broken hearts. Listen, no matter what it is, listen, I'm telling you, listen, we can come to Christ and we can find hope and we can find healing in him. I've watched it. Oh, listen, you've seen it in the ministry. Those that have been in the ministry for any length of time, you've watched people's lives that have been shattered by sin, and you've watched the gospel of Jesus Christ Transform their lives. That's what he does. That's what he does. You see, he come to bind the brokenhearted. He came to provide help as well. Verse number 18, he says it this way. To preach deliverance to the captives. In Isaiah he says it this way, to proclaim. Liberty to the captive. That word proclaimed licrol in Hebrew is used almost 700 times throughout the Old Testament. And it all depends on the context of how it's used. It could be used to invite It could be used to call out, it could be used to preach, to shout, uh it could be used in in many different ways, just depending You know, I'm reminded over in Mark chapter number 5 and verse number 25, and there was a woman that had the issue of blood for 12 years. And you know what happened? The Bible says in verse 26 that she spent everything she had. But verse 27 says this. But when she heard of Jesus. You see what? There's an invitation. You see, there was an invite. There was something she heard, and you know what? And listening to that, she was drawn to him. I'm telling you, listen. Listen, that is what Jesus did. His message would provide hope and it would provide help to those who were hurting. Then I thought about his mission real quick in verse 18. He says, recovering of the sight to the blind. To set at liberty them that are bruised. Isaiah says it this way, the opening of the prison to them that are found. To them that are bound. The word bind or bound is la'asurim. I've mentioned a track I wrote last night, that track forbidden, what the rabbis don't want you to know. The title in Hebrew is Asur. Same word. Forbidden. No smoking sign. Asur. We'll say that as well. So here's the word that's being used. Asureem is is to bind. It's to it's to fasten, it's to join together. It's to it's it's to shackle. It's to kind of give you the picture of somebody in shackles going to jail, going to prison. That's the picture that it gives you And listen, that's exactly what people were in Jesus' day. They were bound. I mean, they could be in religion. Religion makes no difference. People are bound in religion. We watch it in Christianity. We see it in many different religions around the world. That's what religion will do. It'll bind a person. Take Islam, for example But we're watching all these people. I mentioned them last night, all these people coming out of Iran, and they're escaping Iran, fleeing into Turkey, trying to find a place of refuge. And you know, we're watching these Iranians and Afghanis come to faith in the Lord. I mean, uh it's it's just amazing watching them come to faith in the Lord. We had one guy down in we was in Denizli, Turkey, and uh he got a flyer and and came to church that night, uh him and a friend of his the next and he raised his hand lost and came down the next night and the way we did the invitation The first time we did it, I thought it was the weirdest thing, but uh the the the translator told him, said if you want to get saved, you've got to come back tomorrow night You gotta come back tomorrow night an hour before service. I thought, man, we got all these people raising their hand lost. Let's deal with them tonight. He said, let them come back tomorrow night. And you know what? Everybody raised their hand, came back the next night, hour before church. Every one of them. Every night they did. He would sit there and go through slides and go through doctrines of uh of about the Bible and things that Islam attacked and He said, I want them to make sure they understand what they're getting into. And I'm telling you, I watched every one of them that came back. Well, they'd get on their knees right there at the end of that presentation, and every one of them get born again every single night But this one guy, his name was Muhammad, he was Afghani, and and I remember he came back, got saved the next night, next night he came, and the next night he came, and at the end of the meeting we end up renting a Turkish bath and we're baptizing in the Turkish bath and Oh, what a sight. And uh anyway, we're baptizing there, and and I remember Muhammad giving his testimony. Of course he's speaking in Farsi and they're translating. And he said as he was walking by and got that flyer, came that night, he said, I've never been to a church a day in my life Never. Never never been to church a day in my life. He lived six hours from Denise. He got on the bus every single day and rode six hours one way to come to church every single night. He came. Every single night. He said, I got down there. He said, as I heard uh about Jesus, he said, I've always been told that Uh that we have to earn God's love. We have to earn his love and and we have to labor and labor and labor to get. He said, but I heard that he loved me And and and and love me for who I he said it's just the love of God just blew him away and he got saved. I'm telling you, we're seeing people fleeing Islam. They're they're fleeing that. Why? Because all it does is bind you up. And that's what religion will do. Boy, when they hear the gospel of Jesus, it'll set them free. And that's what it does. And so Jesus came. He came to take those who were bound. Matter of fact, in Luke chapter 13, look over there real quick in Luke chapter number 13. Luke chapter number 13 in verse number 10. Here we find a woman, as the Bible mentions here in Luke 13 and verse number 10. Verse number 10, and he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift her up. lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her her to him, and he said unto him, Woman, thou art loose from thine infirmities. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, there are six days in which men ought to work, in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day Then the Lord answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall and lead him away to watering? And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom watch this, Satan hath bound, below these eighteen years, be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? Now here they were outraged at Jesus for loosening this woman. That's the wording that it's used here. Because here's what they taught You see, they taught on Shabbat, on the Sabbath day. Now the Bible says, remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. Now I don't have time to go through and deal with the origins of these traditions and how they all come, but the Bible says remember the Sabbath You had these set of men that called them Zugotes, these were the the Became Later what was referred to as the President and the Vice President of the Sanhedrin You had five sets of these men. The last of those set of those men, uh the last one would have died in 30 A. D. So Hillel and Shemai were the last of those two. Both of those would have died during the time of Christ Now, these men established these what they call fence laws around this, for example, the Sabbath day, where it says, Remember the Sabbath, keep it holy. They said, what does that mean? They built a fence around it with other laws. These laws like how far you can walk on the Sabbath day. You know, you don't read that in the Old Testament nowhere. You only read in the book of Acts That's the distance of how far they could walk. They built all these fences around the Sabbath. By the time they got to the New Testament, there were over fourteen hundred laws regulating the Sabbath day. And that's why over and over we read where Jesus done something, and it says, and it was the Sabbath day. Because Jesus is doing something in those verses to go against what they're teaching. You see, you see, I don't know if you've ever been up here in Pike School on Shabbat, drive through there on the Sabbath day if it's raining. You'll watch some of those Hasidic Orthodox youth We got here in Baltimore what they call the Misnagdin. These are a mainstream Orthodox. The largest mainstream Orthodox community in America is right here in Baltimore, the Misnogdim. We don't have a lot of Hasidic Jews The Sidic Jews and Orthodox Jews don't get along very good at all. And so what they'll do on the Sabbath day, instead of opening up an umbrella on the Sabbath day, they'll put a bag over their head, like a Walmart bag or different bags over their head Because when you open an umbrella on the Sabbath day, you're building a structure. And you can't build on the Sabbath day. Now You could take and you could untie. Now this is what it says in the in the Talmudic writings on the Sabbath day in Shabbat 108 it says this you can untie a knot on the Sabbath day if you untie the knot with one hand. If you untie it with two hands, then that's too much like work, so you can't do it. But if you can undo it with one hand, it's okay. That's why Jesus referred to them as loosening their ox. You see, they untied the ox to take it down to water. Nothing wrong with that because they did it with one hand. But you know what the Bible says about this woman? The Bible says that uh when Jesus came to her, he laid his Hands with an S plural. You see, not one hand, but he put both hands. It'd have been alright if he'd have just laid one hand on the leg Uh-uh. Oh no, but he put both of them on her. And when he did that, he broke their sabbatical law in doing so by loosening this woman. And they wanted to kill him for it. Just for doing that very thing. And so Jesus, what did he do? He came to take those who were bound To set them free. That's what he did. He came to provide hope to help to those who are hurting. And that was his ministry. That's what he did over And over and over again. Now go back if you would to Luke chapter number four. Look in verse number 20. I want you to see the perplexity here in Nazareth. In verse number 20, look what he says. The Bible says, and he closed the book and he gave it again to the minister, and he sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is the scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bear him witness and wondered at the gracious, watch that, the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, is not this Joseph's son? And so I I see the perplexity here in Nazareth. Number one, it's seen in their words. You see, there are some of them in the midst of the synagogue that day, and when they're when they're when they're watching all this and hearing everything that Jesus is doing, they're doing. Wow. Wow. What gracious words. This is wonderful. I mean they were excited, and others are going. Is Joseph said? Can you see the perplexity here? And so if they're perplexed with the with the words, but notice I want you to see as well We see their perplexity. Notice it's seen in their wrath as well. Skip down to verse number 28. In verse number 28, look what he says. And all they in the synagogue. When they heard these things were filled with wrath, and rose up and thrust him out of the city and led him into the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. Now, everybody in the synagogue. Wanna kill? Every single one of them. What happened uh what gracious words hath he spoken? So let's kill it It was because of the message that he was sending. Notice the warning that he gave. From verse number 23 down to verse number 37, we see this, or verse 27, we see this warning that he gives. Look what he said in verse number 23. He said in verse 23, he said unto them, You will surely say unto me this proper physician, heal thyself. Whatsoever we have heard done in Kefardechanum, do also hear in thy country. And he said, Verily I say unto you, no prophet is accepted in his own country But I tell you the truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land. But unto none of them was Elias sent save unto Serapta, city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow. So the first example that he gives is in verse twenty-five and twenty-six, and this is the prophet Elijah. I mean this was one of the heroes of Israel. I mean this is one of their prophets. And I mean you know the story was preached on, uh talked about last night, and that woman I mean here Jesus, there was that famine that took place and Elijah, uh you remember he went up to what would be modern-day Lebanon today, that's where that widowed woman was at He would have went up there and and uh and of course we heard the story last night and how that that barrel uh uh the meal stayed in that barrel. Uh you know it's Throughout the midst of that famine. And then the Elijah comes back down to Mount Carmel. He stands on Mount Carmel and the contest with the prophets of Baal took place there. And you know where that is? You're standing in Nazareth. It's just across the valley. I mean, matter of fact, you can stand on the hill there in Nazareth and you could see Mount Carmen. It's just right there. It's not that far. I wonder how many of those those kids, or maybe those parents are sitting there giving some Bible stories to their kids and talking about Elijah said right over there, O Elijah stood. Boy, they knew that story. And he said, there were many widows in Israel in the time of Elias, but none of them was Elias just Sent Tave to Serapta to a uh a woman up in Sidon. Well then the next story he goes through is the about the prophet Elisha Of course he followed the prophet Elijah, and in in verse number twenty-seven he says this and many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elias the prophet, and none of them was cleansed saving Naman Assyria. Of course, that's going back to 2 Kings 5. And of course you know the story. There was that Jewish girl. She was in captivity up in Syria. Her master had leprosy, and boy, she got to bragging one day. And she says, boy, there's a prophet in Israel that can cleanse leprosy. He said, Oh, we're taking a trip. Man, they load up, they go down, they get down to the uh down where Elijah, Elisha would have been, that's over close to Jericho And if you've ever been to Israel and you've seen the different headwaters and different waters of the Jordan River, up in the north, we used to live in kibbutz May and Baruch. Mind Baruch is literally means in Hebrew the blessings of many waters before the Jordan River started. You got those four streams coming in from Syria and Lebanon, and how many beautiful water. During Passover, during Pesach, and then you'll see people coming up there camping. They camp differently in this room. You've never seen it. It's a sight to behold. I mean, they will put 5,000 tents inside the sanctuary. It's like, move. You know, space. Take you know, just a little bit. No, they'll share space Tent states to each other. I mean it's insane. But they they'll bring refrigerators. I'm talking about they'll load the full size refrigerator in the back of the truck, you know, with a generator, and it'll be plopped right there and man, they're camping, you know. It's just It is some of the weirdest looking but they'll come whitewater rasted right there at the fine brood. And so beautiful water. Beautiful water. Matter of fact, not me and my boys went over trout fishing, caught some Dan River trout right there at the old city of Dan. Uh and so you got some just beautiful ones And that water will flow all the way down into the Sea of Galilee. And once it comes out of the Sea of Galilee, Sea of Galilee is the lowest freshwater lake in the world. And then what you leave there as it starts going on down to the Dead Sea, it's not dropping near as fast. And now you're starting to get into the Negev, the desert area, and you got all that dirt that's washing in and and the and it turns from that beautiful white water. to this muddy looking water. And you see people down at the baptism site down in down close cross in Jericho, you watching them Step down in that three inches of mud on each step as they're stepping in that water. And you can kind of get the picture of Naaman going. And we got more better water back home. You won't be getting this. Yep So you know the story he does. He dips seven times. He comes up cleansed of his legs. Well that's the story they're referring to. And notice what he said. There were many lepers in Israel in the time of the lights, but none of them cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian. One of their heroes. But then the next verse says, and they were filled with wrath. What made them so mad? It was because what these two stories represented. You see the first one he said there were many widows in Israel. But you know what Elijah did? He didn't go to none of the Jewish Widows in Israel. He went to a Gentile up in modern day Lebanon. You see, there were many lepers in Israel, but Elisha didn't cleanse none of them. You know what he did there? Cleanse the Gentile. You know what Jesus was declaring that day in Nazareth? That his ministry was not just for the Hudim, the Jewish people, but it was for the boy, the Gentiles You see, they wouldn't understand it until later when he would say, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever Jew, Arab, Jew, Muslim makes no difference. Whosoever. You see, that message that he was proclaiming was that salvation was for all people, and they did not like it. And they didn't want it. They didn't want it. You see 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse number 4 says this: But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak. We were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel. I could use this song book here for an example. We're alive. I'm giving this to you. It's your responsibility of what you're gonna do with it. You see, he did his job He came and did his job. And you know what he says now? Oh truth. We were allowed of God. We were put in trust. It's committed unto us. Given unto us. It is now our responsibility. Listen, just as Jesus went around doing good and helping those who are hurting, those who are bound in sin, you know, it is our responsibility. to take the good news of the gospel to the world. Whether they be right here, or whether they be down in Baltimore, or whether they be around the world. It is our responsibility in reaching the world. And do you know what you're doing by supporting all these missionaries? You are reaching these people With the gospel. You are partnering with those missionaries in doing so. That's why you get involved in the giving in your missions program. Don't just get involved in giving. Get in. Heard it last night. Get committed Get committed. Listen, don't just invest. Get committed. Listen, what can you do? Get committed in it. And the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 8. 5, that they first gave their own selves. To the Lord. That's what you got to do. You've got to give your own self unto Him. Look in Luke chapter number 5, and I'm closing with this in Luke chapter number 5 and verse number 18. The Bible says in verse 18, And behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with Paulsea, and they sought means to bring him in and to lay in before him. And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the house top and led him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. Now, what's fascinating, I love building. Pastor, I know you love building construction. And so forth. You know, the way they did their houses back in those days, I mean we didn't there's not a whole lot of wood in Israel, so you all your houses are built out of stone Ah you're rafters, you're gonna have you're gonna have wooden timbers going across and you generally would take and they were most of them they estimate about about Two to three foot spans in between these timbers. And then you're going to take reeds and run those reeds across it. And on top of those reeds, you're going to take you're going to take mud. Mixed with lime and straw and ash. And you're going to pack the roof. That flat roof. And so you're going to take these stone rollers. They're about this big, about that big around, looks like a yard roller, and you're going to roll it across that roof, and you're going to pack your roof down. Then you're going to take about two to three inches of dry dirt and put it on top of it and you're going to pack it down as well. On top of that, you're going to take about another inch and a half of of mud mixed with lime straw and and again as much as as much lime as you can because what's gonna happen that lime when the water hits it it's gonna kinda seal it Now, what happens if some of the water gets through the top layer, it gets into the dry dirt, and it'll absorb the water. Now, the Bible says that he climbed up on the roof and he removed the tilings. You see, he he started busting through all three layers of that dirt. Getting all the way down to those reeds and then busting a hole through those reeds and then and then Uh all of a sudden you see these legs coming through and they're lowering this man down in the midst of it. Now I never thought about it, but I was leading a tour in Nazareth one time and I was in the uh in the old olive press area. I was I'm a tour guy there in Nazareth village and And I had this group and and the group before me, uh they don't always listen. The back of our church says follow me and it's amazing how many people can't read, you know, because they don't, you know, it's like herding cattle sometimes, you know, you're trying to get 'em And uh so anyway, uh the the group before me, some of them had climbed up on the roof, and my group was walking out. We were walking out, and all of a sudden the roof started caving in And I mean dirt's falling everywhere and everybody started to run. And I could tell everybody was safe, you know, and I said, stop, stop, and they all stopped. And I said, I said, remember that story in the Bible? I thought, what a good time to give an illustration. I mean it was just like it just clicked on me. It's a perfect illustration, you know. And now they didn't think it was as good as I thought it was, but you know, I mean it was it was Could you imagine sitting in that house that day and all that dirt falling in on top of it? Here comes this man. They lower him down. And the Bible says when he saw their faith. He said it's their faith. It's their faith. It's your faith. It's our faith. Listen, we've got to get up and go get Yep, me. You see, it's committed unto us. It's our response. And what are you doing with the responsibility? Been given to me. Father, we love you. And we're so thankful for the privilege tonight to be able to serve you. And truly, Lord, what a privilege it is to be able to serve you. Father, I pray that you'll take this message tonight that you've laid upon my heart. I pray you finish it in each and every heart tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's pay in the future.