Uh good morning everybody. Hope you have a uh wonderful Christmas. Apologize for the teens, I completely forgot uh how you guys were having Sunday schools this morning. Schedule would be in three places at once this morning, so it's usually just two. But today it's three, so sorry I dropped the ball on that. If you rebuy with you, please turn the book of uh Second Corinthians chapter two. Chapter five. Second Corinthians chapter five. I guess Pastor Gus already gave away the uh title of this morning's uh lesson, New Life in Christ. I like surprise, I kinda try to keep things a surprise as long as as long as I can. So it's an honor to be up here this morning. I'm pretty shocked as Pretty sure many of you are. Now I had a I was um scheduled to teach Science Teen Sunday School this morning downstairs and I already had lesson prepared but then came the snowstorm. And so I wasn't able to teach it. And then came Christmas. So we didn't have uh Sunday school. And then came Pastor Caleb asking me to teach Sunday school this morning. So I'm like, okay. You guys have already gone to the material 'cause we're finishing up the second uh missionary journey of Paul. And so I'm like, I don't think you guys want to go over that again. And I was like, well maybe if I use a teach a lesson I taught the teens, but then they'll be up here, so then they'll be hearing that over again. They probably don't remember anyway, but Wanted something new. So I had an idea that there's something I want been wanting to teach for years. Told my wife about it. She's like, why don't you teach something on New Year's? Because you know, we're that just the cusp about the New Year's. I looked at the calendars like the last Sunday and I'm like I'll pray about it. And so that's how we uh came to this message of uh New Life in Christ. So anticipation of Christmas Day, you know, we anticipating uh many adults and children alike anticipating getting something for Christmas. You know, wondering what they're gonna get for Christmas. A part of the excitement and joy of the year is the anticipation of opening gifts on Christmas Day, or seeing someone else open gifts that you have gotten for them, seeing their expressions. You know, sometimes we get something we want, sometimes we get something that we don't want. Sometimes we give it something we need, sometimes we get something that we've always wanted, and sometimes we don't get nothing at all Now one child said that all he wanted for Christmas was the two front teeth. So he went to wish somebody a Merry Christmas. Every year my wife would ask me, What do I want for Christmas? I'll stand next door, put my arm around her, and start seeing them how I don't want anything for Christmas. But there's just one thing I need. I think you guys know where we're going but going with that. And so, you know, if someone handed you a piece of gum, you'd rather have a new piece of gum rather than an old piece of gum, right? I can't remember the last time I even sold an old piece of gum somewhere. Like I don't know if people still chew gum or not. And I know Pastor Caleb's always mentioned throughout this time here that when he was a kid he got fruit. Now I imagine that if he got an old piece of fruit versus a new piece of fruit, he'd be pre more appreciated of the new piece of fruit. So not only do we look forward to what we get for Christmas, but we also look forward to what the new year brings us. And anticipation of wondering about the newness of things we receive takes us to 2 Corinthians 5 verse 17. Similar verse, I'm sure you all could quote it from uh memory. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. So when we become Christians, there's a new life in us. There's a new life ahead of us. New experiences, new challenges, new ways of looking at things, new way of reacting to things Now when Jesus was talking to Nicodemus, he referred to it as being born again. You know, something happens, if someone tries to pull one over and you say, What do you think? I was just born yesterday? No, but as a baby Christian, you were just recently born. So there are new experiences that you're gonna have. Some some things that you're not gonna fully understand. So writing this passage, Paul refers to a new saint as a new creature. It reminds me of how so often you hear scientists, you know, they stumble upon a new creature, a new species or something. It's always existed. They just haven't known about it. So to them it's new. They just discover it. Now we want to fly we want to fly to Mars, but we don't even know what's in our own backyard. And in gospel um And uh gospel look, Jesus says that this joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. And I wonder if there's articles that go into heaven, you know, when someone gets saved, like hey, this is a new creature spot on earth. So as we look forward to a new year, I would like to just take a few minutes to look or at some new things that we receive as Christians in our Christian world. Now something that we can meditate on this coming year. Now something that we can take advantage of of being called children of God. Not everyone who was born is a child of God, but every child of God has been born to experience a new life in Christ So first, there's a new deal. How's that sound? Like the sound of that too. So I don't know how many people were around for um FDR's new deal. I don't think anyone is that old. No, you don't look that old. But it was a um policy program that had consists of three different aspects to combat the um ravages of the Great Depression. There's reform, relief, and recovery. And it afflict and it would try to um compati the Great Depression that was affecting Americans. Now there was another Great Depression you could say that's been affecting Americans and the entire world for most of history. Ever since Adam and Eve sinned and were kicked out of the Garden Eden, we're no longer able to have that close relationship we could have with God. Now ever since that ever since man had done whatever he could to fill that spiritual void in his life, but nothing could quite fill it. The guy had a way to deal with that. In fact he had two deals for that. He had an old deal and a new deal. So the Old Deal, the Old Testament, the Old Covenant, the Mosaic Covenant. It was made when God gave Moses and the Israelites the law of Mount Sinai. It was between God and his people, the Israelites. It required them to live in a certain way, morally, civically, and ceremonially ceremonially He established customs for them to repent and cover the sins to the shedding of innocent blood of animals. However, this cleansing would only be temporary, as with simple nation, man would continue to need to have to sacrifice these animals, time and time again. It was filled with the sacrifice of the animals and their blood sprinkled upon the Israelites. And it was given as a guide, or as Paul calls in the book of Galatians, a schoolmaster. It wasn't supposed to be the final deal, you could say. Final covenant. In Hebrews, it's depicted as a shadow of good things to come. You know, one day there will be one who will be able to fulfill the whole law. And the prophet Jeremiah prophesied this in Jeremiah 31, verse 31 through 33 Behold the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, and the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenant they break, although I was husband unto them, saith the Lord. But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inner word parts, and write in their hearts, and will be their God, and they shall be my people. And so this new covenant that God's talking about was fulfilled through the birth of Jesus Christ, which we just celebrated Christmas Day. Through his life, birth, life, death, resurrection, burial, resurrection. This covenant has been fulfilled. So that brings us to the New Deal, the New Testament, the New Covenant. So if you turn to uh Matthew chapter 26 So this new covenant was made when Jesus Christ sacrificed his life on the cross for our sins. Now Jesus mentioned this when he's with his disciples in the upper room during the Last Supper. It says in the verse 26 through 28. And as they were eating, Jesus took the bread and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink it all Drink of it, drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. So what is this New Testament? Well, it's grace that God has offered to us. We're no longer under the law, but we're under grace now. The Old Testament was no longer needed. No, because it had been fulfilled. And Hebrews uh eight thir Hebrews chapter eight verse thirteen, it says in that he saith, A new covenant he hath made for he had made the first old. Not Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away. So out with the old and with the new. Then Hebrews 10, verse 17 and 22 it says, And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more Now where the remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin. Having therefore, brethren, bolten us to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us. Through the veil, that is to say, his flesh, and having an high priest over a house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience conscience and our bodies washed with pure water And then Galatians, I mentioned before that I refer to the old law as schoolmaster. So in verse 3, verse 25, Paul's writing, But after faith has come, we are no longer under O schoolmaster. Instead we are under grace. If we're going to walk worthily of the vacation whereby we are called, then we're going to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit. Under this New Deal, there is reform. We are changed from the outside in, which is which we'll more touch more about that on the second point. Then there's also relief. We are saved from our sins. Now we tried to save ourselves, but there was no salvation in ourselves, only through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. And then there is recovery. You know, God redeems us back to Himself. So this also a new commandment. John 13. 34, Jesus says, A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. Now this isn't the file kind of love, that's a brotherly or friends love friendship love, but this is the sacrificial agape love. It's the kind of love that would cause the creator of the universe to come and become one of his creations and die at their hands just to save us, who are quit who are dead in our trespasses and sins. Now when someone goes in for emergency surgery, you know, what are your thoughts? Do you stop and say a prayer for them? You say, How? How can I make that family a meal to help them out during this um difficult time? Now if we say we love God, then we're going to obey his commandments. And that commandment to love one another is very important because it shows the world that we are Christians So as we're looking forward to a new year, how do we look back on this New Testament, this new covenant? I mean, Jesus Christ already shed his blood on the cross. The deed has already been done. Now Jesus came, he lived, he died, he was buried, and he was resurrected. But that's not the end of the story. It's the beginning. The same way the Israelites look towards the fulfillment of the Old Testament, we look for fulfillment of the New Testament Which will end at this uh end of the church age, this period of grace that we're under right now, which culminates with the uh rapture of the church. And so, one day there's gonna be a meeting in the air, in a sweet suite by and by. I'm gonna meet and greet you there in that home beyond the sky Such singing you will hear, never heard by mortal ear, 'twill be glorious, I do declare, and God's own Son will be the leading one at that meeting in the air Next, we get a new demeanor. I want to call this point new dude, but I've then I've um found out new demeanor. Sounds a bit more uh spiritual. So uh turn to the book of Romans chapter seven. So the first part of having this new demeanor is having a newness of spirit. In verse six in Romans chapter seven it says But now we are delivered from the law, what that being did wherein we were held, that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter So with the altwall done away with, we are made spiritually alive with the new spirit when we come to Christ. Now we can communicate directly to God through our prayers, and through the Holy Spirit, he can communicate with us directly from his word. We are a new creature, as I mentioned earlier. Now therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. Now Christians look like other humans, and in some ways we act like other humans. We walk, talk, sleep, drink, act like other humans But we're not like like what no but we're not actually like other humans. We are new creatures. Now I don't know if you've ever seen the movie um What was it? Invasion of the body snatchers or the idea of people walking around, you know, they look like everybody else, but they're a bit different. The same way our Christian lives should be like that. We should look like Everybody else, but something different about us. Something in our speech, something in our walk, something in our talk, something with the music we listen to, something with the places that we go to. There should be something different about us that makes people curious. And so our lives as new creatures, it should invoke curiosity. You know, if you ever see something if you ever see like a new animal, you're like, first question is like, what is that? You know one time I was driving home to one time I was driving to work one day and GTS takes me down some street to you know save some time on my commute and I see a I see a sign that's kinda like a deer crossing sign. But on it, there's a creature I've never seen before Now maybe, you know, because I was been wa I was watching a show with some strange things and strange creatures. I the first thing in my mind was, okay, what kind of creature is that? And I don't think I want to be here to find out, because whatever they have going on in this neighborhood, I don't think I need to be here. So I'm driving for a few minutes and I realize, oh, it was a deer sign. It was just flipped upside down. So be careful what you put be careful what you put in your brain because it'll impact like what you see in life. So, as I said, Christian life should invoke curiosity to the world. You know, salt is used to add flavor to a dish, and our lives should add flavor to the world. Romans uh six verse four. So therefore, if we be buried by him in baptism and to death, that like Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life There our walk should be new, our talk should be new. Our lives should align so much with God's word that people would accuse you of being a Christian instead of saying, you know, you're no different from me. So we also get to put on a new man. Ephesians 4 verse 24 says that it's that in that ye put on the new man, which is after God, created in righteousness and true holiness. The old man, he's no good. He needs to die. So the new man can live, new man can thrive. No, we can only be made righteous through the righteousness of Christ. Now through the tribal wisdom of the Dakota Indians, it passed on to generation to generation of young savages. They told that the best they told them that the best strategy that when you find yourself riding a dead horse is to simply get off. Simple, effective. But our modern bureaucrats, however, have a whole range of far more advanced strategies, such as buying a stronger whip, because maybe the one you're using it's it's not effective is not as effective. Finding lighter riders, you know, less weight, horse can go further. Harnessing several dead horses together to improve performance, because that's gonna work. Arranging an overseas visit to study their horses. Reclassifying the horse as living impaired Rewriting the performance requirements for dead horses. Providing additional funding to improve the performance of dead horses. Promoting the dead horses to a supervisory position. Less work for him. And enemies any similarities between um those suggestions and what the government actually does is intentional 'Cause that's just the way the world works. So it sounds absurd, but we do the same thing when we come when we give try to bring our righteousness before God. We try to uh hand God a dead horse and ask, you know, is this good enough? We dress it up, we shrug it off, we become attached, we make excuses instead of asking God to help us get off of it. And that is what we do when we ask Jesus Christ to come into our life and save us from our sins Colossians two ten says, And have put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. So not only do we have to put on the new man, but we have to continue to walk in that new man, walk in the newness of life. Now if we're going to succeed then we need to study plugged into Jesus Christ. Read the scriptures daily like the Brio boys. Study to show yourself approved. You know, come to church and be under sound doctrine. He's also speaking with new tongues. Mark chapter 16, verse 17. And these signs shall follow them that believe. In my name they shall cast out devils. They shall speak with new tongues. Now by interpretation, this is to the New Testament saints who were Jewish, and God gave them this sign gift to show other Jews that, hey, you know, they were filled with the Holy Ghost, and this is only from God, this is only but God. And so Christians actually spoke in real languages, not just gibberish or angelic speak. You know, someone could speak a language they never spoke to before, and then someone can say, hey, you know what? He's speaking French right now. Not sure how he learned French, but he's speaking French. I can understand all of it. So there's things that we used to say that we shouldn't say anymore. Just it's because there's been a great change since we've been born again. There's also a new song to sing. Psalm chapter 40, verse 1 through 3. To the chief musician, a psalm of David, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and he heard my cry He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of a miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord So here is God, here David is praising the Lord for his deliverance. But how can we not show the same sentiments knowing what God has saved us from? Now some of us were deeper in the mirrory clay than we like to admit, but we should all have the desire to sing the Lord's praises. In loving kindness, Jesus came, my soul and mercy to reclaim. And from the depths of sin and shame, through grace, he lifted me. From sinking sand, he lifted me. With tender hand, he lifted me. From shades of night to plains of light, O praise his name, he lifted me. In Psalms 149, verse 1 it says, Praise ye the Lord, sing unto the Lord a new song, and it's praise in the congregation of the saints. Now not only are we to praise the Lord in the congregation of the saints, but we need to be praising the Lord everywhere we go. Now share the person who has put a pep in your step with the world. We also earn a new name. Says in Revelation 2 verse 17, But he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh, I will give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone And then the stone, a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth. So there's a lot of debate on what this new stone is or a new name written on it means Excuse me. So uh judicial symbolism, in ancient uh courts of law, there were white and black stones that were cast by jurors to determine the guilt or innocence of someone A white stone signified acquittal while a black stone indicated guilt. By promising a white stone, God assures believers of their justification and forgiveness through Christ. Then there is a symbol of victory Well white stones were used awarded to the victors in ancient athletic contests. Such stones were taken as a mark of honor, and they can use them to attend lavish feasts. And this is a symbol of our victory that Jesus this is a symbol of the victories that believers have in Jesus, granting them access to eternal peace in heaven. Then there is an invitation to fellowship. In Roman culture, white stone can be used as an invitation to a special event. of a banquet or feast. The promise of the white stone in Revelations may reflect a believer's invitation to the marriage supper of the Lamb, signifying internal communion with God. Next is purity and holiness. We know that white is offered the symbol of purity or holiness And by having that white stone can represent the believer's sanctification and the imputed righteousness of Christ. Isaiah 118 says, Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your stems be scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red as like crimson, they shall be yellow as wool. It can also symbolize hidden treasure. Now some scholars argue that the white stone might symbolize a hidden gem or treasure, pointing to the anestimable value of eternal life and the val and the believer's secured inheritance of Christ in Christ. One of the better accepted explanations of white stone has to do with the high priest's breastplate, which can twelve stones um with the names of the tribes of Israel engraved in it. And as uh he ministered in the temple, the high priest bore the names of the God's people into the God's presence. In the same way the white stone with the believer's name on it written could be a reference to our standing in God's presence. The new name signifies could signifies a new relationship with God. The new name could signify a unique and personal relationship between the believer and God. It can reflect how God knows each of his children and knows them intimately. It could also represent a new name, or a new name could also represent a transformation of identity. Now in the Bible, names often depic often depicted someone's character or their um future destiny. If we think of Abraham, God changed his name or Abraham, we think God changed his name to Abraham because he was gonna make he promised to make him the father of many nations And I think of uh um the first the um New Testament believers who were first called Christians and Antioch because they acted like Christ. But a reward is a reward, and it's always nice to know that your diligence is going to be rewarded. As we say this morning, new life in Christ, abundant and free. What glory shine, what joys are mine, what wondrous blessings I see, my past with a sin, the searching of strife, forever gone there is a bright new dawn, for in Christ I have found new life. Then we get to our third point, a new dwelling. Now turn to the book of Revelation, chapter 21. And when I say new dwelling, I'm not talking about having our Eternal rest in place changed from heaven to hell. Well that's great and all, but I'm thinking of a bigger picture, a big larger scope. New dwelling I mean by new dwelling I mean a new heaven and a new earth. In Isaiah 65, uh 65, verse 17, God promised us, for he said, Behold, I will create new heavens and a new earth. And the reform and the reformer and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind No, I don't think we're gonna miss this place. As great as it is. You know, it started off good, very good, but because of Adam and Eve's sin, sin and death entered the world, and it's been corrupted ever since. The whole crunger the whole creation groaneth and traileth in pain together until now. Now Jesus promised that well in heaven, the earth shall pass the heaven and earth shall pass away, but his word shall never pass away This is why we can put our complete faith and trust in the words of Christ, because they were they are true and they're lasting they're foreverlasting. So God promised that He is going back to the basics. He gets rid of everything entirely. Now with the flood he did a soft reboot. Well this time he's gonna do a complete reboot. Get rid of the earth, go to the heavens, and bring about new ones. 2 Peter 313, Peter wrote, Nevertheless, we o nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth. So just talk about some of these features. Revelation 21 verse 4. It says, God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain. For the former things are passed away. But there's more. God is also tossing in not only a new heaven and a new earth, but also a new Jerusalem. If you go down up to uh Revelation or verse one, chapter twenty-one And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. Guess that means no more fishing. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of the heavens, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God Now just like was in God and the Garden Eden way back when, we have intimacy with God forever, with zero chance of separation. Now God had to give us the opportunity to reject him so that we could later make the choice to accept him Jerusalem served as the capital of the United Kingdom and later the kingdom of Judah. It was a that was where the temple was built and rebuilt and will be rebuilt again in the future. It was a place where the Israelites went to get close to God. Now the New Jerusalem, there were no there would not be a need to get close to God because he will already be there with us. And I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are in the t are are the temple of it. So we see there's entity with God, the fulfillment of Emmanuel, God with us. And he's also not only just with us, but Jesus came and left, but God with us forever. Now God's redemption plan wasn't just for people, but we see it was for the entire creation as a whole. Not only that, but righteousness will dwell there. Says in verse 27. There shall no wise enter into anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abominations, or maketh a lie, for they which I read into the Lamb's book of life So only the saved will be there, only the justified will be in heaven. Now this talks about if you read um the um rest of chapter twenty-one, it describes uh June Jerusalem. How it has twelve gates, you know, represent twelve tribes of Israel. And other gates are closed because there's no need to. There is n no sun, no moon, because the light of God will be the only night that we need only light that we need. Now since we get since uh Zaya mentioned new heavens, I'm wondering if there'll still be planets. 'Cause I enjoy looking at planets and all that. But usually it needs to be n at night you can only see those at night. So maybe we can see them during the day. Who knows But we sh we shall see. And lastly, I want to talk about a new day. Now turn to the book of Lamentations, chapter three. Right after the book of Jeremiah. So as Christians we also get to experience a new day. Now we're on the cuff of a new year and we have some choices to make. We call them resolutions. No, next year I'll get him a gym membership or so I can figure good about it after January. Next year I'll buy books to sit and collect dust on the shelf. Next year I'll replace binging Netflix shows with AI Slop on YouTube. Next year I'll start the day with morning stretches reaching for my snooze button. Next year I'll eat more vegetables by adding lettuce and tomato all my burgers. No, why not start tomorrow? Or better yet, why not start today? You know, we don't have to wait to a new year to make these choices. Now if you're like me, you could have probably done better living your life for Christ this year. But we don't have to wait till new year to change that. We can start today. The good news is that God doesn't Hit the good news is that God also doesn't wait for New Year to hit the reset button on reset counter on our failings for God doesn't wait for the new year to come to hit the reset button button on our failings. That in three uh verse three twenty-two, it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because of his compassions faileth not. Great is thy for they are new every morning, great is thy faithfulness. So God doesn't hold back God doesn't hold us account for God doesn't hold what we've done yesterday against us. Now it doesn't mean that he won't punish our sins. He is, because he's a just guy, and we expect him to. We should expect him to punish our sins. It also doesn't mean that we need to that we don't have to repent of our sins, because if we don't, then we can't restore a fellowship with God. But it does mean that He doesn't hold it against us. Every morning we start, because of His mercies and love for us, we start with a clean slate. No, you can beat yourself up all day, but today is another day. Or tomorrow's another day. Tomorrow's another day. You know what? You can do what God wants you to do Every day is a new opportunity to live for God, and we should seize that opportunity. New every morning. New every morning. Your love and compass are your love and compassion, O Lord. In your mercies, you have given me an anchor for my soul. You saved and redeemed me, cleansed and made me whole. New every morning, as day is dawning, your blessed hope and mercy I see. Firm and secure, steadfast and sure, great is your faithfulness to me. So these are just some uh new things that we can experience in our lives as Christians. And if you've never taken it taken the step to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, then you're missing out. You're missing out on a whole bunch of other things that you read about in the Bible. But let today be that day that you resolve to change your eternal destination and look forward to a new life in Christ. And if you're a Christian No, look forward to this next year as what you can how you can be better, Christian. No, this process of sanctification that we're in. It's not done until we get into heaven So every year, every day we should be getting more and more like in the image of Jesus Christ. We shouldn't say, you know, I'll just wait till new year to start over. No, start today. Start now. It's very hours, very minute. Make decisions, say, hey, you know what? I'm gonna live right for God, starting today. Let's pray and then we can uh end early. Father God, Lord, I thank you, Lord, for the new life that we get to receive in you, Lord. I thank you that you've always promised to be with us and never forsake us, Lord. That you give us the strength and the power to accomplish your will, Lord, in our lives. Lord, please help us to redeem the time that we have on this earth, Lord. It's not long and there are things that you wish to us to accomplish, Lord. Help us, Lord, to put our own wants and desires aside, Lord, and take up your wants and desires for us and for our lives, Lord. Help us to be that new creature, Lord, to show people that there is a different and better way to live for you, Lord For some people we're the only person, we're the only Christ figure that they have in their life, Lord. So let us not walk as hypocrites, Lord, but worthy of our vocations, Lord. Be with us as we go into this morning's service, Lord. Just help us to remember everything that you've given to us, Lord, and promised us to, Lord. And help us to fulfill our end of the bargain, Lord, so that you can fulfill your promises in our lives. In Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen.