If you have your uh Bibles, let's turn the Divine Library this evening to the book of Joshua. Joshua chapter number thirteen. Joshua chapter number thirteen. And uh Share a message with you that the Lord's laid on my heart. Hopefully it'll be a blessing. If I if I'm having you turn to too many passages and may just want to uh uh write down some of the references and come back to them later Um and and search the scriptures. Amen. Whether these things be so, it's always good to study the Bible. It's good to be here in the middle of the week and studying God's Word together and praying together Boy, I I have so many, so many good friends. I look out here and folks that have just been so kind and prayed for us and uh for my family and and uh what a blessing it is to be here tonight to see you And I hope God has something for you. We're just going to read one verse to get started this evening. Joshua chapter number thirteen. And I want to draw your attention to the very last verse of the chapter, verse number thirty-three. Joshua Chapter thirteen, verse number thirty-three, it says this, but unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance. The Lord God of Israel was their inheritance as he said unto them. Now the context here in the book of Joshua is that, you know, they're coming into the promised land, the land that Some 500 years previous to this, God had promised to their forefather Abraham, and and and God had told them that that He was going to let their descendants grow and and build a home in this land. And of course, you know, there was a long history that happened in between that. Abraham had Isaac and Isaac had Jacob and Jacob had twelve sons. Eventually They would make their way down to Egypt through Joseph. God would save the family from starvation and and and for 430 years or so the nation of Israel would be down there in Egypt and eventually uh a Pharaoh would enslave them and their bondage and and God would would raise up Moses and and he would miraculously deliver the children of Israel from Egypt. Of course you know the story if you've been saved for very long. The parting of the Red Sea. sea and the the Passover lamb and what a picture of the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ as the blood was applied to that doorpost and and they were delivered from from death and they were where they were brought into liberty and freedom and and God brought them out in uh uh of Egypt there and then as Pharaoh and his armies pursued God destroyed the enemy and And uh of course we know that uh the children of Israel, at least that that that that generation, uh they came to the threshold of the promised land, but they failed because of their unbelief And they didn't believe that God could could uh uh uh uh uh come through with his promises and and so as a result of that they would spend another forty years wandering in the wilderness until Everybody in that generation, 20 years or older, had died off in the wilderness. Everybody that is except for the two good spies, Caleb. And Joshua who said, Hey, we be able, if God be for us, we can go into this land. And and so now it's the next generation that has risen up, and God is bringing them in to the promised land. And so far he's delivered their their enemies into their hands. They've seen miraculous victories at Jericho and and in other places and they've seen God just just break the back of their enemy and give them the land that he had promised to them. And in this chapter, uh uh we now find Joshua dividing the land up A portion for this tribe, a portion for this tribe, a portion for this tribe, and so forth. And in our text, he gets to the tribe of Levi And he says, No land for you. No land for you Now, uh, you know, on the onset of this, I mean, this would have been looked at as a maybe a very negative thing. No opportunity for you to become uh prosperous and and no no no opportunity for you to you know build great wealth and farms and And pass those on to your children and then they'll pass it on to their children. uh this area down here. There's a lot of old money up in our area. I mean Lancaster County is older than the than the nation. It's been established and and a lot of those farms have stayed in the family for generations The names of the roads are named after the families. The names of the towns are named after the family. You know, I meet folks there, you know, all the time and I say, hey, I'm I'm Andy Almanza. They hear that last name Almanza and they say say you're not from around here are you I said no no no I'm not but you know um this is where God's called me amen and If I'm going to be a little uncomfortable, so are you. They uh they they like to hide down there in their in their rich estates and all that kind of stuff, and God sent somebody who said, We're gonna find them We're gonna find them, we're gonna get 'em. The gospel one way or the other, and uh and God has enabled us and he's helped us to do that so far. But but you but but but but but follow me if you would here as I as I set the t the table For the message, right? Levi, they don't get any farms. There's no land that's given to them. There's no opportunity for generational wealth that is being handed down to them. They're not going to uh but not only do they not get those farms, but they don't have to work those farms. All right, uh with all of the work that comes uh with that. And and then the Bible says uh that that they were not given any inheritance, no land for for for them, because the Lord God of Israel was their inheritance. And so while initially it may have been a negative thing or or or humanly speaking, or materialistically speaking, uh this this might have been a detriment to them, might it might have hindered them uh uh from from being as wealthy or as prosperous as the other tribes, there was there was an honor that was bestowed on them that was not given to anyone else. Because God says, I'm going to be your inheritance. God looked down at the tribe of Levi and God said to them, You get me. You get me. Wow, think about that, friend. We go into our churches today and we look around and we don't see the wealthiest people in our churches. Every once in a while one of them gets saved, amen. You know, and and and it's pretty amazing. But sometimes we get too caught up with that. You know, you ever wonder why, you know, like the founder of Facebook couldn't be an independent fundamental Baptist, you know what I'm saying? And the founder of Microsoft. Why couldn't he be a sold-out Born-again Christian. You know, he's got so much money he's rolling in it. Uh uh, and and unfortunately most of them are very antagonistic towards the things of God and they donate most of their money to organizations that are doing everything in their power to hinder uh what God would have, you know? Uh but you look around in our churches and and we might not always have the uh the wealthiest people in our churches. We might not always have the the the doctors or the lawyers or the or the most prestigious or I'm talking humanly speaking now we don't look out and we don't always see uh the kind of people that we think we might need in order to build a great church for God, in order to do a great thing for God. But you know what, my friend, can I remind you tonight? We've got God. When you got God, you don't need your children aren't missing out on anything in the world. They've got God. They get an inheritance of far above anything that this world can give them. I want to preach a message entitled No land for Levi. No land for Levi. But let's pray. Father, I do ask for your help now. I pray that you guide my thoughts and my hearts. Lord, I pray that you would encourage your people Strengthen us tonight, Lord. I pray that our faith in you would grow and our love for you and our knowledge of Jesus Christ would Lord, I pray that we would be able to see through the eyes of faith the inheritance that you have for us. as your people and to not look at uh at maybe all of the uh handicaps in life that we might have and might think tonight that man if we just had uh more money or if we just had more people or if we just had more uh earthly uh possessions that we could do a greater work for you. But Lord help us to understand that we have You, when we have a relationship with you, and we've got the Holy Spirit of God indwelling our hearts. Open our eyes, Lord, I pray Do a work that I cannot do. And I pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to look at Levi for a few moments. So if you go back to Genesis, turn back to Genesis chapter number 29 And in Genesis chapter number 29, we have the very first mention of Levi in the Bible. And it's actually a rather sad story. You see, uh Jacob had wanted to marry Rachel And through deceit, his father-in-law Laban had had given him uh Rachel's older sister Leah uh to marry. And so now we find Leah, she's in this marriage. Jacob went ahead and and and married Rachel anyways, and so now he's got two wives, which is never God's plan. Uh but but now he's got two wives here. And Jacob loves Rachel, but he does not love Leah. In fact, if you look in Genesis chapter number 29, the Bible says that Leah was hated. That's a strong, strong word. The Bible says that when the Lord saw, verse number 31 of Genesis chapter number 29, that the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb But Rachel was barren, and Leon Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, Surely the Lord hath looked upon my affliction. Now therefore my husband will love me. Boy, what a what a sad, sad uh uh uh marriage this was. And and and look at verse number 33, she conceived again and bare a son and said, Because the Lord hath heard that I was hated. He therefore given me, he hath therefore given me this son also, and she called his name Simeon. And verse number 34, we find the very first mention of Levi in the Bible. And the Bible says that she conceived again and bare son and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have borne him three sons, therefore his name Therefore was his name called Levi. Levi, his name means attached or joined. That's what his name means. And here this woman is. And she's married to to this man and she's in the same home and no doubt there there's a physical relationship that that is happening because you know she's bearing children and yet despite all of that She was lonely. She was hated. The marriage was not what it should have been. And what a dysfunctional family of this family would turn into being, because Levi from the very beginning uh was off, if you would, on the wrong foot. His mom and his dad were not what they should have been and their relationship wasn't what it should have been And even in his name, you f you find a heart that is broken, a heart that is craving a union, a heart that is craving an attachment, and and even though they're living under the same roof There's this separation that is present in the home. And it doesn't get any better. from there because Levi uh uh even gets started off on the wrong foot and he and it gets even worse. He becomes a a a very Cruel man. If you turn over a few chapters over in Genesis chapter number thirty-four, you'll find that Jacob is is he's going through this this spiritual journey, if that's what you want to call it. He's not doing very well. He's outside of the will of God. He's he's he's just he's doing life under his own wisdom and and following his own His heart and all that stuff. I don't have time to get in all into all of it. And it's affecting his family. And Genesis chapter number thirty-four, because Jacob is not where he's supposed to be, his daughter Dinah The daughter of Leah, Leah, which is, by the way, Levi's mother. So Dinah is Levi's sister, not his half-sister, his sister. They both have the same mother, the same father. She goes, the Bible tells us that she goes into the country, and she went out to see the daughters of the land. And when Shechem the son of Hamar the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her. And lay with her and defiled her. Now later on, uh Shechem wants to treat her with honor, wants to marry her, but Levi Boy, he just couldn't get over it. And so they they they do a very wicked thing. If you look down at verse number twenty-five for sake of time, it says it came to pass on the third day when they were sore that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon And Levi. These are both sons of Leah. Okay? Dinah's brethren Took each man his sword and came upon the city boldly and slew all the males. And they slew Hamar and Shech Shechem his son with the edge of the sword and took Dinah out of Shechem's house and went out And the sons of Jacob came upon the slain and spoiled the city because they had defiled their sister. They took their sheep, their oxen, their asses, and that which they saw in the s which was in the city. And that which was in the field, and all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house. And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me distinct among the habitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Parasites. Listen, some people say, wow, this was noble, but this was not noble what these but what these boys did. Alright, it was cruel. It was vicious And they could not leave justice in the hands of God. They took it into their own hands and they slaughtered innocent people and they stole and they took things that they had no right to steal, not even because their daughter had uh their sister had been defiled. They had gone way above and beyond any of that. And because of that Uh their father said, You made me distinct in the land. By the way, uh we'll get to this a little bit later, but but uh uh uh uh the because of this when Jacob died Jacob did not bless Simeon and Levite. Jacob cursed these boys. All these years later, Jacob did not forgive them for this act of cruelty. And murder and thievery that these boys committed this day is a bad start This is a bad start. This is Levi. This is Levi now. I'm going somewhere with this. I'm going to have to pick it up. Turn with me, if you would, a few chapters over to chapter number 37 Jacob now uh uh has a beloved son, Rachel, the wife whom he loved, uh God opened her womb, and now he has a son named Joseph. And boy, Jacob is he loves Joseph and he favors Joseph and God's hand is with Joseph, but Levi, who is Joseph's half-brother, is in the brethren. Levi doesn't like it Levi is envious of his brother. Levi still has murder in his heart, hatred in his heart, sin that's there. And you can see in chapter 37, verse number 11, that his brethren envied him. Envied him. Envy eat you up, friend. Jealousy will steal your joy and your peace, covetousness, whatever you want to call it. And so they plan, they devise a plan. For sake of time, you look at verse 18. When they see Joseph coming from afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. Levi's included in this group of brethren. Judah talks them out of it in verse number 26, and he says, hey, let's sell them into slavery. Oh, that's a lot better. You can live, but we're going to sell you into slavery. This is Levi. This is Levi Alright? And then we don't find we find Levi mentioned in chapter 49. If you turn over to there, this is Jacob on his deathbed. The verse the first three oldest boys he curses. He curses Reuben because he committed fornication. With uh fornication. He curses Simeon and Levi because of what they did. Verse number five, Simeon and Levi are brethren. Instruments of cruelty are in their habitations. O my soul, come not thou into their secret, unto their assembly, mine honor. Be not thou united, for in their anger they slew a man, and in their self-will they dig down a wall. Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. And so you see that it seems a little bit odd when we come to Joshua chapter number 13. And God says The Lord God is going to be your inheritance. These are some Levi's a wicked man. This is a tribe of people who came from a wicked father. This was This was a uh a people who were under the curse. This was people who from the very beginning uh there was separation when they there should have been union. Hey Friend, does it sound familiar? Does it sound like the condition that you and I were in before we met Jesus? Separated from God because of the sin that we were born in, uh growing up as children of wrath, even as others My friend, I could just go into all of this. This is the condition that you and I were in. This is the start that Levi had But then it changes. Praise the Lord. And it changes when God enters the picture. In Exodus chapter number two, verse number one, this is the next time we find Levi mentioned, it says, And there went out a man of the house of Levi. And took to him a wife, a daughter of Levi, and the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. Wow, you sound familiar? This is the story of Moses. And God's about ready to do a great work of deliverance. And he looked down at a tribe That was corrupt and a tribe that was marked by cruelty and hatred and wrath and sin and separation and curse. And he said, I'm going to send a child. And that child is going to be born into that family. And you know what, friend, let me tell you something. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son made of a woman made in the likeness of sinful flesh. Praise the Lord. He wasn't a sinner. Praise the Lord. He was the pure, righteous, holy Lamb of God. But he came and he was born a goodly child in the midst of a wicked and a perverse nation. Why? So he could bring deliverance. Deliverance from that very sin. Deliverance from that very curse that we were living under. Jesus, out of the mouth of babes and sucklings, has God ordained strength. Born in a manger, held there, a man, not afraid to call us brethren. Boy, I get so excited I just want to start jumping up here. It's a good thing you got a solid pulpit, amen. What a picture of salvation it is, and that's what happened in Levi's case. God saved him. He used Moses to super uh through Moses to deliver his people from the bondage of sin and to deliver them out of that uh that curse that they were living under and the slavery that they were held against and and it was through Moses that they they went through the the the the the the waters of the Red Sea. Are you with me friend? But I want to draw your attention to something that took place after they got saved. If you turn over in Exodus, keep following to Exodus chapter number 32. We find an interesting story, and I believe it's a real turning point in this in the history of this tribe of people You see, Simeon was under the curse, and Simeon was delivered, like the rest of the tribe. But Simeon passed off the scene. I mean they were scattered. They never were able to overcome the curse of their father Jacob, not like Levi was They faded off into obscurity. But what made the difference? What changed? They were delivered from sin. They were saved. But there was a turning point in this tribe. And I believe it comes into play here, and I hope to show it to you tonight Uh uh but but but we find that Moses is up on the on on the holy mountain, Mount Sinai, and God is giving him all of the Ten Commandments and all of these things are happening and God is laying out uh uh his plan and his purpose and uh for his people and and meanwhile down below the children of Israel they they they've they've reverted back to their old ways and they're worshiping a golden calf and that's what So look at verse number fifteen. The Bible says that Moses turned, he went down from the mount, and the two tables of the testimony were his hand, the tables were written on both of their sides, and one side and on the other were written, and the tables were the work of God. And the writing was the writing of God. Praise the Lord for the word of God. Amen. It's more than just the word of man. Graven upon the tables. And when Joshua heard the noise of the people, as they shouted, he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp. And he says, Not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome, but the noise of them that sing do I hear, and it came to pass as soon as he came nigh into the camp that he saw the calf and the the dancing, and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hand, and he break them beneath the mount. Now I want you to drop down, and Moses begins to deal with the sin of these people. Then Moses says this in verse number 20 let's look at verses 25 and 26. When Moses saw that the people were naked, for Aaron had made them naked under their shame among their enemies, then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. Now hear it. And all the sons Of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. And in the midst of an entire nation that had given themselves over to idolatry and wickedness and fornication and drunkenness and whatever else they were doing. Moses stands up and he says, who is on the Lord's, long before they ever entered into the promised land, long before they would ever see victories At Jericho and long before they would ever take down the giants that were living in the land, long before they ever got there, somebody had to take a stand For God, in the midst of a wicked and a perverse nation, in the midst of all kinds of idolatry, and Moses and Joshua are standing there too against everyone. And Moses said, Who is on the Lord's side? And the tribe of Levi stood up. Yeah. And they said, we're on God's side. We stand for God. Can I tell you this, friend? Let me tell you something. You know, we we look around and we think, man, our country's going to the to the devil and it is, and we and we see everything that's happening, but long before you can ever Take on the enemy there, you gotta take a stand in your own family. How are you ever going to stand up for Jesus when you can't even stand up against your fornicating family members. How are you ever gonna take a stand for Jesus when you can't even stand up in the church and our churches are being overrun By worldliness and fornication and we could go on and on and wickedness and God's people can't even stand in the midst of their own people. Levi had to learn. Man, nobody else said, none of my brethren, take a stand. If America doesn't like me, I'm going to stand for Jesus. If my father, if my mother don't like me, I'm going to stand for Jesus. If my brother, my sister, or my cousin, or my auntie, or whatever it is that might be, if they don't like it, I'm still going to stand for Jesus. If everybody in our church is getting into the Star Wars field, I'm going to stand for Jesus. If everybody else wants to listen to all of that junk Music that fills my head with everything that is is ungodly. I'm still gonna stand for Jesus. I don't care if everybody in the church is doing it. Who is on the Lord's side? And it's high time that God's people start drawing a line in the sand. Amen. And say, that's it, man. I'm all in for Jesus. Isn't that what Joshua said? He said, as for me and my house. We will serve the Lord. You can go all the way back to Abraham. You know God said? God said, I know he will order his house aright. I know. He will order his house aright. Let me tell you something, friend. Levi took a stand, and you know, God looked down and said, okay Okay. I'm gonna be their inheritance. Oh I say that. Turn over real quick. I uh bewheel pastor I'll leave time for prayer. Go to go to Deuteronomy chapter number ten. Moses now is getting ready to die. Deuteronomy, the name means second law. He's reviewing the law with the people right before they're going into the into j into the land the promised land. And Moses is reviewing this with them. He's about ready to go up to Mount Nebo. He's not going to end up the promised land with the rest of the children of Israel And and and in in Deuteronomy chapter 9 to 10, Moses is reviewing their history. In chapter 9, he reviews the the fact that they had worshiped the golden calf. Uh he later rev reminds them of how he broke the tables of stone uh and their time of rebellion that took place, right So all of this is going on. Chapter 10, Moses reminds him of how God sent him up in the mountain again to give them a second set of the Ten Commandments, right? So this is the The same time period that we read about in Exodus chapter number thirty-two. And then God says this. Look at verses eight and nine. The Bible says this. At that time. What time? At the time that Moses was going back up to the mountain to get new tables of stone because he broke the first ones When they were worshiping the golden calf, at that time, what time, Pastor? That time when Moses stood up and said, Who is on the Lord's side? And all the children of Israel stood up at that time. The Bible says this. The Lord separated the tribe of Levi to bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord, to minister unto him, and to bless his name. Unto this day. Wherefore, Levi have no part nor inheritance with his brethren. The Lord is his inheritance, according as the Lord thy God promised him. And God said, okay, you're gonna be my people. I'm gonna bless you. I'm gonna be your inheritance. I'm gonna be your inheritance. And blessed they were. For for let me tell you something, friend. They did they didn't have to focus and concentrate on building their wealth. They didn't have to focus and concentrate on the cares of this life. They didn't have to spend all their time worrying about, you know, the donkeys and the sheep and And and the fences and mending the fences and whether the Kubota broke down or not. They got to be with God They got to serve God. They got to be in his presence. They got to sing his praises. They got to see his holy tabernacle. Are you with me, friend? Right. The Lord God was their inheritance. And what a life it was. It was a life of worship. They got to stand before the Lord. They knew his presence. They knew his presence. Not only did they get to worship God, but they got to work for God. This is there, they ministered to the Lord. What a blessing it was that they got to do God's work and they got to labor for the Lord. Thirdly, they also got to witness for the Lord. It says that they got to bless in his name What a testimony they were for God. They would come in, they would serve, they would see his presence, feel his presence, they would be around his tabernacle and the sacrifices, and they would just be in uh lifted up in the Encouraged and then their cities were spread out all over Israel and they would go home and they would tell everybody, man it was great Boy, you should have seen it. Boy, you should have heard that. Boy, we are reading this passage and this passage, and through their testimony and through their witnessing, all of Israel was supposed to be strengthened. All of Israel was supposed to be instructed. That's God's plan and how all of this was supposed to work. Last week we had our Bible conference. I tell you what, what a wonderful time. The preaching was wonderful. The congregational singing was great. The fellowship of the believers. We roasted a whole pig. The food was a marvelous. You say, well, Pastor, where are you bringing this up? Because we all left. Well most did. And you know what? We went back to our jobs and we told everybody, boy, it was great. God was there. Man, He touched my heart. He changed me into man. We heard a sermon on this passage, and we heard a sermon on that, and and we were talking about this, and boy, every and you know what? Across the country right now. People are talking about what happened last week. And that's a that that's friend, that's what it was supposed to be like in Israel. That's what it's supposed to be like in church, too. Man, you're supposed to come in here. You're supposed to get charged. You're supposed to get energized. You're supposed to be fed. You're supposed to sing his praises, and you Supposed to be filled up with God And then you go out into the world and you share and you instruct and you encourage and you witness. People say, Man, I gotta get a little bit of what he got. I need what she has. I have to wrap this up, but I I just want to, by way of application, bring this home. Can I tell you, friend, that the tribe of Levi is a wonderful example of what the Christian church ought to be? You see, you and I were given an inheritance as well. And like Levi, our inheritance does not pertain to this life. We were not promised wealth. We were not promised health. We were not promised Land, farms, prosperity in this life, if you would. None of those guarantees came to the church. But hallelujah, we were blessed with all spiritual blessings. And you read Ephesians chapter number one and the Bible says that we've been given an inheritance among them that are sanctified. The Bible says to open their eyes and To turn them from darkness to light in Acts chapter number 26, from the power of Satan unto sin. Why? So that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them that are sanctified. Hallelujah. Aren't you glad today? You know, we're told that the earnest of that inheritance is none other than God Himself, the Holy Spirit of God, Christ in you, the hope of glory What an inheritance it is. The Holy Spirit of God indwelling your heart, indwelling my heart as the earnest of this wonderful inheritance. I'm here to tell you, friend, that when you got saved You got God as part of the inheritance. When you got saved, the Holy Spirit of God came into your life and brought the life of Jesus Christ in eternal life What an inheritance it is. You can look at the Bible speaks about this in Hebrews chapter number 9, verse number 15. It says it again in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse number 4. And the Bible uses the priesthood. As an example for this, the Bible calls us a royal priesthood. In 1 Peter chapter number 2, verse number 9, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood Priesthood in Revelation chapter number 1, verses 5 and 6, the Bible says that Jesus Christ made you and I both kings and priests. Part of that inheritance, the Holy Spirit of God indwelling in us has enabled us to worship God like we could never worship Him. before when we were in that terrible condition of sin and separation and cursedness. But now, praise the Lord, we worship his holy name. With all that is within us. Let us bless his holy name. And you know, not only we get to worship God, we get to work for God. We get to be a part of his ministry. We get to do and labor. Jesus said, Come unto me, right? Take my yoke upon you and learn of me What a privilege it is to be able to work for Jesus Christ. And not only that, we get to witness for him. We get to bless his holy name. But I want to close with just this thought. If you'll turn to one last passage, I'll take you to 1 Corinthians chapter number 6. Verse number 17. We close with this thought. God sent his Holy Spirit in our hearts And the Bible says this. In verse number 17, in 1 Corinthians chapter number 6. But he that is, what's that next word? Joined unto the Lord is one spirit. There's a remarkable parallel between the book of Ephesians And the book of Joshua. It's amazing. And the book of Ephesians talks about our inheritance. The book of Joshua talks about our inheritance. Book of Ephesians talks about spiritual warfare. Book of Joshua talks about literal warfare. Book of Ephesians talks about adjoining. A husband or wife is a picture of Christ in the church. It says that at the end of chapter 5, Book of Ephesians, wherefore shall a man leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, cleave unto his wife, as the book of Genesis says. Right? And go all the way back full circle to how this story started with a with a woman. Who was empty and lonely, and wanted nothing more than to have the heart of her husband, to be joined And when she bore that son Levi, she thought, now my husband will be joined unto me You know the whole purpose for why God saved us, the whole purpose for why God made us a priesthood and gave us an inheritance It's not so that we could just revel in the mystery of it all, in the glory of it all, or the wonder. But the whole purpose is so that we would be joined. with him. One day Christ and his church are gonna be joined together. And you know what? That's gonna be worth it. You can have your money, you can have your farms, you can have your generational wealth. You can have your your your your diplomas and your plum. You can have it all. Because I got God. I got God. The Lord is his inheritance. No land, no land for Levi