Amen. You can turn your Bibles tonight to Luke chapter twelve. Thank you, Orchestra. It is a blessing having you guys play along, especially as we're learning songs. That really does help a lot. Read our text first here. The nice thing about me turning slow is that it gives you guys plenty of time, right? So we see here in Luke chapter 12, beginning in verse number 16, we're going to read down through verse number 20. The Bible says, and he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentiful. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room wherewith to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I'll pull down my barns and build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast made, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine eat, ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? I'm going to preach to you tonight a message that I preached the first time on April twenty-first, twenty fifteen. I have not repeated it since then, although I've been asked to numerous times. I'm going to preach this in honor of Miss Kim tonight. She asked me for this message many times. I think it's one that really does bear repeating, but because it was so memorable, it really didn't seem like it'd been 20 years, or 10 years, I mean, since we since I preached it. When I look back at how long it had been, I thought it was time. In 1953, Harry and Joseph Klein bought what is the Phoenix Candy Company from Charles, its founder. Harry and Joseph were dissatisfied that Phoenix Candy could only operate nine months out of the year because the hot summer months made it very difficult to make and produce candy. dealing with sugars and how things run. They just couldn't make candy. They were really disturbed with that. So they upgraded their equipment in 1962 and started mass-producing their latest creation. Called the Now and Later. Last time I preached this, I gave everybody now and later. The problem is is it's not as popular of a candy anymore and they're very hard to get. I couldn't find anything locally that I could pick up in the last couple of days and I looked online as well and the choices of trying to get some here were were slim, so I don't have any now and laters for you. But Benny Klein, Benny's father and Harry's brother, named the candy Now and Later. Vinny says, I was 11 years old when my father named that taffy. It was based on the desire to hoard candy. You could eat some now and save some for later. Of course, going back into those days, the candy was typically sold in the soda shops and stuff like that, where it was in a jar and you took a piece of candy and basically you had to eat it. I mean it's loose open candy, you not stick it in your pocket. And so there wasn't near as much pre-packaged and ready-to-travel candy available. And so They produced this very popular candy now and later that would save. You could keep it. You could stick it in your pocket and you could hold it and keep it till later. What I want to do tonight, though, is to look at this idea of now and later and the aspect of the passing of time. And living our lives conscious of the later, even though we're living now. We are in a day in which instant satisfaction and gratification is ever more present. People do not like to wait till later. They're willing to sacrifice the later for satisfaction in the now. It's not new. You go to any child today or 25 years ago and you offer them a candy bar now or five dollars tomorrow 99% of them are going to take the candy bar right now. Like I'll take the candy bar right now. I mean the $5 tomorrow, $10 tomorrow, whatever. It doesn't register to them, to them, this is right in front of me. This is now, this is what I want. I'll take the candy bar now. Beloved, we need to live our lives with later in view. If you take a man who comes home from a long day at work and he sits down in a chair and his wife says to him, I can have throw in a pizza and it can be ready in fifteen minutes. Or I'll be happy to make your favorite meal, it's going to take two hours. He says, what kind of pizza are we having? It's it's That long-term delay and and waiting till later many times is not something that we're interested in, but I want you to know later always comes And so we must live our lives today with later in mind. And we have this story in Luke chapter 12, which we read about this rich man. God calls him a fool and says, This night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall these things be which thou hast provided? Here was a man who was living for the now who looked at what he had acquired and thought, well I'll take my ease, eat and drink and be merry. I think I'm just going to uh live the high life and God says, hey, your life's over You were not living for the later. You were living for the now, and ultimately he lost it all. The Bible tells us in Galatians 6, 7, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth That shall he also reap. Can I tell you that we could read that this way? Be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth now, that shall he also reap later. If we could just learn to live the present with the future in mind, it would transform our now. There has been times in my life that situations and circumstances have arisen and I've given you the illustrations before and I don't need to go over those again, but there's been things that I have done that I regretted greatly. Can I tell you if I could have gone to the end of that road and seen myself there in the later? In the reaping stage, if I could have put myself in that place, way back here at the beginning, when I thought this was a good idea, I would have never taken the first step. And I tell you, if we took you down to the Skid Road tonight and walked the streets and got to see men laying on the streets. maybe even in their own vomit and their bodies literally killing themselves because of the withdrawals that they're going through. If they if if you could get a picture of the later, that man would have never took the first taste of drugs. It's men live with the now I want to escape now. I want to be free now. I want to uh not carry this burden now and so I'm just gonna drink myself into oblivion I'm just gonna dope myself into uh uh not being able or not having to think about this I'm not gonna go down that road but what they are not considering is the later If I could get you to think about standing your daddy's grave. With sorrow in your heart. Saying, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But it's too late He's gone. He can't hear your cries or pleas. If we could just put later in mind, it would help us to stay right with God now. If I could get men and women and boys and girls to think about their families in the face of later When you have been caught in sin, the pain, the suffering, the heartache, the shame. Bearing all of that, if we could see that when we're over here, we would never have looked at that pornography. We would have never entertained that friendly conversations over the water cooler or through the internet. We would have never sought that what we knew to be an ungodly relationship. If we could see the end road, we would never have done it. If we could just think about the time when life's a mess, and we're living with wasted years and lost time that we'll never get back. Maybe we should stay right with God today. When we become eighty or ninety years old and our life has been wasted on half-hearted, lukewarm, casual Christianity And our heart's desire at that point is, boy, I want to do something great for God. Boy, I wish I had energy to do something for God. I wish I had strength. But now I no longer have the physical capacity to do for God like I want. But it's too late. Maybe we would get busy for God now. If you want to sit together one day with your loved ones with joy and satisfaction. Maybe we would stay right now. If we want to stand before an Almighty God one day and hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Maybe we'd stay right today. If you want to have a husband that'll love you and cherish you and a wife that will lift you up and support you and walk with you through it all. Maybe we would stay right with God today because we must live with later in mind. Be not deceived. God is not mocked for whatsoever man soweth now That shall he also reap later. This is not as much a lesson on sowing and reaping, and I'm not going to belabor the fact, but I just want to remind you that we always reap. You will always reap. You're always going to reap in kind. You're going to reap what you sowed. We cannot expect to be reaping blessings if we have sown sin. You're going to reap in multiples. You always reap more than yourself. You plant a few grains of corn and you get a stalk with many ears, and those ears have thousands of corn on them. You always reap more than you sow. And you always reap in due season. Maybe not in our plant season, maybe not when we think that it would happen, but I want you to know you always reap after you sow. And God knows when. I believe that we are today, right now, reaping Some things that we have sown yesterday, or last week, or last year. We are each and every day both sowing and reaping Both sowing and reaping takes place in our life every day. And if we would keep in mind and consider The later, it would behoove us and motivate us to show some right things now. Because, beloved, the principle that you reap in kind is true whether you're sowing good or evil. We often consider, be not deceived, God is mocked not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And we often apply it to that sowing of sin, and you're going to reap and bl beloved, your your chickens are going to come home to roost and boy, you better watch out for God because you've gone and done this. But the the fact of the matter is, is the promise and the principle is still true and you can sow righteousness as well as wickedness. You can show kindness as well as cruelty, purity as well as impurity, love as well as hatred Doing God's will as well as doing my own will. And beloved, that is good news that we will reap If we sow right things, we can down the road reap blessed things. This really is Could be just an extension of the conclusion of the message this morning. That we are acknowledging that God is the Master. And he is directing and leading our steps. And as we yield to him and submit to him and do what he desires. He is our exceeding great reward. And that reward that we stand in awe of one day, it does not come to that if we're living our own life. It only comes to that as we are submitted to Him and we are sowing right things, then we get the blessing of reaping those magnificent things. I want to just encourage you to so write things in your prayer life. James chapter 5, verse number 13 through 20 says, If any among you are afflicted, let him pray. Is any merry, let him sing psalms. If any sick among you, let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick. And the Lord shall rise him up, raise him up, and he shall have committed, and if he had committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, pray one for another that you may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Can I tell you, beloved, many people want to reap the results of prayer, but they're not willing to sow time in prayer. We want to see power in our lives. We want to see God do magnificent things. We want the results of prayer, but not willing to sow time in prayer. If we desire to see the results, we must invest the energy and time we must sow and we can look at it and take it to the bank that God has said ye are gonna reap if you'll sow then if we'll take that time and invest it in prayer and begin to sow that God will deliver those things to you. Just this week, one of our friends texted a couple of quotes about prayer. He said, prayer and praise are the oars by which men row their boat into the deep waters of the knowledge of Christ. Through prayer and praise. He said prayer is the slender nerve that moves the muscle of the omnipotent. Beloved, if we want to reap the results of prayer, we've got to sow time in prayer. Could I encourage you tonight to sow good things in your family? Your prayer life, your family life? Kids, the Bible says, children obey your parents and the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with promise. That it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. That's a promise from God And when we sow right things, there God is saying to us, listen, if you're sowing this right thing here, you're going to reap. Later. You're going to reap the reward, the benefit that it's going to be well with thee, that your life is going to be well. It's going to be blessed by God. And we have the privilege of seeing that result. If way back here we'll say, okay, I'm just going to honor. And then God over here rewards. But we don't get here by accident, by neglecting this I tell you, husbands and wives, the Bible says in Ephesians 5. 21 through 23, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God, wife, submitting yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and as the Savior is the body. Wives living in a biblical submission to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives. He goes on 25 through 28: Love your wives even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot a wrinkle or at any such thing but that it should be holy and without blemish, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. Do you hear him saying this, and you can you can reap. You can reap some amazing blessings If you just do it God's way. The sad reality is many homes are literally ripped apart because husbands and wives have Back over here began sowing the wrong things. They began sowing mistrust. They began sowing bitterness. They began sowing unforgiveness. They began sowing cruelty, they began sowing distance, they began showing uh snarky comments, they began sowing poor communication, they began sowing And over here they're wondering, how did we get here? How did this loving, compassionate, caring relationship get to the place where I can't stand them? It's because over here you began sowing the wrong things. But beloved, if we would overhear so love, concern, compassion, communication, forgiveness. understanding, cooperation. If we would show these things here, we were going to reap those things in return down here. It's such a powerful truth that transforms our life. But we think we can just live over here however we want, and somehow over there it's going to work out. Somehow it's going to be okay But we get over here and we find it's a mess and many people wonder why Because however long ago, we began sewing the wrong stuff I heard this week just a small tidbit of information, but husbands and wives that want to keep a right relationship, there's two things you need to remember. The power of touch. and direct eye-to-eye communication. They said husbands and wives stop looking each other in the eye and communicating and they stopped touching each other And they slowly drift apart. I'm not gonna say it. I was gonna talk about touch in a little bit, but I'm not gonna do that. I enjoy touching her though. That's all I'm gonna say. It's fun to sneak the opportunity when the kids aren't looking. I need to shut up now. So So in our giving. So in our giving. You guys know the principle. I'm not going to spend much time here, but give and it shall be given unto you in good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that you meet, wherewithal shall be measured to you again. Beloved, we know what the Bible says. You cannot give God. You sow with your giving, and God will bless you. Amen You'll get down here, and some people will wonder, how did this happen? And you'll just look, I look at my life And I I'm not wealthy by any means, but I feel like God has blessed me. And I've told you before, I've always had the ability to go out and make money if I needed money. But I don't think that's because I'm especially gifted. I think it's because from the time that I was two weeks old, my dad put me in the nursery and he said, here's his two quarters for the offering. And through the entirety of my life, even as a teenager, when I was running from God and didn't want anything to do with God, I was tithing to God. I was still giving. I believe that God blesses that. And I look at my life and see God taking me to places and s and you know just his goodness to me, I just I'm just amazed. And God will do that for anybody that will honor Him with their increase. You can't outgive God. But just sow in our giving. Sow the right thing. You need to show the right thing in your public life. How you handle yourself in the public space and Nowadays that would be online. I didn't have any notes in here about that in 2015 when I when I spoke on this. A little less uh prevalent, not that it wasn't there, but I mean it seems like social media has just grown exponentially. But hand how do you handle yourself in your public life? So the right things. Be careful about what you're putting out there You understand it's out there man, it's gonna be there forever. Some people think, oh, I want to post this right now, I want the world to see this, and then uh six months later They're no longer with that girl. But that picture of them and that girl are up there. That that relationship's all over the internet. You know, you just Be careful. Use some wisdom about what you're sticking out there. Be careful how you handle yourself at work Ephesians 6 verses 5 through 8 says, Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, and singleness of heart as unto Christ Not with eye service as men pleasers, but with servants of Christ do the will of God from the heart, with good will doing service as unto the Lord and not unto men. Listen, knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bound or free. He says, regardless of whether your position is a position of servitude, or you're just serving out of the kindness of your heart, whether you're bond or free, that is not what the difference is. When you serve a person as unto the Lord, when you give that 110%, God will come back and give it to you again. You say, well, that place they don't deserve my best, or that that place of employment is, they're taking advantage of me, or whatever. But God's not. And God's the one that's keeping score. God is the one that's watching. Be careful how you handle your enemies. Romans chapter 12, 19 through 21 says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him, if he thirst, give him drink, for in so deeming thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head Listen, you guys know it, but be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. That's sowing and reaping. That's living now in a correct way so that you'll reap correctly in the later. You see, you understand that what he says there, he says, if you just give evil for evil, you're just going to continue to get more evil. Yours what you're sowing and that's what you're going to reap is more evil, but how do you stop this cycle of evil? You start doing good. You start doing good, and that overcomes it, and then all of a sudden somebody else might still be doing evil, but as you are doing good, all of a sudden down the road you start reaping good It doesn't even necessarily make sense, but it's how it works because that's what God says. Living now for later. In every area of our life. Beloved, if we could just think about Later. Think about later. Think about when the whole church finds out. About the sin you've been in. God already knows Think about when your family or loved ones, who yes, still love you. But they learn what you've been involved in, the direction you headed Beloved, if we could just keep that in mind. So many times we just we we we block it out because what we want is right now. This is what I want right now. This is what feels good to me right now. This is what I desire right now. Yeah, it takes some discipline. But beloved, if we would live for the later, we would stand over here rejoicing in the goodness and the blessings of God which are our results. of having lived correctly over there. Today, we're reaping, whether that's a blessing or burden, based off of what we did over there. And tomorrow or next week or next year, we're going to be reaping what we're doing today. If you right now don't enjoy what you're reaping, then what we need to do is change what we're sowing. That's the marvelous thing about our Savior. He is the God of everlasting chances. And we can draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you. We can turn back to him and change what we're sowing every day We're not going to reap tomorrow. You always sow after. But if we change what we're sowing, we're going to start reaping the blessing. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed, sir?