Well, I was debating on what passage of scripture to use as a text for this evening because there's a lot of directions that we could go. I'm going to read for you Song of Solomon chapter three and verse number four, just by way of introduction. Uh the Bible says here, it was but a little that I passed from them, but I found that's on But I found him whom my soul loveth. I held him, and I would not let him go. Amen. If you know the book of Song of Solomon, there are people that attribute the discussion in the Song of Solomon to uh Israel and God and that relationship there and you can apply it to that if you'd like to, but I believe that taken correctly, Song of Solomon is really a discussion between a young lady and a young man and who are betrothed to one another and the love that they have for each other and their their eventual marriage and union And that that just expressions of love over and over through the Song of Solomon. Uh like Brother Brennan was saying, that's one of the books he skipped over in his family devotions. He didn't want to read read that with his kids, you know. But he just skipped over some of that. Uh so this is not in description of of God's love for us, but it is Literally these statements as this evening we are going to look at the second in the series More Than a Song. And look at our theme song for this month that we're reading, O Love singing O Love that Will Not Let Me Go. Oh, I would be very discouraged if somebody went away saying that Pastor Caleb is preaching from the song book. Uh I want to be sure and and reiterate that that is not the intention, that is not where we're drawing these truths from What we're doing is we're looking at the doctrine, at the Word of God, the foundation of the truth that inspired the song that was written about the Bible. And so we want to learn the biblical. truth that inspired the songs that are so moving for us that they teach us about God's love and they uh remind us of that love Love and they minister to our soul, and we're still singing them today, some of them hundreds and hundreds of years after they were originally written. They certainly have a timeless truth that they're shared, and that timeless truth comes from the Word of God. And so we want to point back to the Word and remind us of the truth of it and where it comes from. Now, this song that we're looking at, O Love That Will Not Let Me Go, was written by George Matheson. Beginning to lose his sight at an early age, he went on to university, becoming completely blind before he finished school. He went on to become a well-known and beloved minister of the gospel. He served others in spite of or through his blindness. He pinned many things, used the power of the pen to influence people, despite or even through Through his blindness. The events that led him to write this particular song, O Love That Will Not Let Me Go, by his own words, is this He said, My hymn was composed in the messy that I had to look up. I thought was that the mess hall or or what was that? So he said my hymn that was composed in the Mancy On the evening of June 6, 1882, I was at the time alone. It was the day of my sister's wedding. The rest of the family were staying overnight in Glasgow. Something had happened to me, which was known only to myself, and which caused me the most severe mental suffering. The hymn was the fruit of that suffering. It was the quickest bit of work I ever did in my life. I had the impression, rather, of having it dictated To me by some inward voice than of working it out myself. I am quite sure that the whole work was completed in five minutes. And equally sure that it never received of my hands any retouching or correction. This night was the night of his sister's wedding. And some believe the thing that Provoked this mental anguish was an event that took place many years earlier, for as a young man when he was in university He was in love with a young lady. And she finding out that he was not just losing his eyesight but was going to go blind, she let him go. She left him. And on this night, his sister's wedding It's believed that quite possibly that entire event was brought back to his memory. We don't know that for sure, but we know it was something that provoked him to pin the words that are still ministering to people today. I would like to look at the Word of God at several passages of scripture here and just want you to understand that love is Is God. For God is love. We want to look first of all here at how the Bible describes love. Let's look at a a few passages of scripture and there is uh what I found eight different descriptions of love that are given to us, uh very easily seen. So turn your Bibles to Luke chapter seven. Luke chapter seven. There are two of them listed here in Luke seven, verse number forty-seven. In Luke 7, 47, this passage of scripture he says, Wherefore I say unto thee, for sins Which are many are forgiven. For she loved much, but to whom little is forgiven The same loveth little. So there's two types of love described here. You have the there's little love, and there's much love. So turn to Ephesians chapter two and verse number four. Ephesians two and verse number four. The Bible says, but God, who is rich in mercy for his great love. Wherewith he loved us. So we see here a great love that is described for us. Little love, much love, great love in John chapter 15 and verse number 13. You don't have to turn there. That's a familiar verse. That's the verse that says that it's hard for me to even I I wanted to leave the first part off. Then a man laid down his life for his friend. It was hard for me to remember that without saying the first part. But what does that first part say? Greater love. Greater love. No man has greater love than this, and a man laid down his life for his friend. So you see there's greater love described. We've got great love, little love, much love, greater love. Now in Hebrews chapter 13, in verse number 1, we're admonished and encouraged there. With a type of love that should be present in the church. He tells us, let brotherly love continue. There's a brotherly love. There's that that brotherly love. You know, when you uh I was up at the funeral yesterday and there was a lot of people there, people I knew, people from all over the country were there. I was shocked, surprised. Um but But uh anyways, you know, you see these guys that you haven't seen in a long time, you kinda do the the man hug, you know, the the the the from a distance, you know, kinda like you shake hands and like hey good to see you You know, yeah. I mean we're not big time embracers, but you haven't seen these guys in a long time and of course you're gathering for this occasion, which is not the reason you want to be getting together But uh you you br embraced and just man, it's good to see you. And uh we're just here to comfort Brother Dunbar and and minister to him in any way we can can and uh you know but you have that brotherly love that's supposed to be among one another. Then in first Peter chapter one. First Peter chapter one. We only have a couple more of these. But I want you to see 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 22. There's two types of love described here in 1 Peter 1. And twenty-two. He says, See ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love. So Unfeigned would be not fake, you know, not superficial. And he goes on to describe it a little greater where he says, seeing that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. So there's not fake love, and there's fervent love described here in this passage. And in first John chapter four and verse number eight, you may be able to find some others, but these are the ones that I found in chose to bring tonight just in describing love throughout the Bible. And we see he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. So I think here you could say this is perfect love. This is the love that God has, which is a perfect love, a love that we have yet to understand, but we are privileged to experience. Amen? It is our blessing to have the perfect love of God shed upon our hearts and our lives. For us to know that love, God is the only one that has perfect love. The love that He has for us, I think, is greater and deeper than any one of us could even understand. Gene Edwards in his book, the title of The Divine Romance, he says this. He explains it in a way that is kind of up there with C. H. But you read guys like this and you just Like sitting wow. So here I'm I'll try and read this to you where you can grasp what he's saying. He says, but that was not all. There was something else in him. Something that was very much his nature, the very evident essence of his being, an element in him so vast it matched Nay, exceeded all other elements of his being combined. The very essence of God, this He was love. Passionate, emotional, expressive love. And in this God dwelling so alone, so all alone There was no flaw, flaw, but there was a paradox. For though he was all alone, he also loved. Within the Trinity of the Godhead. There was an ever-exchanging expression of love. But there was no counterpart for him to love. A love so vast and so powerful was pulsating within his unchanging God. Yet there was no other than for him to love. And so, captivated within this paradox, he dwelt until. And he goes on to describe that God created the entirety of this universe. And in the midst of this great beauty and all that God created, he put his crowning achievement, man. So that he would have someone that his very essence of love could be Shown to. That is the love of God for us. Matheson described this unchanging love. In his first verse there, O love that will not let me go. It's a love that will not let you go. There there is So many in this life that have let us down over time. There's so many that have come and gone. There's been friends that said that they would always be there and they're no longer friends, and there's been many hearts racked with the pain of divorce because a love that they thought for sure was going to be forever is no more. And the sad thing is, is in this world we will know that, but the one the greatest truths that we as God's people grab a hold of is the truth that God loves us with a love that will not let us go That He has an unchanging and an unending love for you and I, that verse that has we have all drawn so much comfort from that He will never leave you and He will never forsake you, knowing that He loves us this way. Romans 8 35 through 39 describes it this way. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecutions or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. Beloved, you understand tonight there is nothing that you can do that will make God love you anymore. And there is nothing that you can do that will make God love you any less than he already does. Yes, he can be disappointed in us. But the amazing thing is how God loves with us. And he still loves you with all of that love, even in the midst of his own heart breaking over our sin. That That's the perfect love that God shows to you and I. It is a perfect love that allows us to rest, gives us calm assurance. And ministers to the weary soul. Matthew 11, 28 says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. John fourteen twenty-seven says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. This is the peace that we have with God. But beloved Matheson's song does not stop there. It goes on. You see, he's made very aware of the fact that because God loved us so much, that puts a responsibility on us. He says in his song, I give thee back the life I owe, that in thine ocean depths it flow may richer Fuller be. He says, I understand that God has loved me so much that there is upon me a responsibility to show that love back to Him. So we know that the love of Christ is displayed to us in immeasurable and innumerable ways, but we, as God's people, should be showing our love back to Him. By our obedience. Ephesians chapter 5, if you would turn there with me. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 through 4 describes for us what we should be doing. If we're going to be showing our love to him. He says in Ephesians chapter 5, beginning in verse number 1, he says, Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love. As Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. Fornication and uncleanliness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness nor foolishness Talking or jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving thanks. You see, beloved, he says we are are as followers of Christ to be walking in love. There's contrast given here in just these first few verses. There is the positive aspect of walking in love and the negative aspect of avoiding those things that as Christians we are not to be a part of. And as we are displaying our love for Christ, we will be walking in love. And we will be avoiding these things that God would not have us to be a part of. We are to walk in love as Christ loved us. Paul uh talks about the Christian life many times in the Christian Christian life. He talks about how we're walking. It is a journey. We're we're on this trip. We are walking. And we know, beloved, that our walk talks louder than our talk talks, doesn't it? What we do says a whole lot more than what we say. Therefore, our life is one that's supposed to be as followers of Christ, one that we are walking in love. Walking as a follower of Christ means that Jesus has made a change in your life That our life is different now because now we're followers of Christ. We have put down our nets. We've let go of what was. We we we've turned from that and we Followed Christ. Whatever that is, and be a follower of Christ is to do what Christ would have us to do Has Christ made a change in your life? Have you modified your way of living to line up with Jesus Christ as a follower of Him? Are you walking in love? Love with God and the love of Christ shining through you? That's what we're saying. supposed to be doing. I asked my kids last night as I had been pondering and thinking about this, and so as we finished up our devotions yesterday evening. I said to my kids, I says, uh I want each of you to give me a practical illustration about walking in love. It wasn't last night. It was Friday night. Timothy's like, I don't remember that. He wasn't here Friday night. It was Friday night, not uh not last night. So I said I want you to give me an illustration of walking in love. What does it mean to walk in love? Theologically, not just doctrinally. I said I said, let's let's get it down to rubber meets the road. Where what does it mean to walk in love? And so they started kicking around ideas and started feeding each other uh you know some thoughts and and uh feeding off of each other, just describing. But do you know, young people, when you're walking in love, you're not going to be a part of tearing down another Christian at church. You're not going to be a part. You know, young people, especially children, can be very mean to one another. They can, uh, downstairs in the gym, one person misses a shot. Every one of us have missed 10,000 shots. And so one kid misses a shot, and what do the other kids do? They try and belittle them, right? Do you understand if you're walking in love, you're not going to be a part of that. You're not going to jump on that bandwagon and try and hurt somebody else to make yourself This is what we are doing. This is what because Christ loved us so much, we are behooved and challenged to walk in love, and that means we're going to be careful we are going to be showing the love of Christ in situations like that. Walking in love is When you're on your way to church and you have an agenda, you have a direction, you have a plan, you're you you're planning to be there at a certain time. And you get a call that your brother just hit a tree. And you say, oh well I gotta get to church. No, walking in love is saying, you know what, my plans are out the window. What I want to do to do is done. I'm gonna stop. I'm gonna go check on him. I'm gonna make sure he's okay. We're gonna give him a ride to church. We're going to show the love of Christ. What I had planned, what was on my agenda, is not as important as showing the love of God right now. I don't know why God wanted me to drive five hours up to a funeral, to be honest with you. I mean I don't always do what God wants. I should, but you know No, I'm just human. But I I really felt that God wanted me to go. It was a long trip for an hour and a half funeral. But that's walking in love. That's showing the love of Christ. That's being there in somebody's hour of need. And I I just really felt that that's what God wanted me to do. Walking in love as a parent When you you do what is best for your child, not what is easiest for your child. You understand? What's easiest for your child is to let them do what they want. What's easiest for your child is to not argue with them or to not stop them, but just let them behave how they would like to. But what's best for them is when you as a parent discipline When you as a parent train, when you as a parent guide, do you know the iPad, although it is a convenient babysitter, is not the best babysitter? Now I can preach on that because when we were when our kids were little there were no iPads. So we didn't have that affliction because that wasn't something You know, they they were pretty much grown by the time. Now we I'll tell you what we did for family devotions on occasion uh use the iPad and watch some Bible story Uh for the kids to watch a Bible story and and you know that just not every night, not even like sometimes maybe once a week, you know, for a month or so we would do that and then we wouldn't do it for a while. And then we would do it again. Uh but listen, I've seen many, many parents a lot of times they're just, oh, here you go. You can you can play with this because it will keep them out of your hair. Because it will will keep them busy because then you don't have to control them or worry about them. But listen, that's not what's best for them. Walking in love is saying, I know this isn't convenient. I know this is hard. You know one of the hardest things when you're a dad and you're sitting in your chair? After a long day of work and you're comfortable and that two-year-old is in the other room screaming. And you say, I wish you would discipline your child. No, one of the hardest things is to get up. You don't want to go discipline them. You don't want to go take care of it. You don't want to you don't you you you just want it to go away to be okay because you just want to be done with it, right? But doing what's best, walking in love, is to go take care of it To go say you can't act this way. This is not okay. And I want you to know that mom and dad are going to Deal with this when you try and act this way. Walk in in love. Walking in love, beloved, is when a church member A brother or sister in Christ begins to gossip about another brother or sister in Christ. Unless it's something positive about them, I don't want to hear it. You can tell me how good of a Christian they are, you can tell me how good of a soul winner they are, you can tell me how much they read their Bible, you can you can sh but I Listen, this thing of gossip has destroyed so many believers. And hurt so many churches. And it is a tool that Satan uses and it just spreads and it it it permeates the church and that's not walking in love. Walking in love is saying, Hey, I love them. Are they everything that they should be? Probably not. But neither am I. And we are all sinners By grace, trying to serve God together. And I'm not gonna let you bring division between members or people in the church. This is where rubber meets the road. This is what walking in love is. You could generally say, oh yeah, we should walk in love and everybody says Amen. But this is what it really is. Walking in love, beloved. is what I beheld yesterday at the funeral when a man whose wife is laying in the casket Tells me you see that person right over there? They've been coming to church for a long time. And and they have the same birthday as my wife and they're lost. Would you pray they get saved today? You see that person right there? There are relative We've been praying for him for 35 years. Would you pray he gets saved today? Walking in love is somebody who, in the midst of their own pain, says, this is not about me right now. Now this is about the work that God wants to do and we want to be a part of seeing God do it. That's what walking in love is. That is only possible when it is the love of God that is flowing through us. Because that doesn't come natural to the carnal, wicked heart of men. Be ye therefore followers of God. A follower, beloved, is an imitator. Just like kids, they love to imitate Mom, they love to imitate dad. Carrying around dad's tools or walking in dad's shoes or wearing an apron like mom and Trying to make up some food and just imitating. Well, we're to be imitating Christ. God, who is love. So we should love. Because God forgives. We should Forgive. Because God is holy. We should be holy. We are to be imitators of God. There are many more truths that are shared in the following verses: O joy that seekest me through pain I cannot close my heart to thee. It's the joy that God brings. We know that joy that we have does not come from our circumstances. It's the joy of the Lord. That's with us even in the midst of pain. He says, I trace the rainbow through the rain. The promises of God, and although we're in the time of Although we're in the time of pain, we trace the rainbow. We can see the hand of God. We can see his blessing, and we can understand what it is that He is doing. O cross that liftest up my head. I dare not ask to fly from thee. Beloved, sometimes we have a cross we're supposed to To bear. I believe that this is what he's describing here. He's saying, I I dare not ask that that cross be removed. I dare not ask that that pain be removed It's not my agenda or my goal. I understand that I have a cross to bear. I lay in dust life's glory dead. And from the ground their blossom red. Life shall endless be. At the end of this life, beloved, whatever it has or carries for us. One day we'll spring up. The dead in Christ are going to rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. We're going to see them again. Death is not the end for us. And we have eternity with God and all of his glory to look forward to. And it's because of the love of God that we have that. For God so loved that he gave. And that's the love that's described in this song, O Love That Will Not Let Me Go. It's not just to ponder and think about the love of God, which is rich and pure, but it's to motivate us. To love him and love others like he does. They'll stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.