Alright, good morning everybody. If you would take your Bibles, open them up to Acts chapter number four. Acts chapter four is where we're going to begin today. We're going to be kind of bouncing through the book of Acts. I have a couple other passages that I'll read, but We're going to be mainly sticking around in here. We're going to start Acts chapter 4. So uh as Pastor Cabe was talking about, I have been given the opportunity to teach Sunday school this week. We were supposed to have Dr. Keller, but you know they decided it'd be wise for him to wait and gain some strength Um so I have been able to teach Sunday school before, but this is the most time I've ever had to work with. So I'm thankful to see a lot of food back there. You know, in case we just need a we need a few minutes at the end, you know, you guys can go and get seconds or maybe first depending on where you were. But uh I'm I'm glad that I'm glad to have this opportunity. I'm I I was glad to hear when Pastor Caleb was talking about having the ministry of having different men in the church come and teach Sunday school because it it really is a good thing for people in the church to be able to go and to to study the Bible for themselves. And and to have that kind of opportunity to go up and present something that you've had to study out and that you've ha you've had to prepare, a a church will be better for having more people that know how to do that. And so I'm I'm glad that I'm glad to be able to have this opportunity. I'm glad that others will be able to get this opportunity. Now I will say that studying to teach a lesson uh for me has been very different than studying to preach a message. Um preaching a message it it's it's a lot preaching directs a lot more towards the heart than than maybe teaching does. You know, that it's something that is made to kind of spur us on to biblical decision. And uh Through some different circumstances I did an internship at my church when I was right out of high school and um I was able to preach uh once a week for several months. And that was one thing I learned about preaching is that is that you really should you know th like any good essay spoken, written otherwise, there's kinda one point, you know, maybe you pull it out of a verse. And you're directing towards that. And you're trying to get people to understand something from the Bible. And any good preacher is going to incorporate teaching. But teaching is a lot different than preaching. And I'm not discounting the importance of preaching at all. I mean in First Corinthians the the Bible talks about how preaching is i i is to those that are saved the power of God and how that it pleases God. It's we see that in First Corinthians. But I will say that preaching sometimes is is looked at as more important than teaching. But teaching is just as much a part of the Great Commission as preaching is. I mean you could say that we preach people to Jesus but then we're commanded to teach them about him. And so um like I said, preaching is just a little more fun. I think teaching gets a bad rap because preaching is a little more fiery, it's a little bit more exciting. And Sunday school is kinda looked at as the extra church hour, but it it isn't the extra church hour because it is where the word of God is is taught. And let's just be honest, there are some passages that teach a little better than they preach. Um as an example, so the the man who teaches the adult and teens Sunday school at my church. Um, is my pastor's dad. His name is Pops, uh so-called because his oldest granddaughter is about my age, so anybody my age and below, he became a grandpa and they just started calling him Pops. So that's That's that's yeah, I mean he's the candyman at our church. Everybody loves him. But he teaches our adult Sunday school class. And so when I entered that class at the age of fourteen, I believe he was teaching through uh Abraham He was just kind of finishing up the story of Abraham and at the end of Genesis. And uh from there he just went on and he's been teaching basically through the Bible. And when I left for college, I think we were just getting to the point where the Israelites were beginning to conquer the promised land. And so I mean you you you can imagine but all those books in there, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, th those don't necessarily preach all that much sometimes, but in go getting to go through that and hear them taught on There are a lot of biblical principles that he was able to draw out of things that are sometimes even hard to read or hard to understand that have been instrumental in my Christian growth, instrumental in in in my Christian walk and and understanding things about the Lord that I maybe not have gotten otherwise because sometimes those books get kind of glossed over things. And so when we come to this time of teaching, I mean this is when this is everything that God wants us to know. And we're commanded to preach the whole counsel of God, and I think a part of that is is teaching the whole counsel of God. I say all that to just say that I'm glad you're here in Sunday school this morning. I'm I'm glad you're able to come. I'm glad I was able to go through and and study something out. Um when Pastor had originally talked about having different men in the church teach Sunday school. He mentioned that, you know, they could just kind of go over and and go through something and maybe the Lord was teaching them about or something they they had read in their Bible reading. And the verses, part of the verses that we're going to look at today were the ones that immediately popped into my mind. Because Who we're talking about today is a man who he's mentioned twenty-nine times in the New Testament, and almost every single one of those times he's mentioned in a positive light. And he and he is he is a character that honestly can be looked up to and admired and he's put in the Bible I believe so that we can look at the example of his life. And we're going to be talking about Barnabas this morning. So Now that I've finished my dissertation on the importance of Sunday school, as I said, we're going to be in Acts chapter four because this is the first place that we see Barnabas mentioned in the Bible. And truthfully this this lesson it's changed a lot since I I began uh writing it. Um because When I originally went, I was looking in Acts chapter eleven, verse twenty-three and twenty-four, and there it talks about how Barnabas caused the people at the the body of believers at Antioch to cleave unto the Lord, and how many people were added unto the Lord because of what he went and was able to do and and accomplish there. And I just saw that and I said, that's what I want to be. That's what I want to do with my life. He it was an encouragement. And and he was a man that instead of pointing people to himself, he pointed people to the Lord. And so as I I was going to just teach out of that a little bit, but then I began to look at Barnabas and the different passages in the Bible that mention him. As I said, he was mentioned 29 times. And so I began to read through those different passages. And you begin to really see this pattern emerge of a man who who just encouraged God's people. And and a man who was who is always willing to help and just be a helper and nothing more. And and that's not a bad thing. And so today I pulled kind of my title for the lesson just from that that whole exercise. So today we're going to be looking at Barnabas, an observation of an encourager. An observation of an encourager. And there's just a few things that I'd I'd like to point out. As I said, just a couple observations that hopefully we can see some of the traits of this man who encouraged God's people. And and we can use them almost as a kind of a measuring stick. We can see if we have those traits in our own life. We can see uh how how to maybe apply them. And so As I said, Acts chapter 4 is the first time Barnabas is mentioned. And it's here we learn that he was a Levite and he was from Cyprus. And he was associated with the Church of Jerusalem. Now, this was the same church that prayed and had the Holy Ghost descend upon them And a few verses after after that occurrence, where they prayed because of some persecution, they prayed for boldness from the Holy Spirit, and he gave it to them. We see that also this was the church that held all things in common And this is where we really first get to see the spirit of Barnabas. You know, some people look at at this passage where they hold all things in common and they see it as kind of a socialist utopia or whatever, but But that's that's really not what was going on here. This was a time of great persecution. This was these were the first Christians in the world. They weren't even called Christians yet. They they were they were just believers in Christ who were living in a time when it was not Healthy to be a believer of Christ. And so when they held all things their own, it wasn't out of a matter of wanting to to just dwell together in unity and love. It was a matter of necessity, really. They they were being persecuted. I'm sure there are certain that lost employment. There are certain that probably lost homes if they were if they were renting or I don't I don't know exactly how things worked back then as far as that goes. But but there was persecution on these early believers And so having some resources obviously would have been beneficial. And this church and Barnabas in it They had land, sold it, and brought the money, and they laid it at the apostles' feet to be used for whatever it needed to be used for, to help the believers. And uh So we see him do that, but the the real reason I want to be here and start in Acts chapter 30 or Acts chapter 4 is because we see that Barnabas' name was not Barnabas. His name was Joseph. Barnabas was essentially a nickname, and it was a name that he earned because of what he was. It means the son of consolation. He was a comforter. He was an encouragement to God's people. And it's something that was so much a part of his being that he was called that. The apostles gave him that moniker. Now I'm sure some of you have probably earned nicknames in your lifetime. I I have earned a few nicknames in my lifetime. Um is Brother Greg in here Okay, good, because he offered to take me fishing, so I don't want him to hear this. Because when I go fishing, my nickname is Twister. You can probably imagine how I earned that nickname. It's a part of my being when I go fishing. I've heard I've heard other nickname I've even earned some since I came here. Um Melissa's laughing because she's generally the one who bestows them upon me. There's some that I I enjoy more than others Um the the most recent one is probably my favorite, but but for the first several weeks I was um the nerd. Uh apparently that is just such a part of my being. that I earned that nickname. It's it's a part of me, a nerdy giraffe. I don't know where where the giraffe part came from. But but we earn nicknames and Barnabas did that. Um as I said his is a bit more flattering than mine. But he earned his nickname in a way that we ought to strive to achieve. Because he earned his nickname based on a godly characteristic. It was based on him him being Christlike enough that he was described in the same way that the Holy Spirit is. C son of consolation. It's the same word that's used to describe the Holy Spirit. And uh I think that the the easiest way to look at these character traits of an encourager is to just kind of go through them somewhat as they appear in the Bible. And The first one we see here is in Acts chapter 4. When we're talking about Barnabas as an encouragement, the first thing I'd like to point out is that he was generous. He was generous with his possessions. And and this is an essential element of being an encouragement. There needs to be a willingness to to make an investment in the lives of others. Whether it is through possessions, whether it is through time, and we'll see that in a little bit, but uh no matter what, there needs to be a certain level of of unselfish generosity that comes along with with helping others. That that's part of being an encouragement. You can't have your eyes turned southward. You need to be looking towards others. And that was what Barnabas did. I'm sure that it did not benefit him any to sell all that he had and give it to the church and lay lay the money down at the apostles' feet. That was not something that was convenient, but it was something that was needful. And as an encouragement, as a comforter to the people of the Lord, he saw the need and he strove to meet it. There was an element of generosity. Um so as I mentioned, he was a member of this church at Jerusalem, and and I think it's interesting that verse 37 says Uh we'll start in verse thirty six where we first see Barnabas. Bible says, and Joseph, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is, being interpreted, the son of consolation. a Levite and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it, and brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet. And so it talks about how Barnabas went, and and then it the Bible immediately turns in chapter number five. And it contrasts him with another couple who we probably know. But a certain man named Ananias and Sapphira his wife sold the possession, and from there we could probably all tell the story of what happened there. But we see this we see Barnabas and what he did, having land, sold it, and laid the money at the apostles' feet, but And it goes into this story of how Ananias and Sapphira lied to the Holy Spirit and were struck dead because of it, because of their deceit and their wickedness in holding back what they said they would give forth. It just goes to show right there, trying not to read too much into it, that in God's word it contrasted the spirit of Barnabas with this spirit of Ananias and Sapphira. Barnabas did this, but they did this And it just goes to show that Barnabas was truly generous. He truly wanted to give. He was truly trying to encourage his brethren. He was the one who withheld nothing. And the second thing he was generous with was his time. And if you would turn over to Acts chapter number 11. We'll be here in a little bit. We'll have one more place to go before we get here to stay. Verse number 26 says this, and when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they, they being Barnabas and Saul, assembled themselves with the church. But right here I just like to point out that he was there for a whole year. He was there with the believers at Antioch for a year helping to assemble the church and helping to teach them in the ways of God. And so we see that he was generous not only with his possessions, which he sold, but he was generous with his time. He was sent out not of his own accord, necessarily, although I'm sure he was willing to go. But he was sent out by his church. His church sent him as far as Antioch. And and this was the point where his journeys with Paul started because he went, he sought out Paul, he brought him into Antioch. But From this point on is when their their missionary journeys began. And those journeys, they took time. And Barnabas was willing to give of that time To be an encouragement to the brethren all around and to go into to evangelize the world essentially. He was generous with his time. And he was just he he was willing to invest in other churches, in other people, in other lives. And not to mention in the life of Saul himself, and we'll see that coming up in a little bit here. Because our second point this morning about this characteristic of an encourager is that Barnabas was forgiving. Now if you turn back a couple pages to Acts chapter 9, we'll look at verses 26 and 27 there. Forgiveness is a very important trait for an encourager to have. Because without forgiveness, there there really is no the there's No one to encourage, almost. It it takes a very special kind of person to go and to see the potential in others Now it it's easy to see the potential in in some. Um it's much harder to see the potential in others. You know, we we go out, we run a bus, right? It's because there is a potential there to bring kids who may not have an opportunity to hear the gospel, there's a potential there to bring them in and to share the gospel with them. It's easy to see the potential there and to bring them in, even though You know, maybe maybe sometimes I mean I I go to college at Fairhaven and there's some of those kids, I mean they're getting in fights, there's all sorts of crazy things happening. You know, they don't necessarily dress right, they d definitely don't talk right. There are things on the bus that you just have to shut down because it it's it's wicked. But it's easy to see the potential because there there is so much room for them. They need Christ. There's a potential there for them to come to Christ. And that's why we go out. That's why we need to see the potential in others. There's there's an element There is almost an element of forgiveness. There's an element of seeing a potential there. And it's it's important for an encourager to have that. But it it's it's a little bit harder to see the potential in people that we know ought to know better. I I know that at least in my case that is that is very much true. To see a young person who has grown up the same way I have and and go off and know what's right but to do what they want to do and to turn their back on God and their church and their pastor and their parents and everybody that they've known and all the people that love them so that they can do what they want to do. That's much harder for me to forgive. But the reality is there is the same potential there as there is in a person who needs to come to Christ in the first place. Now they, as I said, they know better. So to to when they go off and they do what they want to do, it's easy to write them off than to say, no, I'm I'm not going to deal with that. But there needs to be an element of forgiveness there. Because if there's no element of forgiveness, who is there to encourage? Because that's what that person needs. They don't need to be told that they're doing everything wrong. They know that. What they need to have is an encouragement to do what's right. They need to have an example of what is right. They need to have somebody who is willing to come alongside them and say, Come on, come with me. And to show them what how how things ought to be done. And even in some more uh unsavory types, there there needs to be a potential scene there. And that's what is the case here with barnabas. Verse number 26 says, Acts chapter 9, verse 26, the Bible says, and when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself to the disciples, but they were all afraid of him. and believed not that he was a disciple. Now this is for good reason. We all know the story of Saul. He was a man that persecuted the church. On the road to Damascus he saw a great light. He was he was he was converted there on the road to Damascus. He saw Christ. And he said, What would thou have me to do, Lord? He he turned his life completely around. But the believers at Jerusalem probably didn't know that. And so to see a man like Saul come in and say, I want to be a part of your church, I'm a disciple now, they were afraid and with good reason. This was a man that killed Christians, that imprisoned Christians, that banished Christians. He was a man that that persecuted the early church with all of his might and all of his zeal. He was one of the most zealous characters in the Bible as an apostle, and I have no doubt that that was before he was saved as well. It was his personality. And so they had a good reason to be afraid. He was educated, he was shrewd, and it wouldn't be a stretch to think that him coming to the church and saying, I'm a disciple now is just a ruse. I mean it it is something that that could be completely seen. Verse number twenty-seven we see another comparison here, but Barnabas took him. And brought him to the apostles and declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. Now if that isn't an element of forgiveness, then I don't know what is. Taking a man that has has killed the people who believe what you believe and done everything that he can to stop what you are trying to to to Get out. That's some forgiveness. And he used his own influence and his own his own testimony to be able to take Paul into the church and say, no, he is doing what he says he's doing Come along and he encouraged the people to encourage Saul. That's the kind of person he was. And uh He he was able to show that Saul indeed had a desire to join them. He he forgave all the egregious offenses of Saul because he saw in him the potential that we now know was there all along. But he didn't have the benefit of hindsight like we do. He saw Saul as a man who truly wanted to serve the Lord and he brought him along so that he could. And to be honest This is just this just goes to show how we how we never know how investing in another person's life can matter for eternity. Because unless there are people in here who are of Jewish heritage We can honestly credit this moment of Barnabas bringing Saul into the church for most of our salvation. Paul is the Gentile to the Apoc to the or the apostle to the Gentiles. And he he is the reason that most of the world today can call themselves Christian outside of outside of Jewry. And I mean that's that's just amazing to me that because of one man taking another man aside and bringing him in, that the whole world was changed for Christ. And all right, so moving on here. Um I had already kind of mentioned how it's it's it's harder to see the potential in those that we know better. but fall. But we even have an example of Barnabas doing this in Acts chapter fifteen. If you want to turn over there. Acts chapter fifteen, verses thirty-five to thirty-nine. I'll just go ahead and read them. Here the Bible says, Paul also in Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord and see how they do. And Barnabas determined to take with him John, whose surname was Mark. But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them, from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work. And the contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder from one another. And so Barnabas took Mark and sailed unto Cyprus. And so here we see that Barnabas, in yet another instance, John Mark had abandoned he and Paul at some point on one of their journeys. But Barnabas saw the potential in him, where Paul couldn't see it, or where Paul chose not to see it. And the Bible here says that the contention was so so sharp that they split. And so I imagine that uh maybe maybe tempers flared. Maybe there are things that were said that should have been said, but I think that in most of our response, at least in my case, would tend to be more like Paul. Or no, he knew he knows better. He he he gave up. Just leave him be. He's he'll weigh us down. But Barnabas said no, we can restore him. We can bring him along. And I find it interesting I have here in my notes, I'll just read it, Galatians 6. 1, because we see that eventually Paul not only said that Mark was profitable for the ministry, due probably in no small part to the fact that Barnabas brought him along again. But Paul softens in in later years in relation to this idea of people who should know better who who fall, because he says in Galatians 6. 1, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fall. You which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. And so we see here that that Barnabas brought Mark along when Paul was not willing to. And then we see that Paul has a change of heart later in life because I think he began to see, even maybe through that situation, the value. of taking somebody that should know better and encouraging them along to get back on the right path. Because he says, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself. Lest thou also be tempted. He knew that we were all subject to it, even though maybe in a time of temper he wasn't willing to come along and say, Come on, Mark. So if you would turn over back to Acts chapter number eleven. We've seen so far about an encourager that He needs to be generous, he needs to be forgiving. And there's a few other things that I'd like to see in this passage in Acts chapter 11, because in just a few verses here, Acts 21 through 26, we see a lot of the traits. We'll read here starting in verse number twenty-one where it says, And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned unto the Lord. Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church, which was in Jerusalem, and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch, who, when he came and had seen the grace of God, was glad. and exhorted them all that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord. For he was a good man and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith, and much people was added unto the Lord. Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul, and when he had found him He brought them unto Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch So we're going to spend the rest of our time here in this passage because here I really think we can see the the spirit of Barnabas. And there are a lot of memes I was trying to put to the traits that that we see here in this passage. But a lot of them are kind of related to one another. And so I tried to find just a word that would kind of describe Barnabas as a whole, would describe his spirit, would describe his attitude. And and the word I came to was selfless. An encourager is someone who is selfless. He was sent to the people at Antioch. And when he saw what God did there, when he saw that God was changing lives and working in hearts, he was glad with them. And there wasn't even a hint of jealousy in Barnabas. I think it would be easy for somebody to go and and to and to see that there are other people who evangelized this area that brought these people at Antioch to a saving knowledge of Christ. And then they moved on to to other areas and Barnabas comes along and he's kind of trying to pick up not necessarily the pieces that are left, but he has a huge job ahead of him. But there is there was no bit of jealousy where they get to go out and they get to be preaching the gospel and seeing souls saved and here I am working among these people, toiling among these people, trying to get them to understand about the the Lord. No, he was there and he was working. Even though he was sent by his church, I'm sure that he was willing to go. He was not bitter about taking up the work of others. He was not he was not discouraged in the fact that that he was just trying to make a goal of it here in this wicked pagan city. He was glad at the success of the others reaching the lost, and and he was happy to begin the arguably much more taxing work of organizing this new body of believers. And here we see that not only was he willing to do this work, but he was willing to do it for the glory of God. And nothing more, nothing less. He wanted all the glory to go to God. We see that when he came in verse 23, he had seen the grace of God. He was glad. He exhorted them all. He encouraged them. We wouldn't expect anything less of a man whose name the Son of Consolation That with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord. He selflessly pointed people away from himself and towards God. And that's what an encourager ought to always do. He didn't want power, he didn't want prestige, he wanted the kingdom of God to advance. And that ought to be our desires too. It it can be really easy to let any position that we take up in our church go to our heads. Uh no matter what it is, because we can look at it and see, look what I'm doing for God. And and we even even in that little way, if we begin to turn selfward and look at what we are doing for the Lord That turns into pride. And that turns into jealousy when you see somebody else who you perceive as doing more for God. And that's not at all what Barnabas, the spirit that he had in him. He looked out and he saw he saw what was happening there and he pointed these people he wanted them to cleave unto the Lord. It would have been easy for him to go, as the most aged Christian, as the most learned one, to go and teach this body of believers and to kinda almost point them to himself. To organize this group of people under himself and to be their leader. Which he was, no doubt he was their leader. But as their leader, he pointed them to his leader. He pointed them to God. He pointed them to Christ. And when we begin to let what we are doing for God be what we what we go after. Our service instead of being as to unto the Lord, it begins to be as to men Now he was he was successful at the work that he was sent to in there in Antioch, and and we can see that. For he was a good man and full of the Holy Ghost, verse 24, and much people was added unto the Lord. We see that in Antioch, Barnabas, what he was doing, was successful. He was teaching the people to cleave unto the Lord, and many people were being added unto the church. And nobody would have questioned Barnabas had he gone and just stayed there and been the leader of that church and pastored that church. and and done everything there. He he people were being added unto the Lord. It's not like there was nothing getting accomplished. There were there were people that were getting saved. And when he he could go back to his church at Jerusalem and report, Yep, things are going well, I'm just gonna stay here. But we see his selflessness yet again in encouraging the people because Even though he has this success, he goes out in verse 25, and he departs to Tarsus for to seek Saul. And we can't really know his motive for going out and seeking Saul. But it can probably be surmised that because of this selfless pattern that he's established in his life and what we've seen, that he went to go seek Saul, maybe to teach Saul, maybe to maybe to bring him in because he saw something in the people at Antioch that that he knew of this man back that he helped get into the church at Jerusalem. And he said he had some fire, he had some zeal, he had something that these people at Antioch need. So he went out to seek Saul and to bring him in, just further proving that he wasn't doing anything for his own glory. He was doing things for the glory of God. He went out and he said Saul would be best for these people here at Antioch. I'm gonna go get him. I'm gonna bring him in so that I can maybe train him in a way, but so then that he can take the lead and and and teach these people. And whatever the reason, it can be assured that Saul was brought in because it would be the best thing for the people there at Antioch. And obviously it was. Because the Bible says then in at the end of uh chapter or verse number twenty-six the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch. And so that just goes to show the the what an encourager can do for a church. Barnabas brought Saul in and they taught these people for over a year. And just like he earned his nickname of the encourager. Through his encouragement and through his teaching, the people here at Antioch earned their own nickname. They became so much like their Savior that they began to be called by his name. They earned his name You know, there are many today that say I'm a Christian, but they haven't earned the name. They're a Christian because God saved them. They aren't a Christian because they act like it or because they live like it. But these people here in Antioch They earned it. They were called Christians because they were Christ-like. They were Christians. And they began to resemble their Savior to a point that all the people, even in that pagan country, knew it. And Barnabas, he helped them to accomplish the same thing that he had accomplished earlier on when he earned a name touting a godly trait in his life. And being Christ like was just so much a part of these people that they were called that. And uh Really just to kind of I guess bring this home, we see that he was selfless, but there's there's an element of humility. There was no pride in Barnabas. He was always willing to be the second man. Whenever we see Barnabas mentioned, essentially from here on out in the scriptures, it's in reference to, and Barnabas helped me, and Barnabas was with me, and Paul and Barnabas. There was always he was there alongside. He wasn't Getting to write the scriptures. That was Paul. He was the one writing the letters. But Barnabas was there giving a helping hand all through that first missionary journey up until the time they separated. because of that disputation over John Mark and and what he was worth essentially. So he he was humble, he was an encourager. But I'd just like to point out in verse number, I believe it's 24. Acts chapter 11, verse number 24, just to bring this to a point of of, I guess, application. The Bible says, For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith, and much people was added unto the Lord. We read about Barnabas and we see all the things that he was able to accomplish and do. And it's easy to look at him and and think of him as superhuman, supernatural. But the reality is that even though he no doubt had the gift of exhortation we see in Romans chapter twelve, He was normal. He was just a man who was filled with the Holy Ghost. He was a man who was full of faith. He was a man that under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit the Bible calls good. I mean that is that is a title to to be respected, really. But the reality is that there was nothing extra special about Barnabas. He was just a man who was filled with the Holy Spirit and filled with faith in his supernatural God. And because of that, he was able to put down his flesh to the point where he was selfless, to the point where he was generous enough to sell all that he had. To the point where he was willing to forgive almost any offense in order to bring somebody along and nurture them up in in Christ. And even though he was he wasn't an apostle, he was he was an early church member. And he had nothing that we can't possess ourselves. We can be full of faith. We can be full of the Holy Spirit. And by that we can be an encourager. And it just takes those couple of things. And it's gonna take some work. For some people like Barnabas, you know, he had, like I said, the g s uh the spiritual gift of exhortation. It came more naturally to him than to some of us others. But he had things that we can get for ourselves. And so really I'd just like to bring these few points out just to show that that we can do what Barnabas did. We can teach people to cleave unto the Lord, not to a pastor, not to us. We can teach people to go in the way that they should go, like he brought along John Mark or like he brought along Saul, who later became Paul. And we can use these couple of traits just to look at in our lives and th think, are are we are we doing that? Are we being selfless? Are we humble enough that God can use us in a way where we won't get puffed up in pride because of what we are doing for God. Even though He's the one allowing us to do it And so I would just encourage you to take a look. This was really a blessing to me as I went through and just studied this man's life, because it's something that's so important to be, because that's truly what we're here for. is to encourage others towards Christ, to teach them to cleave unto the Lord. And so that's what I would encourage you with this lesson. I hope it was a blessing to you.