Psalms 107. I had to put my text on to make sure that was right the other day my text. I put my goggles on see see these things, my my binoculars. Um I was at a restaurant the other day and they brought me the receipt And I couldn't couldn't read the receipt if it said fifty dollars and eighty-eight cents or if it said fifty-six dollars and eighty-eight cents. And I'm like, well, when I put the total on there for the tip, that's gonna be quite a bit different if I get that wrong. But I didn't have my glasses and I'm trying to You know how they have that goofy line between the O? You know, a lot of times it prints and I couldn't tell, is that a six or is that a like man, this is really frustrating that my eyes are are failing me But uh hopefully I'll get more used to having them around and carrying the the glasses with me and and uh be less of a distraction for me, but right now they certainly are a distraction In this passage of Scripture, in Psalms 107, look down at verse number 23, verse number 23, and follow along down through verse number 30. Psalms 107, verse number 23, he says, They that go down to the sea in ships that do business in great waters. These see the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep. For he commandeth And raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof. They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths, their soul is melted because of trouble. They reel to and fro and stagger like drunken men and err at their wits' end. See, you didn't know that was scripture, huh? Being at your wit's end. It's out of the word of God. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distress. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. Then are they glad because they be quiet. So he bringeth them unto their desired haven. There is a description given to us here in this text of, I would say, kind of like the journey of life. Did I say something wrong? There's several people smiling. Sometimes I wonder if I like this if I do something wrong, I I don't know what it is. But they'll tell me later. So This is a description of I would I would say you could even summarize it as life. All through the Word of God, many, many times, you'll see life described. as a a journey or as a trip taken upon the sea. You know, much of Paul's ministry was involved in in the trips that he took. And and the different times that he was on the water. And of course, Christ and the disciples and the lessons we learn about the times where he said, get thee in the boat and let's go to the other side. And often in the scriptures you'll be able to draw an application to our life as it describes here, this group of people that They they get into the ship and they do they do work on these deep waters and they do their business in great waters and and they get to see God. They see the magnitude of God. Have you ever stood on the shore and just watched those massive waves come in? And you don't want to be on the water in that in this storm because that's a little nerve-wracking. But standing on the shore and standing back and seeing the the power and the magnitude of of the the ocean, and that's just one ocean. And just in awe of God and the creator of this universe and in the fact that in that great storm that God could just say, Hey, peace be still. And that wave, that tempetuous sea would be settled down and calm That's what we have here in this passage, a description of somebody who's on life's journey and and they've been brought into the place of storm. They've been brought into a place of hardship and they're being tossed to and fro. They they they start to believe that maybe all is lost. But then they call on God. And God calms the sea. And God, it says here, brings them unto their desired haven. They had a place that they wanted to get to in life But between where they are and where they wanted to get to, there's a big body of water. And we call it life. Tonight is graduation night, just for one in our mix, Timothy. But The lessons we're going to look at are applicable to us all. But the idea is I ponder and think about a young man who is at that stage of life where he's just He he's ready to, you know, finally get out of high school and and head off to college and go on to what's next. And they start to, you know, exercise a little bit of independence and they start to kind of get a vision for where they want to go and where they want to be. They get a vision for what they want to accomplish and what life holds for them. Amen. They've got that grandiose ideas of all of what they want to do. You know that particular car they're going to have by the time they're 25. Keep dreaming. Nothing wrong with having a dream. Nothing wrong with having a, you know, that motorcycle. We were, I took Timothy Mary, and I took him to his graduation And we pulled up into the hotel and there was a a motorcycle, you know, one of the fast ones, parked there. And uh I looked at him and I says, Happy graduation. Son, I love ya. And he goes, No way. He's like, Oh, that would be awesome. He says, Man, I would tell everybody I would talk about that forever. I said, Well, you gotta talk about that. It almost happened Yeah, almost. Said yeah, no no, we're not doing that. But you know, just the dreams This life and the exuberance and the excitement of youth and all of the desire that they have and where they want to be. I just have a couple of thoughts for you regarding the journey of life that you're going to head on as a young man, Timothy and the rest of these young men and young ladies here. All of us, really. These are applicable to all of us, no matter what stage we're in. First of all I want you to think about the idea that we need to be sure that we're on the right ship. That you're on the right ship. You see, before you begin the voyage, you gotta be on the right ship. You remember uh Jonah? He was on a ship, but he was on the wrong one. He was going the wrong direction. He was running from God and he was out on a ship and he was headed that way, but it was the wrong ship I've taken one cruise in my life. Mary and I got to go on a cruise and it was a good time. We had fun. But you know, we went we flew to Florida and we went to a port And we got on the cruise ship, but you know that there's more than one ship there. And you have to look and say, okay, what what ship am I sailing on? What what what is What did I buy a ticket for here? I gotta get onto that ship. That's the one that's got a cabin for me. That's the one that's planning to feed me five meals a day for uh the the duration of the trip. That's the the one I'm supposed to be on, and that ship's the one you need to get on. And I want you to understand, beloved, that you've got to get on the right ship. In Hebrews chapter 11 and verse number 7, the Bible says, by faith Noah, being warned of God of the things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. By that which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. You know, Noah had a ship to build. In order to save his house, he had to get into that ship. Exactly what God told him to do the way God told him to do it Beloved, I want you to understand that if you're going to make it to that desired haven, the haven of rest, if you're going to make it to heaven one day, you've got to be on the right ship. That's the ultimate destination. That's the end of this life journey is when we wake up on shores and we and we call it glory We wake up in heaven in the presence of God and with all of our family and friends that have gone on before. But that doesn't just happen. You've got to be on the right ship. And that, of course, is Having put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in Him alone. There are those in this life who will wander aimlessly through life. They'll float and drift through this journey of life, and at the end of life They may have had a lot of good ideas. They may have been a really good person. But if they haven't put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, if they haven't done what Christ said to do in order to be accepted in heaven. That is, God can't allow sin into heaven. We've got to have that sin washed away, that sin covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. It's so easy to do. Yet men would try and earn their way and find another way to heaven. You've got to be in the right ship. No one that has come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church for more than just a few services. Will have any excuse when they get to heaven. When they pass through death's door They stand before God Almighty and the judge of all men. They won't have an excuse The truth of the death and burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ has been presented here in every imaginable form and fashion, pointing people to Jesus Christ and the cross that he gave himself for us. We won't have any excuse. I don't want to take for granted here, even amongst this, our Sunday night crowd. There isn't but a young man or young lady that's been in church and been attending, and you're here and oh, I grew up in church, but you know in your heart you haven't put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You know about God and what he did, but you haven't made that decision. I want to encourage you to do it before it's eternally too late Not only do we need to be sure we're on the right ship, but we've got to be sure we have the right captain. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 9 and 10, some familiar verses, but he says Jesus is the captain of our salvation. 2 Chronicles chapter 13, verse number 12, says that God Himself with us is our captain. If you're going to have a successful voyage through life, if you're going to have a successful journey in this journey, this trip of life that you're taking. You've got to have Jesus, God, as your captain. You've got to let Him be the leader of your life. Who decides what you're going to do? You know when I took that cruise ship I didn't go up to the top of the uh ship and go all the way up there to the captain's quarters and and to where they have the steering do they call the steering wheel? What is that what do they call the ship I didn't go up there and tell them, hey, I want to go this direction right now. No, there was a captain. And he was in control of the ship. He was pointing it where it needed to go. Who's gonna decide, young man, what you're gonna do for life? Where you're gonna be Who's going to guide your life? Not just these young men who are making decisions and looking at their life and saying, Boy, I want to be a doctor or I want to be a lawyer or I want to go do this and I want to be a uh uh nurse practitioner or I'm gonna be a dentist or you know I wanted when I was a teenager I wanted to be a chiropractor until I saw that you basically have to go through med school to be a chiropractor. I'm like you're just cracking people's backs They said, forget that. I'm not going to med school for that. So I went and was a drywaller instead. Amen. But you know, you might have an ambition or a desire, but what does the captain want you to do? What does the captain want you to do for your life? Have you talked to him about it? Have you submitted yourself to him and to his will? Who is the boss of your life? Is it the captain or is it your flesh? Is it the captain or is it your own desires? Many young people, they look for and long for the day That they'll finally be out of their home. That they'll finally be out of from under mom and dad's authority. And they can make up their own mind and do what they want to do. Right? I was a teenager once. I know it's going through your mind. I gotta do all this work. Wait till I get out of this house, man. Yeah. Can't wait till you get to make up your own mind and do your own thing. You get to be your own captain. What know ye not? That your body is not your own? For you've been bought with a price. What I'm saying is if you want to be a successful, have a joyful, a happy life, if you want to get to the place that we read in our text, that desired haven. If you want to get there, you've got to submit to the captain. The captain who in our text describes the tempetuous seas of life that you're going to find yourself on. And you can try and maneuver and work your way through those tempetuous seas yourself, or you can just turn it over to the captain and say, okay, Lord. Whatever you want. I'm just I'm I'm turning it over to you because I I can't do this. You're gonna find that out sooner or later. And boy, you would be in a lot better shape if you find it out sooner. That you just yield to him and let him take the helm. Yeah. You remember the story of Paul? That boat full of people that Paul told them they needed to stay in winter at the Fairhavens? But they said, no, no, we don't want to winter here because it's not commodious. I like that word. Not comfortable. It's not nice. Not it's not real. It's not you know there's there's other ports that we could go to that have a lot more amenities. There's no water slide at this port. The pools aren't heated here. Come on, Paul. We want to go over and stay somewhere else. This port here, we could spend the winter here and we would be safe. But Paul, let's go over there because over there it's a lot funner You know it always looks funner over there. Always looks funner over there. But what you have to understand is they were guiding their decision By their reason, governed by their desire, but Paul was giving them revelation given to them by God. The captain. Paul said, we shouldn't do this. We shouldn't sail because there's a storm coming And you know old Sleofoot, Satan, he sent that soft wind. Do you remember that soft southern wind? And they're like, oh look, it's a nice breeze. It's a perfect time to sail. Let's go sail. And Paul says, no, we shouldn't do that. Because he had revelation from God that there was a storm coming. Young person, you need to follow the revelation of God. Don't try and dictate your life based off of your desire and what looks good to you and what looks funner and what looks more appealing and what looks exciting. But instead yield to what God has described and given to us in His Word. The Captain. He's the one. Each of us must come to the place that we want the captain to rule our life. You say, how do I know if I'm letting the captain lead? Have you asked him what his will is? Have you asked him, is this your desire, God? Is this what you want me to do? I'm wanting to submit to you. So Lord, this is the desire I have, but I'm turning it over to you. I'll do that if that's what you want. You see, young people, they they what they really want out of life is to be happy. And so they're in search of what will make them happy. But what I'm telling you is what will make you happy is to let the captain lead. It will be a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. Notice in our text here that the mariners, they knew who was in charge. Verse number 24 says, they see the works of the Lord. Those who do their work out on the sea, they see the works of the Lord, the wonders of the deep. For he, verse number 29, for he commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind. Verse 28, they cry unto the Lord in their trouble. He bringeth them out of their distress. He maketh the storm a calm. And he bringeth them to their sire heaven. Ultimately, they learned a lesson that God was in control of all things. You want to have a successful voyage? Give God the helm. Let God take the steering wheel and say, Lord, I want you to lead my life And you've got to use the right compass. If you want to be successful, use the right compass. A compass is something that sets the course and the bearing of a ship. It's used for navigation. It's used as a means to provide guidance. Well, you know, beloved, the Word of God. Is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. The Word of God is our compass 1 Thessalonians 3 and verse number 1, the Bible says, Finally, brethren, pray for us that the word of the Lord may have free chorus and be glorified. You know, just as Paul had divine revelation to give to those he was talking to, just as he had that divine revelation, and said, listen, we can't go here because there's a storm coming. This is what God showed me. Now those men didn't have that divine revelation, but you and I have divine revelation. We have the Word of God. We have the lamp to our feet and light to our paths. You want to use the divine revelation that God's given us to help guide your life. That's what you need. If you want to be successful, if you want to Make it to the desired haven if you want to have the joy of the Lord. Follow the right compass Some young people their compass is basically what feels good. That's their compass. I'm going to do in my life what I enjoy or what I want. That is what is their guiding compass for their life. They make a decision based off of what they want. And I'm telling you that over and over and over again, it leads to heartache. And we have divine revelation here that shows us that that's not what we should do. And yet, many young people, they that's what their compass of their life is. Is oh, what I like, what I want, that's what I'm going to go after. Many young people, the compass of their life is money. The dis the discerning factor, the guiding instrument in their life is money. Where's the money? That's just where I'm going. I'm going where the money is. This is wherever the money is. Yeah, this is where I'm going. Money, money, money Money money They're going after that money. But they're going to find themselves on the journey of life. In a tempetuous sea. You know what? It doesn't matter how much money you have. When the doctor calls and says you've got cancer It doesn't matter how much money you have when you got a you got a million-dollar house and your wife leaves a note and says, I've left you for another man. You let money be the guide, and you get what money can bring You let this compass, the Word of God, be your guide. And you get what God can bring. Joy, peace, contentment. Even in the midst of a storm, you know that he's in control. You say, man, Lord, whatever it is, I'm yours. And I tell you the listen to the word of God when he says, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Let the word of God be your compass. Young men, you're gonna have people from every area of life pulling at you. Saying, come and do this, come and do that. Why don't you go this way? Why don't you go that way? Why don't you do this? Boy, this will be okay. Boy, wouldn't that be nice? Sinners entice thee. The world sure looks enticing. But consent thou not. Lastly, I'm gonna attack this one on the end uh and we'll be done. But I want to implore you If you want to have a successful journey, a joyous journey, you need to have the right companions. You need to have the right companions. I cannot stress how important this is. The right companions. You know You need to pick the right shipmate. You are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. You need to have the right kind of friends. If you're going to be successful in this journey of life, you need to have the right kind of friends. And some of you might have some friends that you need to let go. You need to say, listen, we're not headed the same direction. You're in a different boat altogether. And and we're not I I just can't be hanging out with you anymore. Because they're going to pull you down and tear you down and keep you from having the successful journey God wants you to have. You need to check and control the shipmates that you have. This is so vitally important. You know, let's go a little bit further, because we're Graduation, we're talking about that that next step, right? Um one day, I was gonna bring you to the place where you gotta choose a companion. Oh, I see the smiles. They just woke up. A companion. You do not know how vitally important the choice of the right companion for the journey of life is. I cannot even begin to stress. I can't even begin to try and give you the amount of weight Of the importance of that statement right there. Choosing the right companion and listen If you're going to end up with her for the rest of your life, or if you're going to end up with him for the rest of your life It starts all the way back here when you begin to entertain the thought of dating them. of spending time and you can call it courtship, you can call it whatever you want, but the pursuit of the relationship, okay? When you begin to pursue that relationship, That's where it starts. It gets awful hard when you're all the way down here and and you're already wearing a ring of commitment to be getting married someday to say, oh Maybe this is not the right one. That's awful hard place to say no. Way back here in the beginning When you find out that that guy doesn't carry a Bible, that guy doesn't mind missing church, that guy doesn't have any convictions or standards in his life. That guy is guided by money instead of guided by the scriptures, the word of God. Way back here is when you ought to say, that's not the guy for me. Some of you parents ought to say, Amen. That's not the guy for me. Some of you young men, you're back here and listen, in the list of things. That you should be looking for in a me. At the very bottom of the list. Now it's on there, but it's on the bottom of the list, is attractive This soul flesh, it fades and sags, okay? That's just what's gonna happen And if that's what you're looking at, that's gonna go away. There's a whole lot of things, a whole lot more important. But I know what a young man's like. And I know that currently the most important thing in your mind is that she looks good. That you like her But you're going to get stuck with her for the rest of your life. And you're going to rue the day I can't tell you how important this is. It's not about how much or how good she looks. If you begin spending time with a young lady and find out that she's immodest in her dress, that she's sensual in her activities, and she doesn't mind drawing attention to her flesh. I know you're a man and I know you like that But if you've got an ounce of spirituality in you, you'll look at that and say, that's not right. And I sure enjoy her showing it to me, but one day when you're married to her, you won't enjoy her showing it to everybody else. Listen, I I have been in the ministry long enough now to see the pain You talk about a storm of life. There is nothing more destructful or hurtful or painful than a separation or divorce. People that have endured it and lived through it, they would say amen. Most painful and hurtful thing that you endured this side of death. But you're at a stage right now you can choose. You can use spiritual wisdom and let God help you choose the right person. We give you just a couple things. Obviously you need to choose somebody that's saved. Should never even be a consideration, somebody that's not saved. Needs to be somebody that is in and active in church. That they carry the Word of God, they have a relationship with God, they're walking with God. You know that they're having their devotions, that they're reading their Bible, that they're pursuing a relationship with not with God, not just pursuing a relationship with you. Does it ever talk about spiritual things with you? Does it ever bring up anything they got out of devotions? Does it ever bring up any prayer requests they have on their heart? If none of those things are true, you're not dating a spiritual person. And when it comes time to have a family, to raise a family, Those things are going to be important. And you're going to wonder why he won't go to church with you. Do they have a good relationship with the authorities that are in their life? Especially their mom and dad? A lot of people come from broken homes, and I understand that, and maybe maybe dad's out of the picture or mom's out of the picture or whatever, but the authority that's in their life, whoever it is, do they have a good relationship with them It's important. Are they humble? Are they pure? Are they responsible? You know what, let me let me give you all all of you young men and young ladies that that one day are gonna be looking for somebody. What you want to watch for is not what they are every day because you know what they're doing. They're putting on a show just like you're putting on a show. They're putting their best foot forward because they want to impress you What you want to see is when when some guy he he loses his cool, he he has a temper and he kicks the side of a door in and loses control of himself. And you say, well, he's not normally that way. No, that's the way he is. What he's been doing is putting on a show for you. And after you're married, when the show goes away, that's what's going to come out. So you want to watch for those things. See how they act or how she acts when she's tired or when she gets bad news. Because you say, man, I need to pray about this. Or would you pray with me about this? Or do they start talking bad about the authorities in their life because something happened You watch for those situations that bring out what is in the heart. And you let that be a guide for you. You see the tendency, love covereth a multitude of sins. That's the way God designed it. Otherwise, my wife would never be with me still. Praise God that love covers a multitude of sins. But you've got to be careful. You've got to guard your heart and start using your head and the authorities that are in your life to guide you to having the right companion. Before the heart gets gone. Otherwise you'll just you'll just make excuses for them. Well, I know he's a drug addict, but um he's not, you know, not really that bad. Need to have the right companions. Listen, as this young man, Timothy, but not him alone, all of us, as we're on the journeys of life, we've got to be on the right ship. We've got to be yielded and submitted to the right captain. We need to be sure and have the right companions, the right friends. Who are you hanging around? The right companion for life. Who is that? Do you know? Let God decide. Let God lead you. And allow the compass. This divine revelation. You know what's amazing? You see, we're so used to this and I'm done. We're so used to having this. That we take it for granted. This is divine revelation from God for your life, for my life. This brother here, ministry, getting this to people have never seen one word of God. Don't have one word of God in their language. We've got so many copies we take it for granted. Oh yeah, that's God's word. Oh yeah, that oh right. I know it's supposed to be, you know, a guide and a lamp and all that, but yeah, no, no, I don't need that for life. You know, there was a an effluent family, and uh the young man reached high school graduation age. He went with his dad and they went to all the dealerships around town and they were looking at these really fancy cars and and this young man really felt that probably dad's gonna buy me one of these cars. I mean they were a wealthy family and after all his older sister got a car when she graduated, so it's pretty much a done deal like I'm gonna get a car. He was pretty excited about it. And uh so they went and they looked at all these cars and finally they found one that dad said, oh, you really like this one? He says, Yeah, I really like that one. That's the one I like. He said, oh, that's awesome. I'm glad you like that car. And he didn't say anything else about it. He's like, it's a nice car. And they they went. Graduation night came and the boy walked across the stage and, you know, got his diploma. The evening was coming to a close and still no car and the boy was just really kind of wondering like, well, I wonder when it's gonna come out, like when is dad gonna do the big reveal? When when am I gonna get the car And they got home late in the evening and still no car and the dad uh the young man comes into his dad's office and says, Dad Got anything for me? And Dad said, yeah, I've got the most important thing I can think to give you. It'll be the most help for you in your life. And he grabbed a very high-quality leather-bound copy of the scripture and he handed it to the young man. He said, This is for you. And the boy who had his heart set on a car looked at the word of God and said, what? You're giving me a copy of the word of God and he threw it on the floor and he walked out of his dad's house and he walked out and he never came back. It was many years later when his dad died, and he got notice that he was the sole inheritor of their family estate. He came back to his dad's house, and his dad was no longer there, and he's going through his dad's things, and in his dad's office he found that copy of the Word of God Heartbroken and distraught over the turmoil and the relationship, he dusted the word of God off. And he opened it up. And in the front fry leaf was a cashier's check dated and written to the dealership for the car that he wanted. But you see, he let his desire guide him instead of the divine revelation. You want to be successful and happy in this journey of life. Let God lead you.