We, this morning's message, I was going to preach on what does Jesus want for Christmas? I was very excited about that. I have that done. I thought about preaching that tonight, but I couldn't get liberty to do that for our church family here tonight. Those that are gonna So I don't know. That might have to be next year or maybe next Sunday we'll see. It's a much longer message than I would normally preach on Christmas Sunday. Christmas Sunday is a pretty full service, a lot happening, and so the message that I' Sunday tends to be a little shorter, but we'll see. Alrighty, so AV's working. Hopefully everybody online can hear good. We're going to be in multiple different passages tonight because as I ponder and think about just the challenges of today all of the circumstances that transpired through today, one one thing after the next, you know, uh that seemed like happened and and and you know disrupted our schedule, our plans. I was thinking about the idea of just being faithful anyway. Just being faithful anyway. And uh even in the face of trial and hardship and challenges, even when things don't go the way you wanted them to, The truth of the matter is we are only by faithfulness, only by faithfulness will you finish well. That's the title of the message. Tonight only by faithfulness will you finish well. We are of course just a few days from the end of the year. It's right around the corner. I always look at this time of year for myself personally and I have a desire to finish well, to to get to the end of the year and not the you know the tendency in human nature is to throw up your hands and say, oh, it's only two weeks, just Forget it. We're just gonna let it all go and and you know we're gonna coast into next year and then come next year I'm gonna start strong. You know, you guys have probably all seen the memes of uh uh the images of the gym, uh you know, the gym in January and there's the it's all packed. Every machine, there's somebody on every machine and everybody in January, the gym is all packed full of people, and then the gym in July, and there's like two people in there. You know, you you've seen those memes because everybody's ready to go gung ho in January. And I look at it as, you know, when I was running many years ago, I always tried to say, Okay, I'm gonna get la back down I mean I may be really wore out, but there's a hundred yards left and I'm gonna give it all I got for the last hundred yards. I'm going to just run as hard as I can for the last half mile, whatever it might be, and uh I'm just gonna push to the end, and we're coming to the end of this year. And uh I I just want to encourage you to push to the end, not just the end of this year, but as we move into next year, and and we all want to finish our race in a familiar verse in Acts chapter 20 and verse number 24 Of course, Paul says, But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. Finish my chorus with joy. It's one thing to just finish to just kind of get through by the skin of your teeth and Just hang on till the end, bless God. And there's there's a little bit of that spirit or that idea sometimes, especially uh among Christians, like, well, we're just gonna hang on till the end We're just going to try and endure. We're just going to get through. But I don't want to just get through. I want to finish my course with joy. I want to have uh excitement in the end. I want to have given it my all. And I want to finish well. And I hope you want to finish well. John 4, 34, Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish His work. Jesus had a work to do. He had a job to do, a task given to him by the Father. And Jesus wanted to finish that work. We need a desire to finish well. I was talking to Andrew uh a couple of months ago and I just was telling him, son I've just reached a point in my life that I just I want to finish my race. I I I just want to keep going for God until I reach the end. I want to be faithful until I cross that finish line. If it's five years or twenty-five years, whatever the time I have left for God, I've just kind of set my heart and mind on the goal, the desire to at least finish my race for God. To don't throw in the towel, to not not to quit, not to give up, to don't don't let go, but to keep on going for God. To stop, don't drop the banner either I want to finish well. I don't want to just skate through. I want to keep on, keeping on for God. You know, beloved, I find myself more and more getting distracted. Easier and easier. It seems, I'll tell you what, Thursday night was terrible. I told Mary Thursday night when I got home, I said, man, this is one of the worst services ever. I mean I could not concentrate on Thursday night. My li my train of thought was all over the place and I kept having these distractions and I would just barely get going and some other distraction would come and I I did not have liberty through the whole service. It was just a very rough service all the all the way across the board. And uh I think some of it is I'm I'm easily distracted today. It's hard for me to focus or tune out the distractions uh that come up. But I I don't know if you guys are like that or not, but you know you find that you go into a room to do something in particular and you see something else that needs done and you do that first And then you before you know it, you you you've done three or four other things. The other day I went downstairs to the basement to get some paint, and I saw that the fire needed stock, so I went ahead and stopped the fire Uh the the ash needed emptied, so I emptied the ash and then I went uh I was outside and I saw that the weed eater wasn't put away, so I put the weed eater away and then I swept the garage. and and put some things away in the garage. Then I headed back upstairs and remembered that I never did get the paint. I went down to the basement for. I ne I never grabbed the paint I was gonna going to get to start with And you know, we get distracted today and lose our focus. If we're going to finish well, we got to stay on track. Somebody said postage stamps are are have one thing really going for them and there's that the the attribute they have is that they stick to one thing until they get there. They stick to one thing until they get there. And uh, you know, if we're going to finish strong, if we're going to complete our task, we've got to stick to it. We've got to keep on for God. Don't get twisted and turned around and distracted and allow Satan to put up all these distractions and keep us from being faithful to God. This idea of faithfulness is something that if you've been here for very long, you've heard me preach on many times, because, beloved, it is faithfulness that God requires of us. It's required of a steward that a man be found faithful. And my how we just need men and and and women who Just purpose in their heart to be faithful. Be faithful when it's easy and be faithful when it's hard. Be faithful when it's hot. And be faithful when it's cold. Be faithful to God and to your responsibilities and to your ministry when you feel like it and when you don't feel like it. Just determine that you're going to be faithful Well, there's a lot to be said for somebody who's just faithful, who will just show up, who will just do the job. They may not be the best at it, they may not be the most dynamic at it, but they're going to be there every time. Praise God for that. Brother Joe, uh it's great to have Joe and Nelma here tonight. I know they're not on the screen, but you know, Brother Joe, isn't it exciting to have some people that are just faithful to the prison ministry? A few people that are just be there that are going to be available to serve and be a part of that ministry? Somebody who just say they signed up and said, I'll do it, and they're there and they're available Beloved, there's a lot of things that we would all rather be doing. You like to see there, you've seen the signs out there, I'd rather be fishing I would rather be golfing. I would rather be, and you you fill in the blanks, you younger people. I would rather be gaming. I would rather be, you know, watching a football game. I would rather, there's a lot of things we would rather be doing, but beloved, what are we called to do? What are we supposed to do? Where are we supposed to be? We are supposed to be faithful until the end. I want to give you a few thoughts about this idea of Just, if we're going to finish well, we've got to remain faithful day in and day out. We need to, faithfulness is maintained through toughness. Revelation chapter 14 and verse number 12 says, Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. This patience of the saints. Here is the patience of the saints. That is quite literally the idea of here's the steadfast endurance. the consistency under fire, the faithfulness under pressure. Here is the faithfulness of the saints. What is it? that they are going to keep the commandments of God. They are going to be they're going to be faithful. They're going to be obedient. They're going to just do what they know they're supposed to do. day in and day out, when it's convenient, when it's fun, when it's nice, when there's people patting you on the back, and when it's not fun, and when it's not nice, and when nobody's rec Faithful and tough whether you want to do it or not. Just be faithful. You know Satan is going to oppose you. Anytime that you desire to be faithful, anytime you pursue God and His will for your life, Satan's going to come in and try and stop you. He's going to oppose the work. He opposes us in so many ways. Matthew 13 tells us that he he he grabs the word of God. He steals the work that God wants to do in our heart and life that The word it sets there and Satan comes and has the opportunity, he'll steal it away so that the work of God is not done in your heart. Paul says it was Satan that hindered them. Satan hindered us from doing the work that God wanted him to do. Beloved, Satan is our enemy. We're to be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. He is the enemy, and he is going to try and stop you He'll try and stop you from reading the Word of God. He'll try and stop you from giving out those tracts. He'll try and stop you from fulfilling your duty or commitment. He'll give you a thousand reasons why you can't be there for a ministry or why you can't fulfill the responsibility that you have, why you can't Do what you said that you would do. Why you can't be faithful to what God has called you to do, fulfill your responsibility in your family or in your home or with your wife or your husband or your children. Beloved, we've got to determine in our heart that we're going to be faithful even in hardship. Faithful, we just got to get some internal tenacity about us that just pushes us to just say, I ain't giving up. I'm not quitting. I'm going to keep going for God. Let me just remind you, beloved, you'll have Satan oppose you. He is the enemy. Satan will do many things to distract you. He'll do many things to discourage you. And he might possibly use your brothers and sisters in Christ to discourage you And you may look at them and you say, well, bless God, they shouldn't talk that way. They shouldn't act that way. They should do this. They should do that. They should whatever you want to plug in the bank. Whatever burr you got under your saddle, whatever problem you have with a fellow church member uh at Hunt Valley Baptist Church right now, I want to remind you that the enemy is not them, the enemy is Satan Satan is the one that's put that burr under your saddle, and Satan is the one that maybe they put some words in their mouth, just like Job's wife, who was given words by Satan to speak, just like Peter was given words by Satan to speak, and Jesus looked at him and said, get thee behind me, Satan. Jesus was not mad at Peter. Jesus was mad at Satan for what he was saying. And you need to learn who the enemy is and and quit uh holding on to that grudge or that anger or that bitterness that you have for some uh believer in Christ, somebody else who's just trying to love God and serve God and do God's will in their life, and no, they're not perfect, and you're not perfect either. None of us are perfect. Every one of us are going to make mistakes. And we we we Satan wants you to grab a hold of that that area of inconsistency or that area of unkindness or that area that whatever they did to you and they want you to hold on to that and He's using it to destroy your Christian life, to keep you from being faithful to God. We need to just have some tenacity and say, I'm not going to quit on God. Even if everybody else does, I'm not going to quit on God. even if people uh strive to just discourage me because I realize that it's Satan is the enemy. Some of you have family that will oppose you For the balance of the message tonight, we'll be pondering and thinking about Joseph, but you know Joseph's own brothers sold him into slavery You talk about betrayal, you talk about hardship, you talk about somebody that had every reason in the world to just throw in the towel and quit and say, why should I bother? Joseph would be that person. Joseph's brothers betrayed him. They envied the favoritism that he received. The envied revelation that he received from God in his dreams, the visions of the future, and what God was going to do. They allowed that envy to grab hold of their heart, and they they they used it and they created a tinge of bitterness in their heart to the point where they were willing to sell their own brother into slavery. See in Genesis 37, verse number 27, it talks about how after they sold him they were content in their heart. They were happy. After they did such a wicked thing. Why? Because of the envy, the bitterness that was in their heart. You might have some family that opposes you That stand against you serving God and being faithful to Him. Have you ever felt like There's somebody around your circle of friends or family that that it's almost as if they would be glad that you if you failed. It's really a sad thing when somebody's trying to serve God and trying to do right, trying to walk the narrow road. And their family's glad when they miss church. Their family's glad when they fall and maybe go get drunk. The family's happy about that because she told you it wasn't real, see told you it didn't mean anything. Oh, look, you're just like us. They're glad that they would rather you be a drunk Then you'd be sold out for God. That's a sad reality, but can I tell you that's not what you ought to do? You ought to be sold out for God. The family may oppose it, but you ought to follow the Lord. Beloved, if you look for opportunities or reason to quit, you're going to find plenty of them. They're everywhere. You've just got a purpose in your heart. You've got to have something settled that you're just not going to quit. That you're going to continue to be faithful Well, that's faithfulness in your home, faithfulness to your mate, faithfulness to your children, faithful to your place of work, faithful to your ministries, faithful to God. You know, if you're faithful to God, you'll be faithful in every weather area Many years ago, during a Monday night football game, the Chicago Bears were playing the New York Giants One of the uh announcers was declaring and proclaiming the the magnitude of the impact that Walter Payton has had on the game. And you kind of extolling his virtues and he said, Isn't it amazing when you think about the fact that Walter Payton has accumulated over nine miles Of rushing. He has rushed over nine miles in this game. And the other commentator said that is amazing, but what's even more amazing is when you think about the fact that He did that with somebody knocking him down every 4. 6 yards. So he rushed over nine miles, and every four and a half yards, somebody knocked him to the ground. That's somebody that's not going to quit. That's just going to get up and keep on pushing. And you know what I'm saying tonight is that Satan comes and he knocks you to the ground. You've got to get up and keep running You've got friends or family that come in and they they discourage you or disrupt your plan, you've got to get up and keep on running. You've got to just purpose in your heart that you're not going to quit, that you're going to be faithful, you're going to be tough. You're just going to hang in there even when everybody else wants you to throw in the towel. As we think about Joseph, we certainly cannot help but consider the fact that we've got to be faithful In spite of temptation. Or stay faithful through temptation. Don't let temptation keep you from completing the race for God Everybody has temptation. There hath no temptation taken you but such as common to man. Doesn't matter who you are tonight, the temptation that you are enduring is something that many hundreds of thousands of Christians before you have faced. And some have had the victory in and through the power of God, and some have not, because they haven't leaned on the power of God. And say, beloved, we cannot allow temptation to destroy us in Genesis 39, verses 7, 8, and 9. We see that passage of temptation for Joseph. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph. And she said, Lie with me. But he refused and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master want not what is with me in this house And he hath committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in this house than I, neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? Joseph was tifted by the boss's wife. He did what he could to avoid her pursuit. Can I tell you that Satan is pursuing you? He may be using a woman from the outside. He may be using music, which might be a downfall for you. He may be using entertainment or uh social media or he may be using uh the the gaming consoles for some of you younger people but beloved listen whatever satan's using to try and tempt you he knows your weakness And he's going to try and disrupt your walk with God and your faithfulness to God by bringing that temptation to you in your hour of weakness. Oh. Joseph ran from the temptation. He avoided her pursuit. Like he understood that it was a sin against God. And so he ran from it. The problem is as many are not running from the temptation. Or saying, oh, I can't get victory. But instead of running from the temptation, you're pursuing it You'll never get victory while you're pursuing it. You've got to determine to run from it. Mark Twain said, There are several good protections against temptation, but none of them as sure as cowardice. He's saying the best thing to overcome and avoid temptation is just be afraid of it. Don't go around it. I tell you, if somebody told me that there was a copperhead crawling under the edge of the stage here, uh I wouldn't be playing around the edge of the stage That's not for me. Pastor Derek's not here, but I would send him in to uh get get it. Get that copperhead out of there. You know, I I just do not like snakes. I'm going to avoid them at all costs. The problem is we like our sin too much and we're not avoiding it. And that's why Satan is winning the battle. That's why he's disrupting our faithfulness. He's Ruining our walk with God. We see that he avoided her pursuit, but he also was aware of God's presence. He said, how can I do this great wickedness against God? He knew where he was. He was down in Egypt, and beloved, no nobody would know him there. Nobody would say anything about what he did or didn't do. Probably very few people even cared one way or the other But he was aware of the presence of God. Beloved, no matter where we are, we've got to be aware of the presence of God. God is there. And God is watching. We see Satan bring this moral temptation to Joseph just at a time when he was Dealing with the the entire aspect of being sold into slavery and betrayed by his brothers and already under so much pressure in a new place and all of that. What I'm saying is Satan's going to bring the temptation to you when you're at your weakest. When you already have so much pressure on you, when you already have why? Because he knows when to get you. I was talking to somebody this week and they were describing how that there's just certain places in the community here that they don't go. They can't go there. Why? Because those places hold temptation for them. And so they've learned some lessons about that, and they've decided I want to avoid those places because Those places are places of temptation for me. You know, if you had some common sense, you would acknowledge where your place of temptation is and you would avoid it. For some of you, it may be late at night. Your temptation comes late at night. Well you realize that. Put two and two together and say, okay, I've got to protect myself late at night I've got to set some boundaries. I've got to set up some protection there to save me from that temptation that I know Satan's going to bring at that point in my life. You know where the point of temptation is, and you ought to be able to avoid it. The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. You've got to have an awareness of God's presence no matter where we are. It is by mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. By the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. We see lastly tonight that we need to be faithful in spite of turmoil. In Genesis 39, verses 16 through 19, we see the accusations that this Impure woman made against Joseph, and she laid up his garments by her until his Lord came home. And she spake unto him according to those words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me. And it came to pass as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out, and it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me that his wrath was kindled. And you know the story, beloved, where he was thrown into prison. Joseph was falsely accused. He is falsely accused of this horrendous act, and he is unjustly imprisoned. You know, beloved, life is not fair We are all going to endure some very tumultuous things. We're going to go through some things that we just don't like. We're going to go through some things that hurt us deeply. That's part of life. I wish we could avoid it. I wish we didn't have to endure it. I wish it wasn't something that we had to face. But can I tell you, beloved, that's the reality. And whether it breaks you down or builds you up is by and large how you respond to it. Not what happened, but how you respond. And we have reached a place in this country where so many people, even God-fearing Sunday morning, Sunday night, Thursday night, independent Baptist, are wearing their feelings on their sleeve. And boy, you can't do anything, but they'll be offended. Now there's a problem now. There's an issue. Life has not been good to them. Somebody mistreated them. And they'll get out of church or get sideways with God or disrupt their faith because of it. And you know who won? Satan won. Sometimes people think, well, I won. I got to say my peace. You didn't win. Satan won. Both you and the person you attacked lost. And the cause of Christ lost. Because so many of us are more worried about our own feelings than we are about Christ. We're more worried about our own opinions than we are about what's right. About honoring God. Just think about what Joseph went through. The level of betrayal that he endured from his own family. The false accusations of This woman, when all he was trying to do was honor God and do what was right In the face of all these hardships, he was still trying to be faithful. And then look what it got him. You know how many Christians right there would have just thrown in the towel? They would say, forget it. Look at what it got me. I was trying to do right and look what happened. It got me nowhere Why? Because Satan is still at work and he's still going to try and disrupt. He's still going to try and discourage. He's still going to try and destroy. You have to recognize that and be faithful anyway You know what beloved is really Not until we reach the darkness. I'm talking about the dark days of life, the storms, the turmoil. The time that we have been unjustly accused, that we have been falsely accused, that we have been mistreated, that we have been attacked, that we have been neglected, whatever Petty feeling that you have. And yes, I just said it. Petty feeling that you have, because most of our feelings really are petty when it gets down to it. Nobody has shot one of your relatives. They haven't hung somebody that you loved. They didn't throw you in prison for preaching the gospel. They didn't stone you. They didn't say hi. They didn't pat you on the back. They forgot to call you. They didn't give you a recognition. Whatever it might be, most of our petty feelings, you know It is only in the darkness that we have the opportunity to display our faithfulness. Only when it's hard. You think the guy that's out on his honeymoon that people are patting him on the back and say, boy, you're such an amazing guy. You've been faithful to your wife for two weeks while you guys went around uh Hawaii together. What a good job, buddy. Do you think they're patting him on the back for that faithfulness? No, they're still on their honeymoon. They're still in love. Everything's happy and joy and blessed during that time. Do you know who they're patting on the back for the faithfulness is the guy that's been married for 47 years and his wife has been in the hospital for six months And he's been there every day by her side caring for her when other people would have walked away, when it was hard, when it wasn't easy And he faithfully loved her and cared for her and walked with her through storm after storm after storm and men sit back and say, Oh, I want to be that kind of a man, I want to be faithful like that And beloved, our Lord and Savior deserves that kind of faithfulness. And it's only when we reach the storm that we have the opportunity to show our faithfulness to God. Oh, everybody can be faithful when it's sunshining. Everybody can be faithful when it's easy. But are you gonna be faithful when it's hard? Faithful in the dark hour. Could I challenge you right now? Every single one of you that are listening to me right now, could I challenge you? Purpose in your heart, set and make a covenant with God that you will not quit in the darkness Just make a promise to God, make a covenant with God that if I'm ever going to step away, if I'm ever going to stop, I'm going to do it when we're on the mountaintop. I'm going to do it when everything is going well. Because, beloved, when things are going well and the sun is shining and the birds are singing over the back fence of heaven and you've got a smile on your face and a spring in your step, you don't feel like quitting. But you've got to have something inside of you that just pushes you through the darkness and and makes you just be faithful when it's hard. When it's not convenient, and when you've been abused and you've been discouraged and you're downhearted and you just say, I am not going to quit today. I feel like quitting, and because I feel like quitting, I know that I cannot. If you'll just purpose in your heart right then, if you just say, I bless God by the strength of God and with His mercy, I'm going to purpose in my heart to never throw in the towel in the middle of the storm. I'm just going to keep on, keeping on. How are you going to do that? You need to recognize God's presence. In the midst of any circumstance, it doesn't matter how bad it is, God is there. He's promised his presence. You're going to be tested. It's going to be dark. There's going to be days that you you'll look and you'll you Like Job, you say you looked everywhere and you didn't see God, but you know by faith that He's there. Remember God's presence, recognize God's provision. That God will give you strength. That God will carry you through. Even for Joseph when he was in the prison. God provided for him. God gave him the knowledge to be able to interpret the dreams so that it would set the stage for him to be able to be released from prison, to ultimately to be able to be in charge of the entire country, to be able to preserve for the nation of Israel, a place of safety where they could grow and they could be fed and they could multiply into a nation until God was ready to bring them to the promised land. You think if Joseph would have known or seen all that God was planning out in the future, I mean how would have he responded? And Joseph just knew, right now I'm in prison. Unjustly so. But you know what? I know God's here. I know God has a plan. And I'm going to continue to be faithful to Him. In 2 Timothy 4, verses 16 to 17, Paul says, At my first answer, no man stood with me. But all men forsook me. Sometimes you'll feel like that. That everybody else left. All the other men forsook you, but can I tell you God never did? He says, I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. He said, you know what? They all forsook me, but I'm not mad at them. God don't don't take it out on them. He says, notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me. And strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be fully known, that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. He says, everybody else left. I'm not mad at them because I know God was with me. God was here. God had a plan. He was going to use me to preach the gospel to the Gentile nations. And God preserved me all the way through to protect me from the mouth of the lion. When we recognize God's presence, we'll have the strength to remain faithful even in the hard time. You know, beloved, that Joseph's faithfulness was not just tried or tested, but we know that it was rewarded. In the end, his faithfulness will be rewarded, and we too one day will be rewarded if we'll be faithful until the end. And you know the satisfaction that you'll have personally for having been faithful till the end. That's what I'm praying, that I could just get to the end and Remain faithful Don't listen to Satan's accusations. When Satan tells you that nobody cares. Nobody's Nobody's listened. Nobody's watching. You can't imagine how many people are watching There's people in the church here that have been an amazing strength for my kids. as they have over the years watched your faithfulness. I usually try and stay away from the negative, but let me throw it out there. You know, there's been others that they've been an amazing discouragement to my children. Who for them have watched the lack of faithfulness and one Why? Is it not real? Are are we just playing church I mean if for them it's not worth being faithful to, then why should I be faithful? I've had to have conversations with my children and say we don't look at men. We look at God. And regardless, if everybody else quits and doesn't do what God wants, we've got to be faithful to God until the end. Satan will try and tell you nobody's watching. Satan will try and tell you that God isn't watching. But can I tell you that God sees when your finances are tight? And you're faithful to give anyway? God sees, beloved, when your time is short and you're faithful to serve anyway. God sees when you are physically in pain and yet you set your pain aside to be an encouragement and a help to somebody else? God sees when you don't feel good, but you support a brother or sister in Christ who is going through something else. Beloved, just purpose. Just refuse to quit in the dark. Make your mind up that you're gonna make it through the night. However the long the night's gonna last, it might be a day or two or It might be six months, it might be a year. I don't know what storm you're going through or what hardship you're facing, but determine to yourself, I'm not going to give up, I'm not going to throw in the towel, I'm going to keep on going for God until it's light again. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4, verses 8 and 9, he says, We're troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We're perplexed but not in despair. We're persecuted but not forsaken. We're cast down but not destroyed. I heard a message preached by Jack Hiles probably in 1983 four or something like that many, many, many years ago. But the title of it was Knocked Down but not knocked out. And this was his text. Sometimes you get knocked down. Now listen, don't let him knock you out. Don't get knocked out of the race. Get up and keep pressing on for God In the end, the battle is not going to go to the talented. The battle is not going to go to the most dynamic. The battle will go to the one who is knocked down every four and a half yards and stood up and pushed on again That's who the battle is going to go to. And that's the kind of Christians that God will use to build a church, to reach the lost. to win the world, Christians who are going to be faithful anyway. I'm going to ask the pianos to come and play I know you're at home, and I know there's a lot of distractions. But I also know that As Christians, we have got to commit to be faithful to Him Don't be willing to let Satan have the victory. Maybe he'll knock you down But don't let him knock you out. Maybe he'll use a brother or sister in Christ To discourage you. Realize it's Satan that's doing that. Let's give Satan a black eye. And let's help our brother and sister in Christ. We're just all sinners saved by grace. Just one pile of dirt trying to do what God wants us to do next to another pile of dirt. It's all we are from dust to dust A child of God who ought to be submitted to God.