Turn your Bibles with me if you would to first Corinthians chapter number four. First Corinthians chapter number four. This is Father's Day. It's not easy being a father, one cynic, speaking from his own experience, said that uh hey children go through four very fascinating stages. First they call you dada, then they call you daddy. As they mature they call you dad and then finally they call you for your money. Those are the stages that kids go through and it can be challenging at times, but uh sadly today we live in a day where uh we are experiencing the absent father uh in greater proportions than ever. The last time I gave these statistics was in 2014, and at that time we were around 15% of uh homes that were fatherless. Today, according to the Census Bureau, as of last year, 21. 4% of children are growing up in fatherless homes. Now I know that that is partly due to men who have given their life and sacrificed and served our country and have lost their life and we we uh certainly honor and respect that and there are those who uh have uh for other complications are not there but by and large can I tell you that it is due to the fact that that men have chosen to not be the fathers they're supposed to be. Men have decided to shirk the responsibility that they assumed when they fathered a child. the responsibility to be a father to them. By the way, this is uniquely an American problem in this country that calls itself a Christian nation. This country that was formed and established on biblical principles, this country uniquely as as much as 19% higher than the world average. In other countries, large uh developed countries where records are kept, it is only three to four percent. It's a sad commendation on American culture that men have refused to fulfill that role to be a father. Can I encourage you to the to the importance? of a man of a father being in the home according to statistics gathered in nineteen in in in in twenty twenty-one 90% of all runaway youths are from fatherless homes. 63% of all suicides are from fatherless homes. 85% of behavioral disorders come from children who grew up in fatherless homes. 71% of all dropouts are from fatherless homes. The impact of a father in the home cannot be overstated. The role that you have as a father is of utmost importance. Would you look with me in our text, 1 Corinthians chapter number 4? We'll see this morning, beginning in verse number 14, follow with me as I read down through verse number 21. I write not these things to shame you. But as my beloved sons, I warn you, for though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers For in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. Now some are puffed up, as though I would not come to you But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power. For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. What will ye? Shall I come to you with a rod? Or in love and in spirit of meekness. I want to bring a message to you entitled Only One Father Lord, we come to you this morning, and I submit myself a humble vessel to bring forth your worthy word. I ask you, God, that you would help us to set aside the cares of the world for a few minutes and draw us into your presence. May we have the will of power to point our hearts and minds heavenward and open and have ears to hear that you might feed us from your word this morning. Strengthen us to a renewed commitment to the role that we play and a renewed gratitude for the men who have stood in that position for us in our lives. Thank you for our fathers. As it is in Jesus' name. Amen. We understand, beloved, that the position, the role of a father in the home is likened to that of our Heavenly Father. The relationship is not only similar, but it's where a child learns the role. A child should learn to love and respect and fear and honor his father. And by a natural byproduct, when he comes of age and is able to understand who his heavenly father is, that love, honor, and respect gets transferred or added to your heavenly father. One reason so many have a hard time today relating or building a relationship with their Almighty Father is because they have never had a correct father role here on earth. Look with me at our text again. Notice several notable comments. He says in verse number 14, he says, my beloved son. the attribute or recognizing that position. He says in verse number 15, he says, I have begotten you like a father begot a child. In verse number 21, he says, Shall I come to you with a rod for establishing the position of authority there? What I want you to see in the text here is verse number 15. He says, For though ye have 10,000 instructors in Christ, Ye have not many fathers. And I tell you this morning that there are many people that impact and influence our lives. But you only have one father. I was moved this morning as I was texting my father with the realization We came very close to losing him just a little over a month ago. And I text text, I typed him early this morning and I said, I'm pleased So thankful that I can send this text to you to express my appreciation. I would exhort and encourage you to do so if you have somebody who fulfilled that role of fatherhood in your life or you do have a relationship with your father, because the day will come when they're no longer there. Our hearts are saddened this morning and broken, and we sorrow with those that sorrow, the Crane family, who just A few months ago, or just even a few weeks ago, I know the young ladies that are here did not realize that Mother's Day was going to be the last Mother's Day they would spend with their dear mom. Don't let the cares of life distract you and keep you from expressing your appreciation for acknowledging and realizing the investment that's there because we don't know the day or hour. When our dear loved one will be called home. And our hearts are broken for this dear family this morning who are sitting here in church together with us. Who miss their dear mom. Don't lose the opportunity that you have. If your Father is still with us, to express your gratitude, to recognize and appreciate the fact that you only have one. You only have one father. There are 10,000 instructors you may have in your life, but you've only one father. I want to give you three things here this morning, and I know the time. I promise you we'll be out of here before noon. Is that okay? Amen. Brother Greg said go as long as I want. The the problem I get I get in these lessons that can be practical and sometimes I get chasing the rabbits and If I stay on track, we'll be done. But let's see what the Lord has for us here. I want you to see verse number 14. He says, I write not these things to shame you. But as my beloved sons, I warn you. I warn you. Can I tell you there's only one father that is to be warning their children that the job of a father is to warn That word literally means to put in mind, to make aware of. A father often is the first one. that will warn a child of impending danger, that will warn the child of the struggle or the hardship. That will warn a child of, hey, you better be careful with this. Let me ask you this morning, what's something that you look at and say, uh, you know, here's something a father would warn his child about. Let's get some audience participation. Here's something a father would warn his child about. Brother Greg. Drinking. Yes. Warn them, you gotta stay away from that stuff. It'll destroy your life and ruin your family. Any other examples? Something you should warn your children about? I've got a lot of fathers here. You guys warn your children about something? Laziness. Warn. Brother Smoking. Staying away from that. Destroy your lungs. Give you cancer. Any other w warnings? Look before you cross the street. Look both ways. Nail gun is not a toy. Yeah, think about your have be muzzle awareness, right? Know where the gun's pointing. Here's your BB gun. Okay, son. This is not a toy. You do not point this at people. You do not point this at anything you're not planning to shoot or hurt You know, just training, warning them. That's the job, the role of a father is to be warning our children, to be putting in mind so that they're aware of it. So, you know, the Bible says a prudent man foreseeth the evil And hide it themselves. That's what a father does. He says, Hey son, right now you don't understand. But let me show you something. If you put your hand inside this oven, it's four hundred degrees and it's gonna hurt You don't want to do that. That's hot. And kids at the very youngest of age, you'll hear them hot ha. I mean it might not even be on right now. It might be off. But they've learned that's hot. Don't touch it, right? Stay away from that It's hot. They've been warned of some things. And beloved, we are to be warning our children. Could you look in the Bible with me at Deuteronomy chapter number 6? We're supposed to be putting some things in the mind of our children that they will carry and keep with them all their days. We see in Deuteronomy 6, verses 5 through 7, he says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. That word teach there literally means to point to, to to point, to to make aware of. You could say to put in mind of. We are to be teaching, to pointing them. What are you pointing? out for your children. What are you excuse me, what are you warning them about? Proverbs chapter one, verses two through four says, to know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom just as judgment and equity, to give subtlety to the simple and the young man knowledge and discretion. You know, by and large, the book of Proverbs is a list of warnings to his son. He he warns them in the proverbs about the strange women. There there are some women, they may look good, but listen son You'll rule the day. You'll rule the day. You go down that path. You better better go find a young lady that loves God and who's uh has character in her heart and wants to do right, who who has a walk with God. It's not so much about how pretty she is on the outside. It's so much more what she is on the inside. Those of us that have been around a little while, we know that the outside begins to fade, doesn't it? And that rich beauty that's in the heart of a sweet and quiet spirit of a young lady, it it flourishes and it gets more beautiful with time. And it's better and better as life progresses. But if all you all you're interested in, young man, is how uh attractive she is on the outside, can I tell you it doesn't last long? And we're gonna stop there. We're gonna move right on. He he he warns him about the strange woman. He warns uh about the scorner Being careful who your friends are. Don't get around the scorner. He warns them about an angry man. He warns them about sinners. You remember that verse? If sinners entice thee? Content thou not. Hey listen, there's some guys that are doing wrong and and they're going to be trying to pull you down a wrong path. Don't go that way Say no. Don't go by the way of that man. It's going to destroy your life. It's going to hurt. There's some warnings, but I'm saying is, Father, we are to be warning our children. It's our job, it's our responsibility, and should be taken seriously. We're the ones that are teaching them these things. What are you pointing out for your child today that to teach is to point, to talk there in Deuteronomy is to answer. You have any children that have questions? Andrew was our question boy. He has lots of questions. Always questions about everything. Questions, questions. We're supposed to have an answer. We're supposed to, you know, they come up and want to know this and want to know that, and what is this for? We're to be giving answers, taking time and instructing giving answers to them, answering him or her, the questions they might have. Proverbs chapter 4 and verses 3 and 4 says, For I was my father's son Tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother, he taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words, keep my commandments, and live. Listen. Can I encourage you? I am as much a project and goal-oriented guy as there is in here But can I tell you, don't forget your first project Your number one goal, your number one responsibility. Life is gonna get busy and work consumes so much of your time and all the stuff that you've gotta do just begins to be overwhelming, but we cannot forget the first role given to us, the first project we have is spending time with those kids. And kids spell love T I M E. Gotta spend time with them. Gotta spend time with them. We not only are we there's only one father given that rule, that position to warn the kids, but I want you to know that There's only one father to follow. Look at verse number 16. He says, Wherefore I beseech you, be ye, what does he say? Followers of me. Be ye followers of me. I wonder, sir, could we tell our kids, listen, just follow me and you'll be okay. I'm saying if you just do what I do, you'll be fine. You won't be perfect, but you'll be you'll be fine, son If you just follow me, I mean, I just wonder, could they follow us in our footsteps, or are we afraid that they're going to be like us one day? Well then let's change what we are. If you're afraid that one day they're going to be like you, can I tell you that chances are that it's more likely so than not? It's more likely that your children are gonna be exactly what you are. To follow means to imitate. Everyone here is an example. The question is, are you a good example or a bad example? Everybody is an example. And it has been well said that the footsteps a child will tend to follow are the ones the parents tried to cover up. That's the thing. What what are we saying? Okay, son, do as I say, not as I do. Those things need to change. We need to be able to say, son, follow me as I follow Christ. Can we, like Paul, who said that to the believers, Listen, just follow me as I follow Christ. Come on, let's go. We're gonna serve God with the days we have and the time we got, and we're putting God first Come on, let's go. We're going after the Lord. We're going to serve God each and every day, family. Let's go serve God. Come on. Can they follow you or are you saying, oh, you go to church You go out to the activities. You go help uh at work party. Yeah, I'll be uh I'll I'll come someday No, they're supposed to follow you. They've only got one father to follow, and regardless of what you say, regardless of what you tell them, by and large, they're going to end up doing what you do. It is far easier for somebody to learn by example than precept. Over the years I've built many things with my kids and family and and uh you know they uh Have all learned how to use tools. And you know, when they're young, when they're little, uh taking them and showing them how to use a drill and and to drill in a screw without stripping the head out. Last week I sent Andrew to an auction to get some stainless steel shells for Vacation Bible School and he went there and the auction guy The shelves were on the wall and Andrew brought his own drill and he's like, Well I'll get him down. The guy's like, No, no, no, I I gotta do that. So Andrew had to wait around for the guy to get done doing what he's doing, and he comes over, and then the guy didn't know how to use a drill So he's stripping the screws out. You know, and Andrew's like, oh my goodness. This is just uh it took forever to get him out because the guy didn't know how to use a drill It took time when they were little saying, okay, no, here's how you do that. You need to get square. And I I would they they were probably irritated. They'd be running the drill and I'd be like, you're not square. You're not square on the head. And they're like, what are you talking about? I say, come here, look right here. Look, see how the drill's tilted a little bit? You're not square on the head. It's not gonna screw in. You gotta get it up. See see how that's square? Now you do it And then they would do it. And I'd say, you're not square. Don't turn that on, you're not square. You're going to strip out the head and then we're not going to be able to get it out. Come over here, look. Teach them, show them. You've got to, by example. By example, show them. The kids, actually, I think it's in the girls' room right now. The boys built a bunk bed many years ago, a three-tiered bunk bed, and they did ninety-five percent of it. I showed him how to use a jigsaw, set the board up. I said, what do you want to do? Well you want to cut it like this? And we drew the pattern and then Zay cut it. And there's Caleb sitting on the floor. I don't know, he must have been four maybe. I don't know. He's sitting on the floor sanding. He's all covered in dust because the guys The the the other boys were using the chop box right above him and the dust is going right off of the They're cutting these boards and s just standing all the boards, dust coming all on his head, down his shirt And uh he was like, guys, guys, guys. But you gotta show 'em. You gotta teach them one thing at a time and show them by example How to walk with God. Show them by example, sir, how to love their wife one day. Your kids by and large one day are gonna end up loving their mate or treating their mate how they saw it happen in their home. And I hope they don't have to sit in a pastor's office somewhere and the pastor has to undo the training they got by watching their mom and dad and say, okay, I know this is what you saw. But this does not have to be your story. This is not how you respond in conflict. This is not how you communicate. This is not how you treat one another. We need to undo that. But you have a chance right now to be the example Training is most successful when precept and example are combined, when the principle is stated, and then practically it is implemented. You know, you're saying, kids, come on. The Lord said, forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together as a manner of some is, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So come on, kids, we're going to church. The Bible says, thou shalt not lie. Have your kids seen you in a lie? Caught you in a lie? Listen, nobody nobody's perfect. And if that happens, you need to own up to it and you need to tell them, listen, mom uh dad dad did wrong. I was not honest with that police officer. And that was wrong. And I need to ask the Lord to forgive me. And you they need to hear you ask God to forgive you. Confess your sin and forsake it. If you don't own up to it, you act like it's you just sweep it under a rug, uh you're you're building the wrong thing in them. Be an example. That doesn't mean you have to be perfect, it just means you have to be real. Means you have to be real. Your kids are watching you. They're watching everything you do. One of the boys, when they were eight years old, went to mom and said, Can I back the car out of the garage? The other kids are like, you can't drive the car, and he's like, Yes I can. I watched dad do it lots of times. All you have to do is move your feet. What I'm saying is your kids are watching every detail. They're not just watching like how you turn and where you look, they're walking watching how you respond, where you walk, what how you talk. How you communicate with others, what you're doing, your kids are going to end up following in your footsteps. What are your kids learning about faith today from watching you? What are your kids learning about their walk with God, about soul winning, about faithfulness, about honesty, about integrity? You know what? I know there's a lot of good stories out there that they could read. They've got 10,000 instructors. There's a lot of great examples in the Word of God that they can follow. There's 10,000 instructors that can influence their life, but they've only got one father. Who's going to be that lasting example for them? The role that you have as a father is something precious and valuable and it is important, and you've got to fulfill that role because they're going to follow you. Proverbs 23, 26, my son says, My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. That's hard. Son, you just do what I do. Can I ask you right now, if your children had a walk with God that you have, would you be happy? If your children were the kind of soul winner you are, father, dad, would you be happy? Your children were as loving and compassionate to their mate as you are. If they were as faithful to their Lord and Savior as you are, they're going to follow you. They've only got one father to warn. They've only got one father to follow. They've got 10,000 instructors. We see in verse number 17 there, one of the instructors are introduced. He says, For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus. Who is my beloved son, faithful labor of the Lord? He says, hey, I'm going to send Timothy. He's going to help. Let me just tell you, fathers, to be careful that you don't rob your children of the 10,000 instructors. What I'm saying is there are a lot of other people that can influence and impact and help your son. How arrogant is it of me to think that I'm the only one that can influence my son? I'm the old I have everything that he needs and I'm gonna prepare him adequately for life. Everything he needs for life, I'm gonna give him. You have the role of father, and by God's design you hold the most important position But a wise father recognizes his limitations and he says, I need somebody that can help my son in this area. There are some of you Your specialty is IT? Your specialty is is that kind of like working in an office and and you know building is not your thing and when I'm talking about putting a drill square on a on a screw you're kind of like I have no idea what he's talking about. You need somebody else to teach your son that. Right. So that they can be prepared. So that they can know how to do it. There's some of these guys you're really mechanically inclined. You can do a lot of good you know, you could fix pretty much anything. There's other of you you can't. You if you can't, you need somebody else to teach your son how to change the oil and and do the brake work and and all prepare them for life. You know how much money you'll save them? Timothy's car, we took it in for an inspection, and it didn't pass inspection, and the the shop said, Hey, uh, here you go. Here's what's needed to pass inspection, thirty-two hundred dollars. My son was crushed. The car is only worth about a thousand bucks. And I mean literally the blue book value in good running condition is like a thousand dollars. And he's crushed. He's like, oh no, I've already put $700 into it. And he was so upset, you know. And I said, well let's look and see what the parts cost. All of the parts, 230 bucks. We did the work ourselves. He spent 230 bucks. And uh but if I if I didn't know anything about it, he would have he he would be at the mercy of some shop, spend three thousand dollars. Let somebody else invest in your son. Let somebody else teach them some things. Find somebody that knows it and say, Listen, I'll pay you to teach my son. I'm telling you that because some people would take advantage of others and you know, it's not their job to raise your son, okay? It's your job. Don't pass it all. Hey, teach my son. Tomorrow you teach my son tomorrow you teach. I mean you would they need instructors and I'm just saying sometimes parents Th mothers tend to be more this way than fathers, but even fathers can get, oh, these are my children, nobody's gonna touch my kids, my family, we're in you know, this is us. And and by the way, sometimes homeschoolers get that mentality, they get this this This like people in the world think about homeschoolers that way. You know why homeschoolers have bad reputation? Because of parents like that Like, oh, we're going to keep them in this little bubble. We're not letting anybody else influence my children. The Bible says they got 10,000 instructors, and you're robbing your children of the other people that could be giving them valuable tools. Because you're so concerned that uh the they might see that you're not a perfect father. Well if you just own it then you don't have to worry about it. I'm not perfect and I need some help. So we see that there is only one father to warn, only one father to follow, and lastly this morning we see only one father to discipline. Look at verse number 21. He says, what will ye? He asks the question. He says, what do you guys want? Shall I come to you with a rod? Or in love. Any of you parents ever ask your children that? You want a spanking? I don't know if there's a dumber question in the world ever asked anybody. Do you want a spanking? Yeah, I've kind of been looking forward to that. Been a few days wondering if we could go ahead and just get one today, you know. No, kid doesn't want a spanking. I mean my kid my parents asked me that a lot of times, you want a spanking? My mom used to say you're cruising for a bruisin. Yeah, no, they don't want to spank him, but listen, it is the job, the role of the parent, of the father to be the disciplinarian. To know what the kids are at and where they're at. They need to know that there's a line that they shouldn't cross, and when they cross it, there is discipline. He gives to them a choice. He says, Hey, should I come to you with a rod or in love? You know, by the way, they still get they still get the discipline. There was a lot of times as a kid that I would have been happy to have a spankin' instead of go do what dad told me to do But I got this thinking then I still had to go do what Dad told me to do. It's like, okay, you're gonna do this and you're gonna do it with a good attitude, and then when I have the bad attitude, he's okay now You're going to get spanked and then you're still going to do this and you're going to do it with a good attitude until the adjustment was made, right? That's what a parent does. That's what a father does. It takes both. Proverbs twenty-nine fifteen says the rod and reproof. The rod and reproof. Can I tell you it takes both? He said, Should I come to you with the rod? Or should I come to you in love? Here's what I'm telling you, you gotta love them on one end and bust them on the other That's what it takes as a parent. You gotta do both. It takes both. You you love them and you lead them and you guide them and then when they step out of line, they need discipline. And I know that's not uh politically correct today, but it's the Bible. Spare the rod and spoil the child. Proverbs twenty-nine fifteen, the rod and reproof give wisdom. But a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. Can I tell you you want to heap up a whole pile of shame? Just let your kid do whatever he wants. Let your kid do live his life and do whatever he wants to do and you're gonna heap up a pile of shame. And you know sometimes you you as a parent are embarrassed in the grocery store because of the way that your child acts And by and large, that's because you allow them to act that way at home. And then you don't see you don't notice it at home because nobody's watching. But in public, you're embarrassed by their behavior. So now you see their disrespect. You see their complete blatant disobedience of you. Now it's evident because other people are watching and you feel this pressure where if you dealt with that at home, it wouldn't be happening in their grocery store. You have that's where training comes in. Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. It's training. So at home, when there aren't people watching, you teach your child to respond to your voice. That means when he's in the other room playing with his toys and mom says I'm trying to think of a kid that won't get in trouble, you know. Caleb, come here. Then he stops what he's doing and he comes. You're doing your child a disservice if you call them five, six, seven, eight times. They need to learn to respond to your voice. And they may say, well, I didn't hear you. Not my fault. You need to be listening for mom's voice. You need to be listening for dad's voice. When mom or dad speak, you respond. And then you tell them, hey, I want you to pick up this toy. What does that mean? That means you pick this up. You see that toy box over there? Come here, let me show you. I'm teaching by instruction I'm training. Here's where the toy goes. Not halfway in, not halfway out, all the way in. Then we take it out, put it back on the floor, and we say, okay, now you do it. You pick that toy up. And you teach them to put it away. Then the next time you come in, you say, okay, pick these toys up. You've given the instruction. They should respond to your voice. And if they don't The rod and reproof is how you train a child. Kids flourish in structure with well-established expectations. When you leave a child to himself, he doesn't know what to do. Can I tell you a true story about a young boy named Gordon? Gordon was a skinny, underweight child. That's why his mom was shocked when at 17 he said he wanted to join the Marines. What she did not know is what Gordon had expressed to her pastor. That week before, he sat in his pastor's office and he said, I wish for one thing in my life. I wish my dad would one time give me a command and make me do it. He said, as far as I can remember, in all of my days, my dad has given me instruction and I decided whether I wanted to do it or not. If I didn't want to do it, I just didn't do it. And there was never any repercussions. He went on to say, I believe my dad is the biggest wimp there is. When a little child can control him. I could never respect him. And that's why I want to go into the Marines. I need somebody to be a man To tell me what to do. Gordon left for the Marines. He called back to his pastor some weeks later. He says, I'm as happy as can be, for at long last I have direction in my life. You see, Gordon's father couldn't hear the cry of his son. Saying, just guide me, just guide me, just show me what to do Father, it takes love, but it takes discipline. There's only one father that's filling that role. And listen, you don't ever discipline your child in anger. I had somebody ask me last week, you know. Well maybe it's been in the last fifteen days. Uh But he he asked me, he says, if is there ever a place for just a good backhand? I mean just like the kids out of line, you just pfft. I said no. Because you as a father should always be in control of your spirit. You cannot tell your child to be in control of his spirit if you are not. And you never discipline when you're angry. That changes the goal of discipline. When you're disciplining out of anger, your goal is to hurt them because you're mad. That is not the goal of biblical. Biblic biblical discipline is to help them, to train them. The problem with a lot of the discipline that's going on today is people are disciplining out of anger because they're mad at their children because their children are not doing what they want them to do. instead of with the goal of trying to help the children be what they should be. And when you discipline with the right spirit, there's been times in my life where I've had to tell my child, listen You go to my room, I'll be there a little bit. Because I knew I wasn't in control of my spirit. And it wasn't time for me to deal with them in a correct spirit in a correct way. They needed discipline, but I needed to have to do it in the right spirit. So I said, no, you should never ever strike your child with your hand. Your child should never flinch. You should be able to stand in front of your child and go like this. And your child not even flinch because he knows you would never hit him. He should have that confidence. Part of that is you never use your hand for discipline. You use The Board of Education. Okay, that's what that's for. Don't use your hand. Your hand should be for restoration and love. The the board is for discipline. And they should know that. They should know as soon as you set that board down that you're their father and you love them. Unequivocally and without reservation, you love them enough to discipline them when they needed it. And you go about the process of restoration and you restore your spirit. That's what our Heavenly Father does to us. He chastens us. You ever been whipped by your heavenly Father? I have. But I know that He is faithful and just to forgive me of my sin and cleanse me from all unrighteousness. And at the moment, if I draw near unto God, He will draw near unto me. And some of the sweetest times you will have with your children is when you biblically discipline and then you're able to restore that fellowship back when it's been taken care of properly. And parents that have done it understand. Every parent wants to deal with his children in love, but it takes both. There's times, can I tell you, that the rod is needed. You know, never Ms. I'm gonna bring this conclusion. God has given our children 10,000 instructors. Let's value and appreciate those. Let's allow them to influence our children's lives But let's take exceptionally seriously the role that God has put us in because there's only one Father. They've only got one Father. There's only one person that's filling that role. You've only had one that's filling that role for you. And you, as a father, are filling that role for your children. I feel this morning for those that are have grown up in homes where the father was not there. I feel this morning for those that are here that I know their fathers are are are in the home, but for all intents and purposes they're absent. This I'm saying dad is not fulfilling the role. And I'm sorry for that. But I want to exhort all of us to still have children to impact and influence for the Lord that we Be like Joshua. And we stand up and we say, as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. We're going to serve the Lord. And it starts right here. Because my kids only have one father to follow. If your kids follow you, what would they be? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed