The verse from which I draw the title for today's message Open Thou Mine Eyes And the heart of the message is this verse encapsulated, Open thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. There are a few things as we talk about this verse that are intrinsic or that are kind of a given. They're a statement that's made and It's understood to be fact. Just want to reiterate in your heart and mind and make sure that those things are so for each and every one of you this morning. First of all, He says here at the conclusion of this verse, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. There is a given understanding that this is the Word of God. Amen? This is his law. This is Not just the book of men, it's not just a collection of good stories, it's not just some pages of of uh books from ancient times, but this is By the testimony of the Word of God, by the testimony of the lives that have been transformed and the work of the Holy Spirit, this is the law of God. This is God's word. Amen. It's God's Word. Beloved, you need to have this settled in your heart. It's something that you need to have settled because the Word of God is attacked. on every hand by many people in the world today. And you need to have it settled in your heart. Beloved, it's already settled in heaven. We know that. You're in Psalms one nineteen, look down in verse number eighty-nine. The Bible says in verse number eighty-nine says, Forever, O Lord. Thy word is settled in heaven. This book is settled. The law of God has been established and it's settled in heaven. It's already settled there, but is it settled in your heart that this is the law of God? That this law contains the truth imparted unto us from God Almighty. Look in verse 142. Psalms 119, verse 142. He says, thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is truth. Do you believe that this book is truth this morning? This book is truth. It doesn't need to be corrected. It doesn't need to be updated. It doesn't need to be redone. It needs to be re-read. This book is truth. This is the law of God. The Bible says in verse 160, Psalms 119, Thy word is true from the beginning, and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth forever. What God said, the law that He's given to us in this book is true. And every one of the judgments, every statement that He made, every prophecy given, every law set forth, every principle that we live by is established in heaven. It's true and it's going to endure forever. We're going to come and go, but this law will still be here. This book, The Law of God, it might not be popular today. Matter of fact, there are certainly many critics But do you have it settled in your heart that this is the law of God and that the words contained therein are true? Do you have that confidence in the Word of God this morning? I hope so. I implore you to. I pray that the Holy Spirit would convince in your heart those truths. So, first of all, we see that, this intrinsic truth, this statement that's kind of a given, that this is the law of God. And we see here that there are wondrous things in this law. Do you believe this morning there's wondrous things in the law? There is wondrous, amazing things. That word wondrous means marvelous, such as may excite, surprise, and astonish. The wondrous things in the law of God. Does the word of God get you excited this morning? Does the word of God, you see things in the truth of the word of God, and you say, man, that's good. Man, that's powerful. Man, that's going to change my life It excites us. It ought to you see those truths, and it's a wondrous truth. It excites us to see that God Almighty has shared with us and given us this truth. This law. Man, this instruction, this teaching, this law of course is we we are talking about when he's describing here the law. We know that the law i proper is The Torah, that book of the law, the beginning of the Old Testament. But when we're talking about the law in this respect, we're talking about the Word of God and all that it encompasses The law of God for you and I today. And there are wondrous things in these pages. Bob Jones used to say, if the Bible is boring to you, it's not because the Bible is a boring book. It's because you're a shallow Christian. Yeah. Now I didn't say it. Don't get mad at me. It was Bob Jones The the word of God and the that that's I mean man that re reproached my heart when when I heard it. How many times have we read the scripture and thought man That's kind of boring. Oh, that wasn't very powerful. That wasn't very moving. That really didn't stir me that much. But there are wondrous things in this book, Christian. But the other given principle here is the heart cry of the psalmist. And that is the truth is understood that there are wondrous things in this book. But the heart cry as the psalmist is, Lord, open thou mine eyes, that I may behold the wondrous things. And my prayer this morning as we dive into the book and spend a few minutes talking about the wondrous things that are found in the Word of God that Maybe it might stir in your heart a passion and a desire. Maybe you're not fully convinced about the truth and the power of the Word of God. Maybe you're not fully convinced about what's there, but I hope that maybe I could stir in you a little bit of desire to say, if there's something there, oh, I want to see it, Lord, would you open my eyes? Would you allow me to see the truth that it might change my life? I hope it would stir you to say, Lord, maybe it's dry to you, maybe it's dead to you, maybe there's no power in those pages to you. But I want you to understand the truth of the Word of God here this morning is that it's the prayer of the psalmist and that it takes the power of God to open our eyes that the truths, the wondrous things that are found in that book are there for you and I, but we need God to show them to us. That's the prayer. We need God because, oh friend, we know that the natural man, he doesn't understand the truths of this book. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 2. 14, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. And how many has there been that said, oh, that's foolishness to think and to believe and to follow the words on those pages? But the natural man believes that because he hasn't experienced the life-changing power of an Almighty God. Because God hasn't opened his eyes to be able to see the marvelous truths that are held in here. You know, natural man in his natural state, these things are just foolishness. The fact given to us here is that the outside of the illuminating Spirit of God, the scripture is just empty words. Just empty words. We're talking about spiritual things, but it might make it easier to understand if I bring it to the physical realm. We're just about to have vacation Bible school And VBS here at Hunt Valley is a fun, dynamic time. If you've never seen or experienced VBS, you've got to at least come next Sunday and go down and see the gym for vacation Bible school. Now, BBS is fun and we usually have a prize room at BBS for the kids that have brought guests. or earned earned a prize of some kind, and we got this prize room where these kids can go into the room and they can get the prize that they won. A few years ago we had a VBS that was pretty much lit by black light. And that's fun for the kids. It's just kind of neat seeing everything glow and all their shirts glow and tennis shoes and all that kind of stuff. It it's a good time. Well the kids went into the prize room and came out the other side and they were coming out without prizes And I said, well, why didn't you get your prize? And they said, we didn't see any prize in there. And I I'm like, what are you talking about? I filled that up last night. There's a bunch of prizes in there. And so I went around and looked in the prize room and the stage crew had forgotten to turn the black lights on. So they couldn't see them. So the kids went into that room and they're like, this is just an empty room. They're just looking around. It's just empty. But when we turned the black lights on, there was prizes hanging all over the walls And the kids got to go back through. And boy were they excited. Oh, there's surprises in here. And that's what I'm talking about, friend, is we get into the Word of God. And we come out of it and we say, Oh, that was empty and that was dry. And God says, How come you didn't get anything out of there? And you say, Oh, it was empty There was nothing in there. And God says, wait a minute, wait a minute, let me turn the light on for you. Let me illuminate your eyes. Let me open your eyes so you can see the wondrous things that are in this book that are for you. I want to show you three wondrous things. There are many, many wondrous things. How could you possibly narrow down the wondrous things that are in the book? I I mean I this is just no way. It's infinite But he says, he tells us here, he says, his prayer is, open thou mine eyes that I may behold the wondrous things in thy law. Would you turn with me in your Bibles to the book of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John? Turn to the book of John in chapter number one. We're going to give you three things. That are wondrous truths that we behold in the Word of God this morning and will be done. In John chapter 1, in verse number 29, we see the first of these. He says, the next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and he saith, Behold the Lamb of God. Which taketh away the sins of the world. Nowhere else in this world are you come and brought face to face with the Lamb of God, except the pages of Scripture. Here is where the Lamb of God is given to us, presented to us. Behold the Lamb of God John introduces us to this Lamb, the one who would come and be a sacrifice for all the world, to take away the sins of the world. This is not just a lamb, he is the Lamb. He's not just a door, he is the door. He's not just a way, he is the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by him. The Lamb of God, John introduces us to him. He tells us, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. We're introduced here to this wondrous truth, the truth of the Lamb of God. He would come to forgive and to wash away the sins of this world There's been many that have been living with the weight and the burden, the heartache of the sins of this world, and it is a heavy burden. It is a trialsome wait. But God says that the Lamb of God came to take away the sins of the world. That word taketh. It's an ongoing, active word. It's not that at that point he took all of the sin away from the world because we know there's some that die in their sin. The penalty of their sin hasn't been removed. But those that come to the Father and accept the gift of the Son, the Lamb of God, He takes away that sin. We're introduced to the Lamb of God here. This perfect Lamb of God in 1 Peter 1, verse number 18, he says, For as much as ye know That you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversations received by traditions from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. It took a perfect, spotless lamb to be an acceptable sacrifice to take away my sin. And Jesus was that perfect Lamb. He came and offered himself to the Father and was accepted of the Father. We know that when he finished his great work here on earth, he went and now sits on the right hand of the Father. You understand, beloved, this entire Bible is a message about the Lamb. C. H. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, no matter your text, make a beeline for the cross. Because it doesn't matter where you begin, because the entirety of the pages of Scripture are really just a message about the Lamb. And you need to find the Lamb wherever you're at, whatever page you're on, whatever story you're reading, whatever principle you're teaching, find the Lamb of God and lift high the cross of Jesus Christ. This Lamb we see in the book of Genesis he was prophesied. We see in the book of Isaiah he was personified. We see in our text this morning the Lamb was identified We see in John chapter 19 that the Lamb was crucified. And we see in the book of Revelation the Lamb is glorified. He's high and lifted up The Lamb of God which take away the sins of the world. This is a wondrous thing that we learn about in this book. This law of God. Why would the Son give himself to be a lamb, slain from the foundation of the world? Why would he give himself Can I tell you why? It's the second wondrous thing we need to behold in the scriptures. Turn all the way to the end of the New Testament to 1 John 1 John. You can get to Revelation and back up a little bit. 1, 2nd, 3 John, Jude, Revelation. I mean, it's just those those little books go by fast, but 1 John. I want you to see it on the pages of Scripture. 1 John chapter number 3. In 1 John chapter number 3 and verse number 1, the Bible says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. That we should be called the sons of God. Well, the second wondrous thing we see in the pages of Scripture is the love of God. The love of God that would motivate Christ to go to the cross for you and I, what manner of love is this? Man, think about the fact that his love was bestowed on us the most unlikely of candidates. He didn't bestow his love upon a on a worthy servant when he did did when he b bestowed it upon me. He didn't bestow it on a family member. He didn't bestow it upon somebody that could love him back. He didn't bestow it on somebody that could do anything for him. You know, our our understanding of love is so reciprocal. It's a love that's based so much on what we get and what we give and if if if we're not being loved in return, why should I bother loving them? But the love of God. He loved us when he knew we wouldn't love him back. He loved us when he knew not only would we not love him back, but as a as a as a race, as a nation. We would we would reject him. And he loved us anyway. Romans chapter five. Verses six, seven, and eight. It says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. He died for the ungodly. He died for the sinner. He says, For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. He says, Maybe, maybe, if there was a righteous guy that was just he's a really good guy, and listen, if anybody ought to live, we're gonna let him live. Possibly somebody might die for somebody that was righteous. He says, yet for adventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. But verse number eight he says, but God. But God committed his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ didn't die for Caleb Atrell because I was such a good man. He didn't die for me because I was going to be such a good follower of Christ or because I was going to be able to do a great work for him or because one day I would stand and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. He died for me, regardless of anything I would ever do. He died for me because I was a sinner and I needed a savior and he loved me and he gave himself for me What a wondrous truth that we behold in the pages of Scripture this morning. We behold the Lamb of God. That was motivated by the love of God. What manner of love is this? It's a selfless love That would motivate God to send his only begotten Son. Oh, that most well-known of all verses, for God Say it with me, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's the love of God. He sent his son to a people that would despise and reject him. Yet he sent him anyway. Do you behold the love of God today? Could we within the oceans fill? And were the skies of parchment made, were every stock on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade To write the love of God above would drain the oceans dry, nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. It's a love beloved that's been freely bestowed upon you and I. Bestowed is given. Freely given. And there is no greater love than this than a man laid down his life for a friend. 1 John 4 10 says, Herein is love. Not that we loved God. But that he loved us intended his son to be a propitiation for our sins. Albert Barnes, that great Bible scholar, he wrote this Pondering and thinking about this manner of love, that we could be called the sons of God. He wrote this He says, since there is no higher love that can be shown than in the adopting of a poor and friendless orphan. And giving him a parent and a home, even God could bestow upon us no more valuable token of his affection than that we should be adopted into his family And permitted to regard him as our Father when we remember how insignificant we are as creatures. And how ungrateful, rebellious, and vile we have been. We may well be amazed at the love which would adopt us into this holy family of God. So that we may regard and treat as the children of the Most High A prince could manifest no higher love for a wandering, ragged orphan boy found in the streets than to adopt him into his own family and admit him to the same privileges and honors of his own son. And yet this would be a trifle compared to the honor which God bestows upon us. Beloved, it's because of God's love that we can be called the sons of God, that we're adopted into the family. of God. This privilege has been freely bestowed upon you and I. How do you become the Son of God? How do you get adopted into the family of God? John 1. 12 says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. It's not something that uh it's just inherent. It's not something that's because God created the world that every man was created by God, so every man is the son of God, that's not what the Bible teaches. We have the power to become the Son of God, he says here, even to them that believe on his name. In a few minutes, we're going to have an invitation, and I'm going to ask you, if God spoke to you, you come to an old-fashioned altar. But I want to extend that a little further. I want to plead with you this morning. If you have never seen the Lamb of God as having been slain for your sin, and understand it was the love of God that motivated him to go to the cross for you. And put your faith and trust in Jesus' sacrifice so that you can become the Son of God. You can be adopted into the family of God. I want to ask you to come. Let us take a Bible and at least show you. At least make up your mind. See in the scriptures what God says about trusting Jesus Christ as his As your Savior in becoming a son of God, being adopted into the family of God. Lastly, the third thing that I would like you to see this morning is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. In verse number 17. You see, it's because the Lamb of God came, motivated by the love of God, that those who have accepted that Have a new life in Christ. We see in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, he says, Therefore If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Behold, all things become new because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross, that Lamb of God that allowed himself to be given in propitiation for my sin. Motivated by that great love of God that carries, that sent him to the cross and caused him to give himself a sacrifice on the cross. I've accepted that. And now the Bible says I have a new life in Christ. What an amazing and wondrous truth. that we have in the Word of God this morning. The greatest testament to a new life is one who's experienced it. There are Those in the world that would say there is nothing about this Christianity. Oh, it's just uh all make-believe or a nice fairy tale. But why would you ask somebody who hasn't experienced it or doesn't know anything about it what it is? You you need to talk to somebody that knows Jesus. That's changed, that Jesus has changed their life, that has experienced the new and abundant life in Jesus Christ. You talk to one of them and say, Tell me about the new life you have in Christ. Is life is life the way it was before you knew Jesus? Is life the same? It's a new life. Old things are passed away and all things are become new, beloved. Well, we got some new habits when we got a new life in Christ. There was a time that I went some places, but praise God I I don't go there anymore. There was some times I was I was I was bound by some particular sins and I couldn't seem to get any victory or couldn't get past them, but praise God, Jesus Christ gave me the victory, and those old habits don't weigh me down anymore. I've been freed from those There's some new habits that I have, like reading the book and and and praising God in church and singing praises to His holy name. There's new habits we have in Jesus Christ. There was a time when my life was filled with little more than just trying to make ends meet. I was just looking for a little bit of uh happiness, trying to find a little bit of happiness somewhere here and there between the weekends. But now I've got a new life in Christ. And with this new life, I got some new habits and praise God, I got some new happiness. I've got new happiness. I've got the joy of the Lord. The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord is my strength. The joy of the Lord is my strength. He fills my heart with laughter. Ha ha ha He fills my heart with laughter. Ha ha ha ha ha ha. He fills my heart with laughter. Ha ha ha ha. The joy of the Lord is my string. I'll tell you what, you got the joy of the Lord. We have a new happiness in Jesus Christ and you see the world struggling and the burdens and the heartache and the turmoil that that fills the days And it's not as Christians that we don't ever have a storm. Understand that. It's not as Christians that we don't ever have heartache. It's not as Christians we don't ever have burden But in the storm, in the heartache, in the burden, I've got a Savior who brings joy, who walks beside me, who carries me when I can no longer walk, who prays for me when I can't pray for myself. I've got the joy of the Lord. New happiness in Christ. I also have a new helper. The psalmist said in Psalms 54, 4, Behold, God is my helper. Well you couldn't have a better helper than that. Couldn't have a better helper than God. God is my helper. Psalms 46:1 says God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. A helper in your hour of need. Yeah, he is that friend that sticketh closer than a brother. I praise God for my new helper. He's the greatest helper, but you know what? As a child of God, as part of the family of God, I've got a lot of helpers right in here too. I've got a a church family that loves and cares for one another in such a compassionate and giving way. And I'll tell you what, walking through the trials of life, they make it a little easier when you got a brother, you got a sister, you got part of the family of God walking with you They're beside you. They're carrying you. They're helping you. They're lifting the load in those hours of heartache and pain. As part of the family of God. We've got new hope in Christ. That word hope is a powerful word. There's so many in the world today they've lost all hope. They just have lost all hope. They wonder about what's it all for and why should I try and continue and life's burdens and heartaches have become so great. They've lost all hope. But we have hope in Jesus Christ. We do. What a powerful, powerful thing. To have hope in your heart. I'm sure you guys have heard the test that was done for some mice. They put some ice into a container of water and allowed them to swim. I don't remember the exact time frames. Let's just say it was an hour. The mice swam for an hour and ultimately just could not swim anymore. And then perished. But then they took these mice And in about 50 minutes, they took the mice out of the water for one minute and then put them back in. And he swam for another fifty minutes. They took him out of the water and put him back in. And I don't remember the exact numbers, but that little bit of hope Cause that mice to swim for almost twenty-four hours. How in the world? Because there's hope. Because there's hope. I just can't imagine going through life without hope. And we've got hope in Jesus Christ. The Bible says that he we have a lively hope. That is a hope that has something behind it. That is a hope that's alive. That's a hope that has meaning. It it's not just, you know, I was joking with the church family the other night. I was telling them about a dream that I've had c consistently through my life of finding a million dollars. It's just a dream I've had. I'm gonna find a million dollars one day. I'm coming up with every kind of place you can find a million dollars. I still haven't found it. Okay, there's some hope. That has no liveliness behind it. There's a dream that is just that is as far-fetched as they come, right? That that's just not going to happen. That's not the kind of hope we have in Christ. We have hope that has something behind it. We have hope that has strength behind it. It has the power of God and the ability to meet the need. God's hand is not shortened that he cannot help. He can help. We have hope in God. Wow. What a precious thing. I'm not going to spend any time here, but let me just remind you, beloved, that we also, with this new life in Christ, we have a new home. He said, I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will doubtless come again and receive you unto myself. That where I am, there ye may be also. That place he's talking about preparing the Bible calls it a mansion. You can call it a shack or a home or whatever you want. I've got hope of a mansion. I've got a mansion. I've got a mansion just over the hilltop. That new home that I'm going to be in one day because of what Jesus Christ did for me. So can I ask you this morning, do you behold the wondrous things? in the book. Maybe this morning we just need to ask God, open thou mine eyes. Open my eyes, God, that I would see the truth That I would understand them, that they would, that they would mean something to me, that God, you could be real and powerful to me Maybe in your mind you're not even sure if God's there. You might even feel dumb just talking to the air like, I don't even know, God. Are you there or not? Can I tell you, as a pastor's kid, growing up in a pastor's home, there was a time in my life Where I looked into the sky and I said, God, I don't even know if you're real. I don't know if you're there. But God, if you're there, I need to know. I need to know. If it's real, it's real. If it's not, it's not. And God, I'm asking you to open my eyes. And be real to me. And God did. Maybe this morning you need to ask God to open your eyes that you would see the wondrous things in this great book.