It's great to have Brother Sensis and his family here, uh our missionaries. We were talking over the last couple days. I appreciate his spirit. Um you know they're just Just um I guess I'm done. Uh they they're they've they've just got a great spirit about 'em of the Lord serving God, doing what God's called to do, and as you saw in the video this morning, they're not over there sitting around Um they've got uh vision for the future. They they're uh tackling uh uh just full schedules, staying busy doing what God wants them to do, impacting many lives. and uh great great work ethic uh which is what it takes the ministry is work and uh I appreciate that. Last time uh he was here we were in the middle of changing the well we had a leak in the fountain. And so he was here and we had to move all of the rocks and get all the way down and take the liner out and put a new liner in and uh we readjusted that and set it back up. So he got involved In that and he re reminded me about it. We were talking about it. Of course we did that on a day that it was like you know 95 degrees as well. And uh so now he's gonna get in on the gutter uh job here And so uh but I do uh just appreciate him and his spirit and uh I'm glad that we can get behind some missionaries that are out there doing the job. And uh we want to maximize our impact and and we want the investment of the Lord's dollars to accomplish as much as possible. And uh so I feel like uh the investment in his ministry and what God's doing over there is what definitely worthwhile. And uh he's been out, he's been faithful. And uh I encourage you, when we have these guys in, take some time and talk to them. Get to know them a little bit. It'll make it much easier for you to pray for them. And to know who it is that you're talking about when the update comes and we do an update about them and and what's going on, their current letters or whatever. Um you'll know who it is because you s you stopped and took some time to get to know them while they were here. And uh just encourage you to do that. Of course, uh he's he is going to be here another day or two because their their next meeting they don't have to rush off to. Uh just seize the opportunity to get to know him a little bit and best of him to come and preach tonight. I told him when we get out of here is up to the to the speaker this evening. However long-winded he is, that's how long we're gonna go. So Uh you come. We got we got plenty of time though. We're we're up early. This morning um I was talking to the ensemble at lunch and I said, you know, sometimes I'm up to preach before eleven o'clock. It's not even eleven o'clock yet now I'm up to preach. This morning it was eleven thirty-four when I got up to preach. And I said I it's like, okay, I know what time it is. Uh we've got to hurry. Um but uh you've got plenty of time, brother. Uh preacher, the Lord's laid on your heart. Well again it is a blessing to be able to to be back with you and I just want to say also I'm so thankful for my dad. Uh I got to talk to him this morning and it was such a blessing just to just to thank him for for his his influence and his impact. And as we travel around the US and and I mentioned my dad, so many people know my dad. Uh and and that's a heritage that I am so thankful for. I remember when I was growing up, I feared the rod. Now, my dad did those things that you mentioned this morning uh very well. And I remember growing up and I feared I feared that rod at the beginning. But as it went along, I didn't fear the rod as much anymore as I feared my dad. But what it was about my dad that I feared is I feared disappointing him. I I feared displeasing him. And and I'm so thankful for the heritage that my dad has has put in our way. And I just one that's one of the things that keep keeps me going. Yes, uh all over all is our Heavenly Father, but another one is my Father here on this earth. And I I don't want to do anything that would bring a reproach upon his name, the good name that he has built. My dad's a first generation Christian in his family. And it's amazing the the testimony that my my dad's name has. And I I don't want to do anything to bring a reproach on that, especially the Heavenly Father. Uh and so I I'm thankful for for my Father today and I'm thankful that I was able to to call him and and we had fun talking about some some good times. If you take your Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 14, I do want to say again thank you for your support for these uh past four years that we've uh after coming here that you took us on. I I I was telling my wife this morning I still remember the day that Pastor called and said that the church had taken us on. I remember exactly where I was. I was out in the village in Chinayobiel. It was a new church plant that we had that we had just gotten started and uh it was so exciting and then it was as if there was some icing on the take and pastor calls and says, hey, we've taken you on for support. What a blessing that was, and we do appreciate your trusting us with the finances. Uh we know there's a lot of motionaries that uh that could be out there that are taking advantage of churches and just uh taking their money and not doing things. Uh but I appreciate your trust in sending finances uh to us and then uh taking the time to pray for us. Uh that that means a lot. There are times when you could send us a million dollars and um and that's not what we needed. We needed God's people to pray for us. Because we were going through a difficult time and that's when we needed people to pray for us. And so we do appreciate the prayers that you have given to us in these these past several years. In Acts chapter 14, we see the end of Paul and Barnabas's first missionary journey. Their journey begins in chapter 13, where they're sent out from the church in Antioch. And they, through chapters 13 and through chapters 14, they they go through their journey, they establish churches, and they preach the gospel and do many things. But then toward the end of chapter 14, they they kind of wrap up their their journey. And so we'll pick it up in verse 21, kind of the ending. uh of their journey and then we'll read town down to the end of the chapter. Acts chapter 14 verse 21. And when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch. confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. When they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. And after they had passed through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia. When they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Italia, and thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled. So they go back to the church in Antioch. Antioch was their sending church. It was the church that sent them out, and they're now going back to that church. Verse 27 And when they were come and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles, and there they abode long time with the disciples. So coming back to their home church, they begin to report on what God had done. Now, this is the first missionary furlough When I first started out, I thought furlough was not biblical. We're supposed to be on the field, and now we we leave the field and we come back. We live in America for a while. I thought this cannot be right. There's got to be something, but why why do we do it? Well, I believe this is the precedent here Paul comes back, part of us comes back, and they report to the church that sent them. And so that is what we are doing as we come back on furlough. We come back to the churches, the churches that have been supporting us, then praying, but that have been praying for us And we report what God has done. Now, in verse 27, it's very interesting that he says he opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles. Now, there's a reason why God puts words in the scriptures. It wasn't that Paul and Barnabas did not preach to the Jews, but during this time there's a lot of anti-Gentilism, if I can put it that way. Many of the Jews did not believe that Gentiles could be saved. There was a lot of prejudice. You look down at chapter 15, verse 1, and that's where the beginning of this Jerusalem Council came, where people were saying, No, you can be saved, but you have to be circumcised. You have to keep the law So there was a lot of prejudice there. Well, here Paul is saying God opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. So he was telling the church: look what God has done in the many, maybe thousands of Gentiles that got saved. I imagine there was kind of a mixed response, maybe. Some of them were still adamant against Jews being saved, and they said, no, Paul, we don't want to hear that. Maybe there were some that were kind of on the fence saying, well, maybe, maybe the stories that you're telling us, seeing these people that used to be idolaters, now they're worshiping Jehovah God, maybe they can't get saved. But I think there were some that were absolutely all for Paul and Barnabas and saying, absolutely, we are so thankful the Gentiles can be saved. And I'm thankful for that too, because I'm one of them. Amen? There's no difference in salvation between a Jew and Gentile. It's all by faith in Jesus Christ So what I'd like to do tonight is just take some time and share with you how God has opened the door of faith to the Ugandan people. Some people may not understand what missionaries do. Uh some think that missionaries go and they start orphanages because uh many times the the death rate is very high and so the parents have died of and there's a lot of children. As a matter of fact, in Uganda the population is 40 million Half the population is under the age of fifteen. Twenty million children in Uganda So there are a lot of orphanages there. Some think that missionaries start technical schools to give people a trade so they can work and make a living. Some think they just dig wells because water is very important. Some think that missionaries go and feed the poor. These are good things. These are things that we do get involved in, that we do help with, but that's not our number one purpose. Our number one purpose is to preach the gospel. Those that get saved, we baptize them. And then we disciple them. I was so encouraged by the discipleship certificates this morning. That's what we're supposed to be doing. And then we take those that have been discipled and we gather them together and start a church. That's the Great Commission. That's Matthew chapter 28. That's what a missionary is supposed to do. And I'm so thankful that God has allowed us to accomplish those things. We preach the gospel. The same gospel that you preach here is the same gospel we preach in Uganda. There's not an African gospel, an American gospel. It's all the same. Salvation by grace through faith, apart from any works of the law. Now, the way we present it might be a little different. I tell people if if you go to Uganda and you lead someone to the Lord in five minutes, they probably want something. Because they don't truly understand what you're talking to them about. You see, most Ugandans believe they're already saved. It's a very religious country. And so what we have to do is we have to take the time to help them see that they're lost before we can help them get saved. Because they think by their religion, by the things that they have done, the good works, all the things that they're doing, they're going to go to heaven. They've been baptized, they've been born in a Christian family, and everything is okay And so we have to take them to the scriptures and show them those things cannot save them. It is only through the blood of Jesus Christ. Most Ugandans will not Trust you for a while. They'll listen to you. They're very open to hearing the gospel. But because there have been so many dictators, because there have been so many corrupt politicians, because there have been so many con men that have come from these other countries come to Africa and deceive them and taken advantage of them. It's hard for them to trust people right away. So you give them the gospel, but then they're going to step back and listen to what you say and then look. to see if you match what you say. That's that doesn't happen in five minutes. Sometimes that takes weeks, maybe months As you're giving them the gospel, but yet you are living the gospel in front of them so they see that you're not another one of these people that's just trying to take advantage of them As we go about our business in town, that's how we make our contacts. We don't have Walmarks where everything is in one store. We have All those different stores. I mean every one of those little areas is a store. And so you have to go to all those stores to do any business. So what we do is as we go to that particular store Maybe we go to the hardware store. We need some hammer. We need a hammer and some nails. And so we'll go to this store specifically to buy that thing. Well, we might find it cheaper over here. But we're going to go back to this guy again because we want to get to know him. We want to build a relationship with him so that eventually he will trust us and then when we give him the gospel, he'll get saved We make contacts with people as we do business. Because most of our preaching in our church is for our church people. It's not necessarily designed to to evangelize the lost because we believe this is the church, the body of Christ. We need to feed them Amen. Yeah, it's important. If we just preach salvation messages every time the doors are open, our people are going to starve So we believe we go out there and we preach the gospel to them, we get them saved, and then we bring them in so they can be fed. But every once in a while we will have evangelistic services where it's specifically targeting the lost people. There's a lot of elderly people in the villages. When they they can't work anymore in town, then they'll move to the villages with their family, maybe their own house. And many of them are out there just waiting to die. They have no hope, they can't do anything, and they just sit there. And so we have aged conferences where we invite all the elderly people to come in And we show them uh care, we show them respect, uh, we feed them a meal, we preach to them, and when they go away we'll give them a small bag of salt or sugar, just as a saying, a way of saying thank you for coming, and they tell us there's no other church that cares for the elderly people. Thank you so much. It's something we try to do every year, and sometimes by that next year, some of them have passed away. But what a blessing to know that many of them have gotten saved. If you were here this morning and you saw the video, there was one part of the video, there was a lot of motorcycles. Those motorcycles are what we call boda bodas. Bota botas are guys that ride motorcycles that will take you about anywhere you want to go. Now you may be one of four or five passengers at the same time. I've seen seven people on a motorcycle. No lie As far as cargo, they'll take anything. And I mean anything. Chickens and goats and pigs. And I've seen a cow on the back of a motorcycle. I've seen a coffin. I've seen a three-piece sofa set. On the back of a motorcycle. These guys will take it you and anyone and anything you have. And they make it. I don't know how they do it. They tie those things down. But these guys are not really The cream of the crop, if you understand what I'm saying. Um they're just I don't want to say the dregs of society, but that's kind of how they're looked at. Whenever there's a robbery, they're usually the getaway vehicle They're young guys, most of them don't even have driver's licenses, and so they they do not do very well following the rules, and so they're kind of looked down on society. And so we said, let's do something To show the love of Christ to these young people. They're probably not going to come to church, so how can we show God's love for them? So we said, let's have a boda-boda conference, a motorcycle conference. Amen? You're looking at me, no, I don't think that's a good idea. Our church building can hold about two hundred, and we have a thousand voter riders in Cassessis, so there's no way we can handle all of them So we gave out tickets to 200 motor riders and we had 173 that came. The building was full. We brought the traffic police to not to arrest them, although we probably should have arrested many of them. to hopefully teach them traffic safety uh because they don't know. They really don't know. We played some games, we played a traffic sign game that was a total flop They do not know traffic signs, which again, most of them don't have driver's license, so they don't even know what they're doing. And then we decided to have a race Now what did you say? No, no. We had a race in the church building I would say that our aisle, our building is probably the same length and maybe the same width on the aisle. That's perfect for two motorcycles. Don't you think? Amen. So we had two motorcycles in the back, and the race was to come to the front. We actually had two balloons in the front, and you had to come up with the front tire of the motorcycle and pop it. You're already thinking, okay, people are crashing into the pulpit, people are getting run over. No, you see, here's the way it is. The Bible says, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. So here's the point of the race. When we say go, yes, the race is to come to the front, but it's not to be the first one. It's to be the second. That takes care of all the speed. So once they start, they're looking at the next guy and they're just going to go slower than him. And so they're just crawling all the way down to the front. Nobody gets run over it. Nobody gets hurt. The one who comes. Now you they couldn't put their foot down. So they had to go fast enough to keep going, but they couldn't put their foot down. So if their feet were down, they're disqualified. Well then the other one just comes up and touches the balloon and the race is over. Amen. You all thought there was going to be blood and everything else. No, this is a great race. So we had so much fun with them. They really enjoyed it because they don't have fun. They don't know games. And so we we fed them a great meal. We uh gave them reflector vests to to just as a gift to them, and then we preached the gospel to them, which was the main focus of everything. All the other things didn't really matter. It was preaching the gospel. We had several that got saved on that day. Some of the guys that knew some of them had been able to talk with others afterwards And now the vote of people say, your church is the only church that cares for us. That's the way we do it. We just take us something that's small that maybe means nothing, and we use that as an opportunity to preach the gospel. When the people get saved, then we baptize them. We don't sprinkle them, we don't pour water on them, we immerse them because that is the only picture of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now we have, let me tell you, we have exciting baptismals. I don't know, Pastor, how exciting your baptisms are. I know the first world problems are the water is too cold or the water is too hot. That's about it. Well, for us, we have exciting ones. Sometimes it's in a baptistry, sometimes it's in a drainage ditch that's been there for who knows how long, and you can't see the bottom and you don't know what's in there, but you go ahead and baptize. Sometimes it's in a river. Now the rivers are the most exciting because you never know what's going to happen on the next day. We'll go down on Saturday, we'll look at a place near the river and think, okay, this is a good smooth spot There's not a lot of stones. This is a good place. It's not running too too too fast. So we say, all right, we're going to come back here tomorrow. Well, the particular river that runs by our our town comes from the mountains. And it rains up in the mountains and we don't even know about it. It could be sunny day in our town, but the raging, the river is raging because it rained up in the mountains. Well, that particular day it rained up in the mountains So we didn't know about it. We had our service. We loaded everybody up in the vehicles. Get out to the river, and it is running fast. And I'm thinking, okay, do we cancel baptism or do we just go ahead? We're gonna go ahead. We're not gonna stop. And so I uh kind of get out about as far as I can go and I get my feet settled to make sure I don't lose my balance. And we start having the people come out and we we have to guide them out and help them. We actually put people downstream so that when I put them under the water, if the current carries them downstream, we have people that will catch them I'm thankful we've not lost anybody. We've had some exciting times, but we've never lost anyone. Now, another exciting thing with the baptisms is that many of them go ahead and get baptized knowing their family is going to cut them off. Because they say you have turned your back on the family, you've turned your back on the family's religion, and if you get baptized, you're no longer our son or daughter. I'm thankful that many of them have still been faithful to stand for Jesus Christ and be baptized in spite of what their family says And then we disciple them. Again, I'm so thankful for what I heard this morning and saw with the discipleship that's being done here at this church. That is the third part of the Great Commission that so many churches forget. They don't do it amazing as we travel around America, the many churches that are doing no discipleship. It's basically they got saved Sunday morning. Okay, we'll see you Sunday night. But there's no training. We have an 18-lesson discipleship program that is one-on-one that we teach them one-on-one during the week. As they go through these 18 lessons, there are things that they have to apply in their life, there's things they have to do. They have to give accountability for some of these things Then as they get to the end of the 18 lessons, which can be anywhere from six months to a year, then we go to discipleship two, and that teaches them how to disciple someone. See, it's not just, okay, you've got the lessons you're done. No, now it's your responsibility to take those lessons that you've been taught and now you teach them to someone else You say, now, now wait a minute, these people have been saved for about a year, and you're having them to disciple someone? This is what we have learned. As we take them through the 18 lessons of discipleship, these are basic truths that Any Christian should know. Any Christian should know. And they tell us, Pastor, we've never heard these things. We've been in church all our life, but we never heard them. This is amazing. They go through the lessons, they apply all the things, and then we teach them to do it, and then we say, okay, that person that got saved on Sunday, remember, you need to get with him. You're going to be his discipler. So we give him the material, he gets with them, they disciple the first lesson, and they come back and say this, Pastor, you didn't teach me anything. And I thought to myself, now wait a minute, I'm the one that spent months with you, hours with you, discipling you, teaching you. But what they were saying was What I learned from having to teach it was so much more than I learned when you taught me Isn't that true? We learn by doing. We yes, we get so much in that we hear, but when we give it out, we learn so much more. It's a shame that there are people that have been saved 15, 20, maybe 30 years, and they've never even discipled one person. Isn't that part of what we're supposed to do as we learn? It's not for us to just learn and keep taking in. It's to give out. Isn't that the illustration of the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea? If you've heard that before, what's the difference in the two? Both of them have rivers coming into them. What's the difference? The Dead Sea has nothing going out. The Sea of Galilee has water going out. Water coming in, water going out. It's alive. It's where many stories in the Bible are where Jesus allowed them to catch many fish. You never hear that happening in the Dead Sea Oh, the Dead Sea takes in, takes in, takes in, takes in, but it never gives out. We come to church Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, we are taking in, taking in, taking in. Are we ever giving it out? Maybe we're going to be like the Dead Sea instead of the Sea of Galilee because we're just taking everything in, but not giving anything out. Discipleship 2, then we go to Discipleship 3, which is our Bible college. Right there at our church, we have a four-year Bible college. They come on Monday night and Tuesday night for three hours. two times a week and we teach them. The Bible says Jesus said, teaching them all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And so we continue teaching them. That helps them in their teaching of discipleship. It helps them in the ministries. And it's not just guys that are going to be preachers. It's anyone that wants to know the Word of God. So we take them through discipleship three, which is our Bible college. That's what we're doing. We're preaching the gospel, we're baptizing those that get saved, and then we're discipling them. And honestly, discipleship never ends. It really doesn't. And it's not a set, well, you finished discipleship three. Okay, I guess you're finished. It's a continual process until the day you die. We've been in Uganda 25 years, and you would think we had learned some things about Uganda. It's amazing how something comes up and I think, how did we never experience this in 25 years? Now there's more, something else I have to learn It's a continual process, learning. That's discipleship. So we started the church there in Cassese in 2015. We started in our dining room Then we moved out under our tree in the front yard around a picnic table. People continued getting saved and being discipled, and so we decided to go on the back porch. put some iron sheaths over the top because of the rain and we started meeting back there and then we outgrew that and so we said we got to get a place to meet in town. So we rented a place while we're waiting for God to provide land God provided an incredible piece of land right in the middle of town, right on the main road, and eventually provided the finances to build our building. It was so exciting. We paid an engineer to make sure the building was done properly, but all the rest of the labor was volunteer. They gave their time and effort and what a blessing because now it's their building. We started the Bible calls, we started kids' class, we started police ministry I'm able to go down to the police every Monday and preach to the police. It was so exciting how God has opened that door and many of the officers have gotten saved. Because of the testimony we have with the police, God opened a jail ministry. One day the chief of police said, hey, would you like to go and preach to these suspects? I said, let's go And ever since then we've been able to go in every Sunday and preach to the suspects there. Because of the jail ministry, God opened the prison. Now the prison is very difficult to get into. You have to go to the Capitol and Kampala to the headquarters. You've got to fill out all the paperwork. You have to get all these recommendation letters. So much paperwork you have to do just to get into the prison. But I'm so thankful God has allowed us to get into prison without filling out one piece of paper. God has opened the door and we've seen many people get saved. One of our guys, two of our guys go every Sunday, and they've preached to over 800 inmates. So not only are they getting the gospel, but they're also discipling them in prison, teaching them. One of the guys, Brother Brian, wanted to go and start a church in this village of Karasandada, and so we started going out there. We didn't go on Sunday. We didn't go out and say, okay, hey, we're starting a church on this date because the church is people. It's not a building. We didn't have any people. So there was no church to be started. So we started meeting on Tuesdays or Wednesdays, having a Bible study. We didn't want to start a war with all the other religions because once you start meeting on Sunday then you're telling all those other people we need you to come from their churches to come to our church. And you start a war. So we said let's let's start on Tuesday and Wednesday. They're very religious, so they'll go to their churches on th those Sundays, but then they'll come to our Bible study. They started coming to our Bible studies. People started getting saved. We started discipling them. They continued coming and then they would come and say, now Pastor, you're teaching me this from the Bible, but My religious leader is teaching me this. That's right. We're teaching you the Word of God. Eventually they would come and say, Pastor, we don't even have a place to go on Sunday now. We need to start a church. They had stopped going there to those other churches. The Holy Spirit was leading them, they were reading the Word of God and realizing they were lying to them So we said, all right, we're going to start the church. So we had a group of people. We started a church, and yes, we started the war. But now we have people that know the word of God. They're not going to be intimidated by these religious leaders. Most of the religious leaders there know verses on giving and miracles. That's all they know. They don't know the word of God. And so our people, even though they're young in Christ, they can stand toe-to-toe with these religious leaders because they know the word of God. I'm so thankful for Brother Brian and the church that he's leading out there in Carson Dana. COVID hit over there as well, and we were locked down for six months in 2020, and it was very difficult. For us here in America, if we're told we can't go shopping, we're okay because we have food in our pantries and our freezers and our refrigerators. We can survive for a while. Most Ugandas don't have a refrigerator. Or a freezer or pantry. They live from this day, maybe the next day. Now, what do you do when everything is closed and there's no money? They'll starve or they'll steal. God provided us almost $40,000 to put food packages together to give out to people. What a blessing it was helping our church people But then also helping the lost people. We put John of Romans and tracts in those and we had people that got saved because of giving them food. What a blessing that the Lord really provided. Now, because they didn't have any money for food, we didn't have live streaming services because they would have to put data on their phone. If they don't have money for food, how can I say, you need to put data on your phone so you can watch me preach? So we didn't have anything like that. And so that meant that I had to go and visit them. So I visited them every week, visited the church members. I couldn't drive because Make a long story short, the president stopped all vehicles except for essential vehicles. I went down to try to tell the guy, the kind of the governor of the area, look, I need to visit my people. No, you need to stay home. I said, sir, you don't understand my purpose and what I'm doing here. This is what he said. If President Trump finds out that you get COVID, I'm going to be in trouble. I said, sir, President Trump doesn't know I exist. Okay, so but he no, you stay home. So I couldn't drive, so I got a bike and I went out and visited people, visited our church members, and praise the Lord, our church never diminished during that lockdown time. I'm so excited that God protected us and kept us going. During the second lockdown, we were in 2021, we were locked down for three months, but this time what we did is we divided the church up into regions. So if you lived in this area of town, we had one of our men that had his place, you would go to his house for Bible study on Sunday and Wednesday. If you lived in this area, you go to this man's house So we had nine different regions that we divided the church up into, and we continued going. The building was closed, but the church was not closed. We were only supposed to have around five people at each of these Bible studies, but we kind of evangelistically kept that number between ten and fourteen. And it was okay because the chief of police came to our Bible study He he came, his wife came, uh and um and another officer, and everything was okay. So I knew if we're okay with the number that we have, then our guys are okay out there. And so the Lord really blessed during that The second lockdown. After that was over, we were able to start a ministry to the pygmies. Now, the pygmies is another group of people that are considered undesirable. The government organization that oversees them is the Uganda Wildlife Authority. They see them as animals. They treat them like animals. And so to be able to go into this group of people, into their community, and tell them, look, you are not an animal. You are made in the image of God, just like we are, and there is a God who loves you, and that God sent his son, Jesus Christ, to die for you and he'll save you, and to watch some of them will, after time, get saved. We just actually lost one about two weeks ago. He passed away. But I'm so thankful he got saved. There's pygmies in heaven today. We were able to start a ministry called Fishing for Footballing. Ugandans love football, not American football, but soccer. From the time they're born when they can barely walk, they're kicking a soccer ball. And so this is something they love. And so we had how can we take something they love and use it? And so there's a lot of local teams around town. And so we said, let's sponsor two teams and we'll tell them, okay. You play, the winning team will give you a brand new soccer ball. That's big to them because they don't have soccer balls. They just basically they use a bunch of plastic bags that they've tied up in a really tight bowl, and that's their soccer ball. So when they know they're going to get a brand new soccer ball, they get excited. And so he said, now the only thing is we get to preach to you at halftime. Not the end of the game, which we learn later. You don't preach it when the game's over because everybody leaves. So we preach at halftime. We've had many people that have gotten saved, preaching to the fans, preaching to the players. One guy came and said, Hey, I like your preaching. Would you come to our school and preach? I said, okay. We went to the school, we preached, they really enjoyed it, so we went back several times some People got saved. They really had an interest in the church or in what we were preaching. We began discipling them. And eventually, after a lot of that, we got a church started there in the village of Chinaomio because of football. Simple ministry that God used. We started the mountain ministry. We started going up in the mountains. We'd go to different trading centers and preach and see the response that we would get. Of course, obvious there were people that would get saved just because there was a white man there and they were thinking, maybe if I do what the white man says, maybe I can get a job. Maybe I'll get some money. But we understood those things would happen and so we just kept an eye on things and saw the interest where it whether it was in me or in the Word of God. And there was one trading center called Ibadiachona that we really saw some interest in and people were really wanting to know the truth. Right about that time COVID hit, but one of our Uganda pastors would was able to continue going up there to be able to keep uh teaching them, discipling them, and after several months of doing that and baptisms and teaching them about what a church is We got a church started up in the mountains in Ibudia Chona. I wish I could take you up there. You drive about an hour to the mountain, you drive about an hour up in the mountain, and then you have to park the vehicle because you can't go any further, and then you walk about thirty minutes to the village. And you see these people who have nothing welcoming you, taking the time to sit there and listen to you preach the Word of God. It's exciting. And they don't have anything. They really have nothing. And I don't mean that to make you feel bad. Oh, we have the that missionary, he said we have everything and they have nothing. No, I'm not trying to make you feel bad because God has blessed America. He has for a reason Are we just comfortable and doing nothing when there are people out there that are dying without Christ? I'm so thankful for the men and women who are there. Up at the mountains in Ibudia Tona. There's the one man who's leading our church, Brother Jochem. Every time I go up there, his wife says to me, Pastor, thank you for coming up here because my husband is a different man. He was a wild man before he got saved, but he is now one of the most humble servants of the Lord. What a blessing. Just up in the mountains, a place most people never even heard of. They will never hear about it But up in that village, there's a church of believers, just like you all, that love the Lord and are telling other people about Jesus Christ. In town, you have to pay for parking. And so there's a company that goes around and puts tickets on your window that you pay for parking. If you don't pay, then your number gets put on a defaulters list. And if they catch you, they will clamp your vehicle up so that you cannot escape until you pay the fine. One day I was in town and I forget what I was doing, but I had come back out and my tire was locked up and I thought, now wait a minute, Lord, I don't run away from parking tickets. It's only 15 cents. It's more of an annoyance than it is a cost Lord, I'm serving you. I'm faithfully preaching the gospel. Why would you lock me up? Don't we have conversations like that with the Lord? Let's be honest. Amen. Well, the Lord did it for a reason. And the reason was when I went there when I went to the office to pay the fine, the owner of the company was there. Well the owner saw me paying the fine and he's thinking, what are you doing here? You don't belong here. Why are you here in Uganda? I said, I'm a pastor of the Independent Baptist Church. I'm preaching the gospel. His face just lit up. He got so excited. He said, well, would you come down on Mondays and Thursdays and preach to these guys before they go into town? Oh, let me pray about it. Absolutely. So every Monday and Thursday about 7 o'clock I would go down to the office. The boys would gather before they went into town to start taking the tax money. And I got to preach to them. And after several months, five of the guys got saved. Now, those five guys do not work for the street parking anymore, but they're all serving the Lord. They're faithful in the church. They're Bible college. Some of them are leading the youth. Some of them are going to the jail to preach. Some are going to the prison to preach. Some are in the translation work. Because of one of them we got another preaching point started up in the mountains in Shanyadazi Just the street parking ministry. Something simple, but God used it to reach people with the gospel. We're able to go into the high schools and preach. It's wide open. You go in ten different high schools every week and preach. It's wide open. There's a lot of death in Uganda, another group of people that are considered undesirable. They're castaways, you might say. And so my wife has learned Ugandan Sign Language. She's been able to communicate with them. We've led several of them to the Lord. And she's even taught the Ugandans how to sign. And so they're able to reach their own people. We're translating the scriptures into Luconzo. The Luconzo or the Baconzo people have never had the Word of God in their language. We take the Word of God for granted. We fight over things that, yes, they are important to some degree, but we put more emphasis on that than we do on getting the gospel to those that have never heard. And I'm so thankful we're able to get or we're working on the scriptures in Luconzo language. We've got a John and a Romans. We're working on the New Testament I can't wait for the day when we get that New Testament done and we're able to go to those people that have never had the scriptures in their language and give them a copy of it and say, this is for you. It's God's word for you in your language. What a blessing that's going to be. In Uganda, if you want to get married, you have to pay a dowry. I wanted to ask you, Pastor, have you received a dowry? No, I haven't got it. You see in Uganda if you want to get married, you gotta pay a dowry of goats. Well They normally do, okay, it's normally 12 goats, okay, and one goat is a month salary. So I don't know what the future son-in-law is making, but he needs to bring a year's salary to you. Is that okay? Yeah, see that's alright, yeah. So normally it's six physical goats and then six goats in cash. In other words, the value of the goats. So you have to pay twelve goats, which is a year's salary, to the father-in-law before you get married. I don't know how much many of us could do that. Well, that's what they have to do. And so because of that and because they struggle from day to day, they don't have the money. Most of them just start living together. Uh I I I don't condone it, but I understand the the situation. Well, when we preach the gospel and these couples get saved. and we began discipling them, they realize they're living in sin, and they come to us and say, okay, Pastor, what do we do? And I say, well, first of all, you've got to separate. Oh, well, Pastor, we want to get married. I'm glad, but you've got to separate. You see, if you want God to bless and help you get married, you can't continue living in sin. So you gotta separate. Okay, well, we'll put two different beds in the same room. No, that's not gonna work. Well, okay, she can sleep in one room, I'll sleep in the other room. But you still have a bad testimony because all your neighbors see the two of you go into that house and close the door. So you need to show evidence that you've separated. Normally the way we do it, because normally it's after many years and there's children, I say the lady stays at the house with the kids, the guy goes somewhere. Okay, maybe stays with a friend or whatever. And so you've got to give evidence that you have separated. Then you come back to me. They'll come back and say, okay, Pastor, we've separated. This is what we've done. Now what do we do? Okay, now you need to go to the father-in-law. You need to talk to the father-in-law. Maybe he's a nice guy. Maybe he won't charge you 12 goats. Maybe he'll say nine goats. You know, you have to negotiate with him. Right? So if he comes and says, Well what about this? You know, you can you know you're a nice guy, so maybe I'll reduce it a little bit. I said, you go to them, talk to them. So some of them some of them will come back and say, Pastor, he only wants eight goats Praise the Lord. I've got four. I need four more. Alright, let's pray for four goats. Another guy will come back. Pastor, I have the father-in-law said six goats, and I only have three. Alright, let's pray for three goats So in the village, in the mountains, in town, we had all these couples that were beginning to do what's right, and we're praying for like a hundred goats, and I'm thinking, I cannot give them a hundred goats I don't have the money for that. If I did start paying people's dowries, everybody would come and join the church. We heard that you're paying for dowries, so we want to be a part of your church So I said, no, I cannot do that. I'm not going to get started because if I pay for one, I've got to pay for the next one, and the next one, and the next one. And so I said, we're just going to pray. I'll try to help you with the wedding and everything like that, but for the dowry, we're going to pray the Lord will take care of it. Oh, Pastor, that's hard. The price of sin is high. It's not my problem, okay? It's your problem. But we're going to pray and ask the Lord if He will help you do what's right. It was amazing. God provided us the value of 82 goats. And so we had 15 weddings in seven months. It was like every other week there was another wedding. But what a blessing for these new converts to do what was right, to realize the sin they had brought on themselves. the consequences they had brought, but then to do what was right and watch God bless. I was reading, I think it was this morning or yesterday morning about Moses when they were about to go into the promised land and they rebelled against God. But then they said, oh, okay, oh no, Hugh mentioned it this morning in Sunday school. Okay, yeah, we'll go up. No, you're making things worse. Okay? You can't do that because then God punished them. And so I've told the people, don't make it worse. You've messed up, okay? But don't make it worse. You do what's right and God will help you. What a blessing for these newcomers to see God work on their behalf. Oh, it's been so exciting. It's been fun to see God work in the goat ministry. So while while we're here on furlough, God is blessed and all the ministries are being done by the Ugandans. It has been a blessing. I told him, I said, my desire is to come back. But planes crash People get sick, things happen. It is my desire to come back and continue serving, but I don't know what God has. And if for whatever reason I don't come back, you can continue on. Obviously, we all need more teaching. We all need more instruction. But at this point, if I don't come back, you can take what you've been given and you can continue with it. And you can do great things for the Lord. And I'm so thankful for the work that they're doing. Oh, there's problems, things come up, but I'm thankful for the wisdom that they're showing and the things that they're doing to serve God. It's exciting. But our plan is, Lord willing, to go back September 17th. We are ready to go. We've got our tickets. And if the Lord doesn't change his mind, my mind is set, but I don't know what the Lord has. But our plan is to return on September 17th. When we go back, we want to get the church in Cassese Town turned over to Brother Joshua so that he can begin leading it. He's doing a great job now, and I think he will be a good man to continue pastoring the church there in town. Some of the guys in Bible college are going to graduate, and so some of them want to start some churches, and so we want to work alongside of them, helping them get some churches started as well. We want to encourage some of the churches that have already been started. Some of the new churches, some of the church plants, the discipleship points, just kind of have the freedom to w to go around and encourage them and work with them Some of them need help with land. Some of them need help with transport. Some of them need help with buildings. So what we do with the buildings is we say, okay, you want a church building? You make the bricks. You can take the clay from the soil and you know how to do it, you make the bricks. If you need 20,000 bricks, you do it. Once you've made the bricks, then we'll come and we'll buy the sand and the cement and get the building up. You need a roof, you put the rafters on. You maybe you can go to the forest and cut down the trees and build rafters, or you can buy the timbers, you do that part, and then we'll come along behind you and we'll put the iron sheets on The part we're doing is the more expensive part, but we understand they have to do their part. It's not just a free building from America. Free things are not always free. And they're not always appreciated. And so we want we're not starting American churches. We're starting Ugandan churches that are led by Jesus Christ. And we want them to put their part into it. They need to get some skin in the game. Some of them need help with that. We want to continue the mountain ministry up in the mountains. Again, a group of people that are considered undesirable. And so we want to continue working up there. We're helping to print tracts and discipleship material. It's actually better now to print it over there. We used to be able to print them freely here and ship them over, but shipping is now so expensive. It's better to just print them there. We've got a guy in the Capitol who prints our discipleship material and our tracks and But it costs money, especially when you have about seven or eight different languages in your church. So it's not just maybe English or Spanish, but you've got to have Rotoro, you've got to have Lukonzo, you've got to have Swahili, you've got to have Luganda. You've got to have all these languages in tracts if you want to minister to those groups of people. So we raise money to help print the tracts and Bible material. We have other projects that we want to do. And so we're just asking God as we travel around on this fertile to be able to raise the funds to do those things. Now, here's my challenge to you, and I'm finished. What we're doing in Uganda is not unique to Uganda. It's not. What do we do in Uganda? We're church planning. How are we church planning? We're preaching the gospel. We're baptizing those converts and discipling them. Isn't that what every church is supposed to do? Every church is supposed to be a church planting church. That's what we do. We go and we plant one church and then we plant others. That it's a a church this isn't Hunt Val is it Hunt Valley? I was thinking of something else. This isn't Hunt Valley Country Club. You come Sunday morning, oh that was a nice that was a nice sermonette from the preacher. It was warm and fuzzy. Yeah, I really enjoyed it. You going back Sunday night? Maybe. I've you know I've got some friends that I might meet with later on, so I'm not sure if I have enough time. What about Wednesday? Oh probably be a little tired, so I'm just gonna go home and relax and maybe put something on the TV That's what you do with a country club. Not a church. Church is something alive. It's supposed to be a part of something. It's every Christian's responsibility to be involved, especially church members. Why are you a church member? Just so you can vote? You're supposed to be a part of something. Every church ought to be a church planning church. If the growth of this church depended on your soul winning, I think Pastor mentioned that this morning. If the church depended on your soul winning, how many people would be getting saved? What about discipleship? What a blessing for these. They got the certificates this morning. Are you involved? Have you been discipled? That's the first step. If you're saved, you ought to have been discipled, not then so that you can learn everything, but then so you can take what you've learned and teach someone else. That's all a part of it. Well, I'm not the pastor. There's a whole lot more responsibility than just the pastor to do the work. It's a church. Are you involved in what God is doing here? Right here in this valley. Are you a part of it? Well, you're the missionary. You're supposed to do it. I can tell you, I'm looking at a bunch of missionaries right now. You see, there's no foreign mission field to God. We think, okay, we're America, and then there's foreign missions. So the missionaries that go to the foreign fields, that's what they're supposed to do. What about America? Is it any different? It's not. The same thing we're doing there is what's to be done here. Well, you you know God called you to do that. Well, what are you doing here? Well, you raise support from churches. I have to because I can't work over there. I'm not allowed to work. I'm dependent on churches like this to support us so that we can go there. You can work. Oh yeah, I have to work. Yes, that's 40 hours of contact with the lost people that I don't have. Tremendous opportunity to let people see Jesus Christ in you. Do you have to learn another language? Do you have to learn another culture? It should be easier for you than me. This is your culture. This is your country. You know the people. You know the language. Well, well, uh how how do I get involved? Soul winning. That's the first step. Reaching your neighbors. Do your neighbors know you're even saved? Oh, they're foreigners. They talk funny. They dress a little different. Okay, so what? Maybe you're different to them. I believe the Bible says that those that seek for God will find him. And I believe there are people in foreign countries where there are no missionaries that are seeking God. They don't know it. They don't know who God is. They may be saying Allah. They may be saying Buddha. Whatever. But they are seeking God. And God says, if you seek for me, you will find me. Well, there's no missionaries in that country. That doesn't stop God in God's own way of doing things, and I'm not getting political here, but God says, I'm going to send them to America. And let him live right next to a church member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And what do we do? They might be a terrorist. Have you seen any Terrace? How are we going to change the Terrace heart and mind? By sharing with them the love of Jesus Christ. That's the only way they're going to change. People you work with, the place you shop. You've probably been shopping there for 20 years. Or longer. Do you know the people there? Do they know you? God brings people across our path and we completely ignore it. The jails, the prisons, shut-ins, the hospital, the homeless, nursing homes. I have one friend of mine who has gotten old now, he really can't get out of his house except to go to the doctor. He says, There's my ministry. I'm witnessing to the doctors and nurses. Food banks, youth evangelism, passing out tracts, door knocking. Um what was it you just mentioned that's next week on Wednesday? Neighborhood Bible Club. How many involved? It's our responsibility. Then once they get saved, you bring them to the church so they can be baptized. That's an ordinance of the church. And then discipleship comes after that. Every one of us ought to be involved. If you have never discipled someone, you are missing something because of the joy of being able to take a new convert and impart to him knowledge that God has given you, and you see the light come on in his eyes, and you just think, wow, this is great. It's exciting. Discipleship is the life of our church in Uganda. It's amazing. It's one-on-one visiting new converts, teaching a Sunday school, teaching a class. There are so many ways that we can be involved in discipling people. I challenge you to get involved. It's every Christian's responsibility. I may come back, Lord willing, in five years. And give a report on what God has done in five years. What if you gave that report? What could you say that God has done through you in this church in five years? Anybody saved? Anybody you've brought to be baptized? Anyone you've discipled? Anybody's lives you've seen changed? Oh, if we would get involved. It's amazing what God will do with our church. This church will grow and you have to say, you know what? We need to plant another church. We need to start one over here. And we need to start one over here. And start one over there. That's what the work is all about. I challenge you. Be involved. I know your pastor would love to have help. It's not just his responsibility. It's not just the staff's responsibility. It is every Christian's responsibility. especially church members, the joy that comes when you're involved in that is amazing. Thank you for your support. Thank you for your prayers. It has been a blessing to us. But I challenge you, don't let that blind you to the fact. That you have a responsibility in this church right here to be doing the same things that we're doing in Uganda