I don't expect to be very long this evening. I have a simple thought that I'm going to share with you. I actually don't have any points. I didn't say there was no point to the message. There is a point to the message. It's just basically one point that's summed up in the title. And we're going to cover that one point and then we're going to be done. Uh the title of the message this evening is An Open Opportunity I consider entitled to seize the opportunity or take advantage of the opportunity or realize it's an opportunity, but uh you'll see where we're going here in just a moment. Uh we all have burdens. We all have different challenges in life. Some of those burdens are great. They're literally life-changing. They're heavy. They are a lot to bear. Sometimes the burdens are small, very minimal things in the grand scheme of things, but uh sometimes in life it is the accumulation of many small burdens that uh kind of grow into a large one. They they uh it is the You know, the straw that broke the camel's back. It that in itself was not that much, but it's just piled on top of everything else. It just gets to be too much. And we we feel like, man, this is more than I can bear Well, in our text here this evening, we see that Moses had more than he could bear. Look at Numbers chapter number 11, beginning in verse number 14. In Numbers chapter 11, verse number 14, he says, I'm not able to bear all this people alone, because it's too heavy for me. And if thou wilt deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand. If I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. Moses had reached a point where caring for and carrying the burden and the weight of the children of Israel was too much. He's like I can't I can't bear it. It's it's too much for me to be able to bear this, all of these people and all of their burdens and all of the challenges, he had reached a point where the weight that he had to carry, where the struggles that he had to endure were more than he could handle. And tonight the Burdens and situations that are represented in the room are as varied as the people that are present. You have some are dealing with money problems. Some have job problems, some have relationship problems, some have uh you know uh a maybe a situation that you're dealing with uh at work You know, there's many things in life that come to us and some small, some great. Especially in today's world of social media and what I would call image management. Where people really try to manage the image that they put out. We tend to kind of just be people where we we kind of put that front on. We put up that That facade, as it were, especially even when we come to church, we kind of like, you know, people say, how are you doing? And what's our normal response? Fine. Doing good. Doing all right. How many of y'all realize this sometimes that's not the case? I mean we're just not really sure that we want to get into it, you know, like uh do you really how much time do you have? You know. Uh this is just we we're like, oh, you know, last Sunday morning I woke up with vertigo. Pretty bad. I hurled twice getting dressed. I called Pastor Gus and said, I don't know if I'm gonna make it to church today, but I'm gonna try, but just in case. So I made my way through getting dressed. I c didn't want to drive because literally when I moved the whole the whole w room just kept moving Like it like just kept spinning. For more than half the day it was it was that way. But I made it to church. It I was glad I wasn't preaching. And I was m moving very slowly last week. I was trying to be very careful and not turn my head. Because when I turned my head the whole room just kept turning. And uh I would you know I took dramamine. to saddle my stomach to try and keep from the motion sickness getting too bad so that I could get through church I did the best that I could to try and mask that, to not let everybody know that I really was not doing very well. Obviously, there's a couple of people, there's some people that are more perceptive and they they notice some things and they dug a little deeper. I didn't want to lie to them. Like, well No, I'm really not doing too good. Pray that I'll make it through today. You know, and I I praise the Lord that through the day it got less and less and by the evening it was gone and settled down. I really don't know what caused it. I woke up with it. I didn't do anything different. My dad deals with that a lot because he has inner ear infections and his inner ear infections cause that, so he has for years dealt with vertigo at different times. But uh uh I didn't drive that last Sunday because of that. Uh you know, wanted to be careful. But what I'm saying is that a lot of times you really don't know what the person down the pew is dealing with what challenge they're carrying, what struggle it is that they're facing, even though they hear even though they're here, even though they have a smile on and Mm people ask how they're doing, they say they're doing okay. But we really don't know what burden they're carrying. What I'm saying, beloved, is Moses here was dealing with a group of people that had decided it would be better to just go back into Egypt than to be wandering around the wilderness with him. The burden of caring for them got to be too much. And in the midst of this story, just under the surface, there's a lesson for us. That I want to try and grab a hold of. The lesson is: I know, beloved, that at times we know we go through things in our life and we know whatever we're going through. We've said it many times that it's for our good and for God's glory. Right? We we know that. We understand that whatever challenge it is that I'm facing, whatever struggle I'm dealing with, I know that ultimately it's going to be for my good. I know it's for the glory of God. And so it maybe it's shaping me. Maybe it's doing something in my life. Maybe God is molding me in a particular area or a particular way. But the underlying lesson, the the opportunity that lies there just at the door that I want us to think about is the fact of the matter is is that those situations in our lives are opportunities for us to be an inspiration to somebody else. We are going through that trouble, we are carrying that burden, we are facing that hardship, but at the same time, there's an opportunity there to be a uh inspiration to be a uh an example but even uh really to influence those other people that are around us As we see here in this story, we know that the burden that Moses had to carry, God came up with a plan for him to get some men to help him. Look at verse number 16. And the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be elders of the people. and officers over them, and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with me. And I will come down and talk with thee there. And I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them, and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone. You know, these 70 men that came had been instructed, had seen Moses, had learned of Moses and seen his life. They came and they were leaders among the people and they helped carry the burden. But there's also three names that really jump out here in this story that Their story takes it a little step further. Look at verse number 27. And there ran a young man and told Moses and said, Ildad and meadad. Do prophesy in the camp. And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of the young men, answered and said, My Lord Moses, forbid them And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? Would God that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them. You see, Moses had influenced these young men. Oh, he had influenced many young men, but these young men, Ildad and Medad, they they wanted to be like Moses. They saw Moses and desired to follow in his footsteps like a child who would step in the shoes of his father when they are young and Their legs fit down inside the shoes, really. But there comes a time when They put those shoes on for real. When they desire to walk in their father's footsteps. And you see here Ildad and Medad that they wanted to be like Moses. They saw what Moses was doing and they desired to follow in his footsteps and Joshua said, wait, tell them they can't do that. That's your job. And Moses said, No, no, praise God. There's some other men that want to Pick up the mantle. There's some other men that want to do the job. There's some other men that desire to follow and serve and be what God wants them to be. Don't stop them. Let's encourage them Moses had influenced these men greatly. We see this throughout the scripture in many different ways. We see it with Moses and Joshua and Ildad and Medad here. We see it with Elijah and Elisha, who Elisha wanted to be with Elisha, wanted to have what Elisha had. He desired that. We see it with Paul and Timothy who followed in his footsteps and Timothy just uh continuing on the ministry that God had given him. We see it uh with the Philippian jailer uh along with Paul and Silas there. We see it even in the story that we're studying on Thursday night. with Naomi and uh Ruth who desired to follow in after her and to for her God to be her God and to follow her God. That example and what I'm saying, beloved, is when you and I walk through the challenges of life It's an opportunity for us to influence those around us for God. As much as it is God shaping us It's an opportunity that God would use that testimony, would use that example, and people around us would be stirred, they would be inspired, they would be encouraged to continue to be faithful in the midst of their challenge. Yes, you have burdens, and at times they're more than you can bear. But we must never forget that God is with us in the burden. And that all God is working in our life, he at the same time may be using that to impact somebody else's life I received a phone call this week from a missionary, a young man who's on deputation, and he has a two-year-old child and a few-month-old child. He wasn't calling me for a meeting. He was calling me because years ago, they came through and he was on an ensemble And the ensemble, a lot of times if there's guys or there's girls, we'll divide them up and depend upon what the housing situation is at the time, we have the girls stay over here in the White House or something and We'll put the guys in our basement and uh the guys stayed in the our basement. We had them stay in the basement that night And we said, all right guys, hey, it's time for family devotions. Why don't you guys come on upstairs? I called the guys upstairs and we sat down and we had family devotions. And they were part of our family devotions that night At the end of that night, we, you know, we prayed, we talked for a little while, we sang some songs, and then we hugged each other. other and went to bed. He comes from a broken home. He comes from lost parents. He comes from a home that he had never experienced anything like that in his life. And he said, from that day till this that has stuck in my mind, and I want to have a family like that. I want to raise my kids that way, and I've got a two-year-old, and I've got a wife, and I've got an infant, and I want to know how to do it But I'm saying you don't know the influence that you just doing right one day at a time Just while you're in the way, while you are going through it, what impact that'll have on somebody else and how they will carry that with them. You know, we've got to seize the opportunity. Some are going to emulate your example and some are going to reject it. You don't know who's going to take it, you don't know who's going to reject it. You don't know who's going to seize it and say, boy, that's what I want for my life That's what I desire. Elisha wanted what Elijah had. You know, there were many other men who were part of the schools of the prophets. They were there studying. But Elisha said, no, I'm going to be with you. I want to be with you. I want to get all I can. I know you're leaving. I don't know how much longer I have you here with me, but until you're gone, I'm gonna seize all that I can. I'm gonna glean all that I can. I'm gonna get a hold of it. I want to know God like you know God. I want to have the peace. in my heart like the peace that you have in the midst of a storm. I desire to have that relationship with my Lord, to know his strength and to be available of his power in my life. That's what I want I wonder, has anybody watched us and said, boy, I want that. I desire to be like that. I want to have that strength. I want to have that peace. I want to have that relationship with my God. One of the reasons I so greatly enjoy the intern ministry and always have is because you get a chance to invest in a life, a young man or a young lady who has literally made that choice They have literally decided and said, I want to come and learn from you. The better seize the opportunity. And that's why we spend so much time with the interns. Over all these summers, my kids can tell you the immense amount of time invested The interns don't even understand till later in life. Derek, one time when he was here, I made some comment about the fact that when an intern comes I get one more job for the summer. And he took offense to that. He didn't like it. He's like, what what in the world? What what do you mean? But you know, after he served on staff here for a few years and he helped with the interns, he understood He realized what I was saying. It is an opportunity, but the the time investment in their lives, but it's It's so powerful because they have said, I want it. I want what you have. And you know, it's not cashing your pearls before swine. People that aren't going to take it, people that don't want it, people that, you know, well I'm trying my best and nobody's interested. There are people that said, Boy, I want it. And that's an opportunity to invest in somebody's life like that, and what a privilege that is This is what Christ did with the disciples. They wanted it. They walked with Jesus. They talked with Jesus, and he loved them and he led them. And then when he was no longer there, they took what he had given them and they turned the world upside down. Some will exceed your example. That's really what we should desire for anybody. Because I think we all know we could do better. That's what I tell the interns when they spend a summer with me. I say, you know, you're going to see me on the good days and you're going to see me on the bad days. You're going to see me when I'm up and when I'm down and when things are going well and when they're not. And I said, I hope that the things that I don't do right, the bad example won't hurt you. But I hope you at least just see a family that loves God and loves people and wants to try and do right. And I hope the good outweighs the bad at the end of the summer. Because we all can do a little better. That's the desire for a parent, any parent, wants their child to go further than them. Wants their child to be better than they are, more godly than they are, stronger than they are, have more knowledge than they have, get smarter than they are, not just taller than you As all my boys have done. But the goal is that they would excel and go beyond us. And boy, isn't that the greatest what is it what what is it saying about uh Flattery. Flattery? Yeah, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Thank you. When somebody says, boy, I want to be like that and they do it. I mean there's uh nothing makes a dad happier when His kids rise up and do right. When they begin to walk in his steps. When they choose to, you know, when they're little, you can make them do right When they get older, they have to make that choice themselves. They have to decide. And what a privilege it is and what a thrill it is to see God shape somebody to follow your example. To be used that way. But you have to take the opportunity when it's there. Obviously our greatest influence is going to be our family. They're going to know you the best. They're going to see you most often. I wonder how many of you older folks you remember times. I know some of you didn't come from Christian homes, but those of you that did, do you remember seeing your mom and dad read the Bible? Do you remember seeing them walk with God? Well I wonder would your kids say, well I remember mom's walk with God. I remember dad's time in the Word of God. I r I remember this and I want what they had. You're teaching by what you do, not by what you say. Oh, I know we do a lot of extracting with this, but the real lessons come by what we do. Every time you get up and go to church. Every time you're a witness and nobody's really watching. Every time you remember to pass out of track, every time you're caught reading your Bible, every time you live a godly life, and somebody sees that, it's an opportunity to be an example. Paul told Timothy, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believer In word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Till I come, give attendance to reading and exhortation to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecies, with the laying out of hands of the Presbytery. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them. That thou prophet may appear to all. That the prophet may appear to all. Everybody's going to see it Take heed unto thyself and unto thy doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee, them that are following his example. I want to encourage you tonight to seize the opportunity to be an example, especially in the hard times Especially in the challenging days. Let God bring you through those in a miraculous way. And let your testimony be something that can be used to inspire the next generation to be faithful like you were faithful. Not just in Sunday school or junior church, but all the time. Be an example. Be an inspiration. Let God use you to inspire them. This is what we want to do. Seize the opportunity. Remember that in the in the challenge, yes, God is shaping us, but He may also Be trying to inspire somebody else. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?