You can turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Romans. One to uh This is Sunday before election day. And there are some of the church family that would wish or you know, would kind of encourage me or ask me to deal with current topics, things of uh political nature, a whole lot more. They they would ask me, you know, why why don't you deal with this, Pastor? How come you don't take this on from the pulpit or or handle that. And there are others in the church who would wish I would never touch on anything that could possibly be misconstrued as as political. But listen, the job of the pastor is to preach the word. The job of the pastor is to point people to Jesus Christ. The role of the church is to give people The Word of God and guide them as to what the Word of God encourages and exhorts us to do. So we see in Romans chapter 13. And verse number one, the Bible says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Now I am not a current event speaker. I don't take on current events usually sometimes sadly I don't even know what the current events are. Uh sometimes people will tell me like did you hear about this happen or that happened and and I didn't because I don't spend a lot of time listening listening to the news. It's not where I go to get information for messages. So, you know, but there's no question as to what this week is. We know that Tuesday's election day. And as a church, we have been praying together now for a couple of months, asking God for unity in our nation, for uh Him to Do a great work. We know that it's God's people praying is what's needed. If my people, which are called by my name, will humble themselves and seek my face and pray, turn from their wicked ways. Amen? And as God's people, we have been praying together, and that time is going to come to a conclusion. I hope not the conclusion of our prayers, but the conclusion of our banding together at a set time during the day to be praying for our nation. Tuesday is going to come and Tuesday is going to go. And here's what I want to encourage you today about and challenge you maybe this morning. is to keep the correct view after the vote. Keeping our eyes on the right place. Regardless of who is voted into office on Tuesday, I want you to know that you're a child of God. And that our eyes should be on God, not on man. That the powers that be are ordained of God, and regardless of who gets put into a particular office or whoever might hold your seat in Congress or who whoever might ultimately be assigned a place uh in the Supreme Court. These things obviously direct our country, but ultimately, as a Christian, our eyes are on God. So I would encourage you uh remind you about three things today. First of all This is going to be one of the shortest messages you've heard me preach. And all God's people said Yeah All right. Yeah, here we go. So very quickly here, first of all, I want you to remember that our commitment as Christians is to do good. Our commitment is to do good. James chapter 4 and verse number 17 says, Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. We have a responsibility before God in every aspect and area of our life to do that which we know is good, to do that which we know is right. Psalms 34, 14 says, depart from evil and do good, speak peace and pursue it. Depart from evil and do good. Amen? And that also and seek peace, even in our nation, even among our brethren So I would encourage you today and remind you that it is good, it is a good thing to vote. You have uh a civic Privilege and responsibility to participate in the election to vote. We it listen, there are nations, there are countries that have gone through civil wars to try and gain the right just to be able to have a say in the direction of their country. Thousands and thousands and thousands of people killed so that those that remain would be able to have a say in the direction of their country. We have to him that knoweth do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. It is a privilege that we have here in this country to try, to strive, to guide our country through our vote, to let our voice be heard in the ballot box. So I would encourage you to do good, to go out and to vote, to participate, to let your voice be heard. Beloved, not voting influences the outcome of the election. Just as well as voting. To vote, beloved, is being a good steward of all that God has given us The Bible encourages us and tells us that as Christians we are to be the salt and light. Now I know some of you are nervous right now. You're just really nervous about what Pastor Caleb's gonna say. And you shouldn't be. You shouldn't be. You know, I was nervous all morning about preaching this. Because I don't like people getting mad at me. The Bible clearly says to him that knoweth do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. We need to let our voice be heard. If you're going to vote, could I tell you You need to vote biblical principle. We do not vote party. If you go down and vote party, and I I I don't care which one it is, if you go down, listen, I have voted for Democrats, I have voted for Republicans, and I have voted for independence. Because it was the best person for the job. If you just vote party, it's because you don't have the character to take the time to know the issues and to know who to vote for. There are voter guides out there that very clearly, very easily give you information about everybody and you can get you know sample ballots and all that kind of stuff so you can know what's going on. You should know who it is you're voting for. So we don't vote party, we don't vote uh personality. We don't vote somebody into office just because they're dynamic or because they're not dynamic. It's not about personality. It's not about popularity. It is biblical principle. So let me tell you a couple things. We need to vote for life. You need to vote for life. Jeremiah chapter 1, verse number 5 says, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou cameest forth out of the room, I sanctified thee, and I adorned thee- uh ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Beloved, can I tell you that every single child whether they are uh s nine minutes or nine seconds from conception or nine months from conception it's a life It is the ch it is a child and that child uh deserves to live. And as we need to let our voice be heard and we vote for life because God gives life and God takes life, it is not up to us to determine who gets to live and die. You need to vote for the family. God created the family. The family and anything that would undermine the family in a society is to undermine the foundation of the society. It is God established the family, God established the home, God established government, and God established the church. These three institutions ordained of God, and we need to vote for the family. God made him male and female. Man and woman, one man, one woman for one life Vote for the family. Anybody that would undermine or go against the family, you do not want one to be voting for. You need to vote for Israel. Vote for Israel. Genesis chapter 12 and verse number 3 tells us that God said he would bless those who bless Israel and curse those who curse Israel. Brother Mr. Mr. Prime Minister Netanyahu stood at the floor of the UN and quoted that verse. And told all of all the people there at the union, you can hate us, you can love us. But listen, I want you to understand why is there so much anti-Semitism? Because it's a spiritual battle. Because God has said he would bless his those that bless him and curse him and curse him. Why are people so mad at Israel for standing up for their freedom and defending themselves? But they're not mad at somebody who would come in, attack them uh un unprovoked, and destroy life there. Why? Because it's a spiritual battle. It's not just a matter of who came in and did what. It's a spiritual battle. And as a nation, people don't want to do what God wants And so God has said that we as a nation, as an individual, should be for Israel, and we need to vote for Israel. Beloved, you need to vote for righteousness. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. We need to vote for righteousness. Look at your candidates, look at your at the tickets, look at the issues. You know, if they want to put in a casino, is that righteous? Is that gonna lead toward book toward good homes? Is that gonna lead toward godly lifestyle? No. So we don't vote for those kind of things. You say, but it's gonna help put money in the schools. Here's the problem. For far too long people been voting for their pocketbook. We don't need to vote for our pocketbook. It's not about who's going to give you the best tax breaks or who's going to put an extra check in your in your income this coming year or who's going to provide you the most jobs. You vote for righteousness. I do not know who said it Somebody much wiser than I said a democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government Because it will only exist until the majority discovers it can vote itself largesse out of the public treasury. After that, the majority will always vote for the candidate, promising them the greatest benefit, which will result in the collapse and downfall of the democracy. And that's what we see. A lot of times, people, the number one issue is the economy. The economy shouldn't be the number one issue. These other things, we vote for life, we vote for righteousness, we vote for godliness, we vote for the family, we vote for the home. We see, beloved, our commitment is to do good. We want to do all the good that we can. We are to be salt and light. This is one way we can let our light shine. This is one way you can be salt in this world, that is to have an influence in the world, is let your voice be heard. So you guys doing okay? Alright, so we're gonna move on. We will see secondly our commission is the gospel. Our commission is the gospel. I want you to understand, beloved, the church is not a political organization. That is why I do not on a regular basis get up here, even though some ask me to handle political issues more often. Uh I do not on uh on a very often get up and deal with that because this is not a political organization. Our commission is the gospel. And we're not to go out and make Republicans. We're to go out and and and make Democrats. No, we're to go out and and uh compel them to come in. We're to go and preach the gospel. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's our goal. That's our commission. God's last uh uh statement or command is our first commission. This is what we're supposed to do, this is what the church is about And not just the church, but the Christian as well. Some of you would be perfectly happy to stand in the grocery line and debate with somebody about uh the current candidates But I wonder if you're willing to stand in the line and debate about Christ. You see, our commission is the gospel. We are to be telling people about Jesus Christ. And if you want to see this country changed, and if you love this country so much that you want to see it turn around, beloved, it's not going to be because we vote somebody in office I don't care who it is, because that's not how the country is going to change. The country is going to change when God's people get right with God and God's people get on their knees and God's people start reaching the lost with Jesus Christ And people's lives are changed from the inside out. A country is not changed from the top down. It never has been It has to be changed from the ground up. In political organizations they call it a grassroots effort. It takes the gospel of Jesus Christ to change the heart of a man so that he would desire and want the right things. And as he begins to tell other people about Jesus then they desire and want the right things. And as they trust Jesus Christ as their Savior and their life has changed, they desire and want the right things. And then ultimately, if we succeed in the effort of reaching people with the gospel, we will succeed and have the country turned around. But we lose track of that and get too tied up in the the policies or the political things of the day, and I'm not saying you shouldn't be informed. I'm not saying you shouldn't know what's going on. We ought to let our voice be heard, but I want you to know that our commission is the gospel. We're to tell people about Jesus Christ. We're to preach. Let people know Jesus died on the cross for them, was buried, and rose again, that they might be forgiven of their sins. And be on their way to heaven. That's where it starts. Lastly, this morning I want you to know that our confidence is in God. That our confidence is in God. In 1 Timothy 6, verse 15 and 16, he says, which in his times he shall show Who is the blessed and only potentate? The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, who only hath immortality Dwelling in a light which no man can approach unto, whom no man has seen nor can see, to whom we honor and power everlasting. Amen. Beloved, our confidence is in God. Regardless of what happens on Tuesday, our confidence is in God. We have on our money printed, in God we trust. We use it as legal tenure. And even hand it around and we as individuals will use it to buy things and we carry it in our pockets. But I wonder, beloved, if even as Christians, if it's really on our heart We carry it in our hands, in God we trust. But I'm wondering come Tuesday if you are overwhelmed and completely in despair because somebody you wanted in office it didn't get into office. Can I tell you that you're not trusting in God? Because it's not about who holds the position here on earth. We know the King of Kings is still on the throne. And come Tuesday, no matter what happens in the election ballot, I want you to know that God is still reigning supreme. The Bible is still true. Men still need the gospel. Satan is still our enemy. Jesus is still the only way to heaven. The way, the truth, and the life, and this word has not changed, and our responsibility has not changed, and the person ultimately in control hasn't changed. Do you trust in him, no matter who holds the seat? Beloved, right is still right and wrong is still wrong no matter who's in Congress. No matter who is making decisions in the Supreme Court. God is on the throne and in control of all. You know From the devil to natural disasters, to democracies God is in control of all of it. We've been studying the life of Job, began a few weeks ago looking at Job on Thursday nights, and you know it very clearly pictures there Satan's limitations. That ultimately God is in control. He had to come to the throne of God and ask permission to attack Job. We need to remember, beloved, how limited men are. Regardless of how much power they may have here on earth, they are limited. By God. God is in control In Psalms 107, verse number 29, he says, He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. God takes the storm and says, be still. He ultimately is in control and beloved The admonition, the encouragement maybe for you today. We don't know what's going to happen on Tuesday. Yes, go let your voice be heard. But beloved, remember no matter what happens, our confidence is in him. You know what, I I've lived long enough. I'm halfway there. Course according to Brother Taylor, I'm over the hill already. I'm on downward, man. I don't I don't know. Keith told me on the way in this morning, Pastor, it is all downhill from here. I said, Keith, man, don't don't discourage me. Like, give me some hope. Yes, amen. Fifties and new thirties. That's for sure. But what I'm saying is I've lived long enough, and those of you that have been here, you've lived long enough to understand I'm sure you guys have been through it where somebody you thought was supposed to be in office made it or didn't make it. And you know what? They came and went. They came and went. They were gonna be the one all beat all, but we're still dealing with the same problems. They were gonna destroy the nation, nothing was gonna be left. But we're still here. What I'm saying is sometimes we get way too caught up in what happens on Tuesday instead of getting caught up in what happened in heaven. We need to keep our eyes and our mind on God. Do your part, yes. Don't don't don't neglect that. But remember God's in control. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed