Colossians chapter number four. This book we've noticed cons contains uh what today might be called a uh keynote speech, kind of a uh representation of the life of the Apostle Paul and and this new life that we have in Jesus Christ as the Apostle Paul talks about this Christian life and and uh really the the The key of this book is the supremacy of Christ. And although we have a new life in Jesus Christ, praise God, it's not one that we have to try and figure out on our own It's not one that we have to try and live without any help. We have got the in and power, uh, in and through the power of Jesus Christ to live this life. Paul was talking about this new life that was made possible by Christ in you, the hope of glory. And we are This morning getting into chapter number four and uh we're gonna look at chapter number four verses two through six. Verse number one, you remember we we included that in the conclusion of chapter number three as we looked at the relationship between the servant and the master, and uh we dealt with that d in that section. So we're starting in verse number two in Colossians chapter number four. He says, to continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. With all prayer also for us, that God would open up unto us a door of utterance to speak the mysteries of Christ, for which I am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest. As I ought to speak. Verse number five, he says, walk in wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming the time. Let your speech be always with grace and seasoned with salt, that you may know how ye ought to answer every man. So verses five and six, we're going to deal with our speech and Verses 2 through 4, we're going to deal with our supplication. As believers in this new life that we are involved in, given to us by Jesus Christ, He says here to continue in prayer. To continue in prayer. We are to be praying always That's what Christians are supposed to be doing, praying always. We're to continue in prayer. That word continue means to be consistent, to be constant. To persevere in prayer. Now we know that we're supposed to do this. We know as believers that is the admonition in the scriptures, but many times we don't do it. We've all heard the the saying that Satan tr Satan trembles when the weakest Do you guys know? I mean you guys Christian is on his knees. Satan trembles when the weakest Christian is on his knees. The power that's available to us in in and through prayer. In our mind, we know it logically, but do we believe it with our hearts? We are to be continuing in prayer, even in this world which stands against prayer. And uh certainly Satan would do all he can to stop prayer. There was a daughter of a pastor who went to a school, a high school graduation. Story given to us by Carolyn Copeland. She At her high school graduation, the teacher asked her, hey, would you close the ceremony in prayer? And they asked a Jewish student, would you open the ceremony in prayer? Although they asked the young lady who was going to close the ceremony in prayer, she was a Christian, and they said to her, Would you mind praying, closing in prayer, but would you exclude Praying in Jesus' name. Just so you don't offend the other face that might be present And the young lady with the tremendous amount of God-given wisdom said, well, I would be happy to exclude praying in Jesus' name if You ask the Jewish student who is opening in prayer to pray in Jesus' name so that I'm not offended. And they allowed her to close in prayer in Jesus' name. We as Christians are supposed to be a praying people, and we pray to the Father through the Holy Spirit in the name of the Son. All three members of the Trinity involved in this admonition and this duty of ours as Christians to be praying. This is To be part of our Christian life. Paul taught it in more places than just here. He taught it in Romans chapter 12, verse number 12. He said, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer. Continuing in prayer. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, he says, pray without ceasing. We're supposed to be continuing, praying all the time as believers. Sometimes a young Christian uh who just comes to Christ, he might hear this and he thinks that uh in order to pray we've gotta you know get down on our knees and fold our hands and bow our heads and And certainly that gives an outward appearance of submission, and that lends itself to praying and talking to God. But you know, we can pray and talk to God anywhere. Anytime, in any condition. Doesn't matter what you're doing or where you're going. You could be shaving in the morning or driving on your way to work or whatever you're doing. You can be talking to God. You can be communing with your Heavenly Father. Some say, well, how how can I do that? Well, can I ask you, do you know how to daydream? You're you're driving down the road and you're thinking about something completely different. You're dreaming about, you know, that that state dinner you're gonna have that night or or whatever uh the other thing you're envisioning. I mean you're thinking about all that the mind is just going, well, it takes a little bit effort It takes a little bit of work to rein in the daydream, but then we can focus our heart and mind and talk to God. Even when we're just driving down the road, going through our life. Paul taught it. Christ also taught it in Luke chapter 18, verse number 1. He said, and he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray. And not to faint. You know, I know sometimes we get weary in prayer. We're to always be praying and we're not to faint. Sometimes we feel like fainting. Sometimes when you when you get alone and you begin to pray it it I I know probably didn't happen to you all but you know sometimes I'll be praying and it feels like my prayers literally are not leaving the room I'm in. They're not like, what kind of ceiling is this? It's holding it or holding it. What kind of the it's just in this room. I'm just talking to myself here. Well that's not a reason to quit praying. That's a reason and a motivation to persevere in prayer, to continue in prayer, because if there's a a some type of a barrier. There's something that's not allowing our prayers to get to heaven. We don't feel and know the presence of God in our life. That's not a reason just to stop. It's a reason to persevere and to continue. Because I can tell you this, the for the praying Christian A cold heart, dry and empty spirituality cannot continue in the heart of a praying Christian What happens is we get cold and dry as a Christian and we stop praying, we stop communing with God, and that just continues. Instead of seeking God and allowing that to break through. Paul taught it, Christ taught it, all through the scriptures. We see people that lived it. David was a man after God's own heart. Uh having a heart, just seeking God, and we see many of David's prayers recorded for us in the Psalms. That I mean just doing a study on the prayers of David would be quite an extensive study as there's so many of them that are given to us in his relationship and so much of the heart of David is seen in his prayers. I'll tell you what, almost in no other place do you get to really see the heart of an individual as when they're praying and talking to God That's one of the reasons it's so important for husbands and wives to pray together. And to pray for each other when you're praying together. You know, pray that your that your wife would love you like she should. And pray that she would take care of you like she should and that she would submit and that no, I'm just kidding. No, you're you pray praying for your mate and asking God to you pray for yourself and and your shortcomings, but pray for her. And your heart's desire to see her to be successful and accomplish all that God would want her to do and to be? Pouring your heart out to God on behalf of your mate or even your kids, if you still have kids at home. For them to hear you praying for them is valuable. Is very valuable. David, a man after God's own heart, Daniel, that prayer warrior who even in the face of death wouldn't quit praying. Well we got nobody threaten or threatening our lives. But somewhere we've lost the motivation to pray. Have you ever met anybody who was a chain smoker? Ever seen somebody that just they just can't put 'em down You know, they take the one that just got to the end and they use that to light the new one? A chain smoke they just keep going, you know. The other day, uh about two weeks ago, my boys and I we delivered a load of firewood down in the city. And uh, you know, it's middle of the day and of course there's people just everywhere, you know, but Andrew pointed out, he says, You see that guy? And I I was driving so I didn't see him and he says, he had two cigarettes in his mouth. He had two of 'em you know LA one wasn't enough nicotine or something. I'm and I I told him I says, man, cigarettes are expensive. I can't imagine, I mean, at two at a time, how that guy's putting away the cash, you know. I just, wow, how can he afford to do that? And uh but that's how the Krishna's supposed to be You see that chained smoker, he can't quit. He's just one after the other, right? It's something inside of him that drives him to say, hey, man, I haven't had a cigarette in a while. Christian, we ought to be that way and say, I haven't talked to God in a while. I haven't acknowledged my Lord and Savior I haven't prayed to him. I haven't talked. You see, living in a spirit of prayer is to live in a spirit of submission. Just talking to the Lord. Lord, help me today. Lord, would you protect me as I'm driving to work? Lord, would you give me wisdom? Lord, help me to love my mate as I should. Lord, would you help me know how to fix this problem here at work? Lord, what should I do with this? Help me be a witness. Lord, would you each of these things we're we're we're asking God to lead and direct and guide us and we're yielding our spirit to Him and submitting to Him, but see we don't want to live in submission to God What we want to do is live our lives and then call on God when we need something. That's how most Christians live. We want to live our lives however we want to live, and then call on God when somebody we love is in the hospital or sick. Lord, we need you to do this. Lord, we need you to fix this problem. We need your help, Lord. But we're supposed to be praying it all the time. Continue in prayer. We're to pray uh always. We're also to pray attentively. He says to watch. This is an admonition we see several places in the scripture. Christ said it to the disciples. He said, Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. We're to be attentive in our prayers, watching. The scriptures tell us several things we're to watch out for. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary is the devil. We're to watch because temptation is going to come. We're supposed to watch for the coming of Jesus Christ. Lest we be caught off guard as Christians. We're supposed to be looking for that, that soon appearing of the Lord Jesus We're supposed to be looking for that soon appearing. We're to watch that we don't get caught off guard. We're to watch that we are aware of the coming of Jesus Christ. Paul instructed this in more places than one in Ephesians 6. 18. He said, praying always with all prayer and supplication in spirit, and watching thereunto, with all perseverance and perseverance and supplication for all saints. We need to be watching. We pray attentively. We're also to pray admiringly. Pray admiringly. Thankfully. He he says here in this verse, continue in prayer and watching the same with what? Thanksgiving. I thought it was great we sang the song Thank You Lord this morning. This is Thanksgiving season and we're gonna be dealing with that in coming days with uh Talking about our heart of gratitude that we should have, but hey, we're to be praying thankfully, with hearts thankful unto God for all that He's done for us. You know, gratitude not only cultivates confidence, As we recognize and acknowledge God and all that He's done for us, it shows us what He's capable of and it creates confidence in us, but it also generates contentment in us. Exercising this gratitude and being a person of prayer and praying with a thankful heart It will give you confidence in God and acknowledging all that He's done, and it'll give you a content heart realizing things aren't as bad as we think they are sometimes. This was a common theme all through the book here. Colossians chapter 1, verse 3 and 12, 2, verse 7, and 3. 15. In verse number 17, I know you're writing these down. You didn't get all those. It's all in the book of Colossians. There's only four chapters. He says many times about prayer and be thankful. Be thankful. We're to have a thankful heart as Christians. You know, we should give just as many expressions of gratitude as we do petitions for our needs. There should be a balance there. But for most of us there's not. Because our needs weigh heavy on our heart, and once the need is met, well that need's passed and Oh, we might once or twice give thanks for having the need met or whatever, but then we move on to our next need. And don't really spend time praising and thanking God for meeting that need. What about thankfulness just for the privilege of prayer? Just for the privilege of being able to pray. We're also supposed to pray affectionately, praying for others. He says, here he says, continue in prayer and watch the same with Thanksgiving, with all praying also for us. That God would open unto us the door of utterance to speak the mysteries of Christ, for which I am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I ought. We ought to pray affectionately with a heart for others, compassion and concern for others. Many of us, many Christians, are so consumed with our own lives that very little of our petitions are for others. My w what a contrast we see when we look at the prayers of Paul and how he was constantly praying for others. Others, Lord, others, let this my model be that even while I kneel and pray, my prayers shall be for others. How much could we do for one another if we just prayed? I mean, sometimes I I want to do something, you know, I I see somebody in the church family going through something, I see them in a struggle, and I I would like to be able to do something to really to help them But if I really believed what the scriptures teach concerning prayer, you know the most powerful thing that I can do would be to pray. And sometimes I feel like saying to them, well, all I can do is pray. I I can't do anything else but hey, uh I'm willing to pray. And I feel like somehow that's not sufficient. But how much could we really accomplish? I mean, I could I can't heal them, but God can I can't give them the finances that they need, but God could. I can't provide a job for them or find the right vehicle that they need or fix this problem in their home, but God could do all those things. Yet somehow I feel responsible like if I could somehow meet the need, but I can pray And it's an admonition that we're given that we're supposed to be praying for each other. Paul requested that they pray for him. He asked for an opportunity. He asked for utterance. You know, he said they're in his bonds. You know, Paul's in prison when he's writing this. Even in prison, Paul said, hey, would you pray that I would have an opportunity to be a witness? Would you pray that I could reach the people around me, that God would give me utterance and words to say, My, we need utterance. To be a witness, to know how to speak, to be able to present the gospel. You know, the majority of our prayers centralize around physical needs. If you look at the prayers of Paul, I think you'd be hard-pressed to find one prayer that asks God to meet a physical need. In all of his books, I would challenge you to try and find one. All of the prayers that he prayed were for men's spiritual need We need to be praying more for our brothers and sisters in Christ, not just for their physical needs that are Maybe things that we feel, but we need to pray God would strengthen them in their spirit. That God would give them uh boldness to be the Christian So they should be that God would help them to be faithful to Christ, that God would give them uh uh fervency in their prayer life, that God would give them understanding as they read the scriptures. I mean, we need to be thinking about the spiritual needs of our brothers and sisters in Christ and pray affectionately with compassion for them. Epaphras did it. You're in Colossians there. Look at verse number 12. Chapter 4, verse number 12. Epaphras Who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers. He labored fervently for them in prayers. Could that be said of you? Oh, I know we say to people sometimes, oh praying for your brother. And just so we're not a liar, we say, Lord, please help them. But are we laboring fervently in prayer for our brothers and sisters? I think you would transform Hunt Valley Baptist Church if we were. If we were laboring in prayer for one another. We should pray specifically as well. Paul asked for some specific things. You know, if we pray generally like Lord, help the missionaries. You know, there's not really any way to quantify that. There's not really any way to recognize and to praise God for having met that need. When we get real general like that. But when we pray specifically, Lord, would you provide a 15-passenger van for then when God meets that need, God answered that prayer. We need to pray specifically for one another. For specific needs. In verses five through six we see our speech. If verses two through four were dealing with our walk with God, talking to God. Then verses four through six here, five through six deal with our walk among men and how we communicate and talk. to this world. He says, walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how to answer every man. So first of all, we see our actions. He says walk in wisdom. You know your walk talks louder than your talk talks? We know that. A Florida newspaper published an article about Floyd Martin, who had dropped $13,000 cashier's check. He dropped it in front of the Pensacola Moose Lodge on Saturday night. It was the entirety of his family savings account. I didn't say why he had drawn all that out and got in the cashier's check, but he dropped that $13,000, the last $13,000 he had to his name in front of the moose lodge, and a cab driver by the name of Bob Reed found it. He turned it over to the authorities. Reed was interviewed by the newspaper for this little article that was that was sent out about it and asked him why he didn't take it and he said I never dreamed of cashing that for myself. I'm a part-time cab driver. I'm a part-time bodybuilder. But I'm a full-time Christian. You see, our walk talks louder than our talk talks. What we do speaks volumes, and our actions they influence others. First Peter 3, verse number 1 says, Likewise ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation of the wives. This verse is dealing with a husband and wife relationship, but it's specifically talking about the idea that, hey, if you have a mate who's lost, who doesn't know Jesus Christ, and they have no desire to be obey the word. And you can't preach to them the word of God because they don't want to hear the word. But the Bible says here that by your conversation, that's not what you say, but by you how you act. They could be one to Christ. Where a lady used to get mad and lose her temper and throw things, Jesus has changed her, transformed her spirit, and so now she has a calm temperament Where she used to yell and lose her temper with the children, now she doesn't. Somehow she's able to control her spirit Where she used to fight and argue about everything with her husband, now she realizes there's something more important than all the arguing and then getting her way and expressing her opinion, and that's the soul of her husband. And so she changes how she's acting in her spirit and By the power of God, she changes that. And she's able to win her husband. You understand it's not just with the husband and wife relationship, but with this world. How we act. People in this world, they see it. Christ told us that men would be watching. In John 13, 35, he says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. If you love one another. He said the world is watching you. And the world who's not going to be reading the book, who's not sitting in the church house, is going to know that you're my disciples by how you act. And I know today many people like to use the uh statement, well God looks on the heart. And God does look on the heart. But they like to use that statement: God looks on the heart as an excuse to live and do whatever they want in the body. God looks on the heart, but man looks on the outward. That's what man sees. Man can't see your heart. And you may be all pious and spiritual in your heart, but if you're living like the devil on the outside, this world is watching that. Not what you claim to be on the inside. And we are supposed to be living so that this world sees a Christian. He says, walk in wisdom. Yesterday, Andrew and I were knocking on doors, and we met a lady who went to the first United Methodist Church. And she said, I've been going there 50 years, and I'm probably not going to change now. And we talked for a few minutes and I made sure of her salvation and said, listen, more important to come to our church is knowing Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Do you know Jesus as your Savior? And she's like, oh yes, yes, I've known the Lord a long time. And I said, now you it's important to have a community of faith, that church, that encourages you and helps you in your walk with God. And I hope that you have that. But if not we can we can help you with that. I said there's so many people that don't go to church anywhere today. And she's like, I know. She's like, I think I'm the only one on this whole cul de sac that goes to church on Sunday. What I'm saying is out of all those neighbors that she had in this cul-de-sac and she was we were in apartment building, so she had six neighbors in her building and about four other buildings on this in this little cul-de-sac from her watching and observing when she went to church on Sunday morning she never saw anybody else going And you know what? Her neighbors saw her going. There and when when our family lived in York, uh on Duke Street Uh you know, we lived as a dead end street, not very many houses there. A lot of people in that neighborhood lived there a long time. We would talk to 'em and be casual with 'em and we would talk and and across the the lawn or when walking down the street or the kids are riding their bikes and We would say hello in the wintertime, we helped them shovel their walks and you know, but because they lived in that neighborhood a long time, a lot of those people they would get together many times throughout the summer. They would have little parties at this person's house. And they would have parties at this person's house and they would gather in the evening and sit on the porch of this guy's house. And, you know, usually there was drinking and of course conversation and all that type of stuff. You know, and all the time we lived there, never one time did any of them ever invite us over for one of those parties. I think they pretty much knew that that was not what we were going to be interested in. You see, the world's watching. The world knows. And how we're acting. We're to walk in wisdom. Walk in wisdom You know, that means you use some wisdom in how you act and what you're talking about Walk in wisdom towards those that are without. That means those that are without the family of God, that are outside the church, or that it that are not saved. We're to walk in wisdom. We're to exercise some wisdom in how we're doing that. That means we of course act like Christians, but you know that means you don't talk about problems that the church has with your lost friends I know the church is not perfect. I know Brother Glover can be a jerk sometimes. And you and you might be really frustrated with him. But you know when you go to when you go to work on Monday and you're lost friends and you spend half of the day belly aching about what happened at church That's not wise. You understand that they're looking at that and saying, Why do I want to be a part of that And then next year you're like, hey, would you come to Roundup Sunday at our church? And they're like, I don't think so. Uh I've heard about your church from you. You told me about people at your church. I don't want to go there That wasn't very wise. Why is it? It's just like a a lady who and I'm getting on the ladies here. It could be a man, it's just typically a lady, who would talk to her mother about her husband's problems. Man, that's unwise. You want your mother and your father to like their son-in-law. I mean, you're married to them. You're going to be spending Christmas together and Thanksgiving together for the rest of your lives. But You come home and and you know stop over for lunch with mom and you belly ache about the stupid decision that your husband made And then mom that evening talks to dad and they discuss all about how the stupid son-in-law they have, and their daughter married an idiot. And boy, we've gotta watch out for her or else he's gonna ruin their family. Man, you are shooting yourself. That is unwise. The greatest thing you can do is praise your mate. Now he might be an idiot. There are a few of those. But you're not helping anything by telling the whole world about it. I would keep that part a secret, okay? Uh that what do they say? They say uh, you know, it's better to Let them think you're an idiot instead of opening your mouth and proving it. You know. Hey, it's unwise. And as Christians, we've got to be careful about what we say out in the world. We want to lead them and win them to Christ, but by our test, by our own testimony, they're going to be like, Why do I want that Listen, we're not perfect and the church has struggles and the devil sometimes gets in. You know, the brother and sister in Christ across from the aisle from you, Brother Don, you know, he's not the enemy Sometimes he might not be nice or might do something that you don't care for, but he's not the enemy. The devil's the one that gets in there The devil's the enemy. The devil's the one that gets us been out of shape with one another and we do things that that somehow, you know, even in our minds we might even look and say, why did I do that? And we've offended a brother or sister in Christ, and it wasn't our intention, but listen, our brother and sister's not the enemy, the devil's the enemy, and we've got to be careful. Use some wisdom You know, wisdom says you don't stand around at work and talk about God no matter how spiritual you are when you're supposed to be working. You may, well, this is the most important thing in the world. I've got to win the loss. And so you're a terrible testimony and and you're stealing from your boss because you're supposed to be getting paid to do a job And you're standing there and everybody else at work sees it. You're acting spiritual, but you're not doing right, and you're bringing a discredit to Christians. You've got to use wisdom. When is the right time to talk about the Savior? When is the right time? It would be better for you to be a testimony of a hard worker that's honest and does what's right and puts in full days' work for a full day's pay and cut cut cuts clocks out on time and clocks in on time. It'd be better to do all that. And then when the opportunity opens, when you're not on the clock. Say, hey you want to go to lunch? I'll buy you lunch today. And then sitting over some lunch you can say, Hey, got anything I can pray for you about? Got any burdens in your life right now And witness then. Using some wisdom. What is our approach? Here he says redeeming the time, redeeming the time. And I've got to redeem the time because we've got to get down here. Redeeming the time. Time is short. We don't know how much time we have in this life. Now The motivation for the message I just preached a week ago or whatever was actually this passage of scripture, so I'm not going to re-preach it. We've got a whole message on this point, on redeeming the time. And you can go back and listen to it. It's probably on sermon audio by now. But listen, life's short. We don't want to waste it. We don't know how much time we have left, or we don't know how much time those that we're talking to has left. We gotta take advantage of every opportunity. What is our articulation? Our articulation. That's the power of the tongue, how we speak. Let your speech be always seasoned with grace. Hey, we're supposed to have uh uh our speech supposed to be seasoned. We're to speak with grace, with love in our hearts. The power of the tongue, it's a powerful thing. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. There's life and death in the power of the tongue and what we say and how we communicate with people. We know we're supposed to speak the truth, but the Bible doesn't stop there. We're supposed to speak the truth in love. With a heart of love. You know, the Christian should not use his tongue for good and evil. James tells us, out of the same mouth proceed his blessings and cursings. He said, these things ought not be so. You see, we come into church on Sunday and we sing praises all, hail the power of Jesus' name. Oh, how I love Jesus. Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. We come in and out of our mouth comes blessings. And then on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday comes cursings. And I'm not just talking about foul language, although there's no place in the Christian's life for foul language. I'm just talking about how we communicate with one another. Speaking angrily and communicating in in that in that way with one another. That we shouldn't be doing that. These things ought not be so By the power of Jesus Christ, we ought to be able to get victory over that. And live and communicate in such a way that there's grace in our speech. Communicate in love. Should be seasoned with salt. That's not to say your language should be salty. That's to say that it should be properly flavored. Brother Nash was telling me when he was having meals on wheels, come to his house over there. He said, you know, they're pretty good meals. He said they're just kind of bland. You know, when you're making food for a lot of different people you can't really put a lot of spice or a lot of heat or a lot of flavor because Who knows what people's flavor profile preference is. And so he's like, it's okay, it's just kind of bland. Not a lot of seasoning. And we like how salt wakes up the flavor of food we eat. Well, as Christians, you see, we can wake up the love of Jesus Christ and make the message of the gospel so much more appealing to the people we're communicating with. When our speech is seasoned with salt instead of just bland The Christians should be ready to give an answer. 1 Peter 3:15. Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh of you the reason of the hope that is in you. Ready to give an answer. With speech that's communicating love with grace in your hearts and seasoned with salt. Why do you do the things you do When you're at work and you get to go to lunch with somebody and they say, hey, how come you didn't get mad about this? Or how do you stay so patient with these problems we have? And what I don't ever hear you belly aching about this or that. And you can talk to him about the love of Christ and the change that it's made in your life. That's far more powerful than just standing at the water cooler and preaching to them John 3. 16. This is our exhortation, our speech and our supplication as believers in Christ, the new life we have in Christ. Are we praying like we should? Are we walking like we should? I hope so. Let's close in prayer. But we thank you for today in this time in Colossians. So applicable, so right where we are. Every one of us in here need this this morning. We need to walk in wisdom. We need more wisdom, Lord, from you. Lord, we need to spend more time in prayer. A little less daydreaming and more time seeking you and yielding ourselves to you. Lord, I pray you'd help us, as your people, to walk in wisdom and to spend time in prayer. We ask these things in Jesus. Jesus name. Amen