Turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter number five. We're going to conclude chapter number five this evening. This of course is very I was talking to Pastor Derek today and and he was talking about uh teaching and you know he ha he went to a business Oh my goodness. Uh I uh I'm not gonna take that long, I said, but of course in Galatians here I have on the verses we're gonna cover tonight I have taught ten lessons on just these just these just actually verse 22 and 23. And so we're going to cover all of this tonight. So it will be pretty quick and brief, but uh it also is things that I think by and large we're familiar with. So we began uh this chapter here with our freedom in Christ. Uh that is based upon the faith that we have in Christ. Which puts our flesh in conflict that we dealt with last week, that constant battle now that we have the new man, that new uh creature, we were raised to walk in newness of life, and we have that new life inside There's a conflict between the new life and the old life. And that that in context really uh that goes together uh what we looked at last week along with what we're looking at this week because it kind of talks about the the old life and the flesh and those that would uh walk in the flesh, this is what you're going to uh reap or bring about, but you can walk in the spirit. And so we're going to talk tonight about the fruit that's under control. The fruit that's under control. As we uh look at this this evening, you know, we talked about it last week, but the idea that you're just a short walk in the flesh away from any work of the flesh, any manifestation of the flesh, just a short walk in that and it could be part of anybody's life. But the opposite is true, which should be exciting to all of us, is that we're just a short walk in the spirit from producing the fruit of the Spirit. That's all it takes to produce the fruit of the Spirit. You can choose at any time to begin walking in the Spirit. And the fact of the matter is, is an apple tree brings forth apples and an orange tree brings forth And a spirit-led Christian is going to bring forth the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit. That's just it's just going to happen because you are uh walking in the Spirit and you're going to Reap the benefit and the blessing of that. And so that is really the crux of the lesson tonight: that we want to be spirit-led Christians. One reason I believe that this is lacking in the churches today is maybe there's not as much emphasis put on it from the pulpits as there should be. uh be for God's people to really put an emphasis and a focus on being on walking in the Spirit. I think sometimes we we focus on the fruit And we say, boy, this should be part of your life. You need to be almost like manufacturing this fruit, or you need to be having this fruit as part of your life, but that is a result. of walking in the Spirit. And those things come. And sometimes I think maybe we even discourage Christians because in their life they're working to try and get this particular fruit. to be evident in their life and they say, man, it's just so hard when if they would just yield and walk in the Spirit, that fruit would come by a natural byproduct of the Holy Spirit working in their life. So I want to give you first of all some foundational principles about this. The foundational principle I want you to know that it is the fruit of the Spirit. This, of course, is contrasted to the work of the flesh. You see, what we do in the flesh is a work. It is something that we do. That is something that is manifested. We are functioning in the realm of the flesh, and it is a work that we do. But the fruit is not that. The fruit is something that is produced by the Spirit. It is something we can't directly work to try and accomplish I mean we can in the flesh put forth some effort to strive to be kind. But and that's that's a good thing, but It is a natural byproduct that's going to be produced in our life if we're walking in the Spirit. Whereasby said this. The contrast between the works of the works and fruit is important. You see, a machine in a factory works and turns out products. But it could never manufacture fruit. Fruit must grow out of something alive. And in the case of the believer, it is the life of the Holy Spirit. When you think of works, you think of effort, labor, strain, and toil But when you think of fruit, you think of beauty, quietness, and an unfolding of a life. So the description there, the idea is it's not something we so much are laboring for, it's a byproduct of just submitting and yielding to the Spirit. Now there has long been a debate as to whether there is one or nine of these, because you know in the text there it uh let's look at that. We haven't read the text yet. Galatians chapter 5, verses 22 to 26, it says, but the fruit Of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. And they that are of Christ have crucified the flesh with the afflictions and lust. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit, let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another. So we see here that there's nine fruit listed, but uh the uh description says fruit, not fruits. Well, several thoughts here. First of all, fruit can be singular or plural. You say, can I have a piece of fruit? Or there is a fruit basket. You know, you so that word in and of itself could be both. You know, you wouldn't necessarily say, look at this basket of fruits. You wouldn't say that. You say here's a basket of fruit. So it can it can be plural and it can be singular. Although in the scripture, actually 42 times in the scripture, we do see the word fruits. It is mentioned just by way of likeness in Philippians, it tells us to be filled with the fruits of righteousness. So 42 times in the scripture it does use that fruits, even though maybe it's less common to us. So I guess the distinction I'm saying is it could have very easily been translated or written fruits. But almost seems as though on purpose it was put as fruit. So why is it given in a singular fashion like this? Well, first of all, a particular tree only brings forth one type of fruit. An apple tree only brings forth apples. An orange tree only brings forth oranges. Now, the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit comes from one source. It's from the Holy Spirit. So it originates from one place. It also is for one purpose, and that is to glorify God. So, what we're talking about is the fruit of the spirit-filled or spirit-led life. The tree, the spirit, is going to bring forth only one fruit. One way we could think about this is let me ask you to describe an apple for me. You go ahead, give me a description of an apple. Whatever comes to your mind. What would you say? If red, round, sweet, crunchy, juicy, Um you know, I mean y you you can you see all of those are descriptions of the same piece of fruit, right? And that piece of fruit is produced from the tree Well, when a godly and healthy tree brings forth good fruit, it will bring forth the fruit of the Spirit. You could almost look at it as these are descriptions of the fruit. These are what the fruit are going to look like, even though it's from the same source and accomplishing the same goal. Even though we looked at an apple, and the apple has, you'd say this is an apple, but it's red, it's round, it's juicy, it's crunchy, or it's crisp, or uh whatever descriptive term you might say there. And the fruit that comes from the Holy Spirit is at the same time love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness. Temperance, against such there is no law. So a spirit-led life really is a life in which we are taking on the nature of God. We're taking on the nature of God. The Holy Spirit is coming through us. So let me give you a couple of other references that teach that. 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 4. It says, whereby are we given unto us exceedingly great and precious promises that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature? Partakers of the divine nature. So these precious promises and the Word of God, the work of the Holy Spirit in our life, is the means by which we are taking on some of the divine attributes of God, some of his characteristics. We are hopefully, as we live our life, becoming more and more like Him. That's our goal. And that's what the fruit of the Spirit is going to produce in our life. As we are spirit-led, the very nature of God will be produced in our heart and our life. Fruit is to be in every believer's life, regardless of whether you think there's nine or whether you think there's one, we know that it's supposed to be part of our life. And it will be manifest if we're walking in the Spirit. I would like to say, lastly, under this first point here, is that fruit is a result of faithfulness. Fruit is a result of faithfulness. Some people they say, boy, I really want to have some fruit. You know, my dad uh led his nurse to the Lord in the hospital in Utah. Um you know, he People look at that and they say, boy, I would like to have that kind of fruit. Well, you know why he has fruit like that everywhere he goes? Because he's faithful to be a witness everywhere he goes. Because he seizes every opportunity, because he does not see fruit every single time he uh sows the seed A lot of times he's just sowing the seed. He told me on the phone, well he was in the hospital, I was talking to him and he says, Hey, I led my nurse to the Lord yesterday. He said, But I got a second one I'm working on. She's supposed to come back to work tomorrow and hopefully I'm not checked out yet. I'm gonna get a second chance at her. So praying that she'll get saved, you know. And uh so You know, it's it fruit is a result of faithfulness. And if you want to see fruit in your life with regards to scripture memory, we've got uh Brother Barker coming on Sunday teaching on that, then you have to be faithful to work at trying to memorize If you want to see fruit in witnessing, you've got to be faithful to pass out tracts, faithful to witness, faithful to seize the opportunity. If you want to see fruit in your life, Spiritually, you've got to be faithful to spiritual things. Now I'm talking to the Thursday night crowd. You know there's a lot of people that never come to Thursday night And and they are not seeing the level of fruit in their life that they could if they would be here faithfully to Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night, walking in the Word of God, being faithful. That's where fruit comes. If the sun only shined periodically, your apple tree out in your yard wouldn't get too much fruit on it. No, because what produces that fruit is the faithfulness of water falling, sun shining. That faithfulness of the change of the season brings forth that fruit. And if all of a sudden that was disrupted, like we had a drought, there was not enough water, it would greatly impact the fruit that could come from that tree. You might have a little bit, but you're not going to have what you could have had. And then the following year you might not have any because the tree was damaged or hurt because of the lack of faithfulness of the necessary things. So fruit is a result of faithfulness. Now we see here, secondly, the fruit that's produced. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, making separate against such there is no law These fruit are divided up into three different areas, three different areas that are focused. You have an inward fruit, an outward fruit, and an upward fruit. These fruit. You'll see those. There's nine of them, and there's three inward, three outward, and three upward. And we're just going to walk through these quickly. We see the first fall, the fruit of love. That first inward fruit that's manifest in the spirit-led life is love. This is a godlike love and agape love. This is not a brotherly love. This is not a oh I like you if you like me. This is a love that is unreserved, unrestricted, and uh loves even when people don't deserve it. It's the kind of love that's described in Mark chapter 12 that we are commanded to love God with all thy heart with all thy soul and with all thy mind, and you're supposed to love your neighbors yourself. That's the kind of love we're supposed to have. And it's not a matter of, well, my neighbor's not very friendly. Or I don't like my neighbor. Or the guy down the pew is not somebody I really care for. No, we are supposed to have the kind of love. And if we're walking in the Spirit, God will allow you to love an unlovable person. Because it's not the love that we have, it's the love of God that's being shown through our lives. I want you to know this is a love that you cannot manufacture on your own. But it is a love that we get the privilege of experiencing and we have the responsibility to share with others If we are walking in the Spirit, if we're led by the Spirit, that love will come through our life into other people's lives. Romans 5. 5 says, and hope maketh not ashamed. Because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. The love of God is shed abroad. The world is seen, and the love of God is put on display as we share it with the world. This is a foundational fruit, I believe, because this love we know obviously the first and the second greatest commandments. Uh largely, we've talked about this, the impact that love has on our uh relationships and on our walking with God, and in contrast to the law, that when we're living in love, you don't even need the law Because love is a much stronger motivator than law. And so love is foundational. We see secondly joy. Joy uh The word joy or rejoice is found 132 times in the New Testament alone. This is a a functional truth for us as Christians. It should be part of our life. It should be part of what we experience, not just the joy of having a good day or the joy of something going right, but it is an inward peace. It is an inward gladness that leads to a cheerful countenance. It should lead to a cheerful countenance. Uh it wouldn't hurt for us as Christians to work on smiling a while. Uh you know, keep keeping a smile on our face, thinking about what you look like uh when You know, I mean just look in the mirror. You you might look well man, you look pretty grumpy, you know, you you look pretty upset and and think, well I need to adjust uh and strive to put a smile on my face. And uh it's impactful um and doesn't cost you anything. So Joy should be evident on our face, cheerful countenance that comes from an inward joy that God gives us peace Peace is used 112 times in the New Testament. I believe this is so vital for the Christian, and I I enjoy teaching on peace, the peace that God gives. I've spoken several times on this, uh even recently mentioned it, so we won't spend much time, but it's uh favorable is desired over the alternative. Amen. This world uh does not know peace. They strive and fight and long to have peace, but uh just don't have it. But it's so much more than just the absence of conflict. It really is. It's a lot deeper than that. It is an inward peace. You know, this world search for peace that's that's it's the kind of thing that's like a I thank God it's Friday mentality. Like their peace is brought on by pleasure. And if the pleasure is removed, the peace is removed And they no longer, they're not happy. There is no peace. There is no feeling of calm because the pleasure has been removed. That's the world's peace. But the peace of God is so much deeper than that. It is we're talking about a tranquility of mind, a composure of spirit. An undisturbed rest that we have, even in the face of hardship or trial. Why do we have this? Because of the confidence we have in God. And we know That all things work together for good. And we know that all things work. And so that's something that is a confidence that's settled in our heart that gives us peace even in the midst of a storm. Then there's some outward fruit that goes towards other people. There's first of all long-suffering. Long-suffering really is a forbearing fruit. It is forbearing. uh one another it is a long patience bearing suffering persevering being consistent steadfast enduring these are words that all describe the long suffering that we should have It's something that doesn't give up. Life brings pressures, but you don't give up. Life brings hardship or hard work, but you just don't give up. Romans chapter 2 and verse number 4 describes how long-suffering God is to us And it is an attribute of God, and that's what we want the Holy Spirit to bring about in our life, because I'm thankful tonight that God is long-suffering towards us. He says in Romans 2. 4, Arj, despisest thou the riches of the goodness and the forbearance and the long-suffering, knowing not that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. Thinking about those attributes, the forbearance, the long-suffering, the goodness of God that leadeth to repentance When we are long-suffering, it's another aspect or a way that the world sees Christ in us. In 1 Timothy 1. 16, he says, How be it for this cause I obtained mercy? That in me first, Jesus Christ might show forth all long-suffering. That in me Christ might show forth all long-suffering. I mean that's the attribute that the people will recognize. I mean you think about the craziness with this road rage. How quick people just lose their mind. How like somebody cuts you off and it makes you mad enough that you would ram your car into their car or into their house or run something over or I mean it just or get out and and start beating another car or hurting somebody because they cut you off in traffic because somebody stepped on their brakes in front of you. I mean if that's the worst thing that happened to you this week, I think you've got a pretty good life. I mean, but people lose their mind. There is no forbearance. There is no long suffering. I mean, there's just They just lose it and it that's not Christ-like. You shouldn't be losing it in traffic. And uh gentleness, gentleness is being kind and good. It's being helpful, gentle, and sweet, considerate, gracious. Gentleness cares for the feelings of others. There are some people that they just don't care. They just don't care. And sometimes they'll say hurtful things or You know, we we gotta be careful and with with kids we need to teach this because sometimes kids can be very hurtful to one another. Um you know, even up into the teen years and and such, just say things that are not kind. And we need to be gentle to one another, considerate of their feelings, having sympathy and empathy for others. Romans 12, 10 says, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love in honor, preferring one another. Goodness, this is literally being full of virtue and excellence. Goodness, being full of virtue and excellence. Oh man, what if what if we could just be good? Just be good. You know, we walk out of the house and tell the kids, hey, you guys be good while we're gone You know, just just be good. That's what we're saying is don't burn the house down, you know. Um don't don't do anything you know you're not supposed to do. Please, we're only gonna be gone a couple of hours. Please don't make us regret that we went to dinner, you know. Um it's not that long. Can you just be good? But I wonder how God looks at us sometimes, maybe. Like, could you just be good? Just be good. That's full full of uh virtue and excellence. To him that knoweth to do good and doeth not? To him that is sin. Yeah, the expectation that God has for us is that we would be good, that we would do good. Are you full of goodness? Would someone else I describe of you as somebody that was full of goodness? Would they say that's who you were? Romans 15, 14 says, And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye are full of goodness. Paul was saying of those he says, Hey, what I found from being around you is you're just a good guy. Now he's not just saying nice, but he's saying goodness. He's saying, hey, I found that you're full of goodness, that you are going to strive to do good and right. Then there's three Godward fruit here this evening. We have faith. The faith is is beyond what we would call obedience. It's not the faith uh is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, it's not that kind of faith. This really is faithfulness. is what it's describing there. It's a faithfulness, the word that is used, would really be more in the lines of faithfulness or more in the lines of trustworthiness. It is faithfulness in God because we know God and we believe in God. So our obedience to God obviously is rooted in faith. And obedience is faithfulness. So these things are tied together. But we need to be faithful. Luke 19, 17 says. And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful In that which is least, thou art given authority over ten cities. So faithfulness, being faithful in each and every aspect. You know, I've talked to Don about this. uh and other people that serving the ministry here, but you know, we don't try and give jobs to people hoping they'll get faithful. We don't hand out a job and say, well, now that you have a job on Sunday mornings, you have to be here for church. No, we want somebody that is faithful already in that which is least. I mean if they can't show up for church because they're motivated by a love for God and want to do what God wants then they shouldn't be given other responsibilities already. They they oughta that ought to be a starting point. At least, oh, they're gonna be faithful to this and and you'll find that people that are faithful in that which is least, they st they they naturally are given more and more and more. Over time you wonder, well, how is it that this person is doing so much? Well, because whatever they do, they get done. Because they're faithful at it. It happens. They make it, they they get it accomplished. And so they're continually added to, and that's what God says, hey. If you're going to take what God's given you and go bury it, then I'm going to take it away and give it to somebody who's doing something with it. So faithfulness, faithful to the Lord, meekness. Of course, we know that is gentleness, it is a humility of spirit. It's not weakness, it is strength. It takes a strong man to be meek. It is a humbleness. Nobody pictured this better than Christ. Meekness would be somebody that has the attitude of a servant, not of a king. Well, the king of kings came to be a servant. And that's what we ought to have, a spirit of meekness. Then temperance. Temperance, the attribute that controls the body. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9, But I keep my body, keep under my body, and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means when I preach to others I myself should be a castaway. This is self-control. Self-control. Christian, you are either the master or the slave. And if you've had anything physically that you have strived to accomplish on a physical level, You understand that in very stark reality. And I'm talking about you were physically unable to do something and you had to go through PT training or whatever, you had to go through time to get strength back in in one of your extremities or you have tried to lose weight uh or you have tried to get to the point where you could bench press three hundred pounds. uh or what uh any type of physical goal in order to get there you had to put your body under subjection You had to tell your body, I know you don't want to run today, but we're going to run. And you know this: either you're the master or you're the slave. Either you're going to tell your body what to do Or else you're going to let your body tell you. Nope, you're not you're not eating. Or else you're going to be a slave to your body and say, well, I just can't say no. I just can't say no. You know, listen, I know how hard it is to lose weight. I've been doing it for two years. The the the ongoing I'm probably gonna have to do it for the rest of my life, which is ridiculous Some of you skinny people don't no know. But uh Where was I going with that? I I know how hard it is. I was going somewhere with it. And uh It completely left my mind. The idea I don't know for sure what I was gonna say, but the idea is that oh, I know where I was going. I've had people tell me in the past that I just cannot lose weight. I can't lose weight. Here's the thing. Pretty much I basically know that if you don't eat, you'll lose weight. Okay. I mean it I mean I just just say it. That's pretty much a guaranteed solution. Um and What it boils down to is what you're saying is I can't control myself to lose weight. Well, Christian This applies to our spiritual life as well. Either you're the master or you're the slave. Either you're going to say you are going to get up and read your Bible. Or you say, Oh, I'm too tired to read my Bible. You say, I I am gonna go to church tonight. We are gonna be there. I know that it's you know, been a long day already, was out of bed at four o'clock or five o'clock this morning, some of you, to get to work and then come home and just enough time to eat something on the road and get to church or whatever. But you you say, Uh we're gonna do this You you you make it a point and say this is what we're going to do and and you set that as a as a goal and you say this is what's going to happen or you say, oh no, I'm just going to submit to the world, the pressure, and my flesh, and not do the spiritual thing. This is such a big part of the Christian life is self-control, temperance. But beloved It is a fruit of walking in the Spirit. You say, man, I just can't say no. I just can't stop this. Maybe it's because you're just so consumed with trying to stop it. And less consumed with trying to walk in the Spirit, and the Spirit will give you the power to stop it. That's the difference as a Christian, because we do have the power of God that will enable us to do these things. And temperance, self-control, is a fruit of the Spirit. In 1 Corinthians 9 27, he says, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. It means you have self-control. If you're going to strive for the mastery, if you're going to be a master of your life, you're going to be temperate in all things. These young men down here and Brad, uh they like going to the gym. They like going and working out for a little while. Sometimes Melissa goes and Aaron went before she was this far along. But uh guys, doesn't it? I mean after after the first couple weeks it's not quite as much fun. You basically have to say, nope, we're gonna do this. And you have to force yourself to go. And then sometimes there's some motivation, right? Sometimes Brad calls up and says, Come on guys and you're like, uh I don't feel like it. And then sometimes Vice versa. Sometimes it's the other way. You gotta call 'em up. When I was in college I used to run uh three miles every day. And uh I would have never done that every day by myself, but I had a friend that ran, and we would do it together. And as often as not, I was coming in his room and saying, hey, let's go, it's time to run. And then he was coming in my room and saying, Hey, let's go. It's time to run. And I'll be like, No, I don't want to run. He's like, Nope. We've got an hour before class. Let's go. We're three miles. We've got to get it done. You know, and we would we would we would squeeze it in and and it was it what I'm saying is that friendship there and encouragement of one another really helped. And that's part of what a Christian brother and sister does encouraging one another in this Christian walk But we're striving for the mastery, temperate in all things. And there's there's a lot more I would like to say on that, but we're going to move on. I want you to see, lastly, this evening, the faithfulness practiced in these last few verses here. It's just fulfilled, and the fruit is a result of faithfulness, and if we're going to continue to do that, he says here. and they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. We see first of all here the completed work. There's an ownership that is stated here. They that are Christ They that belong to Christ. They that have put their faith and trust in Christ. They belong to Him. That relationship has been established. So you know that you belong to Christ, he says, well if you know that, then they have crucified the flesh. Crucified the flesh. If we are in Christ, then we are supposed to have crucified the flesh. We are supposed to have died with Christ. Well many times we let the flesh rise up and begin to control our life again, but it's supposed to be dead. You understand, beloved, before salvation we were a slave, a servant to the flesh. The privilege of salvation, a lot of people say, I don't want to get saved because I don't want to have to give up this. And we say, no, no, it's not a matter of having to give up that. It's now I don't have to do that. I'm not bound by that sin. It is no longer in control of my life. And that was before salvation. But after salvation, we're supposed to be freed from this. We've been set free. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. That's what happens when you trust Jesus Christ. If ye be in Christ, then you have crucified the flesh, he says So we see the completed work, but we also see our current walk in verse number 25. He says, if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us also walk in the Spirit. That's what should be our current walk. He says, hey, if we live in the Spirit, that is, if ye be Christ, and ye know for sure that Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior, and we know that we have new life from Him. If we live in the Spirit, that is our we know one day we're going to be in heaven, we're going to live forever. We don't have to experience uh death or the the the second death and be separated from God forever because of the new life we have in Christ. Then walk in the Spirit. Why wouldn't you walk in the Spirit if your life has been given to you by the Spirit? Then walk in the Spirit What he's saying, beloved, is that our position should affect our practice. We are positionally saved. We're positionally on our way to heaven. Positionally, we have crucified the flesh. It should affect our practice. We should walk in the spirit. Verse number 26, he says, Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another in being one another. You see, the man and woman that's controlled by the Spirit of God. Will live out his Christian life walking in the Spirit. They're not going to be desirous of vainglory. The Spirit doesn't desire or look after that. They're not going to be provoking one another, envying one another. These works of the flesh are going to be gone. They're going to be put off because they've been crucified with Christ. As I bring this to a conclusion this evening, as the believer walks in such an awareness of God and God's presence in his life. He begins to take on the very nature of God, the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit becomes evident. Just as we looked at the works of the flesh last week and they're listed, we know that we're only a short walk from fulfilling or having these works of the flesh manifest in our life. So we're only a short walk in the Spirit from having this the fruit of the Spirit evident in our life. There's just too many Christians don't do it. If we would walk in the Spirit, we could have victory. Here's the question for your contemplation tonight. Why is it, beloved, that we look at the adulterer or the drunkard and we question, we wonder, I wonder if he really got saved? How could he let that in his life and really be saved? But then so many Christians are okay with their anger, with their jealousy With their bitterness, with their backbiting. Somehow they would count themselves to be saved, even though these works of the flesh are very present. But they would look at somebody else and say, oh, I'm not even sure that they're saved with what they're letting in their life. You see, beloved, if we don't walk in the Spirit, anything can become part of our life. Once there was a teacher teaching her class on this idea of walking in the spirit and she drew a line on the bla on the blackboard there or the grease board. She began trying to teach this on how, okay, overhears the works of the flesh, and over here is the spirit. And somewhere in her working on the board and whatever, she accidentally one of her words or letters came across and drew a line across the top of the line that divided the two And after some time, one of the young kids in the back of the class pointed out that, well, all the works of the Spirit are on this side of the cross. And she's like, what? He says, well, yeah, see, all the works of the Spirit are on this side of the cross, and all the works of the flesh are on that side. That image so ingrained in that young man's life that some weeks later he was at his home and his mom was like, why are you acting like this? This is not how a good little boy acts. And he's like, well mom, I must be on the wrong side of the cross. You see, we're living like we're on the wrong side of the cross. If we have come through the cross, if ye then be Christ, we should walk in the Spirit. We should be on the right side of the cross. And you know what? You know, they say you got up on the wrong side of the bed. Sometimes we get up. on the wrong side of the cross. And we're living our day like we're over there. Even though positionally we're over here. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed? I'm asked the pianist to come and play our invitation this evening. Which side of the cross are you living on?