So these veterans and the other veterans that we have uh in our nation, we uh owe them some things. We have a responsibility to them. I would like to take this one step further by way of application this morning and consider and think about the veterans that we have of the cross. Those that have gone on before us that have paved the way for us spiritually in our relationship with God and where we are spiritually, we also owe them some things. There is to my left and right the American flag, those that signed up and willingly volunteered and went and served our country. Support this flag. But we also have a Christian flag. And there are those that have gone on before us and have paved the way, who have fought some battles, who labored for us spiritually. The veterans of the cross. And we too have a responsibility to them in some ways. So stay with me for a few minutes as we just talk about that responsibility as I sat down and pondered this. In light of some recent news that I've heard and some things, I just want us to be reminded how valuable these men and women are. We see, first of all, that we owe them a public commendation. A commendation is a recognition A commendation is a public acknowledgement of their time of service, a public acknowledgement of what they've accomplished. When somebody it is a commendation is a military term, is a term used where they would be commendated for service well done or for a duty performed. Well, beloved, we owe these men and women a public commendation. We need to publicly express gratitude and thankfulness for what they've done for us. In 2 Samuel 23, we are reading here about David's mighty men We go down to verse number 18, and we see Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zariah the chief, was among them, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them And he had the name among three. Was he not most honorable of three? You see, here was a public commendation. What he did, he said, boy, of those three, he certainly stood heads and heads and shoulders above the rest. He was giving honor. We know Romans uh Uh chapter thirteen and verse number seven, I believe it is, it tells us to give honor unto whom honor is due. And so, beloved, we should give honor to our veterans, to those men and women that have gone and fought for us They're worthy of our honor. They fought and held the line. They stood up and were counted. I know some, praise the Lord, did not have to go into battle But they stood up and they said, I'm willing to do whatever my country needs me to do. And if they maybe served during a time of feast or were not called up to go to the battlefield, they still were Signed on the dotted line and stood up to be counted among those willing to go. I would encourage you just to ponder and think about what they've done. I would encourage you to read stories, and today there's so many means by which you can find out about the heroic deeds of these men and women and what they've done in the battlefield. How they have fought and stood and the things that they've accomplished for our country. We know, beloved, that freedom is not free, and the freedoms that we enjoy today are because men and women have been willing to stand up and fight. Right. We need to be willing to stop and say thank you to them. Could I encourage you parents? To lead by example, but teach your children to say thank you. Stop your children if you see a veteran Stop them and have them go over and express gratitude. Helping them to understand what it is the freedoms that they have and that the reason that they have the freedom to go run and play at the park without without uh any Fear is because there's been women men and women that have gone and fought on other battlefields. That's why they can play at the park. They need to understand that and they need to learn how to be grateful and As you lead by example and as you express your gratitude, the young people that are around you, the kids that are in your home, should learn to express gratitude and show their thankfulness. Beloved, we of course on Memorial Day we consider and think about those that paid the ultimate price. But do you know something? We can no longer say thank you to them. Why is it the deeds that men accomplish a lot of times are not acknowledged or no gratitude is expressed until after they're gone? What I'm just encouraging the church family today to do is if you see a veteran, say thank you while you have a chance. Say thank you while you still can. But you know, beloved, we also have some Christian veterans that have gone before us. They fought some battles for us. Some of you are here today because you had somebody that was willing to labor in prayer to bring you to Jesus Christ. You were hard-nosed and you rejected God and you were away from the Lord, but somebody, whether it was a mom or a dad or a a pastor or a friend, somebody labored in prayer for you Somebody got on their knees and begged God that you would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And the relationship you have right now, the assurance you have of heaven, is because they went to the cross for you Because they labored that you would find your way to Jesus. Some of you have a friend or a brother in Christ or a sister that had discipled you. You got saved and they came alongside you and they labored with you over a period of time and maybe even years. helping you through some of those early struggles and and praying with you through some of those early battles with Satan. And they stood alongside you and they encouraged you and they taught you the word of God and they answered Bible questions for you. They went before you. They were veterans that w had a little more experience than you and maybe had been around a little longer than you, but praise God they took what they knew and imparted it and shared it with you so that you could be where you are today. I stand before you today fruit and the result of many people that invested in my life. Many Christians that have labored and taught and Put up with me when I was a hard-nosed teenager, rebellious, and wanting to go my own way and wanting to express my muscles and and be the my own man and live my own life. But people loved me and labored with me and prayed with me and prayed for me. I remember waking up in the middle of the night and having my dad's arm on my ankle, his hand on my ankle, and hearing my dad beg God that God would get a hold of my heart. That God would do something in the life of his teenage son who was running from God. Because he labored in prayer. God did something in my life and changed the heart of this man What I'm saying, Christian, is we've got some people that went before us, and you have friends and family and a pastor and you have uh uh Christians that you've known that have labored, and I would exhort you and encourage you today to remember them and express gratitude. Well you have the chance. Be thankful for them. Young people, your mom and dad stood for you. Maybe they sacrificed to give you a Christian education. Be thankful. Your mom and dad brought you to church. Be thankful. Your mom and dad pointed you to Jesus Christ. Be thankful. Express that thankfulness to mom and dad. Give a public commendation. Secondly, we know the beloved that we need a prayerful cooperation. He says I in f First Timothy chapter two, verse number one, he says, I exhort you therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men. We're to pray for one another. James 5, 16 says, confessing your faults one to another, pray one for another. In that same verse, the effectual fervent man, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much In that verse is where he exhorts us and challenges us to pray for one another. We think oftentimes about, boy, the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And we think about it in the context of ourself. That I can pray and God will heal me, or I can pray and God will do a great thing in my life and will meet my needs or accomplish something here. But in context, he's saying, hey, when you're praying for somebody else, Great things can be accomplished. There needs to be a prayerful cooperation With these our veterans. Do you understand that many veterans, they have needs that you and I don't understand? Maybe they're home from the battlefront now, but for them they're fighting a different kind of battle. The way many of our soldiers are treated when they come home from the battlefield is shameful. It is a sad and heartbreaking statistic that many of them commit suicide. The suicide hotline from the Veterans Affairs receives over 80,000 contacts a month. In 2021, 6,390 former servicemen and women took their own life. That is mind boggling. That's seventeen a day. Oh we have a responsibility to our veterans to be praying for them. To pray them through that struggle, that battle We need to pray that God would bring them healing and help in their hour of need. We need to pray that they would learn and know of Jesus. I wonder of those six thousand plus, how many of them knew Jesus? Next Sunday night. I can't next Sunday night. Maybe it'll be next Sunday morning My plan was next Sunday night, but next Sunday night's youth night, I was going to preach a message on what does the Bible say about suicide? That might be next Sunday morning, but it'd be next week. I'm going to try and deal with that. I've had numerous questions in recent days about this topic of suicide. And upon reading this statistic this week In light of this being Veterans Day, I was moved to just say we've got a responsibility for our veterans, to be praying for them. We need to pray for those who are still serving. They're still active duty. Pray for the Wellman son, Chris. Pray for Abe and Jackie. Pray for Marley. Pray that God would protect them and lead them in battle. The psalmist David prayed for help in battle. He said, Blessed be the Lord my strength, which teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight My goodness and my fortress, my high tower and my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I trust. We need to pray that God would protect them, that God would move them to be to lean and trust in Him, to be faithful to Him, to follow Him. We need to let them know we're praying for them and we need to hold them up. I was thinking this year for Christmas. I don't know the magnitude or the size of it yet because it's just an idea that has burst in my head over this last week, but I would like to send a care package for Christmas to our soldiers. Not just to these three or four that we pray for, but to maybe some others that are connected with our church family. We'll see how it goes, but I was thinking we'll collect some things, gather them here, and send a care package to them, let them know we're praying for them, let them know at least Hunt Valley Baptist Church is holding them up. Yeah. And that we love them. And we are thankful for what they're doing for our country. But you know we have veterans that are also serving still active, I think of We use the term often a veteran missionary. That's a missionary who's been on the field a long time, been serving a long time, like Mike and Penny Smith that were mentioned this morning. Been on the field now for over twenty years. Serving there in Estodia since two thousand and five, I think he said, or they started the church in five. And You know, they need prayer. Nothing will show you that more than taking a visit to the mission field. They need prayer for safety. They're in a foreign culture, in a foreign world, and They need prayer for protection as they're out there. They need prayer for God to provide for them. They need prayer that God would open the heart of the people. Because they're foreigners. You're a foreigner there and you know you you tell they they say, Why are you here? And you're like, Oh, we're here to give you the gospel. That can be received uh In a good way or in a bad way. They can be received in a good way, like wow, you came all the way over here to share that with us. And in a bad way, what, you don't think we're good enough? You you don't you came all you think you have something that we don't have? It can be perceived incorrectly and then their heart won't be open. We need to pray that God would open hearts so that they can see fruit that remains. Pray for our missionaries. Not only that, beloved, I believe that there's we we owe our veterans a personal commitment. You see, there are many who have fought and gone on before. They have secured the freedoms that we have today. Beloved I for one have a problem with somebody burning that flag. I think that as a citizen that is presently enjoying the freedoms that have been fought for and secured. by veterans and previous generations that I owe it to them to stand up and be counted. I owe it to them to to Not just enjoy the freedoms that I have, but to value them and to stand up and fight for them. It's shameful that the young people today would burn that flag. It's shameful that they would take the freedoms that have been given them to uh even be here and to voice their opinion and they would take it to tear down. this country. We owe it to those that have sacrificed so much To stand up and be counted, to have a personal commitment, to say, I'm committed to maintaining these freedoms. The fact of the matter is, young people, is that you it all you owe it all to those that have gone before you. The sacrifices that have been made. You know we could uh if you'll allow me to take a second and apply this spiritually. You know, uh young people, the p the In Proverbs, Solomon tells his son, he says, My son, attend to my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in thine heart. You know the best way to show your gratitude is to live right, to do right, to honor God, to live in the way that you were shown. You see, the problem today is a lot of young people have bought into the world's philosophy that, well, I have to live my life. I have to do what I want to do. It's all about me and my happiness. And so that was dad, and dad can do whatever he wants, but for me, I'm going to live my life and do what I want to do. No, the fact of the matter is, is you owe. You owe it to those who loved and labored and sacrificed to bring you to where you are today. And it is an ingrateful, snot-nosed little brat who would want to reject everything that mom and dad ever taught them and say, I'm going to go out and live my life and do my own thing, and I don't care what mom and dad say. Mom and dad have sacrificed beyond measure for you. You can't even, as a young person, unmarried or without children, you cannot even comprehend what your mom and dad have done for you. And you owe it to them to give them deference, to follow the biblical principle, to honor your mother and father. This world wants to say it doesn't matter, you can just go do what you want to do. It's all about you, but it's not all about you. Beloved, I have a duty to a responsibility, to the the things that have been committed to me the same commit thou to faithful men. To carry on. There's some things in my life that I I would look at and say, Boy, I can't change that because that's what I've been Given. That's the word of God I've been given. That's the truth that has been shared with me. It is the direction that God has guided my life. And woe unto him who would throw that aside and neglect it, forget it. We need to remember our responsibility to have a personal commitment To follow through and to carry that on, to to honor. One of the greatest privileges that I have, and you guys know my dad right now is waiting to find out when his heart surgery is going to be. And we're going to see him next week. And then hopefully at Christmas time this year we'll see him. And in my mind I'm thinking this might be the last Christmas that Dad's there And in my mind all I can think is, well, I praise God that thus far I have not disappointed my father, that thus far I've been able to honor my dad, and maybe if God calls him home next year, at least I've been faithful until God called him home. He didn't have to live with the embarrassment of a son who rejected and went away from God. You know, one of the most painful things you can do, young person, is to neglect and forget all your mom and dad have taught you. And go live for yourself. That's like the citizen who's been given so much freedom in this country and would take it and throw it away. We need a personal commitment. It is our responsibility, beloved. The Christian who's fought off the world and the flesh and the devil for us. So that we could hear about Jesus, so that we could follow and do what's right. We have a responsibility to stand and to continue to do what's right. Look in 2 Samuel 23 and verse number 10. We see here another one of David's mighty men. This is actually speaking about Eliezer. Who would not give up the fight. He says here, he says, uh, and he arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword, and the Lord wrought a great victory that day. And the people returned unto him only to spoil. He his hand claved to the sword. D. L. Moody and C. I. Schofield were uh good friends. And they actually had made an agreement. They said, well, uh whichever one of us dies first. If I die, I want you to do my funeral. And if you die, I'll I'll do your funeral. And they agreed to that. And C. I. Schofield said, well, if you die first, I know what text I'm going to use or what I'm going to preach on. And he said, I'm going to preach on and the beggar died And uh actually turns out that D. Al Moody did die first and C. I. Schofield did preach his funeral, but he used the text that we just read. In his hand claved to the sword. And all the way to the end, the Mudi was faithful to God that he kept in the fight. that he stayed true to his Lord and Savior. Beloved, you and I need our hand to cleave to the sword. We need to stay true until the end. Beloved, we need to stay true, cleave to the sword in the day of temptation. You know Satan's going to come and tempt you. Jesus himself was tempted and he used the sword. Jesus himself said, it is written. And his hand clay to the sword and would won victory over Satan through the very Word of God, this sword, which is uh a two-edged sword, it's Sharper than the two-headed sword, the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. The word of God, beloved, we need to cleave to that. We need to hold on to what we've been given Stand true in the day of temptation. Don't let Satan pull you aside. We owe it to those that have labored and lost much to get us here. I know Satan is strong and the temptations are there, but could I exhort and encourage you? Not just for yourself. Sometimes we feel like, well, it's just me. I'm just I I'm gonna be okay with it. I'm just gonna forget it. I'm gonna go my own way. But beloved, nobody is an island to themselves There are those that have labored and loved and prayed and worked for you to get where you are. And they will be heartbroken if you give in and throw in the towel and quit. Not only that, the impact and the influence that you're supposed to have for those coming up after you will be lost and gone. Cleave to the sword in the day of temptation, cleave to the sword in the day of trouble. Nehemiah chapter 1 and verse number 7 says, The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. A stronghold in the day of trouble. We all go through trouble. I'm going to preach tonight on on the suffering saint. See what the Bible says about Suffering. We all endure trouble, but the Lord is a stronghold and you need to hold to him and cleave to him in the day of trouble. Don't let Satan use that as an opportunity to pull you aside. Have a personal commitment to just stick by the stuff. Boy, this book is full of the promises of God that you and I can hold on to. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. The promises of God cleave to them in the day of trouble The day of trouble is not the time to throw in the towel and to quit and to run off and be scared. No. We have a a personal commitment To God, but not to God only, to those that have sacrificed to get us here, to the veterans of the cross that have labored and loved and longed for us to be successful Christians We owe it to them. We have a responsibility to them, beloved, for a public commendation to express gratitude. We owe it to them. To be have a prayerful cooperation, to be holding them up in prayer. Because boy, they battle and labor with some things. We owe it to them. We have a responsibility because they How dare us take all the investment that they've put into our lives and throw it away? Now as I bring this to a conclusion, I just want to ask you. Those that signed up for the military, they they they said, Okay, I'll I'll sign up. They put their name on the dotted line. They made a conscious choice, a decision to go and to do that. But can I tell you that those that enter the family of God, the army of God, that's a personal decision as well. Contrary to popular thought, not not everybody ever born is a child of God. Everybody ever born is the creation of God. But the Bible says there are those that are of their Father the devil. And it is only through the acceptance of the shed blood of Jesus Christ who went to the cross for you and I where we make a conscious decision. It's not something that you've always been. You can't just say, oh, I've always been a Christian. Or I've always gone to church. Church doesn't make you a Christian. Church is a Christian activity, and that's very good. But it's not what makes you a Christian. A Christian is somebody that's put their faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of their sins. That's what the Bible calls being born again. And I just want to ask you today, if you have never done it, would you be willing to sign on the bottom line and say, I want to be part of the family of God? I want to enlist in the army of God. All those that have gone before me, boy, I want to join up. I want to be with them. I want to stand for Jesus Christ. Well, it doesn't just happen because you're in church. It happens because you say, consciously make a decision, I want to confess the fact that I'm a sinner for all the sin to come short of the glory of God. And you put your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ, that's how you become part of the family of God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?