How many are glad to be in church today? How many rather be here than the best jail in the area? Raise your hand, let me see. I don't know why don't more people don't raise maybe you have good jails around here. I don't know Sir Prime Rib, but uh hey, it's good and I bring you greetings from the swamp. Yes, and we're still trying to get it drained, amen. And uh if if you notice I don't have a wedding ring on, it's not that my wife and I are are you know having problems, you know, she's here. This she is right there, honey, stand up and Say hello to everybody. There she is right there. And uh I I love my wife, but I've lost over 40 pounds, and my wedding ring literally fell off my hand three times. I mean I didn't touch it, just I put my hand down and it fell off. I thought I lost it last time, so I have to get it resized. And that's, you know, that's something very important because we're coming up to our 50th anniversary, September the thirteenth. Amen And uh I met my wife in in an art school. We thought we were going to be artists. In fact, I was a portrait painter for a while. And uh my wife, she was 17, I was 20, I walked over, she was working on a drawing. I said, oh, very nice. She said, oh, you like my drawing? I said, I wasn't talking about the drawing. Now you young fellas, don't try that. Leave that to the professionals, okay? But it works, here we are, coming up to fifty years, amen. And I tell you what, as the Bible says, he that findeth a wife findeth a good thing and obtaineth favor of the Lord. And so I'm so thankful. And I couldn't do what God's called me to do if it wasn't for my wife. She's definitely a help meet and and wonderful, wonderful lady. I I appreciate her. As sweet as the day is long. And uh a lot of times people say, well Brother Harding, what is it? Uh what part of the ministry are you called to? I'm a missionary evangelist And so a lot of times people say, well, how on earth can someone be a missionary to government? I'm a missionary like anyone else. Well, I tell you, because God says so in the Bible And when God says that, see, being Baptists, that means we should be biblicists, does it not? Amen. We should be basically those people of the book, right? And uh look, if it disagrees with the book, then uh we need to disagree with it as well. Okay? But it says here in Acts 9, and I'll read it to you, because this is talking about the Lord speaking to Ananias concerning Paul. This time his name was Saul, and of course he was the one giving his voice towards those people, first century Christians called The people of the way. They weren't called Christians in those days. They were the people of the way, first century Christians. Why? Because the Lord said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Amen. And so here Paul has just had that experience, as the Jews would say, with the Yeshua HaMashiach, the Messiah, on the road to Damascus. I've been to Israel, I've seen the road to Damascus Okay, and Paul had that conversion on the road to Damascus, and then he said, Lord, what shall I do? And the Lord said, Go join yourself. And he directed him to Ananias. Now, Ananias, he was a little leery. Because here's this guy, he knows that has been putting people in jail and people of the way also to death. In fact, he was the one that held the coats of the men while they stoned Stephen And I think God used that probably to convict Paul more than anything else, watching how Stephen died in the Spirit of the Lord. But here it says, when Ananias was, you know, I'm not sure if I want to take this guy on as, you know, basically someone I'm going to help through this, but the Lord In Acts 9 and verse 15, said unto him, unto Nanias, Go thy way, for he, referring to Paul, is a chosen vessel unto me. To do what? To bear my name before three people groups. The first one is the Gentiles. Amen? That's us. We come in all sizes, colors, and shapes. Okay? But if you're not a Jew, you're a Gentile I'm thankful for that, aren't you? That the Lord turned to the Gentile. The second people group, it says, are kings. That's government. So Paul was called as a missionary. How many times did he stand before magistrates and Caesar? And what he was doing was just testifying. Hey, when I go into Washington, D. C. and I uh bring pastors in week after week all year long to pray for our elected officials, we don't argue politics with them. We don't argue, you know, the uh ideology. We go in and we simply try to show them that there is a savior. And that they can accept that Savior. Now, if they're saved, then we pray for them, hold their hands up like Aaron and Hur held up the hands of Moses. But if they're not saved, we give them tracts and books. with the gospel. There is one that my wife and I wrote called a firm foundation, a sure foundation. It talks about the foundation of the capital and then of our country and then of our soul, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. So it takes them from where they are and brings them to where they need to be because they need to get saved. People say all the time, Well why are are the liberals, why are those leftists the way they are? Because they're blind, that's why That's why you don't go in and argue with them. You don't argue with an idiot because they'll drag you down to their level and beat you with experience. That was a joke, okay? So uh just in case you haven't had your second cup of coffee, all right? But what I'm saying is we just go ahead and we just tell them we're here to pray for you We're here to pray for you and and they're they're I mean they're enthralled. You're what? Because everyone's trying to get something from them, right? And we don't want anything from them. They they look at us, you don't want anything from me? Well come on to my office. Then they ask again, so so what are you here for? W what do you need? We don't need anything. We're here for you. We're here to pray for you. And we see the walls come down. We see the eyes glisten with some tears. See the mouth drop open and almost in disbelief. And then pastors are able to counsel with them and pray with them. It's an amazing, it's an amazing thing, a prayer partnership with these people that so need it because they're under the gun so often And then the last people group, of course, are the children of Israel. So we are supported just like any other missionary that you have up there on your boards. But we go to Washington, D. C. And the reason why is because in 2010, having been in this ministry for years already, we met with John Ascroft, former Attorney General under Reagan. And he said, you want to get my take on our country? Be it political, economical, social, cultural, educational, it's all spiritual. And we need people reaching in to Capitol Hill with the gospel because we don't have any missionaries to Capitol Hill. We have information gatherers, we have advocates, but we don't really have any missionaries. When he said that to myself and the group of pastors that I had brought some with me I said, you know, wow, Lord, and the Lord said, I want you to add this very critical part to your ministry. I'd already been in the ministry for years, crisscrossing this country, showing pastors, helping pastors and their people to understand we have a biblical role in government. Every one of us. In fact, when I first started, people said, well, wait a minute, wait a minute. Don't you understand? Separation of church and state. We're supposed to stay out of the state. Really? Where's that found? Oh, it's in the Constitution. I would hand them the Constitution. They didn't know I had one. They'd start their eyes would get real big. Show me where where they were where they were. I know it's in here somewhere. You know, and I'd let them go for a few minutes. I said, my dear brother, it's not in there. But what is in there that Congress The highest law of giving entity in the land shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. That means the state stays out of the church, but it never means the people of the church stay out of the state. We are biblically commanded, mandated to get involved with our government. You see that in the Bible All the way through the Bible. In fact, I had one pastor say, well, we shouldn't be in politics. I said, like a political appointee? Yeah, like a political appointee. Like Joseph in Egypt? Huh? Well then maybe that's one exception. A Daniel in Babylon? Oh okay. Well okay what I'm saying is The pastor would say, we shouldn't be preaching for or against those people in leadership, like Samuel told King Saul, God's rent the kingdom from you. And Nathan told David, Thou art the man, and Elijah with Ahab. And John the Baptist with Herod. I can go on and on and on. What I'm saying is we have a biblical role. Amen? To get educated as to who we are. Now, who are we? Well, we're the greatest nation in modern history. That's who we are. I mean, you get this, right? We're no better than anyone else, but we're unique. And you know why? Because our founding fathers said there is a God. And God gives us unalienable rights, life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. And we didn't stay involved, we didn't stay engaged with our government, and all three of those unalienable rights are under attack today. There are an attack. Well, Roe v. Wade was just overturned. Yeah, but only thirty states have coincided with Roe v. Wade. There's twenty states that are still murdering babies at threatneck speed I don't know about you. That should really affect us every day. Lord, please, please, dear God, forgive us. Have mercy upon us. In fact, God really can't even forgive us. because he does not forgive the shedding of innocent blood. But we need to understand who we are, you see. I I remember there was a senator and this senator, boy, everyone really liked this senator. And he was re-elected And he was going around thanking everybody that had voted for him. And uh everyone was recognizing him. Oh Mr. Senator, it's so good to have you back for a few days And then he was going by a nursing home. I said he said, I I think some of the elderly, like Brother Rodriguez said, the old. Okay, okay. I'm not even going there, okay? But uh But in any case, he said, let's go in and thank some of the elderly that I know they voted for us. So he walked in and there was a patient right there by the nursing station and he walked up to her and he said, Do you know who I am? She said, Oh honey, don't worry about that. Ask the nurse, she'll tell you who you are. Yeah, you know, that's who we are. We have forgotten who we are. We need to get educated. We need to get engaged with our government. We need to entreat God's mercy upon our country. We need to encourage others to do the same. Now why do we do those four things? to keep this pulpit right here free and unfettered from any government restrictions, to evangelize the lost, so we can see people walk down the aisle. Get baptized in deep water. Amen. We Baptists do it that way, okay? Deep water. Why? Because it shows the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why. It's an outward experience of an outward show of an inward experience. It doesn't save you, but it helps God to begin to help you to grow. It's obedience, the first obedience. So what I'm saying is this, hey folks, that's all biblical. Amen. And I remember that. I remember that from John Ashcroft. And so that's who I am. Because may I say this? If our country goes down, all the missionaries come home. If we can't support missionaries, they all come home. I don't want to ever see that. I'm in mission conferences a lot. And I'll say, I want to see these missionaries continue to go out, to reach the lost, because it's always about the lost. It always comes back to the cross. It always comes back to salvation. That's who we are. Amen. And so we need to realize that and realize also that God has given us a great heritage, not only as born-again believers, but but as Baptist as well. So that's who I am. When I'm behind the pulpit, I'm an evangelist, but I go into DC week after week during combined sessions. We have pastors coming in tomorrow from Florida. And we're going to be going all over. We're hoping to be able to pray even with Pam Body, the new Attorney General. And uh pray for the other elected officials and and just tell them, look, we're here and we're going to continue to pray for you. And if it's something personal, we'll go nothing to no one but God. But if it's something political, we'll start having our churches Pray for this because we believe that God's given us a responsibility as people who are the government. See, those people in Washington, D. C. , they're not the government. Why do you think they're called representatives? What do they represent? The government. Who's the government? Well, our document begins with we the people. Amen? Are you with me today? Say amen. Okay, good, good. So take your Bibles and go with me then to Psalm 119. Psalm 119. And uh look, again, Bible says some some people have asked me, Brother Harding? So what party are you of? Are you a Republican? Are you a Democrat? Are you an independent? I'm a Christocrat Amen. I vote the Bible. Amen? Now, I don't care what they're called. All I care about is where they are in standing with God. If they're for baby murder, I'm getting away from them. If they're for the transgender and same gender, I'm getting away from them because hey, all civilization is based upon the traditional family. Amen. If they're for socialism, I'm getting away from them because the sacred law of property ownership is biblical. Amen. And look, it doesn't make any difference what you think or what I think. The only thing that makes any difference is what God's Word says right here. Amen. And so, you know, hey, we don't we don't live by the news. I don't I don't make up my mind by what news says. Okay? You say, well what kind of news you listen to? Well I listen to all kinds of news and and I and I read news But I tell you this, be it right or left ideology, it's all sensationalism. You get that, right? So you've got to be careful. You've got to filter everything that comes into your life through God's Word. Amen. Remember when they said global warming? It's gonna kill us. Run for the hills, chicken littles. So then they sent up a a boat to study the global warming and the ice ice caps and you know the both of the polar ice caps and and uh they got iced in it was record cold temperatures So they sent s you know another ship up there to rescue them. They got I sin. I don't know about you, that warms the cockles of my heart. Okay? So then they backed up. Oh yeah, listen to me. And they said No, not global warming. Climate change. Oh, climate change. You know what God says about climate change? Hold your hand there in Psalm 119 and look over to Genesis chapter 8. Genesis chapter 8. Now remember, remember, I don't care what the news says. All I care is what God's Word says. And if it doesn't coincide with God's word, I'm turning that off. Amen. Look, I'm a Christian. I don't listen to the Communist News Network or MS LSD. Yeah, I said it right. Okay? I don't know what the color of the sky is in where their world. Okay? And as Christians, again, we need to be where God is. for life, for constitutionality, for the traditional family, for the nation of Israel, not not bringing up and and holding up Hamas Unbelievable. And on and on we can go. But let me show you something here in Genesis chapter 8 about about the uh climate change. In verse 22. God speaking, okay, through his inspiration. While the earth remaineth, well I guess that's a pretty good time frame, right? Sea time and harvest, cold and heat. Oh, that's climate change. Summer and winter. Oh, he said it again, climate change. And then he throws this in too, and day and night shall not cease. So he says, as sure as day and night is not going to cease, you're going to have climate change. You know what that's That's is right there. That's God saying, suck it up, buttercup. All these scientists that are saying glow global warming and then climate change, they're all being paid by the left wing Those that are independent scientists that aren't taking any stipend from any people that have an agenda, they're saying that's a bunch of nonsense. Because scientists know if they're not This paid off, okay? So, okay, that's my introduction. Everyone ready for the message now? Okay, buckle in because we're going to take off here, okay? And uh what we need to understand is this look, God wants us to live not in fear, but in faith. He has given us as people of this great republic. By the way, it's a republic, not a democracy. It's to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God. Amen. There is nowhere in the Constitution that ever even mentions democracy, but it says in Article 4, Section 4, check it out A republican form of government is guaranteed to every state in this union. You talked about democracy, pure democracy around our founding fathers. They would say, go wash your mouth out with soap. Don't be saying that bad word around us. But even some of our conservatives say, oh, this is a constitutional democracy. No, it is not. Is republic actually emulated from the people of Israel. And we can I'll show you that tonight if you come back. Now look, I hope you come back tonight. Okay? This is God's day, it's not God's morning. Okay? If we don't have enough tenacity to come back for an evening service, then what's the hope of our country? See, we need to be people that are tenacious. We need to be people that are faithful. And hey, don't miss tonight, okay? Well, I'm going to stay home because I've got to work tomorrow. Don't trip over your bottom lip Okay? Look, what I'm saying is God's people need to toughen up a little bit. Amen? And put God first. If you put God first, I'll guarantee you the whole week will be much more blessed. By God for you. I don't know about you. I want the blessings of God, don't you? Oh yes. And so we need to understand all of these things and realize that, you know, the lines are fallen unto me. in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. God's given us a heritage, an amazing heritage As Christians, as Baptists, by the way, independent Baptists, okay? Amen. That means we're independent. of any type of organization. We are dependent upon that book right there. Okay? The King James Bible, by the way. In case you have another pervers perversion. I mean a version. Okay. So in any case. Psalm 119. And verse 11. Are you there? Okay. This is something very interesting to me. It says, Thy testimonies have I taken as in heritage forever. For they are the rejoicing of my heart. I want to preach on our godly heritage. Heavenly Father, thank you again for loving us. And now, Lord, for these next few minutes, we pray that you would enter into this service through and by the power and the anointing of your blessed and Holy Ghost. Might He, Lord, we ask him to come into this service that his presence might be readily evident, that he would move amongst us and that we would have our minds and hearts open to him, not prejudiced by what the world has said or culture or the news or anything else. but simply Bible. Father, we ask, Lord, that you would bind off the wicked and the evil one by that hedge of protection that only you can provide around this assembly. And Lord help the aches and pains and the cares and burdens of life just to drift back and help us to focus on these eternal truths as I step back. Lord, that you would step forward, articulate my speech, clarify and direct my thoughts, but most of all, Father, indwell me, fill me with your blessing Holy Spirit, and we will be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for which you are about to do, for we ask it through and by the authority, the merit, and the power that's in the name of your Son and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. So here we have something I think that's so very important. See what it says? I have taken as a heritage. Now you think about that. We need to claim something that is already ours. That too many times Christians don't claim. Too many times what I'm saying is it is the will For us, each and every one of us, to live in the spirit and less in the flesh. We have a challenge to think less of our condition, okay, and more of our position. You get that right? So our condition, well, you know, I got to makes and paints today, or I do that and that, and I got some burns. Well, why don't we think about our position a little bit more? In Christ. That no matter what happens in this life, we will have an eternal bliss in heaven if we know Jesus as Savior. I'm not saying just know him, but accept him as Savior. Amen. This is a sacred heritage that God has given to us. We, God's people, you get this now, are called his heritage. Let that soak in just for a minute. Okay? Being claimed by him. objects, not just of his care, but special care. Get this now. The root of heritage. His heirs. And here today, we have a sacred heritage that belongs to every one of us. Too many of us have not claimed it though. Too many of us are thinking about our condition. Woe is me, woe is me, woe is me. Hey, let's we are children of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Hey, our founding fathers said that. Patrick Henry, when he was giving that great speech, they called out traitor because he was talking about rebellion against the King of England because of his tyranny. And he said this. He said, you call me traitor because I'm standing against a tyrannical king? I serve the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. I serve the one that has made the universe and that wants us to establish a nation upon this ground right here for the propagation of the Christian faith. You get that right? Yeah I mean isn't it amazing that we are citizens of a nation that you can see in the Mayflower Compact They established this nation, oh, not just to have peace and prosperity. No, no. That was just a byproduct. They said in the Mayflower context, I've read the actual document. They said, we're doing this for the propagation of the Christian faith, the advancement of the Christian faith. God's given us this country for the gospel's sake. I'm so thankful. And you know, we need to be about the gospel. We need to be handing out tracts. I mean there shouldn't be one person that gets out of this church today without a tract in their purse or their pocket. Amen. I hope there's no merces in here. But in any case, okay? You know what a merse is, right? Supposed to be a man's purse? Oh, don't make me cough. Okay. But you say, who gives out tracks? People have tracks I know, isn't that profound? But hey, that's why we should be about the gospel because that's our heritage. Not only is Baptist biblically, but also carried over into our country. And then the second thing that we're supposed to be doing is protecting the nation of Israel. Yeah. Yeah. That's why it shocks me that there are young people that are actually protesting for Hamas. A terrorist group. They've been lied to by their teachers and by education. I mean, it's it's ridiculous to me that these types of things are going on. And so I want you to understand something That God calls us his heritage. We need to be focused on that all the time, first and foremost. Amen. In Psalm 33, 9 through 12, it says For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the council of the heathen to naught. Aren't you glad about that? For four years they tried to tear our country down. But because of our constitution and being read by people and actually composed by Men that were genius, but not genius alone. They were men that had a biblical stand and knew the Bible. They thought scripturally. He maketh the device of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Listen to the second part, though. And the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Man, if that doesn't get you excited, please take this finger and put it right here. Because if you don't feel a beat. You're dead. Please raise your hand so we can escort you out before you start stinking up the place. Amen. Hey, it's time we get excited about the fact we live in a nation that's a miracle. I wonder how many people woke up today and said, I woke up in a miracle today. You understand we shouldn't be here? You understand we shouldn't never have won the war for independence? You understand that war colleges are still trying to figure it out how on earth a ragtag group of soldiers defending a nation with no ships whatsoever went up against the most Disciplined army in the world with the greatest shipping armada, those battles that ensued, and we won. How can that happen? I tell you how God shows up. I tell you how people get on their knees and pray and fast, and God shows up battle after battle and does miraculous things for us. That's why we're here. And those war colleges will never figure it out as long as they discount God. Right. It's his story. That's why we get the word history from. His story. Amen. You doing okay? They're winning all right that Okay, so what I'm saying is 1 Peter 5, 1 through 4 says this, the elders which are among you, I exhort, who am also an elder. I was uh in North Carolina And there was a group of men around me and we were all talking. And I thought, you know, they were all older than me. So I asked this guy, how old are you? I'm 63. I said, how old are you? He said, I'm 67 He said, how old are you? I said, I'm 65. Just started claiming my, you know. I said, man, I'm older than all you guys. You need to obey me. I'm an elder. Okay? We all laughed But I always say uh you know I look in the mirror and say, honey, who's this old guy in my pajamas right here looking at that back at me? Who's this guy? Okay? What I'm saying is look, an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker, a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed There are those people, Christian people, they don't realize their position in Christ. They don't realize their station in life And that will affect their eternal life as well. If we dwell upon our position, guess what? We'll be much more apt to give someone a tract. I give people tracks all the time, everywhere we go. The track that my wife and I produce, over 40,000 of these have been handed out. We just ordered 5,000 more. Amen. And why? Because everywhere we go, I I g I tell people, hey, let me give you some good news from a far country. We all need good news. I say, Oh yes we do. And they take that track and I said on the back here tell you how you can know To receive the greatest gift ever offered to mankind. I'm going to read that. Hey, and some of it, it leads people to salvation. I've led people to the Lord. 30,000 feet in the air. I was just in in Georgia. Flower branch, Georgia. You gotta say it that way with a little southern flower branch, Georgia. Amen. I like it. I like those people down there. They're they're hooping and hollering. And a young lady came out, because I told her at 21, I thought I was a Christian. I was going to heaven. And I realized that I knew God But I never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. I knew the Bible was the Word of God, there was a heaven to gain, hell to shun. But I never accepted the Lord as Savior until I met a pastor after hours in his church. He took the Bible and showed me how to get saved. And boy, I got saved, and it was just such a blessing. She came out after the service, hadn't raised her hand that she needed, and she said, you know, I'm 18 and I'm in the same place that you were. I said, what do you mean? She said, I don't know that I'm saved. I led her to the Lord right there. Pastor was there and his wife, my wife, and right there in the front of the church, I led her to the Lord. Then her dad came up and So what are you two talking about? And the pastor talked to him and he said, Well, you know what? Maybe I need to come to this church. Amen. What I'm saying is when you dwell upon your position, you're much more readily Going to give someone a tract and talk about the most important person in your life. Are you with me today? Ephesians 1. 10 says, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance Being predestinated, doing what? Not predestinated to heaven or hell. No, no, no. Predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will, his heritage. That's who we are. Romans 8. 17. And if children, then heirs, and heirs, it says, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. Amen. That we suffer with him. February. February a year ago. I was sitting in a doctor's office My wife was sitting there next to me, an intro chronologist, and he told me something that I never thought I'd ever hear. He said, uh, you have liver cancer. And, you know, I wondered what I would have done Previous to that, if someone ever told me I had the big C and I just stood there and I said, so what's what's up next? So what what do we do? And he told me and I went through a process and in one of our the leading cancer hospitals, but it didn't really do the job. And so I called a good friend of mine, a born-again Christian, who is also a doctor that lives in Texas. And uh I said, what do you think I should do? Because he's the guy that thinks out of the box. And this is what he said, very interesting to me. He said, uh, well, let me tell you how good God's timing is. I said, tell me. He said My wife, I took her to the number one cancer research hospital in America, and they said, you have stage four, breast cancer, no hope, go home, get your affairs in order, you're getting ready to to go out of this world. He said, I'm driving with my wife next to me. We're coming back from Scottsdale, Arizona after four weeks, and she's cancer free. He said, this is the only place on earth that treats cancer this way, and this is where you need to come. Well, I went ahead and called and Most of it's out of pocket. I said there's there's no way I can afford that. No way. And then God showed up. Because I was praying, Lord, what am I going to do? And do you know? There were people, and my wife can attest to this, I never asked anyone for anything. But there were people that were finding out I had liver cancer and they said, Hey, uh, Brother Harding, uh, we're gonna we're gonna give you a love offering. Oh, hey Chuck, uh I had this windfall and I prayed what to do with this and because I didn't need it and the Lord said it's for you. And this happened. I didn't pay for one cent. My wife and I went out there for 15 weeks intensive treatments, immunology, and cancer, cold, something, a genetic-targeted, fractionated chemo. Only place in the world that does this I didn't have to worry about losing my hair. Some of you don't have to worry about that anyway, but I won't go there. Okay. But uh yeah, in any case, uh I didn't have to worry about losing my hair or getting sick. I mean my cousin opened up her little beautiful little bungalow to my wife and I, uh her and her husband. That's their winter home, but we were there in the summer, and we were looking at $4,000 a month rent And so our rent was free. I'm not going to go and tell you everything, but the very last thing they did something called the Y90, where they took radiated beads and through my vascular system put that right into my tumor. Okay? Now the good news for me, if there was good news in cancer, it started in my liver and stayed in my liver. So if it came into my liver from another source, that would have been very, very bad. If it had gone out of my liver, that would have been very, very bad. But you know how God did? See, we're his heritage. If you pray about your health and you have a good prayer life, I think God blesses you. Because I had a completely unrelated kidney stone attack. Well I was officiating my niece's wedding and that led me to the doctor that found out that I had liver cancer. So Three months after all of that, I got the final report. The doctor called me, very excited. I mean I could tell you he was excited. He said, okay, he said, you want the good news or the really good news? Doctors don't normally say that. I said, well let's start with the good news and work up from there, okay? And so he said, Well here's the good news. He said your liver and your kidney output was good and it's even better. He said, but here's the really good news And I can't say this to many people, but I can say it to you and it makes it worthwhile being able to say it to someone like you. This isn't a double, this isn't a triple, this is a home run. You are completely cancer afraid It's gone. It's melted and it in uh this process, you see, leaves the good liver alone and just melts that tumor. It's five centimeters, so it wasn't very big, but Any type of cancer can be deadly. This is what I told him. You know what I told him? I said, Doc, let me just say this. You invested in my life. By your medical expertise? By the spirit of your people? You invested in me, and I'm going to be true and loyal to your investment. I'm going to continue to eat right and I'm on a diet uh Paleo Mediterranean diet diet, so I feel like I'm going to the Mediterranean every day, you know Every once in a while I, you know, I I allow myself a little something, but but normally that's why I've lost almost 50 pounds. I've I've gone down almost two suit sizes. Almost two neck sizes. Amen. Don't have a wedding ring, so but there's my wife right there. She can attest everything's good. We're not we're not arguing. We're not, are we? Okay. But uh no. So in any case well and this is what he said. He said, Well you know what I've never heard a doctor say this to me. He said it was an honor to minister to treat you. Because I told him I was a Christian and all of their staff had wonderful, wonderful attitudes. And then I started thinking from that instance from that circumstance in my life, I started thinking, who else has invested in me? Well, first of all, God. God invested in me, didn't he? He invested in you, didn't he? Died on the cross, sent his only begotten son, shed his perfect blood for our tainted blood. He's invested in us. And then I thought about all the other people in my life. that have invested in us. My first pastor that my wife got saved, you know, under his preaching. I thought I was getting a super Christian because she used to take me to her Bible studies when uh when she was, you know, when we were dating and she was a Lutheran. I didn't know she was so lost as a goose in a hailstorm Okay? That's pretty lost. Okay, right there if you envision that. Okay? But she got saved And and uh I mean it was amazing because I thought she was going to be all about going to church. And so I s I was I told this other young couple, we were newlyweds, they were newlyweds. Hey, I'm going to church somewhere tomorrow. They said you're going where? I'm going to go to church somewhere tomorrow. And the young man said, My brother is a young Baptist pastor, and I thought, I got saved at the Twin Oaks Baptist Church Okay, I'll go. He said, you will? You'll go? He was lost. So he had to go now. And his wife. And my wife, I didn't know she was lost. So we all show up. And there's his brother up there, just in his thirties, just took the church, and he's romping and stomping, he's hating sin, he's loving sinners, he's weeping and he's laughing and uh He sees his lost brother and his lost brother's wife and this other young couple doesn't know. And so I'm walking out to our vehicle after my wife. And I attend the service. You know what she says to me? My 18-year-old blonde-haired blue-eyed wife. You know what she says? She says this very, very commandingly. I'm never going to that church again. I went, what did you say? She said, I'm never going to that church again. Now, I didn't have any social graces, guys, okay? So don't try this. But my dad said Son, you get married, you're the head of the house. So I looked at my 18-year-old blue eyes Blonde-haired wife. I said, I'll give you a choice. She said, okay. I said, if I go back to that church, you can go with the ask my wife on my arm. But if you say no, I will pick you up and throw you over my shoulder and carry you in fireman style And plop you down that pew. Because you now are my wife and I'm a husband. You're going with me one way or the other. Her baby blues got real big. She said, I think I'll go with you as your wife on your arm. I said, That's a good shot. That's a good shot. Well she got saved a couple months later. Now guys, careful, don't try that, you know. Leave that to the professionals, okay? So what what I'm saying is God has invested in us. Has he not? Oh my and so many other people. I call he that man just turned 80 the other day, our pastor. That my a I called him and we sang happy 80th birthday. We the single patient wasn't real right, you know, because we added 80th in there, but he he still loved it all the same, okay? Why? Because he's invested in our life. How m how many people have invested in your life? Yeah. Huh? What'd they do? Time Resources, prayer, even a smile. A new converts class or a biblical class. They've invested. You know what? We need to thank them. And beginning with God. Oh, every once in a while we need to go to God and just pray, Lord, I'm not coming to ask you for anything. Lord, I I'm just coming to thank you. For what you did for me. I'm just coming to love on you a little bit. You know, I wonder why David was a man after God's own heart. Because I think he was not he didn't just love God. He was in love with God. And he thanked God and came to God and and blessed God. You see We live in this country, this amazing country. Until the American Revolution, American Bibles had been shipped here from England, but of course the supply was cut off in 1777, and Congress resolved by which means they voted on a resolution to import 20,000 Bibles from other countries. But it didn't happen. No one was importing things to America. And if they did, the British blockade kept them a lot of it from not coming through. So finally they went ahead and in 1781 they commissioned a man by the name of Robert Aiken. Robert Aiken Said, look, let me print the Bible. And they gave him permission. And in 1782 he came up with the Bible. It was called the Bible of the Revolution And the reason why is because they realized how important God's word was to the war effort and how we needed to read it and how that book right there girded our warriors and guided our statesmen. That book. We were known as the country of the Bible, the nation of the Bible An early American historian said of the Bible publication, who, listen to this, in view of this fact, will call an attention, a question, assertion, that this is not a Bible nation. Who will charge the government with indifference to religion when the first Congress of the United States assumed all the rights and performed all the duties of a Bible society long before such an institution had ever existed in the world. See the the Bible It's part of our heritage in this country. It is what our nation is based upon. Those seven sacred foundations. based upon God's word. And that is who we are. This nation, with all its attacks and all its frailties, is still the land of the Bible. The Bible has given America its character. It has shaped our destiny from the very inception. This is still preeminently the land of the Bible of the Christian church and the base of world evangelism. It is a land of great and extensive and oft-repeated revivals because the Bible in America is prominent, preeminent in most of our society today. People still respect the Bible. The land of the free Because it's the home of the brave. And why? Because faith gives you courage. That's why. The Bible gives us a beneficent nation. We're the first ones on the ground in any type of national catastrophe. We're the originators of the Red Cross. We are the people that land and take care of other people. Why? Because we're beneficent because we serve a beneficent, gracious, and good God. That's so very important. Number two, it's not just a sacred heritage, it's a sacrificial heritage. Sacrificial Always living for the next generation, being willing to sacrifice. People have invested in us. Our documents. You get this now. Let me ask you a question. Our documents, Declaration of Independence, Constitution of the United States, right? Bill of Rights? Have we hidden them? From the world? No. Where where are they? They're on public display in the National Archives. I mean I've seen them many times You can go down and actually see the Declaration of Independence. Now, sorry to say it's very bleached out, but they have uh obviously copies of it. And then the Bill of Rights and the Constitution of the United States. You can see the originals. My question is, if the originals are there, the blueprint of what it takes to make a great republic, why haven't other countries? Emulated and created a republic like we have here. You ever ask yourself that question? And this is the answer. Because when people get wealthy and living above the norm, they don't want to sacrifice that. for people that they don't know. Now, you know how many times 56 millionaires now in history, they're called millionaires. Comparatively speaking, if they were alive today, they'd be billionaires How many times in history, 56 billionaires put everything on the line to sign a document that would make them traitors to over two-thirds of our nation? You get that right? Not even one third of the nation was on the side of the Patriots. Two-thirds were monarchists. They wanted the king to win. How many times that's happened? Once. One time. Now why is that? I'll tell you why. It's because the Bible. It's because of the sacred fire of the American pulpit. It's because other men had invested in our founding fathers from the time they were just young men. They grew up under the tutelage of the Word of God, the men of God, preaching from the Word of God about the Son of God, through and by the Holy Spirit of God, to the people that became the people of God. Right. And those men being snuck out many times at night, listening to the unlicensed preachers, why would they have to be snuck out? Why would they have to go out into the woods and listen to a man instead of a church many times Because you see, they hadn't taken a license from the state-run church. The state-run church was England, and the head of the church was the king. And if you left the Church of England, it was treason. You get your head locked off. I mean most of the Baptist heritage that we've had with Rodriguez. We'd preach and then we'd run. Amen? If it was colonial times, I'd be preaching and there'd be a fast horse right now here. As soon as I got threatened through preaching, I'd jump on that horse and take off, so the British wouldn't catch me, hang me, whip me to death, draw and quarter me. But our founding fathers, I think it's amazing because of their faith in God, because of their lockstep with destiny, that they knew they were about to Formulate a country unlike any other nation aside from Israel in the world. Only two nations in the history of man. started with the Bible. Israel and the United States. All of the nations, if they do it, or they come to the Bible, they don't start with the Bible. We started with the Bible. I don't know about you. That gives me some wonderful, wonderful enthusiasm about who we are as Americans. Amen? And so what we have to realize is is these men When they stood there and they looked at a document, they were thinking about not signing it. They were thinking, how are you doing? Good to see you. I'm just coming back to visit everybody. You doing okay? Amen. Good. How y'all? You doing good? Okay, good They were hesitant about signing that document. You know why? Because they knew if they signed it, they'd be traitors. These were men of substance. These were men, many of them royalty. I bet you didn't know we had American royalty called the gentry class. You couldn't buy away into the gentry, you couldn't marry way into the gentry. No, no one would. You had to be born into the gentry These women were gentry, royalty. And so they looked at that document, and the reason why they got urged to sign it is there was one pastor. One man of God among them, by the name of Dr. John Witherspoon. Very old man at this time. He stood up, and I'm not going to give you the whole rendition, but this is simply what he said. If every man in this room doesn't strain every nerve to sign that document, you're unworthy of the name free man. He was an old man. He said, of property I have some, of reputation more. He was being very humble because he had a tremendous reputation. He had educated most of the men that had anything to do with the Declaration. He said that property is staked and that reputation is pledged upon the issue of this, my country. And although these gray hairs must soon descend into the sepulchre I would infinitely rather that they descend there by the hangman's noose than to desert the sacred cause of this my country. And he walked over, he took that feather from a goose A goose quill pen with the edge sharpened to hold ink. Put it in the ink well and he signed that document. It was a parchment meaning it was the skin of an animal prepared for an ink. So he signed the skin of an animal with the feather of a bird, and so the rest of the men. And when they got through, you know what they said? As they walked out of Freedom Hall, they said, No King, but King Jesus will have no man as sovereign over us But the sovereign of man's souls, Jehovah, they invested in us We wouldn't be there if it wasn't for their sacrifice. Oh, they mutually pledged to each other their lives, their fortune, and sacred honor. But before that they said with firm reliance Upon divine providence, we pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. They said we are having faith in God in what we're doing. You know what that is? They invested in us. And that's why other nations have never stopped to think and actually done what we did, sacrifice to bring this nation. That's an investment. That's something that is sacrificial. Those men, out of the 56, only six of them made it back. To sign the Constitution of the United States. It was always, always passing on to the next generation, like Moses turning the leadership of the nation to Joshua. And like Elijah casting his mantle on Elisha, David giving instructions to his son Solomon, and even in 2 Timothy, Paul telling his adopted son in the ministry, Look, I'm doing this for you, a long heritage. From the inception of our people. Abraham was looking for a nation whose foundations and builder was God. He Was investing in us down through the ages. Let me ask you this When you think of the word or the name, Benedict Arnold, what comes to mind? Traitor. Yeah. But did you know before he turned traitor, he was one of our greatest heroes? one of our most valiant men, one of our greatest strategists, in fact the probably the best strategist we had. It was such a blow. But see, he started thinking his of his Condition and not his position as who he was. Hey, we have to understand even the people that came across in the Mayflower, you know half of them died the first year? First time? So 106, they went to 53. Okay? And then half of them died. Do you understand how few there was then? Half of fifty-three? And William Bradford said, you need to come back with me to Europe. They're all going to die. You know what they said? If we're not if they're not foundation stones, may God allow us to be stepping stones that our children can stand on our shoulders and go forward and establish this nation so that we can live in freedom and worship as God wants us to through and by the Word of God, countless families have come here to this country legally, learned our language their people that worked 12 hours, 16 hour days, 7 days a week, so that their children could have it a little better. I tell you a story real quickly and I'm almost done. Are you with me today? Say amen. Okay, this is a story that I think is something that's been lost to us in history. You know who John Adams was, our second president. Before he was our second president, he was also ambassador to the Court of St. James. And there he was at this dinner party, surrounded by the luxuries of this ancient civilization called France. Dining on extravagant food from the finest porcelain. There was an ensemble playing music, masterful paintings and tapestries adorned the walls of this beautiful mansion of the French aristocracy His hostess said this, and listen to this, as this roughly dressed man from the new nation of America. She said something uh very interesting, and the whole table stopped. Long table. Mr. Ambassador. What do you think about our painting, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry, porcelain? For which John Adams, Ambassador Adams, replied, My dear madam, I must study war in politics. that my sons might have the liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. My sons ought to study mathematics, philosophy, geography, natural history. naval architecture, navigation, commerce, and agriculture, in order to give their sons, their children one day the right to study painting and poetry and music and architecture, statuary, tapestry and porcelain. But I I study politics and war. The French hostess replied. Well said, sir. You see, his son was sitting not at the table but behind him. His son was just, at that time, eleven years old, John Quincy Adams. that became our sixth president and one of the most brilliant presidents we've ever had in our history. What he was saying was, I'm living for the next generation. for the next generation. I'm investing myself in the next generation, the next generation. I've seen and known Medal of Honor recipients. Woody Williams was the last Medal of Honor recipient from World War II out of 473 men that Marine Woody Williams was the last one standing at 98 going strong, putting up those monuments to families of the lost loved ones in service to our country. There's one in Annapolis, Maryland, right there by the World War II Memorial. Tremendous man, going strong at 98, but he fell down 18 cement steps. And that began to take him out. I remember Woody so many times saying when he received the Medal of Honor, here came Harry Truman. From the Battle of Iwo Jima. And there were fourteen men that weren't there. Their families received their medal of honor. But thirteen survivors miraculously were there. He came up to Woody and took the Medal of Honor. Our highest award given for valor under fire, and he clicked it around his neck and whispered in his ear, I'd rather have this than to be the President of the United States. I said, that's quite a statement. Then he got even nervous. He got even more nervous, he said. I said, why? He said, because now I'm going to go see them the commandant of the Marine Corps for a s a 20-some-year-old who was not saved at that time. He said he was like next to God. He walked into that old bulldog-looking Marine, leaned back in his chair, seen that 20-some-year-old Woody standing before him, said, now son, that Metal around your neck doesn't belong to you. It belongs to all the men that didn't make it back home. You're the keeper of the medal. Don't ever do anything that would disparage the meaning of that medal. And what I'm telling you is this, I'm not going to be a traitor to the investment. that people have put in my life. I'm not going to listen to the wrong things or say the wrong things or think the wrong things I'm not going to look at the wrong things. I'm not going to do the wrong things. Why? Because I don't want to be a traitor to the investment that people have put into my life. That's why. And neither should any of us. Next time you are tempted to do wrong, remember the investment that someone has put into your life. And be true to that. Don't be a Benedict Arnold spiritually. What we have to understand is, lastly, this is something that we have This, you might say, this great heritage that we all possess is also a heritage not just sacred, not just sacrificial. But it's a heritage of service. Are you praying, God? People have invested in me. My mom and dad invested in me. Now why they would say it's gonna hurt me more than you. When they would give me a spanking, I never did figure that out. Okay? I didn't figure out when my mom said, I brought you into this world and I'll take you out, okay? You know, those type of things, right? My my dad would say, what do you think? Money grows on trees? That was agriculture, you know, he was teaching me. But my mom and dad invested in me. Yeah. So many countless people have invested in me. Even medical professionals have invested in me. There's not many people that can say I'm delivered from liver cancer. It's it you know what it is? It's a miracle from our God miraculous mercies I didn't pay for one cent Right. For any of the treatments out there. That's a miracle right there. Not one cent for anything. That's God showing up. You know why? Because I'm serious about my prayer life. Yeah. I'm serious. I pray for your pastor every single day. Not once in a while. Every day by name. Since the last time that I was here, I prayed for him, his family, and this church. Every single day by name. That's why it's nice to come back to see what God's doing. Amen. And within that, of course, Brother Rodriguez as well, who was leading the church very nicely in the Brother Petrell's absence today. Amen? Even even with the comment of the the old people, okay. But we won't go there, okay? But uh what what I'm saying is, hey, are you praying who can I be investing my life in? You know, I travel fifty out of fifty-two weeks a year. My wife comes with me most times. Every once in a while she has to stay home because she says she can't always keep up with the big dog. Okay? But but traveling is very arduous. I always see this people pulling their suitcase behind them, you know, and they got this look on their face. You know. And my challenge is to make them smile. I said, how are you doing? They go, what? Like you're actually talking to me and smiling at me? And they smile back. It's very interesting. What what am I doing? I'm investing in it. I talk to them. And then I give them a tract. Amen. I I win them over to myself first. I was getting ready to go onto a flight not long ago, and there was this elderly woman, and I just turned to her and smiled. She said, thank you. I said, excuse me, ma'am. She said, you know, I've never had anyone smile at me when they're about to load on a plane. Everyone's jockeying for position. You know, I want you to get in there. But you just turned to me calmly and smiled at me. Thank you. I said, Well, you're welcome, you know. But I smile all the time. I wonder sometimes. You know? If people have gotten over their salvation. You know why? Because of their faith, that's why. They look like they've been eating oatmeal out of a gas pipe. You know? I mean, my oh my, why don't you try smiling every once in a while? Oh I know some guys say, I don't naturally smile. Then work on it! Get in front of a mirror and try and practice. This is God's billboard. Can you imagine going soul winning? They're visiting for the church, knocking on someone's door. Hello. I go to Hunt Valley Baptist Church down the road here. And we have a lot of fun. And we'd like you to come and join in with the fun. I don't want to go with you anywhere. In fact, get out of here, you know. But if you come in and and you're smiling You know? Hey, we need to enter the room with a smile. Amen. I'm waiting I'm waiting for my baggage. And people are frustrated, and I'll start talking to them and they'll start laughing and I'll start laughing. I'll give them a track. Amen. Yeah. Hey, let me give you some good news. I give flight attendants. I know they're not supposed to be called stewards or stewardesses anymore. But any case I'll call flight attendants and I say, hey, let me give you something to read about my best friend Good news from a far country. I wrote it. Oh you wrote that? I said, yeah. My wife and I wrote that. Oh, I'm gonna read that. I said, we all need good news, right? Oh yeah, we need some good news. Especially given with the public like they do. Whoa, that's a tall order, amen. Are you with me today? No. Hey, look, look. It's fun to smile at people. Even when they're driving by, I'll look out and say And they'll go, Well, who is that? I uh they'll smile and wave back and There was a fellow right right out here, uh, just a little bug and and he and he didn't like the fact that he was racing out and I was racing in and he yelled at me. So I said, I rolled down my window, I said, what'd you say? He backed up. I said, Will you ask this asking for directions? I knew he wasn't. I had heard something, you know, it was really but in any case. He said he said, No, I live here. I said, Oh, it's a beautiful area. He said it is. It's a beautiful area. And he smiled, I smiled at him. I I said, yeah. I said it's a beautiful day. He said it is a beautiful day. And then he said this, it's a great state. I said, well it you know, I was thinking, well it once was. Kind of liberal now, you know, but uh but I said, Yeah, it is a great state because we're the old line state. Amen. If you don't know what old line state means, you should look it up sometime. I have a message that I bring on the old line state that maybe sometime if you're pastor ever asked me back. Brother Bartel, are you listening? Okay. Okay. Maybe not, you know, like two years again, but good. But uh but in any case, you know, I made a friend out of someone. Yeah. And we I said, okay buddy, have a good day. Oh you are you too. So we you know I know he wasn't asking for directions. But what I'm saying is, folks, invest yourself Ask God, Lord, bring someone across my path that I can invest in. Look, not with eye service. As men pleasers. But as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart. With good will doing service as to the Lord, not unto men. Because whatever you give to your fellow creatures, as they used to say, people, men and women, you're actually giving to God. Just like you said, loving up then loving out. It's so very important. Lord, who can I invest my time, my resources, my prayer life? Everything that I am, my life period, bring something, someone to me that I can invest in. Because we have a great heritage. We are the heritage of the Lord. Would you like to have When you stand before the beamer seat, countless people thanking you as you look at the Lord, thank you for investing in me. Because you're investing in me. I'm here in heaven, not in hell. Thank you for investing in me because I'm not only here in heaven, but I have crowns now that I can lay at the Master's feet. Thank you for investing in me because of your prayers. My life was extended. I know there are people praying for me. I know there's people here that pray for me every day. And I'm so thankful for your investment. in in myself and my wife and our ministry. But do you have someone or isn't it something that maybe you could come to an old-fashioned altar first of all? And just say, Lord, I'm just coming to thank you for the greatest investment that you've put in my life that I don't have to go to a devil's hell. And I'm my way to paradise. That you've allowed me to live not just as a walking-talking miracle, because everyone that has accepted Jesus Christ is, but also waking up in a miracle called the United States of America. And I just want to come forward and thank you. I think that would be pleasing to God today. And then secondly, why don't you come forward also and say, Lord, those people that invested. . I'm going to make an attempt to just call them today, write them, and thank them for what they've done to me, for me. . unto you. And then I don't really have anyone that I'm guessing in right now, but I want to come and pray. That God would give me someone, that someone to come across my path that I could invest my time in. What about you? Is that something that I th I think all of us Could be at an old-fashioned altar today. Oh, Brother Harding, I don't normally go to the altar. Might be a good time to start. Well, it's it's uncomfortable for me. Everything you've done in the Christian life is uncomfortable. That is pivotal Were you comfortable when you came to get baptized? I wasn't. Okay? And I was much taller than my pastor, and he, I mean, had a hard time getting me up. And I mean the whole church was there and it was blum blum blum blum blump blum blub and my wife was looking at us, is it gonna be all right, you know? And and my hand finally came up on the side and I pulled myself, uh That may be kind of uncomfortable. But I'm sure I'm glad I did it. First time I went soul winning. Uncomfortable But I sure am glad I did it because now there are many people that don't have to face the devil's hell. Because he will use you where he can't use someone else to see someone saved. I'm going to pray at the altar. I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm going to ask everyone to stand. God spoke into your heart. I want you to respond right