God is not as concerned with where you're at as He is with the direction you're headed and as a church our goal and desire is to help you head towards God. That's what we want to do. And everything that we do as a church From the discipleship ministry to the different programs and opportunities that you have to serve, all of these things are built and designed around the one uh overriding purpose and focus of reaching the loss with the gospel of Jesus Christ teaching them, baptizing them, and bringing them into a place of service for the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And I'd encourage you to get involved and be a part of your local church. But I want you to know that it has been over 2,000 years since Jesus gave us the Great Commission. It's given to us in our text this morning, Matthew 28. in verses 19 and 20. And I know this is a very familiar passage of Scripture for anyone who has been in church for any length of time, because this is the heartbeat of God and should be the focus of the church. He says, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Two thousand years ago, a little over, the Lord gave us this great commission. It has been the mission and the focus of the church from that time till this. We as a church are to be continually involved in preaching the gospel to a lost and dying world. Amen. That is our job. I want you to know that our job is not over. More than two billion people living in the world today have yet to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ for the first time. Every day there are thousands and thousands of people that drift off into a Christless eternity, never heard, ever even having heard the name of Jesus let alone able to be presented with the truth of the gospel. The 1040 window is filled with people who are trapped behind political religious and cultural barrels barriers that keep them isolated from the gospel. If you don't know what the 1040 window is, I don't have time this morning to teach on that. We'll probably talk about it uh throughout this week. I'd encourage you to come and find out to the different nights. But I want you to know there are many people trapped behind cultural barriers and political barriers and religious barriers that make it very difficult to get the gospel to them. We have a missionary that's coming this year for our missions conference that's going to that area and his desire and goal is to reach into that area that many times is very closed off and very hard to reach with the gospel. It is our goal and desire to penetrate these barriers, to reach them. But beloved, I ask of you this morning, what is it going to take for us? To complete the unfinished and unchanging work that God has given us. This morning I would like to preach to you for a few minutes on the unfinished. and unchanging work of the church. Would you pray with me? Lord, we come to you right now, and I ask you this morning for the few minutes that we have together that you might once again open our eyes unto the field that is white unto harvest. That you would stir our hearts for this idea of worldwide missions and reaching the lost with the gospel. Beginning, Lord, with those that are nearest, that are closest to us, to our neighbors. And Lord, ultimately to all nations, Lord, I pray that we would have a burden to see the world reached. That our heartbeat and desire would be that of presenting Jesus Christ to a lost and dying world and help us to see it is an unfinished and unchanged work. We ask you to bless this time around your word in Jesus' precious name. Amen. In Acts chapter 1 and verse number 8, he says, But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you. He had given the work of reaching the lost, of preaching the gospel to the church. And he told those that were gathered there there was going to come a time as soon as Jesus ascended up into heaven. that the Holy Spirit was going to come, that they were going to receive power to do this work. The Holy Spirit was going to come upon them and he says, what is the Holy Spirit for? It was that they would be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. If we're going to complete this unfinished and unchanging work this morning, I want you to know that it's going to take a personal commitment. We see it's a personal commitment. He says here, he says, go ye, therefore. He says in Acts 1. 8, but ye shall receive power. Beloved, it is a personal commitment. Only when each individual takes up the burden, takes up the responsibility, and determines to personally become a witness for Jesus Christ. Are we going to even begin to accomplish this unfinished work? Beloved, this mission was not given to a select few. It's going to take the entirety of the church. All of us need to have a burden. We're going to have some missionaries here this week that are called to particular fields or called to go out into a particular area and Yes, they have given up things in this world and things that this life has to offer. Many times they're moving away from family and home and from friends to a foreign country, embracing a foreign culture and learning a foreign language. So that they can present a group of people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we applaud them and praise them for it and we want to encourage and help them to go do it. But each and every one of us is to be involved in missions. You can be involved to start with by deciding right now in your heart you're going to come and be at missions conference. That's the very beginning of it. You're saying, you know what, I'm going to at least come and be here for the services. I'm at least going to show up and be an encouragement to the missionaries that are going. I'm going to at least commit some time into prayer and praying for these missionaries and praying that the world will be reached. Everybody can be involved in some capacity. I know this week tends to get long. I know You you leave the house at four, five, six in the morning and and uh you're out all day and you come home and you've got just a few minutes or maybe not even have time to go home and you go straight from work and grab Burger King on the way through or Chick-fil-A or something and grab something and uh y you head head to church and uh after services we have some snacks for you uh you know that people bring in and and many of you are you know you you go home and you gotta get that ready for the next day and I know it tends to be a long week but it is a blessed week. And a week where we're encouraged and strengthened and what a joy Missions Conference has been, year after year after year. It's just been a time where As a church, we're fed spiritually and strengthened, and God has used it in our church in such a great way in times past. And I would encourage you to come. Listen, mission conference provokes the Christian. It provokes the Christian to get involved. It provokes the Christian to be a person of prayer and praying for the lost. It provokes us to be involved in worldwide missions. And it provides for the missions program of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. One missionary said, every heart without Christ is a mission field. Every heart without Christ is a mission field, and every heart with Christ is a missionary. As each and every one of us, everybody can be involved in this thing of missions. Everybody should be It's a personal thing. The word go is an active word. Greek scholars say that it is a present participle. Now, I can't spell that, let alone tell you what it means But the they say, they say that it means it's an active word. It's a word that that means uh that it's something that is continually happening. Basically he's saying where he says, go ye He is saying, as you're going, as you're going. He says, but ye shall receive power that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye Shall be witnesses unto me. He says, well you're going, as you're proceeding, you're going to be a witness You're going to be teaching them to observe all things. You're going to be baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. You're going to be doing these things. It's an active word. Beloved, it's something that's continually happening. It's not something that I used to do. Oh, come on now. It's not something that, well, I used to do that. I I I did that for a long time, but now we're gonna let the next generation do it, or now we're gonna let somebody else do it. No, it's a personal thing that all of us are being involved in. It's a continual thing. It's not something that we used to do. It's not something that uh I'm going to leave and let other peoples do. It's something that ye do continually. We are supposed to be going, teaching all nations, baptizing them, making disciples of the unreached. As we're going, he says, as you're going, as you're continuing, as you're doing this, you're going to be making disciples. The word nations there in the Great Commissions means people groups. It's a group of people, there are people around the world bound by communication and culture There's things that make them harder for us or as individuals to reach because we don't understand their culture or because we don't understand or speak their language. You know, India is said to have approximately 3,000 distinct people groups. Groups of people that are bound by a culture or language. communication that that sets them apart. That means they basically they need their own missionary. They need somebody that understands them that's working to learn their language and break through those cultural barriers, break through the language barriers, break through the religious barriers, and present Jesus Christ. Amen? That's what we need. And it's a personal thing that needs to be done. I want you to see, secondly, that it's going to take power for us to do it. If we have any hope of completing this unfinished and unchanging work, it's going to take power. He says, And ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Listen, it's a supernatural work. The work of reaching a loss for Jesus Christ is not something that happens in our flesh It's a work of bringing the Savior, bringing the testimony of God's Son to a lost and dying world. Listen, the world needed a savior, so he sent his son. The world needed a witness, so God sent the Holy Spirit to you and I. We cannot do this in our flesh. Zechariah 4:6 says, Not by might nor by power, but by my spirit Saith the Lord. By the Spirit of God is how we're able to be a witness to a lost world. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Godhead Yes, he's the comforter. And boy, do we appreciate and praise him for being the comforter in our hour of need. uh walking alongside as our as our paraclete, as as our strength, right with us to comfort us. But he's more than the comforter, he's also the empowerer for us to do the work that God has called us to do Too many of us are sitting and enjoying the comfort of the Holy Spirit, and we've never embraced the power of the Holy Spirit to do what God asks of us. I'm talking about a supernatural work that's done through the power of God. Charles Finney has said that he would walk into factories. And just his presence. People would stop working on their machines. He never said a word. They would cease their work and they would begin to cry. And they would look at him and say, What must I do to be saved? Because the power of the Holy Spirit that was on his life, his very presence in a place would move people to see their wicked, undone, lost Satan and know that they needed a Savior. Listen, beloved, if we're going to be a witness that reaches somebody with the gospel, we need the power of the Holy Spirit to do it It is only going to happen when He fills us and empowers us and we work through that. Beloved, it is prayer that lifts the work of missions from a human exercise to a spiritual enterprise. I can go out on my own and endeavor to do this work and I can proceed in a human exercise, but it's when I spent time in prayer. And I have the power of God on my life that now it is a spiritual enterprise. It's something that God is doing. I'm just simply a vessel through which He can flow to fulfill and accomplish His will here on earth. And man, what a privilege, what a joy, what a blessing to be used as a vessel of God. The real work of missions cannot be done without the Holy Spirit. The Bible says the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We need to get serious about praying if we're going to be serious about accomplishing the work of missions. Going back to the Bible about that powerful illustration. Caleb, come here. I want you to run up here in this baptistry changing room right back here and and get me one of those palm trees, a little like palm tree looking thing, you know. Bring me one of those things down here. We have a very clear picture given to us in the Word of God of the vine and the branches. He's talking about the vine and the branches and our responsibility to be in the vine. He says in John 15, verses 4 and 5, he says, Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye, abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same, bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, ye can do nothing. I should have asked the one of the people that do do this for a living, right? There's the ladies that decorate. They were right behind me. I d I forgot all about the fact that we changed the decorations and so the Christmas decorations are put away and these ones are here. Um all right. Don't tell the ladies to decorate I did this, okay? Uh I'm I'm gonna g there this has lead in it, so if you shoot me it's not no, I'm just kidding. Uh it doesn't. I will put it back. But you understand obviously For the sake of illustration, please give me some liberty. I know that this is dead and it's plastic, okay? Uh but a branch that's not connected to the tree is dead. Right? But we have here the principle that he says, Hey, abide in me. That is our position in Christ. When we come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, we are put on the vine. And then the supernatural work of God begins because then he says, and I in you Beloved, the life, the lifeblood of this plant begins to travel up this stalk and into the branch. This branch that was dead when it was out here all by itself, and too many Christians are trying to live and fulfill and do the work that God wants them to do out here by themselves. We are to abide in the branch Spend time in the branch, stay connected to the the the the tree, the the the what is it, the vine. And and then The life-giving source of the of the vine grows and flows through into the branch. So abide in me, that's our position in Christ, and I in you is Christ in us. That spiritual life that now flows through us. It's going to take that supernatural work, beloved, for us to do. I'm not sure where that goes, but that's close enough. They'll fix it later. Listen, can you picture what he's talking about? About that vineyard and the vine? How first the limb is given a position in the tree. Then the life of that tree flows into it. And now it has power to bring forth fruit. There's a lot of misunderstanding and there's a lot of flat out misrepresentation of the Holy Spirit today, and I don't have time to teach from the Holy Spirit, but what I want you to know is many people are praying for a full anointing. When what they really need to be praying for is for fully appropriating the anointing they already have. Because it's salvation, the Holy Spirit comes and dwells in you, and you have all of the Holy Spirit you're ever going to get. But it's through prayer and a holy life that we are able to appropriate, to put to use the power that's already in us. That's what we need to do. Paul challenged the Corinthians. He said, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? Beloved, you didn't just get his arm. You didn't just get you know his torso or his head. You got all of the Holy Spirit. He came and dwelt in you. And we need to, through prayer and a holy life, appropriate, put to use the power that's available for us to live and to witness for Him. That brings us to the program. If we're going to accomplish this unfinished and unchanging work, we've got to follow his program, and that ye shall be witnesses unto me. Ye shall be witnesses. We're to be witnessing, beloved. A church that is not a missionary church will soon be a missing church. A church that is not original with me. I don't know who said it. I would give credit if I knew, but I just have a selection of quotes that I've collected over the years. and uh that were meaningful to me, so I don't have a name or who wrote it, who said it. But a church that is not a missionary church will soon be a missing church. Because we are to be about reaching the world, witnessing the program, beloved, is still old-fashioned witnessing. One sinner telling another sinner about the Savior. That's what it is. This week we're going to spend time and talk about these men and ladies who have committed their lives and given to carry the gospel around the world. But I wonder, are you willing to carry the gospel this week to work? Are you willing to carry the gospel this week with you to the grocery store, to the bank, or to the gas station? Are you willing to carry it with you to the park on Saturday as you're walking around and getting some exercise? Are you willing to be a missionary? Be a missionary every day. Tell the world that Jesus is the way. The Lord is soon returning. There is no time to lose. So Be a missionary, God's own emissary, be a missionary today. Hey, let's go. That's what we're called to do. To be a witness, to be a missionary. Are you willing to? One area as a church, many times where churches fail is they leave the mission work to those that are professional missionaries. Those that come and present and say, hey, uh I'm called to go to this field, or I'm called to do this work, or we're going to plant this church. And they say, okay, wonderful. They're the missionaries, but listen, beloved, we're all to be witnesses. Right. Ye are to be witnesses. Beloved, the gospel of Jesus Christ is a death, burial, and resurrection. We're to witness of the life-changing ability of the gospel. Has God changed your life? Then that's all we're doing is telling people about what God did for us. The most basic form of witnessing, of sharing the gospel, is just telling people what Jesus did for you. How he saved your soul, how he changed your life. You might not even be able to articulate it very clearly from a doctrinal standpoint. You might say, well, I I don't know all the verses and I I don't know all of this. I really can't explain exactly what it is, but You know what I can tell you that once I was blind but now I see. That once I was lost and now I'm on my way to heaven. That Jesus Christ changed me from the inside out, the person I used to be, I'm not anymore And and that's what being a witness is. Beloved, let me give you some things about the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to know that salvation is freedom. I'm going to go quickly through these, but salvation is freedom. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Salvation is forgiveness. He said in Colossians 1 verse number 14, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Salvation is free, amen. It's not something you can earn or work for, not anything that you pay for. For by grace you say through faith, and not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. Amen. It's free. Not only is it freedom from the bondage of sin, not only is it forgiveness from the the hold of sin that it has on your life, but it's free something you don't work for, it's also forever For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Amen. It's forever. And where does this, what is the place that this unfinished, unchanging work takes place? But you know it takes place, he says, in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria, and the uttermost. Now, if you're new to this idea of missions, you might think, well, Jerusalem is a long ways away. And Judea and Samaria, and I mean, what are those? They represent for us our mission fields. Right. Jerusalem is our hometown. Jerusalem is our local area. And our mission statement, we describe that as those that are nearest to us. Our neighbors, those that are quick, those people that are right, that we have interaction with, our our our contact each and every day or week. Judea would be maybe the state of Maryland. We could broaden out a little bit and we like to get some church planters that are involved in planting churches in other areas in the state of Maryland Then Samaria would be maybe the United States. You could broaden it out and say, hey, all of the United States would be our Samaria that we need to try and reach, but then the uttermost is the whole of the world that we need to try and reach. The place, beloved, really is anywhere that they've not heard about Jesus Christ. And our church is on a mission to minister to those nearest our neighbors in all nations. It takes money, materials, and manpower to see the world minister too. All of us can be involved in different places. There are some men that are going to be some manpower. There's some women that came coming this week and they're they're represented by these three flags right here, the areas that they're going, and they are they are coming this week and they're gonna be the manpower. They're gonna go. But in order for them to go, it's gonna take some finance to try and help them get there And so the monies that are given goes to help support them so that they think they can go. It takes materials, it takes printed materials and Bibles and discipleship material and uh you know chairs and Sound systems and all of the things of buildings and facilities and all the things that are needed, the materials that are needed to further the work to accomplish what God wants them to do. Beloved, we put out thousands and thousands of Gospels of John and Romans. I have here some of you have never even seen these. These are our maps that we use to go out. So this is our region here. This one is what we're trying to do. This book is is done. Over the last couple years we have we've done a lot in both of these. But this is 100% done. This is from 83 to 95. And from Shawan Road, Manor Road, all the way down to the bottom of Towson. Every door that we could get to in that region has had a John and Roman put on it. It has been completed. This set of maps goes from 83 to 795 And then from that same top side, Shawan Road, all the way down into what would be probably Northern Parkway. We're still working on this one this one. Our goal is to get this one done this year. But you know by putting out these John and Romans Just looking around this morning, there may be some that I that I missed, but Connor and Lauren are here because of that. The Cranes and their entire family are here because of the John and Romans. Rob and Mary Ellen and Jim are here because somebody put a John of Romans on their door. And ultimately for them Uh not Mary Ellen, but Rob and Jim, trusted Jesus Christ, were saved and baptized. Connor and Lauren have uh been baptized and are growing. And is there anybody else here that directly here today that was a John and Romans that introduced you? There's two more right here. They were introduced to Hunt Valley Baptist Church by John and Romans. It's a ministry and it's the easiest thing that you can do. You don't even have to talk to anybody. I mean I try and encourage them, listen, if somebody's standing outside, don't be rude. Don't don't ignore 'em. I mean, at least say good morning and we present to, you know, uh sometimes especially the younger people, they're like, Well somebody was there, so I ran away. Uh you know, sometimes there's big dogs and that makes it hard. Man, I don't I don't like those big dogs. But I mean you just walk up and hang the gospel of John and Romans on the door and and walk away. Plus you get some exercise. It's mutually beneficial. We're coming into the time of year for the next four weeks. Uh moving into Anniversary Sunday, we're going to be canvassing out in the bus route area. Knocking on doors and telling them about Jesus and hopefully getting them to come and ride. But we want to finish that other section of maps and we're going to need some help to do it. Carrying the gospel. That's our Jerusalem. Mission starts right here at home, beloved, but do you know the United States is only 5% of the world's population? Africa has 1. 3 billion people, 54 different countries and hundreds of different dialects and and Cultures that are need to be learned in order to embrace and give them the gospel. India's got 1. 4 billion, China 1,400,000,000,000. It's believed that 116 people die in the world every minute. That's almost 7,000 people an hour. 166,859 every single day. Who is reaching them with the gospel? Who is telling them about Jesus? Beloved, after they pass into eternity, it's too late. Their opportunity to hear the truth is gone. So somehow we've got to get to them before they pass away. And that's what missions is. Our mission is to reach them by all means possible to us. Ask you, how committed are you to the mission? Corporations are willing to invest endlessly to get their product to the world. This is a very old statistic. But it's mind-boggling that in 1986, Coca-Cola claimed 97% of the world had heard about Coke 72% of the world had seen it and 51% of the world had tasted it. When the church is that committed to getting the message of the gospel out, Then we will have hope of completing this unfinished work that every man can hear. This is what we're supposed to be doing. The unfinished and unchanging work. Beloved, God's desire is that the world be saved. And that has not changed in over 2,000 years since he presented the church with that goal and that mission. God's methods haven't changed. He still uses people to reach people, and he still uses the church. The only thing that's changed is how close we are to his return. There's not much time left. We're reaching the end of days. He's soon going to be breaking the eastern sky. At any moment, the twinkling of an eye, Jesus could come again. Until then, it's our job to be about the work. After that, our opportunity's passed. After somebody's gone home or died, their opportunity is passed. Right now, while we have the time and the chance, we need to be about this unfinished, unchanging work. of carrying the gospel to the world. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed