Well, grab your Bibles this evening, turn to the book of Galatians. I enjoyed singing those songs. It was fun. We're in Galatians chapter number five. We are going to look this evening at our flesh in conflict. The passage of scripture, Galatians chapter 5, verses number 13 through 21. For the sake of time, we're not going to read it right now by any way of introduction. We will verse by verse go through it. But the fact of the matter is, as we are in this study in the book of Galatians, we've reached this point where we're faced with the battle that rages in the heart of every believer. It's a battle between good and evil, between right and wrong, between the flesh and the spirit This is a battle, beloved, that every single person that's ever come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ was very quickly made aware of. Sometimes maybe they had a false idea and they thought, well, now that I'm saved, I'll never sin again, or now that I'm saved, I won't be tempted again. But they quickly found out that's not the case that we still have a sinful nature. It just praise the Lord, we have a spiritual nature to combat it. This is something that every pe group of people in all of time have known about. The Jews viewed this as uh in their historical writings as a good angel beckoning a person upward and a bad angel beckoning a person downward. The Greeks wrote and spoke of two horses that were hitched together, unable to get away from each other, but constantly in a battle Of course, with the Greeks and their mindset, they said there is one good horse, that is the character of reason, and there's one bad horse, that is the character of passion, and those two are battling in the soul of men. Then there's the Roman poet who said, I see the better things and I agree with them, but I follow the worse things Just the idea that listen, I see what I should do, but for some reason I do what I shouldn't do. And Paul said something like that, didn't he? The things that I would, I do not. The things that I would not, them I do and that battle of the spirit and the flesh that's in the heart of every believer. Now, every believer must daily decide how he is going to deal with this. Daily we make a choice. It is a choice that we have on how we're going to live. So we three we see first of all the three possibilities for living given to us here in verses 13. 14 and 15. He presents to us these different arguments or walks as you may. He said, first of all, he says, for brethren, Ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to flesh, but by love serve one another. So there's first of all those who walk in liberty or choose to follow that. There is an opportunity given here for sanctification. He says for brethren, You have been called unto liberty. We have been been called to liberty. That word liberty, of course, could mean freedom. And praise the Lord. We have been, ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free We have been set free. We do have liberty. We have been freed from the penalty of sin. We've been freed from the wrath of God. We have been freed from the control of Satan in our lives. We have been freed, and we can live free. The freedom that we have in Jesus Christ it is that process of sanctification that takes place in our lives. Notice also, though, that in this verse there's not only the opportunity for sanctification, but there's the occasion to stop. the occasion to stop. He says, for brethren, you've been called unto liberty, but use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. He says, listen, this does not open the door for you to do whatever you would like to do. This does not open the door for you to have liberty to sin or continue in sin. No, there's an occasion there where men might be given to live in the flesh, and he says that's not where a Christian should live. Hey, beloved, if we didn't have the flesh, Satan couldn't tempt us. If there was no flesh, Satan would have no means of pulling us aside No means of tempting us because the Spirit would have nothing to do with Him. The Spirit would not by any way be tempted or drawn or pulled that way. But we have that old nature still. We have that flesh still that still has an appeal for sin. Beloved, with any freedom comes responsibility. When we fail in our responsibility, you lose your freedom. We could give you many illustrations of that, but obviously we have freedom in this country to go wherever we want to go. You can drive to you know, Tennessee if you want. Don't know why you drive there, but no, just kidding. You drive wherever you want to go, but we know that if you cease to obey the traffic laws, if you cease to function inside the laws of society, you lose your freedom to drive. And if you continue and you go worse and worse, you'll lose your freedom. Maybe you'll be put uh on a uh they'll put a tag around your ankle and you can't leave a certain area and you can only go to work and go home. Or you may even lose your freedom to go anywhere, you get stuck in jail. So you you fail in your responsibilities, you'll lose your freedoms This idea here of the flesh is anything that is worldly, it is anything that is earthly, it is anything that is carnal. Those are the things that appeal to the flesh. These are things that are bad But he presents here also an obligation for service. He says, use not liberty for an occasion of the flesh, but by love serve One another. By love, serve one another. There is a privilege found in liberty of being able to serve one another in love. Beloved love serves Love expresses concern and care. Love demonstrates sympathy. Love does whatever it can to minister, or you know, minister means service, to serve. You see, liberty will never fall into license when it is led by love And we have discussed and talked about this in the last few weeks. I'm not going to re-reiterate it. But we see here this first walk, the walk in liberty, but secondly, there's a walk, the walk of love. He says, for all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. You see, the law is fulfilled in love. Why? Because if you love like you should, there is no need for the law. The law is completely fulfilled. We will do all that the law requires if all we do is love God with all our heart and love our neighbor as ourselves. The entirety of the law is fulfilled if we just loved. That's how he's very clearly and succinctly giving that to us tonight. Just consider and think about the descriptions that are found regarding love in 1 Corinthians 13. I mean, you just put that list upon yourself and say, okay, I'm going to function that way towards all men. I mean, that would solve a lot of problems that we have in society or even in the church if we just functioned from a place of love with one another. Love is fulfilled in selflessness. That is what love is. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. It's truly living selfless. Love, in love, outward duty is transformed into inward delight Where on one hand an individual will do what he has to do because it is the law, and that's what we're supposed to do, or you've been forced to or told to. But when love comes on the scene, it's no longer a duty, it's a delight. I think one great way to illustrate this is a young man who is constantly admonished or encouraged by his parents to take a shower. and use deodorant and change his socks. But when love enters the scene Those things that were once a duty, you find him in the shower all the time and boy he's got the deodorant on and the clone on and the body spray on you're like this this this cloud is walking through the living room you're like man I was trying to help you to smell better something, but that's a little bit overboard. You know, you gotta be careful with that stuff. You're gonna kill somebody. You know, I mean it's those things that were once a duty Now is a delight. And he wants to do those things and he desires to do those things. And that's what the Christian life is when we look at it from a legal standpoint and from legalism and the law and we say, boy All of that which God requires is such a burden. But when we function in the realm of love, those things that were a burden become a blessing. Because we desire to do them, we want to do them, and we look for them, and we see them as an opportunity. The instrumentalist who is forced to sit down at the piano or to pick up the trumpet or the French horn, he's forced to do that over and over and over again and it is a duty. Time and time again, and he does all he can to avoid it or get out of it. But then we find over time that he develops a love for that music, a love for that instrument. And then when he has free time, uh he'll just sit down at the piano. He'll just pick up the instrument and in in a scotch a few minutes free. I'm just gonna play a song or two and he finds great enjoyment because he loves to be able to use the talent that God has given him and and play though that instrument. That's what it is, beloved, to function in the realm of love. Then we see those who walk libelously. Now, before you laugh at that word, you guys know what libel is. Uh you should see the word I wanted to use. It's La Finsfuressly. I can't even pronounce it. La fence furisely, but It literally means it I mean the literal definition is to damage, uh it means to hurt, to uh destroy. or even cause death. And I'm like, man, that's a perfect word. Mary's like, you can't use that word. You can't even say it. I said, all right, we'll use liability. They know what liable is. But we see here in verse number 15, he says, but if ye bite and devour one another. Take heed that ye be not consumed of one another. Listen, we've got to be so careful, beloved, when we leave the realm of love. We begin to function in a realm that is hurtful and destroys one another. These Christians here were attacking one another. Beloved, when the church stops praying for one another, they start to prey on one another. When the church stops praying for one another, they start to pray on one another. We've got to be very careful, beloved, that we don't allow ourselves to get to that place And we can spiritualize it all we want. I think that these Judaizers probably spiritualized it. They made it as though, oh, we're trying to help them be all that God wants them to be But we know they were ridiculing them, we know they were d tearing each other down. We were saying that they can't be what God wants them to be unless they fulfill this law. Oh, look at how worldly or wicked they are. And they were they were just doing what they could to destroy one another. And that is not where the Christians should be living. Beloved, this speaks to your motive. as an individual as to why you are doing what you're doing. Gus and I yesterday were talking about uh the underlying motives for why we as Christians function in the realm that we do. What is it that motivates us to do a particular thing? Or like, why would you come to church here? You know, the pharisaical person is motivated by being seen of men. Often Jesus describes that and he tells him, hey, uh, you know, don't give your alms that you might be seen of men. Oh, oh, uh, you know, you you gather together and and you might help the poor, but it's because you want to be seen by others. Or you can pray quite a prayer uh when you're with other people, but do you pray on your own? There are some who are motivated by just see by people maybe at church, like, oh, I would never miss church because Somebody at church would think I'm backslidden if I wasn't in church. Or I wouldn't miss church because boy I don't I don't want uh Pastor Caleb to think ill of me or bad of me Some would be happy to put money in the offering or give towards some special thing as long as some people knew about it. But what is your motivation for what you do? Some give, but you know I just want to admonish you, you can go the other way as well. Some would say, boy, I'm not giving anything. If anybody even remotely accidentally might find out that I did it. Oh, did you guys see oh this that's the spirit of wanting to be seen by men If somebody accidentally or somebody happens to find out by the course of time or over events, it's not that big a deal. They didn't steal your your your blessing because they happened to have found out about it Your heart is still wanting to give for God and for God's glory. It wasn't about being seen of men. You've got to be careful because you can go the other way. It's just like me being prideful over my humility. You know what I'm saying? That that's kind of the spirit there, like, oh, I'm not going to give anything because I don't want anybody to possibly know that I gave it. Well it it's you've you've gone on the other side of that. You know, you've gone too far and we're looking for balance in the Christian life. But he's there's the pharisaical motive, there's a legalistic motive, and that is the the the pressure or the feeling like your re your spirituality is gained by the laws that you keep By observing a certain set of rules and if you're functioning inside those realms, you feel like you are uh righteous and you want to observe that But beloved love is the greatest motive. You do it because you want to please God. Would you be in church tonight if nobody else was in church tonight? Say, oh, oh, no, I wouldn't be here. I mean, if so-and-so wasn't here, I wouldn't be here. Well, that's not the right motive. Our motive that should be the underlying motive for what we do, not just in church attendance, not just in our giving, but our, you know, would you be a witness? Do you make a purpose to carry tracks and give them out at the restaurant when you're out on Sunday afternoon with church family, but then the rest of the week you don't pass out any tracks? You see, your motive is that you'd be seen of men, not that you love God and want to see souls come to Christ, because if that was your motive, you would do it all the time. So, what I'm saying here is the goal here, what he's talking about, is we should desire to function and work in the realm of love, otherwise, we're living in a pharisaical realm or a legalistic realm. It is the realm of love that Christians should be motivated by. Not because somebody's watching. Not because you're getting stars on a chart. But because you love him, because you want to please him. You're not going to talk about that brother or sister in Christ because you love them and you don't want to do anything to hurt them You function in the realm of love. So we see here in verses 16 through 18 the path to victory. I think sometimes, beloved, we make the Christian life too difficult. He's told us how to have victory. He's illustrated it for us. He's given it to us. He's shown us what to do. We just have to have we have to choose to do so. We can choose to rely on the Spirit or live in the flesh. And he tells us here in verse number 16 that what we need to do is rely on the Spirit. I know these verses are familiar passages of scripture, and I'm not giving you anything new this evening. But maybe I hope you'd be reminded to the reality of it. He says, This I say, then, walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Beloved, anything short of walking in the Spirit, and we're failing to fulfill and be all that God wants us to be. We're failing to live and function in the realm of God's power. Where God can enable you to be the Christian that God wants you to be and that you in your heart desire to be. It's only possible through the power of God. But it is possible through the power of God, and all we must do is submit and yield to Him. I remember years ago, I bought a brand new lawnmower. We were living up in New York, hadn't lived there very long. The mower that was in the garage when we got there just lasted a little bit and broke, and so I bought a brand new lawnmower. And uh I was out working every day for Brother Greg Seraphon, slave driver, and uh leaving early and coming home late, and and Mary liked the exercise. So Mary was mowing And uh she had been mowing the yard for several weeks, and I came home one afternoon and she was talking all about how tired she was mowing the yard. She said, especially pushing a lawnmower uphill. And I said, why are you pushing it? She said, that's how it moves. I said, no, it's self-profelled. All you gotta do is pull this little handle right here, it drives itself. All you gotta do is walk with it, you know. So she was pushing a self propelled mower, which you know those are even harder to push because they got the bearings and all that in there. So for several weeks she'd been pushing a self-propelled mower. And a lot of times as Christians, that's how we are. We're pushing ourselves. through this Christian life and we're just making it happen because we know that's what we're supposed to do and what we have failed to do is to engage the power drive. We have failed to engage the Holy Spirit, which enables us to accomplish what God wants us to do. So many times we're trying to stop the sin. When what we should be doing is trying to submit to the Spirit. That's the difference. Beloved, if we had a whole bunch of stench in this room, I mean the air was foul What you would do is you would open the windows and let some fresh air in. We would get a draft here. We overcome that by letting Fresh air in is the Holy Spirit is that fresh air, that fresh oil that you need in your life to be able to live the victorious Christian life in the power of God The believer has been quickened. That is to be made spiritually alive. And it is the Spirit of God that enables us to do so. We are living today by a new set of goals, by a higher direction, a higher set of standards. When we're not walking in the Spirit, we are living like we're still dead. Like we don't have the Holy Spirit to help us. We're trying to push our way through the Christian life. It is with the power of the Spirit that we are able to put off the old man. We can't conquer that old man in our flesh. We can't conquer that old man by ourselves. But with the power of the Spirit, it is possible. When we're walking in the Spirit, we're living in such a way that we neither grieve nor quench The Spirit's working in our lives. Ephesians 4. 30 says, and grieve not the Holy Spirit, whereby you're sealed unto the day of redemption. 1 Thessalonians 5. 19 says, quench not the Spirit. And don't have time to teach on those verses, but the more you uh fail to walk in the spirit, you greed the spirit. When you sin and do wrong, you quench the spirits working in your life. You're putting that fire out, and it's his effectiveness in your life is diminished. In verse number 17, we see the reality of the struggle. He says, For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary one to the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. You see, beloved, if there was no life, say new life, if there was no new life in you, there would be no struggle It's because you have a new life in you that that struggle is evident. It's one very sure testament of your salvation because there is a struggle in you for right and wrong. Stuart Kennedy's poem says this: I'm a man, a man's mixture Right down from his very birth. For part of him comes from heaven, and part of him comes from earth That battle between right and wrong, that new life we have in Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit that was sent to us upon salvation. And then the old flesh that we live with and deal with, the adamic nature that's in us, that we still live with. But beloved, there's a line in the sand, and the flesh and spirit are on opposing sides. There is no ceasefire. There is no uh saying let's let's take a break. Let's let's let's just call a ceasefire for the Christmas season here and And uh sit around the fire and sing kumbaya, and then hey, January 1, we'll get back to battling. No, for the Christian, it's non-stop. It's always on that battle between the flesh and the spirit. Romans 7. 23 says, But I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind. And bringing me into captivity to a law of sin which is in my members. He says, I that that other member in me that's warring against the member of sin that's present with me. It is the reality of the struggle that's in each and every one of our hearts. The old nature is there. You know, I've always looked at this verse and I read this, probably very similar to each of you. He says, For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these contrary one to the other. So that ye cannot do the things that ye would. And thinking about Paul's comments, that That which I would, I do not, and that which I would not that I do. I've always read this and thought: well, all the good things that I want to do, I can't do because the flesh. But what if we turn that around? What if we say this old flesh has a bunch of stuff that it wants to do? But it can't. Why? Because there is a spirit inside of me that keeps me from yielding to that old flesh and is giving me the victory in my life. We are to be led by the Spirit. Verse number 18. He says, but if you be led of the Spirit, you're not under the law. So you see here the victory that comes when we submit. The more you and I submit to the Spirit, the more victory we will have. And vice versa. The less we submit, the less victory we have. Because, beloved, it's not something that we're going to accomplish by gritting our teeth and saying, Bless God, I'm going to do this. No, it is submitting to the Spirit and letting the Spirit give us victory. When one yields to the Spirit, he's given victory by God, not by our own strength. It's not me, but Christ that liveth in me that the victory comes We see thirdly tonight the problem with the flesh. Verses 19 through 21. Boy, our flesh is in conflict. Look, just look at these verses. He says, Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornications, uncleanliness. Liciousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like Of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in times past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. You see, these are the works of the flesh. This is what the old man would like to be involved in. Let me just say, it says here at the beginning, now the works of the flesh are, what's that next word? Manifest. These things will be manifested. The old man likes to dress it up. The world likes to call it other things. The Bible still calls it sin. Satan tries to make it look pretty, but in the end it's going to be manifest for what it is. It's going to bring about the destruction in the lives of those that it's allowed to run free in as sure as the day is long. We oftentimes can look down the road and we say, oh boy, look at the mess that has been made, look at the destruction that's in his wrought. But that was the result of what had been happening for a long time That is the end of the road. That is when it was made manifest. That's when everybody can see the destruction that was wrought. But it started way back here when somebody stopped walking in the spirit and started walking in the flesh and allowing things to exist in their life that should not be there. And then those things over time were manifest into their lives. It's going to happen. The pain of sin will not be diminished because of its popularity In the world today, there are things that are accepted by society, things that they want to say are okay, things that people laugh and mock at and joke about. But the pain, the destruction that comes from living that kind of life is going to be just as real and just as painful as ever when it brings you to that end. They that sow the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, but they that sow the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. We know sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth Death. That's what's going to be manifest, brother. So he has written here for us a list of different sins. These have been classified by others in several different ways. Let me break these down into three things tonight. We see first of all sins that are of a sexual nature. He says, now these are the words The works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanliness, and lasciviousness. Now let me just say on the outset that the Bible, in nowhere does the Bible condemn uh sex. It's the misuse, misapplication of this that the world has perverted. And you can take anything that God has made good and make it evil by perverting it. And that's what Satan is a master of. So he gives us here some perversion of God's plan with regards to this act. He first of all says adultery. We know adultery is a violation of the marriage bed. And let me just, I mean everybody here knows that. But let me just say you remember in Matthew chapter 5 what he says about that. He says, if you think Upon a maid. You've committed adultery in your heart already. These are the works of the flesh that are going to be made manifest. Can I tell you a long time before some guy walks out on his wife and and ends up in a hotel room somewhere or at her house when her husband's not there, there was a time where they began to think upon the maid. There was a long time before when adultery was committed in his heart and in his mind before the act ever came to fruition. We have got to control the works of the flesh before they become manifest and bring destruction in our lives. The difference is walking in the Spirit. Or walking in the flesh. Beloved, any one of us here are able or capable of fulfilling or bringing about any one of these acts of the flesh. Because we have that sinful, fleshful nature. The only way we overcome or keep from allowing that to happen is by walking in the Spirit. We can't just say, oh, well I'm a strong guy, I'm a family guy, I love my wife, and and oh I I'm not going to be tempted by those things, and so I can do what I want to do. No, we function inside the realm of love. It is not about what we want to do. It's about loving others as ourselves and loving God most of all. Television today promotes every kind of lewd sexual desire because sex sells. But the spiritual Christian will not be putting that type of stuff into his life. You must guard and protect your mind and your eyes. Adultery than fornication. Fornication is harlotry. Strong's word for that is harlotry. Lewdness Of an unmarried person. We know that the Greek word for fornication is where we get the word pornography. It is really been looked at, basically described as any type of sexual activity outside the bounds of marriage Sexual activity with another person already married would be adultery. Before you're married, the Bible refers to it, it calls it fornication. Uncleanliness? Uncleanliness is moral impurity, the defilement of man. You know you can be defiled in your imagination. The defilement of man. There's there's these uh lot of books and novels, and I don't have any idea what you're reading. It tends to be something maybe that ladies do more often than men. Trust me, men have their own set of problems. But could I just encourage you, ladies, that if you're reading these novels that have love affairs and uh you know, people, ladies leaving their husbands and meeting some guy somewhere and and that the basically their their uh pornographic depictions of activity and it puts you you're defiling your mind. You say, oh it just, you know, I just enjoy hearing about how they love one another. It's it's the file in your mind. It's basically a soap opera on the printed printed page. And those type by the way soap opera you shouldn't be watching either. Now I know they're not near as popular as they were in bygone days. But they they still have a lot of shows that are very much like that, where you know you wonder who's sleeping with who. That type of stuff is not what the Christian should be consuming. You can get defiled in your mind. That's what he's called. Uncleanliness. You gotta be careful that you are living a clean life. It's the opposite of that which would be wholesome. You know, sometimes i i today it's amazing It it seems like the more lewd and crude people can be, the more it sells. The opposite of wholesome. It's hard to find any entertainment today that's wholesome. That's leavit and beaver, you know. Uh uh Mayberry RFD. I mean that I mean you you you just don't find shows like that anymore. And most of what's being put out there is a promotion of uncleanliness. And I'm telling you, as a Christian, you have to guard yourself. You have to be vigilant. Otherwise you are going to be defiled. Uncleanliness, moral impurity, the defilement of man. We're going to be talking in Sunday school on Sunday about the red heifer, the sacrifice that was made for the children of Israel, because they had all been defiled by touching Death, somebody that had been that had passed away and in Jewish law, if they had touched somebody, they they had to go seven days before they could be pronounced clean again. The problem is as death was so prevalent in the camp, there was very large majority of them probably were in the state of being unclean. And there was nobody to uh serve and work in the temple. And so God said, okay, we're gonna sacrifice this red heifer, and we're gonna talk about that, but the whole idea was that they could get made clean again. They could be made clean and we need to be made clean by Jesus Christ. Licciviousness, this is animal desire, wantonness, lustfulness. One who has lost all sense of shame. That's somebody that's lascivious. They've lost all sense of shame. Isn't that very prevalent in society today? It's amazing how people can live and portray their wickedness and put it out there and and there is no sense of shame. They promote it and talk about it. That's what is a work of the flesh. It used to be just the fringe entertainers who wanted to be lascivious. You know, they were going for the shock factor. They were the one that was kind of on the edge that would do that really, really crude stuff. But now it seems that pretty much anybody will. The blatant promotion of homosexuality and immoral lifestyles. It's almost a breath of fresh air when you have anybody in the public picture who is not full of debauchery. You have one person that you hear like they've been married to the same person for twenty five years and you're like, wow, I mean that's that's an eternity in Hollywood. You know, uh or or they are, you know, they they talk about their love for God and and you you say, wow, that's that's unheard of in the entertainment industry. Society at large promotes this type of stuff. And we need to guard ourselves against it Beloved, we don't need new sex education, we need spirit education. We need to learn how to walk in the Spirit. It's not about how to have safe sex. It's about how to have how to be abstinent from. And the world promotes and talks about, even tells kids, you know, hey, here's how you can keep from getting a uh a sexually transmitted disease. I can tell you how to keep them get it. Don't do it. Problem solved. Fixed. But what they're doing is they're putting a desire in the young person when they're teaching them and showing them here's how if you're you know here's how you can do this, we just want you to do it safely What do you think they're going to do? These are works of the flesh. Then we see their sin of a spiritual nature in verse number 20. He says, idolatry and witchcraft It goes on, but then the rest of them are in the next group. So we have idolatry, of course, is worship of the creature over the creator. It's any time that we put anything in front of the living God. You know, we do not, as individuals, bow down to uh idols. We don't carve things with wood and feel like they are going to help us. But idolatry is any time we put anything in front of God. And we certainly, as Americans, are prone to idolatry. We have our own idols. We have the idol of money, of power. of of prestige or or or of recognition, things that we value and appreciate. And a lot of times those can rise up to places where they might sit on the throne of our heart where God should only be the one that sits there There's a problem with that. You know, not just our world today, but in our churches. As I studied this, I came across this comment. I'm not sure who was the originator of it. But they said, how much better off the world would be. If man made gods were given way to God made men How much better off would our world be if man-made gods gave way to God-made men? If we wouldn't, instead of seeking to put that particular thing, whatever it is that's so important, on the throne of our heart, if we would desire to be a God-made man. Then he mentions witchcraft, that of course is the worship of Satan over God. It's amazing how many people who claim to be so smart that they couldn't possibly believe in God, that they don't need that crutch get tied up into horoscopes and sorcery and the stars and and all these types of things this this witchcraft There is power in that, but it's a work of the flesh. Then there's sins of a social nature that he lists, there's a number of them. Hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, rivalings. So we see here hatred. We know what that is, a great dislike or even ennity between you and somebody else. Variance, that is seeking dispute. Enjoying discord, loving the disagreement. That's a work of the flesh. When you enjoy that, when you just like to argue about stuff, when you're looking for a conflict to get in the middle of. You need to put that down. That's not a work of the Spirit. God is not for that. Beloved, there's a difference between contending for the faith and just being contentious. We as God's people should contend for the faith, but a lot of times we just like being contentious. Emulations, that's jealousy, envying, resentment. I wonder how many times we're truly happy when somebody else is blessed. They got what you wanted. They got what you deserve. That's what emulations is. Jealousy, envy, resentment, wrath. Is violent anger, vehement anger, strife, contention for superiority. Strife is motivated by self-ambition. Seditions is divisions. Divisions, dividing, standing apart. You know, is there somebody in the church you won't have anything to do with? At seditions. Standing apart from fellowship. Well, I'm not part of the group. I'm just gonna stay over here. I'm just gonna be by myself. I'm just gonna stand dividing from people, seditions, separating. This is a work of the flesh. It's not led by the Spirit. Any class race or personality that causes you to divide or separate from, that's seditions. Heresies that's the promotion of falsehoods. In means That of course is jealousy that leads to ill will. It's beyond just jealousy, but it's jealousy that leads to ill will on the part of the one you're jealous of. Murderers, that of course is to slay. Beloved, the the the value of life is being undermined today When you remove God and you say, well, you just came from an amoeba, you know, there's there's no no real reason why we're here. God doesn't have a plan. There's nothing is nothing to this. You remove all of that, and there's no eternal value put on human life. And there's murderings. Drunkenness. This of course is intoxication, inebriation. Beloved, alcohol is such a destructive force in society today. It is mind-boggling to me how many Christians Have stood and argued for their right to drink. I mean, they've argued with me about how well the Bible says you gotta take a little wine for your stomach's sake. I tell him, well, go ahead. How many times when you were sick did you drink something? That's not the reason you're drinking. You're not drinking because you you you feel like you need to throw up, which is what that's talking about, like you would take a bunch of peptobismal or something, something to help you go ahead and get it out of your system. Because that's what alcohol is, it's poison And so, oh, well, you see, Jesus turned water into wine. Well, it shows a very strong lack of understanding of Scripture to say such a foolish thing. I always go back to how the country was turned upside down in the country. which is almost all but forgotten God were driven to their knees on 9-11 when a little over 3,000 people were killed. Beloved, do you know that in 2019 10,500 people were killed as a result of drunk driving alone? It is a destructive force. There is somebody killed as a result of alcohol every 52 minutes in America. Last year, 95,000. 95,000 people were killed in alcohol-related deaths. Where is the uproar? Where is the shock? Where is the outcry against this destructive thing that's destroyed? And we've got people in churches. saying pastor don't preach on alcohol I have a right to drink it you're being legalistic if there was no other Bible in it at all Except for the fact that ninety-five thousand people were killed last year, boys and girls and moms and dads. That would be a reason enough to get away from the stuff. But because it's so profitable, the country won't do anything about it. It's a work of the flesh The Bible is very clear. It's a work of the flesh, and this is not what Christians are supposed to do. If this is the only verse we had in all of Scripture on drinking, that would be enough for you to say, you know what, I don't want to have that in my life. If you're going to argue for drunkenness, you could go ahead and argue for murder too. You could argue for adultery. You could argue for fornication Because these are works of the flesh that God says we shouldn't do. But for some reason, Christians think, well, when we get down to alcohol, oh, we can do that. We need to get away from that. I hope you have it settled in your heart. Forty-eight percent of all homicides last year were alcohol-related. Forty-eight percent of all homicides were alcohol related. That's mind boggling And yet somebody that wants to claim they love God and all that God loves Would try and argue for the right to consume alcohol. Well, I don't get drunk, Pastor. That's talking about drunkenness. I don't get drunk, I just drink a little bit. Why? Take a little rat poison. It's not that much. It's the same idea. Alcohol destroys marriages. It tears apart homes. Drunkenness is a work of the flesh, revelings. This is carousing riotness, uncontrolled actions. Boy, don't we see that in the country today? This quite literally is usually a result of drunkenness. Revelings come as a result of drunkenness, this uncontrolled actions. this carousing, this rioting, these things. The two usually go hand in hand. And he throws down here at the end of this list, he says, and such like. So Paul's saying this is not a complete, fully, conclusive list of the works of the flesh. This is just a list of things you can go ahead and fill in the blank or the area that you know to be a work of the flesh that Satan's bringing into your life. These are the things that you need to get away from. Paul says the Christian life, beloved, is not going to be characterized by such things. He says here, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. That word do there is a ongoing word. The the idea in the Greek is a is a continuing of it. It is a it is a continual action He's not saying here that, hey, if you have done these things, you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. What he's saying, he says, if you do these, if this is part of your normal habit for life Then the fact of the matter is not that you lose your salvation, what he's saying is that if this is a normal part of your life, you were never saved to start with. Because these are things that wouldn't be present in the Christians' life. The Holy Spirit is not going to put up with it The chastening hand of God is not going to allow it. He's saying if this is a normal pattern of your life, then very likely you are not saved. To live in sin is far different than to yield to temptation in a moment of weakness. All here that would be honest before God know there's been days and hours where we have been given to envying We have been given to many of these works of the flesh, and in some measure or another, we've allowed our mind to wander and look upon or think about things that That we shouldn't. We say, oh man, he's not saying if you were tempted and you fell in a moment of weakness that you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God. No, there's a big difference between living in sin And being tempted and falling into sin in a moment of weakness. There's a big difference between loving sin and loathing sin when it comes into your life. That's the Christian heart, to loathe that sin, to know that it's present and to desire to get it out of your life as soon as possible. The tempted Christian is miserable until he confesses and forsakes it. But the sinner is most happy in the pig sky. Beloved, Satan takes all that was created for good and makes it evil. Sex was created by God, and it's good when it's used properly. But it's vile when it's perverted by man and idolatry. Crafted as a perversion to true worship, to worshiping the God of heaven. Instead, you can worship this. Man's ambition is good. It's good to have ambition and to drive and to try and accomplish more for God. But when that ambition is perverted and results in envy and jealousy and strife and wrath and other things, those things are works of the flesh. The principle this evening, beloved, that we must worried as we talk about our flesh in conflict is every one of us here are only a short walk in the flesh. Away from it being manifest in our lives. The works of the flesh are these. And any one of us, if we fail to walk in the Spirit, can end up having that manifest in our lives. You know I've been studying Sunday school, so it's it's all fresh in my mind. But you know Moses, we're gonna talk about Moses, and you know when the children of Israel complained and uh They they wanted something to drink, and God told Moses to go speak to the rock. And Moses in a moment of anger he he struck the rock twice. And you know God's punishment for him for doing that was that he wasn't going to get to go in the promised land. And you think about that and you say, man, after all that time of faithfulness, after all that Moses did right, after all that time. He did wrong right there, and now he can't go into the promised land. We're only a little walk in the flesh away. Moses was judged by God for sin that he allowed into his life, as is anybody. It doesn't matter how spiritual I was yesterday. It doesn't matter how much I was in tune with Jesus last year, and boy, I had such a fervent prayer life, and I was on fire for God, and I was a soul winner, bar, excellent, but now I'm walking in the flesh. Yesterday's spirituality will not maintain you today. Short walk in the flesh, and any one of us can fall. We just stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.