Grab your Bibles, turn to Galatians chapter number five. Galatians chapter number five. Galatians has thus far been very doctrinal in its presentation, Paul very uh you know systematically uh teaching, and uh you know he's gonna take a turn here and now bring it down to duty. This is the practical side of the principles that he's been teaching. You know, it's kind of like he's saying, okay, you've you've Instructed us, you've given us the information, you've told us what God said. Now, what do we do with that information? Because, beloved, belief should always impact behavior. We cannot just claim we believe it unless it's made a change in our life And that's what Paul is very clearly dealing with here. If the new evangelical crowd had their way, they love to grab a hold on liberty. They love and try to proclaim that, well, we have liberty to do what we want to do because we have freedom in Christ. Salvation is all that matters, and salvation is free. Therefore, I'm free. You know, they say, well, salvation is of utmost importance. I'm saved, and as much as God is concerned about that, he is not concerned about how I live. Well I want you to know Paul is in direct contradiction to that. That is false. And the fact of the matter is, is churches like this that preach holy living. Are criticized and are lumped in with the Judaizers here in Galatians and called legalistic churches because we believe that God has a standard for his people. Well, that's what Paul addresses here in chapters 5 and 6. He brings all the doctrinal teaching down to our duty, and how is it supposed to affect our lives? The difference, beloved, is what you're focusing on. You see, salvation is completely free. There's no question. You and I do absolutely nothing for salvation. We can't. It's all been done. Amen. But after salvation comes sanctification. And then one day will come glorification. You see, justification saves us from the penalty of sin. And that is completely 100% free. There's nothing we can do it, do about it or for it. But sanctification saves us from the practice of sin. That's what's supposed to be taking place in the Christian's life, where we are being sanctified, that process where we're changed into the image of God's Son and made what He would have us to be. That means there's some things that we're not doing that we're going to start doing because they're right to do. And there's some things that we are doing that we've got to stop doing because they're wrong to do. That's a lifelong process of sanctification. Where we yield to the Holy Spirit and let Him change us from the inside out. And we look forward to the day where we have glorification. And that's when we are saved from the presence of sin. I am at a total loss as to how one can believe that they're following the Lord in this path of sanctification without changing anything in their life. That to me is mind-boggling. So we see here, and for the sake of time, we're not going to read all of these verses, but tonight what I want you to see is I've titled this Our Freedom in Christ our freedom in Christ. It is the first six verses of Galatians chapter number five. We see first of all we have a truth to follow. Verse number one. He says here, stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free. Amen. Christ made us free. Stand fast in that. And he says And be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. So he says, stand fast. Stand fast. It opens this verse here with that transitional term, therefore. Therefore, you know that therefore is you look at what it's there for. And it's referring back to the chapter before it. If you wanted to try and put it into context, you could go back there. But as we just did that last week. You know that we're talking about those last section of verses or dealing with the example he gave regarding Hagar and Sarah. That allegory which he drew for them, the difference between law and grace. The difference between a relationship that is established on servitude, Hagar, the law, and the relationship that is established and based on love. Sarah, Grace. And so he says, therefore, because of that, with that understanding, stand fast. He leaves no question as to how we're made free. It's nothing we can do. Look what he says here. He says, stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Who made us free? Christ hath made us free. He says, hey, yes, it is Christ that did this 100%. Christ made us free. He didn't say anything different in John 8. 36, and if the Son therefore shall make you free. Amen. We know that it's all Him, and He leaves no doubt there or any question, but He implores them to stand fast in the liberty that they have in Jesus Christ. Beloved, there is no question that the soul that sinneth it shall die. When you're a sinner, you're a slave to sin. The liberty that we have in Christ is the liberty to sin no more You are in bondage to that sin. Christ has purchased our freedom and given us the liberty from sin. Not liberty to sin, liberty from sin. He says, stand therefore. Stand there. Don't go back. And he says to these Galatian people specifically, he says, hey, you've been freed from the bondage of sin. Don't go into the bondage of the law. That law, don't go back into that. Stand in the liberty that Jesus Christ has given you. He says, hey, not only do you want to stand fast, but you need to shun the fetters of the law. Shun that yoke of bondage which the law is. I mean, come to Christ and stay there Matthew 11, 28 and 30 says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. He says, hey, shun the bondage That is the law. Jesus, the yoke of the law is bondage. The yoke of the law is servitude. The yoke of the law is restrictive, but you've been given liberty in Jesus Christ. and freedom, so therefore don't go back to that burdensome law. You see, like so many other things in the Christian life, there is really a divine balance that's necessary here. See, Paul is telling the Galatian believers to shun legalism, a denial of liberty. Shun that But neither are you given a license to sin. You see, there's if we could allow this pulpit to represent the liberty that we have in Christ. And over here is the law, which puts you in bondage. But over here is liberty, the liberty that People like to claim, where you have liberty to do as you will, that God has no standards for you, just as long as you're saved, you're free to live and do whatever you want. Well, hey, there either way you've left the liberty that Christ was talking about. Whether you go way over here and say, boy, we're free to live and do whatever we want to do because Jesus died and my sins are forgiven, every sin I've ever committed or ever will commit is uh is uh forgiven and under the blood. This is true. But shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. So he says, don't run over that way, but don't go over here either, because this is bondage going back to the law. and trying to live under that bondage. He says, no, stand in the liberty that you have in Jesus Christ. Christian liberty does not mean that we get to live how you want. It means you get to live how you ought. That's what the liberty that Christ offers is. It's not liberty just to do whatever I want to do, but it's liberty. It's it's the power of the Holy Spirit, the the uh life-giving uh uh power of Jesus Christ that is inside you that now you're no longer in bondage to sin and you have the liberty, the freedom, you've been freed from that sin. and no longer have to do that. You're given power to live as you ought, not necessarily how you want. So we see, first of all, here this truth to follow, and in verses 2 through 4, we see a troubling failure. Paul gives them some examples here. He says, Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. He says, For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to the whole law. Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, ye are fallen from grace. Now there are some things in this passage of scripture that have created or caused some consternation for some people. But it's really when you understand the whole of Scripture and you interpret it in light of Scripture, you don't get tripped up by these statements. First of all, I want you to see that there's no profit. He says here, the first failure is that there's no profit from Christ. Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. You see, Paul gives this next statement all the weight and authority that his apostleship and who he is can have. I mean he comes here, he opens it up and he says, Behold, I Paul, say unto you. He says, listen, he they knew they know who he's talking, they know who's referencing this, but he's saying, listen, I I'm telling you this I'm saying this with all the authority that I have in as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ in all of this, I'm letting you know That if you're going this route, then Christ has profited you nothing. He says, if ye be circumcised, what he's saying is if you're striving to obtain righteousness, By circumcision. He's not saying if he happened to have been circumcised, then that's uh Christ is of no effect to you. No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying if your goal is to return to the law, if your goal is to try and gain righteousness by following this law, Then what Christ did for you is of no effect. There's nothing, there's no reason why did he? You see, grace and the law are not complementary. They're contradictory. They they you cannot have one and the other. You see, you cannot Be saved, you cannot know Christ and be on your way to heaven and put your faith and trust in Christ and anything else. It can't be Christ and. No, no, it's Christ and that's it. And this is where a lot of people get tripped up because they're like, oh yeah, I believe in Christ and the tradition of the church. I believe in Christ. And for these people, they wanted to say circumcision or the catechism or their christening. Uh you know, whatever whatever you want to put down there and one of the one of the real challenges in some foreign countries a lot of times is getting people especially people that come from like a Hindu background where they have the pluralism of gods and they they believe in all these gods. They're like, oh yeah, I'll be happy to add God. Add Jesus to and I believe in Jesus as well. But no, they gotta come to the place where they let off everything else. You see, beloved, I cannot get to the airport tonight by putting one leg over my bicycle and one leg in the car. That doesn't work. You have to choose one or the other. You can't say, well, just in case you know I'm gonna take I'm gonna have one leg in both. No, you have to 100% put your faith and trust in one or the other. It's not both. It cannot be. And that's how this grace and law works. It cannot be both. You see, there's no pass on the law for anybody. Warren Wirsbee gives an example here of this verse, number three. He says, for I testify again to every man that is circumcised. Again, we're talking about somebody who's striving to earn their righteousness by following the law. He says, I testify again to everyone that is circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law. You see, there's no there's no pass on the law. And Wearsby gives this example of a young man who ran a red light and he was stopped by an officer. And the young man pleaded his case and he said, But officer, you understand I have been driving for two and a half years, and in two and a half years I have never speeded, never gone above the speed limit. For two and a half years I have never run a red light. For two and a half years I have obeyed all of the school zones I've been in. And he ran down the list of every traffic law he could think of. And uh, you know, the officer said, well, that's all well and good. I'm glad, young man, you've obeyed all those, but you broke this one. So you're you are guilty of breaking the law, so here's your ticket. And that's the thing, beloved, what he's saying here, he says The the the greatest problem with those that want to say, well, I'm going to obey the law and they're going to grab a hold of this law or that law or whatever and say, Boy, why why don't we follow that? is if you're going to say this is the way I'm going to get my righteousness You have to obey every single law without fail, which is impossible. It can't be done But that's what he's saying. You know, that just this last Sunday I had somebody ask me about the Sabbath day and how come we don't observe the Sabbath day? And we had a brief conversation about it. But uh, you know The amazing thing is, is even people that say it's our duty to observe the Sabbath today, there are people that teach that. We we need to observe the Sabbath. What's amazing is if you're going to follow the law You have to follow all of it. And there is more than just the Sabbath of the week. There's the seven-year Sabbath. There's the uh uh year of Jubilee where you're supposed to forgive all the debts that that uh you have. Just let them all go, just forgive all those debts. You know, there's several Sabbaths that are mentioned in the Bible, but you don't hear them talk about those Well, those are part of the law. But I'm saying here he's saying, listen, if you're gonna claim the law, there's no past. You don't get to say, oh look, I did really good. I kept the Sabbath. Well God, you're still gonna be guilty of every other law that you ever broke. And we've all broken some, amen? So we see there's no pass for the law in James chapter 2 and verse number 10. He says, For whosoever shall keep the whole law yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. Now I would write that reference down in your Bible next to that verse there, James 2. 10, right next to verse number 3 there. He says, for I testify again to every man that is circumcised that he is debtor to do the whole law. That's what he that's what James 210 says. You gotta do it all. Then we see that number uh Well, let her see in my notes here. Uh is that no there's no power without Christ. He says here in verse number four, he says, Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whosoever you are, justified by the law You're fallen from grace. So these are really the crux of the statements that that give people problems here, this saying you've been fallen from grace. And there are people that teach that you can lose your salvation, that you can fall from grace if you don't maintain this level of perfection or follow this set of rules or observe circumcision or whatever rule that they want to put there, but that's not what Paul is teaching. Just a couple of things. Let's address these in in order. He says here, Christ is become of no effect unto you. If you remember in context, what he is saying here is he's choosing the law over grace. He can't have both. You see, going back to the example of getting in the car and riding my bicycle, if I'm gonna say, you know what, I'm not gonna take the c I'm not gonna take the car, I'm gonna take my bicycle. Then the car is of no effect to me because I have chosen to disregard the car and chose to take my bicycle. And so that's what he's saying. He's saying, listen, Christ is of no effect. Whosoever of you are justified by the law. He says, if that's what you've chosen, you've chosen to leave the car and choose your bicycle, and that's what you want. then what Christ did was of no effect for you. His sacrifice meant nothing. All that he has ever done is of no value because you put it off. And then he says, ye are fallen from grace. Now this phrase here, you've fallen from grace. Let me try as best as I can to try and maybe describe it for you. You see, to fall is to descend. To fall is to go from a higher plane to a lower plane. Well, what he's not talking about here is losing your salvation. The law was a lower standard of living Those that lived under the law, when Christ came, he fulfilled the law, and that is a higher claim. And he's saying, when you choose to leave what Jesus Christ did, the freedom you have in him, the grace You've chosen to fall to try and exist or live on a lower plane. In the Old Testament, they did their best. That's what they had was the law. They strived to obey it. But do you know, beloved, that the Old Testament saints were looking forward? They were looking forward to when Jesus Christ was going to come. They were looking forward to when the law would be filled and they could no longer have to be bound by the law. But while they were there, they were observing that in obedience, in faith, doing what the law said in faith, knowing that Jesus Christ was coming. Why would then would people that live on the other side of the cross want to disregard all that Christ did and go back to the law? That's what he's saying. You've chosen to fall from the grace that's been provided and to live or try and exist on a lower plane. The Christian life that we have is to be lived in liberty, the liberty and the power of Jesus Christ. And to choose the law over that is to choose to fall from liberty. to exist in legalism. So we see thirdly here a trusting faith in verses five and six. He says, for we through the Spirit Wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith which worketh by love. You know, I know that this settled- I did not know when I began this study in Galatians how repetitive Galatians is. You guys are Pastor Caleb, you have dealt with this law and grace every s every Thursday night for listen it's the Word of God. I'm going verse by verse. I have nothing over what it says. Okay, I'm just giving you what the Bible says. Uh and I thought, man, God must or at least Paul thought them Galatians were pretty hard-headed and they couldn't understand it because he just kept giving it to them Kept giving it to him. Kept giving it to him. But here's what I hope. I hope that at least you're gaining some understanding individually of these different passages of scripture as we look at these verses that that dissecting them like this and seeing what he's talking about, that it's making sense to you and you can put it into context and understand what it is we're going through. I know you guys have the general idea. You had it before we even started this study. You knew these truths. But hopefully you're getting a better understanding and a great appreciation for the Word of God. I want you to see this trusting faith here, first of all. The Spirit is the source of one's hope. In these three verses, if you mark in your Bible, would you mind circling three key words in these verses, hope, faith That really is the heart of this lesson. Hope, faith, and love. You see, it is the Spirit is the source of one's hope. He says several notable things here. He says, for we, that is Paul and all the other believers, the believers he was talking to in Galatians. And the believers that are here tonight. He says, for we, he's including all of us. And he says, now that we we wait That wait is to have an eager anticipation, to look forward to. There's a waiting that's represented here. And the waiting is of a hope That hope that we have, and the hope, beloved, he says, is of righteousness. Now we have hope of righteousness. So there's some thoughts that need to be dissected a little bit here because the waiting for that work of righteousness to take place in our life is not something that we're waiting to just happen. It's not something that we're waiting for this process to take place via osmosis or something. We're not waiting in hope that one day maybe we might get some righteousness That's not what he's talking about. You see, we know, beloved, that righteousness was imputed to us at salvation. But that is positional righteous. Righteousness. We are given the righteousness of Jesus Christ. When God the Father looks down at the saved, born-again, Bible-believing Christian, the one who has believed the Word of God. and put his faith and trust in Christ when God looks down, he sees the righteousness of his son, not the wickedness of us. And so that righteousness was imputed unto us. That is positional. We are positionally made righteous because of Jesus Christ. So he gives to us here this idea of hope The hope that he's speaking of is that we have a confident expectation, beloved, that when you and I one day stand before God, we will be declared righteous. You see, he says it's by faith. You see, we wait, and the hope of that righteousness is by faith It's not righteousness that we've earned, it's not righteousness that we can uh attain on our own, but it's righteousness that we believe is ours, because we have faith in God's Son, and his righteousness is imputed to us, and one day when we stand before God. We will be declared righteous. That's the hope. That's what we're waiting for, the day when we stand in heaven and this old flesh is done away with. Amen And we are declared and made righteous by the work of God in our heart. We're given a new body, and we live in the new earth and new heaven, and we're looking forward to that day. Now, between now and then There's a thing that's called practical righteousness. And that is how we live day in and day out. So positionally, we were made righteous by Jesus Christ at salvation. One day we have a hope by faith. We know we're going to stand in the presence of God and we're going to be made righteous Because of what Jesus did. Between now and then, it's our duty, our job, to strive to be righteous. He said, be holy, for I am holy. Faith, beloved, is the key that unlocks the understanding of that. We know that faith is a substance of thing hoped for. That's what it is, that righteousness. We see that Christ is the focus of our faith He says, For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith Which worketh by love. It's faith in Jesus Christ. Here's how we know that there's really nothing wrong with circumcision. But there's nothing really right with it either. You see, in the beginning there we said, what well Paul was not saying it's wrong, and he was not saying don't ever do this. This is your your your crisis of no effect if you do this. No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying those that get circumcision, circumcised in an effort to try and be righteous, which is using as an example and saying basically you're going back to the law. To try and be righteous, then Christ is of no effect. Because here he says clearly that uh hey For in Jesus Christ, that's it, if you put your faith and trust in Christ and that's who you're trusting on, you got in the car, you left the bicycle, the law, you got in the car, then the law is of no effect. One way or the other. He's saying so basically he's saying that, hey, circumcision availeth anything, neither uncircumcision. One way or the other, it's not going to matter. But faith which worketh by love. Faith is based in a relationship that is rooted in love, not law. As I stated in the introduction, the contrast and comparison that was given to us in the previous closing verses of the previous chapter between Hagar and Sagar. Faith is rooted in love and it will produce right deeds. When that love is right. You see, Paul and James are not in contradiction of each other. For that passage over in James chapter number two. For he says, What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he has faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute and of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart and be in peace. Be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What doth it profit? Even so, faith If it hath not worked, is dead being alone. And he goes on. You see, there's no conflict here between these two passages of scripture. Because love is the determining factor. Love is what makes the difference. I'll close tonight where I closed last week. The thing is, beloved, When we observe the first and the greatest commandment, we do have liberty in Christ to do what you want to do. Whatever you want to do. You have liberty to do that. Why? Because when you love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, you do not want to do anything. That would hurt him. That would be against him. Matter of fact, you want to do more. You know, my kids are are getting older now, but especially when they were younger. They when Mary and I would go away, we would come back home and of course we would leave and tell the kids here I want you to do this or do this or whatever and don't burn the house down, you know, that general rules And uh we would leave. But when we would come home, a lot of times, because the kids wanted to impress us, they would do stuff way above and beyond what we asked. I mean they would go away, they would wash the car and get it all cleaned inside and out. They would uh clean the whole house, make the kitchen spotless. Stuff we didn't even ask them to do. Why? Because love was the motivator Now we came back from Florida, that didn't happen, so I don't know what happened. No, they they did do some they did do some cleaning, uh so it's not like they left everything, but Uh what I'm saying is that that passion was there to do more. Why? Because love was the motivator. The law said you gotta do this and this and this But they said, oh, we're we're doing a lot more than that. Why? Because we love mom and dad, because we want to please mom and dad. We want mom and dad to have a smile on their face when they come through the door. And beloved, when love is the motivator for us, we're not looking for ways that we can do whatever we want to do that might cause hurt to him. We're looking for ways that we could put a smile on his face. We're looking for ways that we can please him. We're looking for ways that's going to make him happy. And we're going to strive to do whatever pleases him. And we, when we, because of this old flesh stumble and fall and do something we shouldn't do. Our heart is broken over it. And we say, Lord, forgive me and and and help me not to do that again. I know that I hurt you. I know that you died for me and I have liberty in Jesus Christ to be free from this wickedness. And yet it grabs a hold of me and God helped me to get victory. And I don't want to do it anymore. Forgive me. Why? Because we know it hurt him. When love is a determining factor, which is what he says here, we can have liberty, the liberty to do what you want, because what you want to do will be what pleases him