All righty, grab your Bibles, turn to the book of Galatians. Brother Taylor asked me if we were finishing up Galatians tonight. Said we're gonna finish another six verses. Amen. So we'll uh I don't know. Sometimes I try and think, well, we'll get a good number of verses and and uh then start developing in there's more in there than I thought. Uh we started last week with the first six verses of chapter number five, where Paul deals with our freedom in Christ, the freedom we have in Christ this evening. We're going to take another six verses going on from Really beginning in in verse number six, but starting in seven, going on through verse number twelve, uh where our focus is going to be on the faith. the faith that we have in Christ. And uh there is some real gems here in these last couple of uh chapters, uh just gold nuggets of truth that kind of jump off the page at you. They they impact your heart. The first is seen in verse number six, and we kind of dealt with it last week. We're not going to spend much time there, but it is where the the foundation is laid for the verses we're going to go through this evening. So in uh verse number six there, he concludes, you know, the the challenge here in the book of Galatians from the beginning until now really has been that struggle between law and license, right? Between law and license. And and the the tendency of man is going to be to live in one or the other. That's kind of where we want to live. We just have a tendency to decide to live over in the law or live over in license and and to do whatever we want. And we discussed last week how really the the both of those air areas in their extreme are error. That's there's a problem. If you get too far in either one of those directions, you're in error. And so the the the admonition of Paul is listen we're to live in liberty. That's where he wants us to live. But he gives us here in uh verse numbers, let me get to the right page of my Bible here, six The key. This is the key really for how to live in liberty. Verse number six there he says, uh let him, I'm sorry, I'm again looking For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision. That last phrase there is, but faith which worketh by love. And we dealt with that last week that our faith is to be rooted in and in love. And it's it's living in liberty and the power to live in liberty and the ability to live in the liberty that God wants us to live in is rooted in, found in, loving. And if we love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, thy soul, and thy mind, there won't be a problem with that. When we're loving right There won't be a hard time balancing uh law and liberty. And that's the foundation of our faith that is in Christ. We're going to pick up this evening, moving right along into verse number seven, where our thought for this evening continues. We see first of all the opposition to the race. The opposition to the race. He says, ye did run well, who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? Beloved, there's he begins here and acknowledges or addresses the fact that their performance on the outset was admirable. He says ye did rin run well. He said there was a time when you were running, and we know the Apostle Paul, he loves to liken the Christian life to different athletic events. You know, he talks about the boxer and he talks about uh you know of course the soldier and he talks about the farmer and these different uh things but uh wrestling and and here and Paul really likes Running. I don't know if he was a runner individually or what, but he talked about running a lot. It's something he likened the Christian life to a lot. In Philippians 2. 16. He says, Holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain. That I have not run in vain or labored in vain. He says, hey, we're running, and I'm just hoping that I'll hold up the uh law of life and liberty of Jesus Christ in such a way that I don't do so in vain. And Philippians three fourteen and fifth fourteen he says, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling. That again that idea of a runner pressing to that finish line, pushing on that last you know, giving that last hundred yard dash and And pushing through to the end. In Hebrews chapter twelve, verse number one, he says, Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which has so easily beset us. Why? And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. So Paul over and over and over again in his writings, likeness to the Christian life, tell us likens the Christian life unto a race, that we are in this race. In 2 Timothy 4. 7, he says, I fought a good fight. I have finished. my chorus. And so that a aspect of running, you see, beloved, when you get saved, you enter the race. You're running for God. And And I would just say a couple of things that are notable here. First of all, is that it is running, not walking. Amen. That we're in a race and we're to be running, that is, giving forth some effort and doing all we can for God Running for God. This is one of those shrews that just jumps off the page at you. It's one of those things that, at least for me, just Calls into question like he says, ye did run well. There was a time when you were doing what you ought to be doing. There was a time when you were on fire for God. There was a time when you were running for God. But what happened Something happened and so for us it's uh the admonition to say, Hey, uh are you still in it? Are you still running? Are you still pushing for God or have you taken a back seat and said, Oh, I'm gonna relax, or has your time come to just Take it easy. I would say also that every race is unique. Your race is not the same as the race of the individual next to you. Your race is not going to uh bring the same fruit. Nor are you expected to. Your race is not going to experience the same challenges, and it also is not going to experience the same blessings. You're going to have your own blessings. You're going to have your own challenges. You're going to have your own battles to fight because every race is different. But we're ca we're supposed to continue to run for God, amen. So their performance on the outset was was good. They were doing great, but I want you to see there was something that prevented Their obedience. Something prevented their obedience. He said, Who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth He says, hey, there's something hindering you. There's something that came in that's hindering you from obeying the truth. You see, they had begun in the Spirit. There was no false profession here. They were on fire for God. They were serving God. They were running well. There was commitment and zeal that was present in their life. There was no hypocrisy. There was a life of holiness that was present in their life on the outset. And yet something hindered them. Something got in the way. That Greek word there, hinder, literally means to cut in. If we're talking about the racetrack, it's to cut in. In uh the 1984 Olympics, Mary Decker Which some of you might know I was way too young to have any idea about this during that time. But uh Mary Decker was the was the favorite. She was supposed to win the gold. Uh she was on track. She was the top uh runner in the world really at that time and was expected to rin win the races that she was in and bring hold the gold for America. However, in the races she was running, she was doing exceptionally well And yet a young racer by the name of Zola Bud stepped out in front of her. Mary lost her footing and went down. She stumbled. She fell And uh took her out of the race. You see, somebody cut in. And that changed her pace and that messed her up, and she got hindered in the race that she was running. Sometimes there's people that cut in on your Christian life You were doing really good, but all of a sudden there's a friend that starts showing up. And this friend starts hanging out and boy you enjoy spending time with them. But for some reason you can't make Thursday night church now because this friend has got you doing something else. Going to a ball game or or or catching uh you know, going out fishing or whatever else it might be like oh uh there he he's just hey he's fun to be with, he's a great friend, I like and joy, but now he's cut in He's hindering your run. You were running really good. Paul asked specifically, he said, who did hinder you? The fact of the matter is a lot of times it is people that hinder us. It is some individuals. It's somebody that we have allowed into our life. But down in verse number 10, he says, but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment. He says, hey, the one that's hindering you is going to deal with judgment someday. Because he's hurting the cause of Christ overall. His judgment's going to come, but right now you're to keep on running Maybe it's a friend that is less committed than you are that's hindering you. Sometimes it might be hypocritical Christians that hinder you You were on fire for God and you thought everybody was on fire for God and then and you saw this guy at church and boy he wore his suit and he had his Bible and you heard him say amen at the preacher And then you're out in town and you saw him coming out of some place that a Christian shouldn't be. And your mind was, what? I thought he was I thought they they or you you you're with them somewhere and bad language comes out of their mouth and you're what? I would have never thought you would have spoken like that. Sometimes hypocritical Christians hinder you. Say, boy, if he if if he can't do it. Hey, he's just a sinner saved by grace just like you. And any one of us have the capacity to sin, but we also have the capacity for victory in and through the power of Jesus Christ. So don't let somebody else's failure keep you from pushing forward for God. Sometimes it's a mate. You've got a mate that won't let you be all that God wants you to be, hindering you, keeping you from doing all that God would have you do. But whatever it is, something slowed them down. It doesn't have to be a person, it could be s uh uh it could be a thing. Sometimes it's trial or suffering that hinders you. I'm gonna let the church know in prayer time, but I'll just tell you right now, Brother Harding's sister passed away this A couple days ago. We of course were praying for her recovery. That type of a thing, a loss in the family, a a great heartache, a burden like that, that that can hinder somebody They can say, boy, I just don't know if it's worth it, or man, the burden is too much, or you know, I was running strong, but I just What's what's the use and and why? And it it's it's amazing 'cause that type of thing can have one of two possibilities. I mean on one hand it can be a motivator to say, Hey, my time is short. I'm gonna be going to glory soon. I wanna run as good as I can with the time I have But on the other side it can also people can uh you know get upset, get angry with God So sometimes a situation like that maybe can cause hindrance. Sometimes it might be a hardship or a trial in your life that is just hard to bear and hard to deal with. And so it's hindering you from being what you ought to be for God. You know, the worst thing, the worst person that hinders us Many times is us. Many times the greatest hindrance to our race and to us uh running i is is us individually. Paul talked to Timothy about those, he says, hey, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. Sometimes you as a parent, you you watch your children And you see what they're doing and realizing they're making it a whole lot harder than it has to be. It's almost as though they're opposing themselves. And and it's so easy for you to see. And you're just saying, you know, if you just do this it would be and they're like, no, no, no, I got it, I got it. You're like, okay, you Keep fighting with it, you know. I could show you how to do that really easy, but you can keep fighting with it, that's fine. You know, and they're fighting with it and fighting with it and and they could take a little instructions and and they wouldn't be and sometimes you might see somebody else They're just opposing themselves. You see a young married couple go out and buy a sixty, seventy thousand dollar car. Or a twenty thousand dollar car when they don't have a thousand dollars in the bank. And because their financial situation is the way it is, they they can't get a decent loan. So they gotta pay 18%, 20%, 30%. You know, some hack is gonna oh yeah, I can get you that car. And they've already sold that car about four times to other people that couldn't pay their bill and they've collected it and they're gonna looking to do the same thing with you. And you say, boy, they're just opposing themselves. They don't realize the the hurt the how far behind they're putting themselves, how how much of a mess they're making. If they could just Not make this decision. It would help them so much. And that's what Paul is saying in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. And many times we oppose ourselves. We allow the allurement of the world and the pull of the flesh to hinder us from doing and being what God wants us to be. We see in verse number eight. The perverseness of the opposition here, as we see the persuasion, he says this Persuasion cometh not of them that calleth you. Sorry, is the persuasiveness of these, the persuasiveness. There is a persuasiveness that's there. There's a uh Uh they have an appealing message. We know there's pleasure in sin for a season. We know there is some appeal and some appetite to that He is acknowledging the fact that false teachers have some appeal. I heard a man this week speaking, claiming to be a prophet. He actually said he was the prophet among prophets. That was his testament to himself. He was being interviewed by someone that said, well, don't you do a lot of the stuff you do seems to be very foolish. And he said, Yes, but there is a method to my foolishness. And the man said, So you admit that what you do is foolishness. And he said, yes, foolishness sells a lot better than faith. Here is a man. Purporting to be a man of faith, a prophet, a teacher, that's helping other people in their journey. towards God and whatever else. I don't know what all he's teaching. But he says, no, I do a lot of foolishness because foolishness sells better than faith. You see what what he's saying is that's what draw the crowd. That's what brings in the income. That's what does And so we're going to do that because that's what makes people interested. And what I'm saying is there is a persuasiveness, there is an appeal to the wrong type of things I don't know why it is. Sometimes I'm flabbergasted. I I just look at it and see these churches with these all these people there, thousands of people there, and and and it's basically a nightclub And I'm wondering why are these people drawn to this foolishness? Oh, because there is an appeal to that. Jacob just sent me a thing just an hour ago. On, you know, he said something like, Praise the Lord for this modern modern technology or something like that. And it was a little clip. There's a group of people that they will help you set up your church. They will do the promotion for you. They will instruct you on how to get people. And it's a business model. These people do this. With a guarantee of like twenty percent of the church's tithe and offerings in the future So they're gonna set up the church. I mean it's basically like you're buying a franchise. So they're gonna help you set up the church, they're gonna do the advertising for you, they're gonna show you how to get people and then you have to pay them a certain amount of money uh of all the tithes and offerings that come in over i it's it's foolishness. But there's an appeal to that. There is a persuasiveness there. He said, this persuasion, that that thing that looks appealing, that the you know the People here, the churches of Galatia like that appetite for the law, and hey, let's go back to that. He says, hey, I know there's a persuasiveness there Something about what they say is interesting. But what he says is you need to realize, beloved, is that did not come from God. He says, here, this persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you. He says, hey, there is a persuasiveness about this, there's an appetite, there's a desire for that, but that didn't come from the same person that called you out of sin and saved your soul. So you need to know that. And then he says here, he gives us the perversion of the opposition as well in verse number nine now. I was jumping ahead a little bit earlier, but in the perversion he says in verse number nine, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. What seemed to be so small, what seems to be so insignificant, sometimes uh the the pastor of a good church, um, and I know pastors don't always handle things correctly. I mean every one of us you know, are men at best, even though they're the best of men or whatever. You I mean it's we're just sinners, right? So I know we don't handle everything correctly. But you understand the job of the pastor is to protect the flock. And we're going to see how Paul does that here in a little bit. But this leaven, sometimes people say, well, what's the big deal? Why does Pastor make such a big deal out of that, letting that come into the church? Or why why is that why are we so worried about this? Because a little leaven, leaveneth the whole lump. Because when you allow a little bit of sin in, or you allow a little bit of compromise in, you allow things to drift just a little bit You know, somebody said to me years ago, and it has stuck in my mind, your church is not defined by what you preach. It's defined by what you allow. You let that sink in. I've heard preachers stand up in the pulpit and preach it as straight as an arrow. Nail everything under the sun. But by and large, the church looks like the world. And there's a big difference between standing up here and preaching truth and saying, as a church, we're going to be clean. As a church, we're not going to have a nightclub. As a church, we're going to hold a standard. We're going to say this is the line and we're not going to cross that. And we're just not. We're just not gonna have it. And you know what? When you do that as a leader, you make people mad. It's not the goal. It's not the objective. Nobody wants to make anybody mad, but you understand that the pastor, me, I'm going to be held accountable before God. for what's allowed at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, for what I say and do and what I allow to take place, and also for the things that I handle incorrectly. Because I know that I handle things incorrectly sometimes, and God's going to deal with me for that. That's why he says, be not many masters. Because a master holds a greater condemnation. He's saying you shouldn't envy the physician, and I tried not to for two years, but you guys wouldn't let me leave. So the perversion of this, of the opposite of little leaven, leaveneth the whole lump. As I was thinking about this, I thought about like COVID-19. This little bit of infection that got introduced into society. Spread through a community. Jump the ocean. Spread through a state, a country. I mean, basically, in a matter of a couple of months, the entire world was infected with COVID-19 in some measure or another. Even societies that locked down completely and shut everything, I mean you had people get in COVID-19 And what a little leaven leveleth the whole lump. You see, truth and error do not mix. Paul dealt with this on another occasion over in 1 Corinthians 5, verse number 6. He says, you gotta be careful. And in our lives, beloved, a little leaven leaveneth a whole lot. You think, oh, it's not that big a deal. I can do this and and and be okay. But it's only a matter of time before that spreads to the next thing. Before that spreads to the next area of your life. I can let this go. One commentator said this. He said, in matters where the understanding and acceptance of eternal truths are concerned, An ignorance of tolerance is preferable to a tolerance of ignorance Well that was a little bit of an intellectual statement. Maybe I'll read it to you again. He says, in understanding and accepting the eternal truth is concerned. We're talking about things of great eternal value. He said an ignorance of tolerance is preferable to a tolerance of ignorance. Well today people are they love to claim and and grab a hold of and say let's be tolerant of everything And what he is saying, he says, it might be wiser to be a little less tolerant and keep the truth. That's what he's saying. Keep keep the truth. Make sure that we're on the straight and narrow, because a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. We say or think, man, the problem is just not that bad. It's just the smallest little thing, a tiny bit. My beloved rat poison is 98% edible. Ninety-eight percent of it. Just two percent. Do you know the ninety-eight percent is what makes the two percent edible It makes it easier to go down. Just a spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down. The 98% of sugar makes the 2% of poison go down. And here's the problem. When you've got 98% truth and you say, oh, it's just 2% of error. It makes embracing or allowing that 2% air bear okay. And what Paul is saying, listen, a little 11-11 at the whole lump. There is a perversion here that the opposition brings in trying to pull them away from God. And we know that Paul was speaking about the leaven of legalism. It could be leaven of any kind. You know, 11 is a picture of sin in the life of the believer. And it's going to start small, but it will spread. We see secondly here in verse number 10 the optimism Of the reliable. The optimism of the reliable. So he says in verse number 10, he says, I have confidence So we see that optimistic spirit. We see that he's saying, Oh, listen, I think this is possible. He says, I have confidence in you that through the Lord that ye will be none otherwise minded. He says, listen, I have confidence, I'm optimistic, I believe that the fact is, as you are going to turn around, you're going to be on the straight and narrow, you're going to be as reliable as I've always known you to be I have confidence in that. I think that you're gonna see the light, you're gonna c confess that sin, you're gonna turn from it, you're gonna get back on the straight and narrow. He says, I just believe that's gonna happen for you. And and he was optimistic of that result in these Christians' lives. We see the prosperity of those that uh were opposed in this You know, beloved, we don't live unto ourselves. Everything we do impacts others. He has confidence that even though they had been pulled aside from the straight and narrow, that they were going to get back on track. Now it is important, beloved, that we do not affirm people in falsehood, but that we do assist them back on track. There is a mindset that kind of comes about where people feel like they they've got to It's almost like we feel like, okay, he needs to be punished for doing wrong. And we assume the position of God and we're going to punish him while he's down. You know, we're gonna kick him while he's down because he hasn't felt sufficient pain for being such an idiot. And so we're gonna kick him while he's down. Right? Instead of realizing God is the judge God's the one that takes care of where he's at, and a lot of times you don't know the extent of what they've been through. But our goal, our desire, listen, we ought to be about the ministry of restoration. That's just God's people what our desire ought to be. It shouldn't be that, well, we want to hurt hurt him while he's down. We we ought to want to help him We ought to try and find a way to get them back on track. And Paul says, listen, I know you've drifted aside. I know that you've you've got little You've embraced this false teaching. There is some appeal there, but listen, please, you need to get back on track. And he wanted to help them. He wanted to assist them in that Paul was compassionate, trying to do all he can to see them come back. We see that in his in his statement there to him. He had compassion for them. We know, beloved, that our victory is through the Lord. He says in Ephesians 3. 20, he says, Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask of the according to the power that worketh in us. It is the power of God that helps us get back on track, that helps us stay on the straight and narrow. Philippians 1. 6 says, being confident of this very thing, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. God's the one that does the work. But we ought to Be willing to strive to assist and help. Be about the ministry of restoration with those that are pulled aside guard against those that would pull aside though. We see how Paul deals with it here. He is confident as well that those who were pulled away, that assisted in pulling others away, those that brought this perversion, that brought this opposition, he says here, you will be judged. He says, having confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded, he says, but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be. It doesn't matter how prosperous this person is in society, doesn't how matter how popular he is in the church, it doesn't matter how much of a good personality he has around other people, and everybody might like him. But if he is hurting the church or pulling people away from God or hindering the cause of Christ or hindering believers from being what God wants them to be, he says, hey As much as I'm confident you're going to get back on track, I'm telling you, I'm confident they're going to be judged. No matter who they are, their time is coming. That's what he says. In Matthew 16, 27, he says, For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his father with the angels, and they have then he shall reward every man according to his work. Every man's going to be recorded rewarded according to works. Good and bad. The judgment day is coming. They troubled people. That day was coming. We see, lastly, in verse number 11 and 12, we see the offense of the righteous. He says, and I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution He says, man, why am I the one going through it? Why if if I've embraced this false doctrine, why are they still lying about me and saying that I'm teaching it? Why am I being persecuted if if I was on their team, they wouldn't be persecuting me? If I was in agreement with them, there wouldn't be a problem. But the fact of the matter is that what I'm preaching offends them The righteous life I'm living offends them. They don't like it, and so they want to attack me. They want to ridicule me. They want to find a way to trip me up or to tear me down. Paul was doing right, and so they persecuted him. Beloved, can I tell you, when you're living right, persecution should be expected. It's gonna come. You do right on the job place. I mean I I worked in the world. I had people tell me, listen, you gotta stop that. You're making us look bad. You can't work that hard. You can't get that much done in a day because you make the rest of us look bad because we're not doing that much. I said, well, start doing more This is what I can get done in a day. I don't know how to work halfway. They're going to attack you when you're trying to do right. You're just trying to be honest. The boss asks you about something and you're honest and tell them what happened? Then everybody at work is mad at you because so-and-so got in trouble and so-and-so got fired because of that whole scenario and you're the one that snitched. I just told the truth. You're you're gonna be attacked when you want to do what's right Expect persecution when you're living right. Not only is the Christian life offensive, but beloved, he says here that the cross is offensive. He says, then is the offense of the cross ceased. He says, listen, that the cross. If it wasn't necessary, if we could live by the law, then the offense that the cost brings is ceased. It's no longer there. But the fact of the matter is, it is present. He is being facetious here. He's saying, listen, if there's nothing about it, if there's not really anything truth in this, then there is no offense of the cross. But the fact of the matter is, beloved, the the sinner stands up And says, I'm okay, I'm not that bad, but the cross stands as a testament that says, No, you're a wicked sinner, and you're such a sinner that God had to send his son to die to pay for your sin. That cross offends them. They say, no, no, no, I'm fine. But the cross stands and says, no, you're not fine. You need a savior The Christian says, Oh, I'm my own and I can do what I want to do and the cross stands and says, No, you are bought with a price. You've been paid for by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. You're not your own. You're supposed to submit your body as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. The cross says that as it stands stop. And so those that Don't love the cross, the cross is an offense to them. Paul says, if the cross is nothing, then the offense would be gone. There would be There would be nothing there. If the life that I live was nothing, there would be no offense there. But the fact of the matter is that when I live righteously, those around me are going to be offended When the cross is lifted up, when Jesus Christ is lifted up, men will look at it and they will be offended because it stands as a testament against the life that they're living. Paul, as much compassion as he had for the saints. He has an equal amount of contempt for those that would hurt the church we see here in verse number 12. He says, I would that they were even cut off, which troubled you. He said, listen, we've come to the place, these people that are disturbing the church, these people that are bothering you, I would that they were cut off I would that there's somehow there's some way we could just remove them from your life and we could get them out of the picture so that they wouldn't be causing this offense, so they wouldn't be pulling you away. They wouldn't be hurting the church. He says, cut it off I think Christ said something very similar to that. He said something about if your eye offend you Cut it off. Cut it out. He said, listen, there's some things in your life that maybe you need to cut off. They're hindering you, they're keeping you from being what God wants you to be. Don't pretend or act like it's just going to be okay. In Luke chapter 12, verses 46 and 47, he says, The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him. And at an hour when he is not aware, and he will cut him in asunder, and will appoint him his portion with unbelievers. And that servant. Which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. Listen, judgment day is coming. 2 Peter 2. 9 says, The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment. He knows how to, and he will deliver you. Beloved, I have a desire to have faith that stays true to the end. I know that's your desire. To run the race that God has set before you and to live faithful and continue until the end. And I know that this life gets weary. And days get long, and sometimes there's hardship and trial and there's tests and there's things that maybe get in the way or hinder us from running as quick as we could for God. And the challenge tonight is to keep on running. To get rid of the weights, set aside every weight that just so easily beset us, that we might finish the race for Christ. Let us live every day engaged in the race, running to our fullest potential for God. The songwriter said, When my life work is ended, and I cross the swelling tide, when the bright and glorious morning I shall see. I shall know my Redeemer when I reach the other side, and his smile will be the first to welcome me. I shall know him, I shall know him, and redeem by his side I shall stand. Between now and then, we've got to run