But Luke chapter 12 this morning. Luke chapter 12. If you have the uh My Church app, you've got to notice this morning that we're going to be continuing our More Than Conquerors series. Um I have a uh custom that I that I've always always held that I don't tell anybody what I'm preaching on beforehand, but having the outlines on the screens and putting out notes kind of um interrupts that and then now we have the app sending out my messages ahead of time, which Which messes with my system I've had my whole uh whole preaching career. Um that I my wife could tell you if she uh she'll ask me what you're preaching on today, I always tell her the Bible. Um so I just have never announced my sermon ahead of time, but then the This morning I saw the notice come through my phone like, oh, we're telling everybody. Um, so they're they're finding out ahead of time. But this morning we are going to continue that series. I don't typically do that. This series in particular, I tried just to do one lesson and then go on to another series and then come back to this for another lesson. Between there, but we did have last week we talked about the idea of overcoming laziness, and there are notes available on the back table if anybody needs those that could raise their hand Brother Joe's passing uh passing those out. Um and I would typically go on to something else, but I really felt like uh that was a kind of a quick lesson and prayed about it and felt like continuing on the series. So we're gonna actually take time this week And next to continue the series with the next letter of the alphabet, and that is overcoming materialism. Sorry, college students that are not going to be here next week, you're going to have to miss Part two. So you guys get the you guys get the bad part today. Tomorrow next week was how we fixed it. Today you're just going to find out the problems that you have. So you'll have to get the sermon off of sermon audio later. So today we're going to go talk about this idea of overcoming um materialism. In our country in particular, it seems that we are addicted to stuff. We have way too I think all of us could agree as we look around our homes, our closets, our drawers, our attics, our garages, our sheds, we have too much stuff. This is such a problem. There's been a mu movement going on the last few years known as minimalism, where people are saying, you know what, I just don't want to live with so much stuff. They want to narrow down to to I want to live my life with only 27 items uh instead of having twenty-seven pairs of shoes, they want twenty-seven items total or something like that. There's this movement to try to overcome this addiction that we have as a country, as a people, um, to stuff. This is manifesting itself in the tiny home movement. as well. Um if we have less space we uh we we can't have as much stuff. Um I tell people when they're moving into a house, I say just so you know, if you have any empty space in the house, it's going to get filled with stuff. That's just the way it works. If we have an empty closet and it It is it is just kind of designated as storage. At some point stuff's gonna be falling out the door of that. That's the way that's the way we work. Thinking about it, it seems as if in our country our obesity epidemic has been caught by our closets um as a country, we just have so much so much things and so much stuff. If we do not guard ourselves from this sin, we can easily spend our entire lives accumulating trash. Because that's eventually what's going to happen to all of your stuff. Everything that we have was eventually going to end up in the trash. Well the things that you're saving for, that you're striving for, those nice things that you want to have, they will eventually be be junk. Your car is gonna one day be in the junkyard, your clothes are gonna eventually end up in a dumpster, your phone will eventually stop updating, your furniture is going to break, your retirement account will eventually be spent by you or someone else on things that end up in the trash Even when even your home will one day be demolished. We can invest so much time in trying to define ourselves by our things in what we have. I think about this idea of this is just how we identify ourselves in our country by our stuff, such as I'm a homeowner. I'm identified by what I have. I am a uh I'm in the Jeep Club. Those that have certain types of cars and there's there's a there's a personality that goes along with those things. I only wear Under Armour or some other brand. I'm an Apple guy or an I'm an Android uh guy. I am a millionaire. This we just we define ourselves by our things, by our stuff. This is a subtle spirit that overtakes our spiritual perspective that we need to overcome as Christians. For the next two weeks, we're going to be looking at the idea of overcoming materialism. Today we're going to talk about the causes. of materialism and next week we'll talk about the cure for materialism. So we'll get this kind of in two parts for these lessons. But if you found your place there in Luke chapter 12, we're going to read a rather lengthy passage of scripture We won't be going in detail into this passage this week. We're going to do that next week. But just to get the context of what we're talking about here, Luke chapter 12, verses 13 down through 21. Here the Bible says, and one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he may divide the inheritance with me. And he, this being Jesus, said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? And he said unto them, Take heed, beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesseth. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night shall thy soul be required of thee Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich towards God. The essence of this idea of materialism we see See in verse number fifteen, where he says, Take heed, beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesses. Doesn't that define how most people in our culture today think of themselves? They define themselves, they think that life is made up by how much stuff that you have. What can you accumulate? What position? What power? What what finances? What um what size home? What types of vehicles That's what life is to them. That's what their life consists of. And Jesus warns us here, a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word and what we can learn from it. I pray we'd be challenged with this idea of materialism that we could dig in a little bit deeper than just the shallow aspect of needing to clean out um some of the extra things that we have around our home, Lord, but to see the heart issue that is behind this symptom that's manifested in our lives, that we would learn to overcome it as believers, Lord. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So we look at this idea of materialism, and we start to talk about it. We're going to talk about, first of all, materialism defined. What actually is materialism? Now going into this study, if you had would have asked me what is materialism, I would have just said it's the pursuit of things. It's wanting material things. It's wanting to have the most or the nicest nicest things. That's kind of what this idea of materialism is, but it really goes a lot deeper than that, and it was brought to light um for me when I went into an older definition. So we in our modern culture, we'll talk about that as we get to a more modern definition. That's what we think of. Materialism is having stuff. Having stuff, loving stuff, that's what we kind of think of. But materialism actually has a much more uh doctrinal but false doctrine and theological but uh uh theological heresy that is at its root that that started with. So when we look at the Webster's eighteen twenty eight dictionary, we look up materialism, it's its first definition is that it is the doctrine of materialists, the doctrine of a materialist. It's the opinion of those who maintain that the soul of man is not a spiritual substance distinct from matter, but that it is the result or effect of the So this idea of materialism, it was a doctrine, it was a theology, it was a false theology, it was a false doctrine, but it was the belief that man's spiritual nature was not spiritual. that man was only physical. Man was only the sum total of his material being. That your spirit, that your will, that your mind, that your motions That's all just handled by mechanical reactions in the body. There's no spiritual, eternal nature to man. Man is only the sum total of his material, physical being. It is the atoms that make up your body. That is all that you are. That is what materialism is. It is their belief of a materialist that man is only material. Man is only physical. That's where this idea started This definition does not refer to our modern phenomena of people being consumed with having stuff. It speaks to the theological heresy that underlies the attitude of people that are so interested in things This idea originated with Greek philosophers in the fifth century, so 400 A. D. , Greek philosophers started to think about this and to say, you know what, man is just material, man is just physical. There was a departure from from the spiritual. And so this began back um all the way in the four hundreds. It remained a popular ideology throughout history since then, having different times where when it would re-emerge and gain um popularity. Modern materialism originated in France, and the idea was revived by a Catholic philosopher. And it gained popularity, that was in the 400s, and it gained popularity in France France during the late 1700s with the rejection of Christianity. France was becoming secular. It was becoming industrialized, and they were rejecting Christianity, and materialism began to be a prominent theology and became very popular among the people that were there. If you know history, the late 1700s, something else happened in France. The French Revolution. The French Revolution that had some had some noble ideals to begin with, but quickly divulged into what's known as the Reign of Terror. The reign of terror was a time when people were moved by envy and went to those who had more than they did and put them to death so that they could have their stuff. And there was there was more going on there, but but a lot of it boils down to that. I actually read an article yesterday that said the the theology of envy will always lead to the guillotine. was the title of the article. And just wanting what other people have and pursuing other people. There were over 17,000 people that were put to death on the guillotine. Because no longer did the spiritual matter no one no longer was a man of As a spiritual being, they were just material. So what did it matter if I knocked out that chunk of dirt so I could get the the the possessions that that chunk of dirt owned Because that's all people are, is material things. There was a loss of the fear of God and a loss of the understanding that man is spiritual, man is eternal, and so human life had no value anymore. And it was just what kind of stuff can we accumulate And we see that mentality in our world today. That it doesn't matter about this person's life or that person's life. Human life has no value anymore because we're just material. And so what it what matters is what can I do, what best serves me, what how can I best gain um things for myself and there's an envy in our culture today, even to the point where this article I was reading pointed out that the guillotine has made a reemergence. A guillotine was set up in 2020 in August on the st in front of the home of Jeff Bezos by people who were saying it's not fair he has so much money, so they put a guillotine And it's this idea of envy and covetousness based on humans don't matter, it's stuff that matters, because all humans are our stuff. That's this theology and this heresy that underlies our culture's pursuit and love of things. It's the idea that man is not doesn't matter, only what's going on in this life matters. A man's life only consists So it's a mentality, it's a theology that goes directly contrary to the Word of God. So what was this early theological heresy? It's the idea that man is only material. We are only the sum total of our physical being. Only the material is what is real. There is no spiritual. There is no eternal. It's what you have right now. That's what is believed. by this false theology. Our mind, our soul, our will are only effects of the material parts of our bodies. With the dismissal of man's eternal and spiritual nature, we are left with only the material. And if life is only made up of things that materi that are material, the only thing your life can consist of is your material possessions. There is no higher call, there is no purpose, there is no why we are here. You're just stuff You're just material, and so the best you can do is see how much material you can gain for yourself. And that is the theology that underlies this. This denial of man's spiritual nature has been commonly accepted and is being taught in our culture today. Think about in the public schools. There is no teaching that man is a religious are a spiritual being, that man is a eternal being. Through the doctrine of evolution, that is man is just just an animal. Is just the makeup of you as a person is just your atoms, is your cells, is your DNA, you're an accident, just like everybody else's. So why would human life have any value? Why would I have any more value than a tree if we're just both material, if we're just both physical, and that mentality is throughout our culture today. This has led people to be only concerned with the material things of this life. You know, this is part of the reason why this pandemic has so shaken up our society. To someone who believes that all that there is is the material, the fact that you might die, that your material being would end is terrifying to them. See, we as a culture we have separated ourselves from death. Our medicine has advanced greatly. We live at peace. Death is only experienced normally far from everyday people. Someone in a hospital, someone in a nursing home, someone who's much older. That's where that's where death happens. But this pandemic has woken up people to the idea that you could die. That you could die and that is terrifying when all there is is material. Because I'm just going to stop being. Now the truth is even more terrifying than that. But people have just come to realize with this pandemic that there's a possibility that they might die. If we go back just one to two hundred years in history, everyone that you that you would be around, you would know someone who had a family member killed in war Death was just a normal part of life. You would know someone who had lost a child or children to childhood disease and death during pregnancy. You would just know that. You were around that. Death was a normal part of life, so people were aware of it. And people accepted it. And people prepared for it. But we've shut ourselves out of society from the idea of death, so nobody thinks about it. Nobody prepares for it. Nobody thinks about the eternal because we've made our lives completely about the physical, about the material. People would understand and they would emotionally and spiritually prepare for the inevitability of death. Our culture has separated itself from death and from spirituality, and the prospect of death is terrifying. Now it should be for someone who's not saved, because we're not simply material beings. We are eternal beings. Your death is not the end of your existence. As scary as that is Your death is actually only the beginning of your eternal ex existence, and that should scare people even more. So this idea of materialism is is is much deeper than buying too much stuff on Amazon. It goes to a mindset that the spiritual doesn't matter only what I can do for myself physically, materially, that's what matters. And that's the theology that underlies our culture of everybody pursuing things. And we need to be aware of that as Christians. We'll talk about that a little bit more. So we go, that's an older definition of where materialism started. We come to a more modern definition. We go go I go to the internetdictionary. com for that. And I find that definition there being a preoccupation with or an emphasis on material objects. comforts and considerations, with a dense disinterest in or rejection of spiritual, intellectual, or cultural values Spiritual values, intellectual values, cultural values, though don't matter. I'm only interested in what brings me comfort in material objects and material considerations. This is the definition that we're more familiar with. It's the attitude that results from the belief that we are only material. So your beliefs will always affect your actions The reason our culture today is consumed by having stuff, having things, biggest houses, nicest cars, the reason that people do that is because people believe that we're only material. It's their belief that shapes their actions. So working backwards from there, we all see that connection. What about when a Christian is only living for the material? Well, because that comes back to their beliefs. Now we believe and assent to and we understand the Word of God, but when we act out our life practically, if we're only consumed with material things, we're saying my spiritual doesn't matter that much. We're saying my spirit doesn't matter to me. My physical, my material is what's important to me. Your uh your beliefs will always affect your actions. When we look at when we look at culture and we say what's the solution uh to to the the um Violence epidemic and and the and the the people that are stealing things and people that are doing these mass shootings, what's the solution? The problem is their beliefs are wrong You can't change their actions until you change your beliefs. Until people start believing again that man is spiritual, that man is eternal, that we're formed in the image of God, that life has value, you're not going to change their actions, because why would they change what they're doing if their beliefs remain the same, that this world is only based on the material. And what best is what is best for me, that's the only thing that I should be doing. uh the satanic bible says, do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law. Satan's not interested in people serving him, he's interested in people serving themselves. And that's what he's pushing and his motivation is is to get people to just do what's best for you and ignore the spiritual, ignore the eternal. And that's the essence here of materialism. So that's kind of the definitions. We see the history of this theology. We see the fruit of this theology. What about this idea we're going to go on to the next point? What about the materialism in the Bible? Now the word materialism isn't there in the Bible. And there's not kind of a word we could point to, but this idea is shown several times throughout the Word God and given some very vivid descriptions. Now all of these descriptions center around the idea of covetousness. First one is in 1 Timothy 6, verse number 9, and the Bible says there, but they that will be rich fall into temptation. and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. This is a warning about making financial wealth your primary goal. It's contrasting the passage to the spirit of contentment that we're supposed to have. So this idea, they that will be rich, that's their motivation, that's their primary desire, that's the focus that they give into their life, is the pursuit of riches. That's where this kind of is described. We see the next verse describes this idea as the love of money. 1 Timothy 6. 10. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which, while some coveted after, have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. This verse immediately follows the one we just looked at. It's a well known verse in the Bible. The love of money is the root of all evil. This goes right along with those that are not content and they've made riches a primary goal in their life. But this goes on to explain that the love of money is a manifestation of covetousness. It's because they were coveting that they have this love of money. And it is that manifestation that ends up being the root of all evil, the love of money. He explains that through this love of money, people have erred from the faith. People who were saved who are saved, save saved people, they can't lose your salvation obviously. Um but people who are saved and that were following the word of God, following the will of God active in church, allowed a love of money to cause them to err or turn aside from the truth that they knew. They didn't lose their salvation, but they're no longer following the will of God because they're pursuing something else, which reminds us of a verse that Jesus said back in Matthew, you cannot serve God and mammon. You can't serve them both. No man can have two masters. This is a warning in this passage specific to pastors because he goes on to talk about Timothy's motivations, but it applies to all of us as Christians. It's interesting this word love of money. I look I looked it up. It's one Greek word, but it comes as a compound word. We have the word phylos, which is the word for love. And then you have the word for silver. The love of silver is in this passage. But the word philos is that word for love that is the word for friend or brotherly love, such as Philadelphia. So essentially the idea when it says the love of money is when you've made money your friend. Well you've made money your friend. I was thinking about that idea of making money your friend. I would think that it would have been the love that was the the sacrificial and I'll give up anything to have love. The love here mentioned is just when when when love is your f when money is your friend. And when you think about that, a friend that's who you call when you have a need And how easy is it for us to, I have a need, I'm going to call on my friend to get me out of this, to get me out of this problem. Because it's right here. And it's the one that I'm relying on when I have a hard time. And it's the one that I go to when I have a struggle and when I have a need. I've made money, my friend. That's the idea here of the love of money in 1 Timothy chapter 6. Another kind of Bible phrase that teaches us about this idea of materialism is seen in Proverbs chapter 1. In verse number 19, the Bible says, For so are the ways of everyone that is greedy of gain. which taketh away the life of the owners thereof. Proverbs chapter one lays out the path of a sinner that wants to corrupt a young person. They entice them, come along with us, put your person with us. We're going to go wait for blood, and we're going to seek for the innocent without cause. That's the passage in Proverbs chapter 1. It describes their behavior and it says it shows here in this verse that these this is an outward display of their inward covetousness. Because all that evil that they do, he says, so are the ways of one who's greedy of gain. Someone's greedy of gain is going to act this way. It goes back to what we're talking about. Your beliefs influence your actions. It's almost as if the Bible would agree with itself that the love of money is the root of all evil. Another reference that we looked at at the beginning of our lesson today, a man's life consisting of the abundance of things This is the attitude of our culture today. I've seen a bumper sticker years ago that said, He who dies with the most stuff wins. I'm sure you've seen that mentality, or maybe even that bumper sticker. It's very easy for this mindset to creep into our belief system. We have this idea of worth in our culture today. A person's worth or value is very often reduced to simply his net worth. I remember something several years ago that I was filling out some financial information that I was putting together and it had on there the question of what is your net worth. Like, well what exactly I had to go look up. What exactly is net worth? Net worth is assets minus liabilities. What do you what do you own minus what do you owe? Well we my wife and I just finished paying off all of our medical debt, so we finally had nothing on the O side. So let me add together everything that we own. It was like five thousand dollars. Very, very humbling experience to say my worth is five grand after twenty something years in this world. Here's what I've got to got to show for it. But we know that's not our worth. That's not the essence of of who we are. A person's worth is not determined by their assets, minus, or liabilities. There is much more to life than that unless you're a materialist. We look at this idea of money in the Bible and we we always clear um to put a caveat on this, money in itself is not intrinsically evil. We understand money is just a tool. It's our attitude towards and our use of money that makes it right or wrong. The money represented by the cards and bills in my wallet is just plastic, metal, and cotton and linen. No paper and paper money. some trivia for you in case you end up a game show someday. Uh cotton and linen, that's what money is made out of. But that's all it is. It's just just these material things, plastic, metal. Cotton, linen, it's i that's all it is. It's not evil in and of itself. The money is a problem based on your attitude towards it and your use of it. We understand the use of money can be evil. You can use money to do wicked things. You can support wicked causes, you could buy a wicked item, you could use it to abuse others, you can fail to steward it well, you can use it foolishly, we can use our money in a way that would be sinful and wicked. But money also is a problem when our attitude towards it is wrong. As we've discussed in this point with these verses, there are times when our attitude towards money makes it a problem. When we're covetous or greedy of it, when we love it, when we will compromise to get it, when we're influenced by it, when we We pursue it through haste. There's a lot that the Bible has to say about wrong attitudes towards money. So money itself is not is not wrong. It's our attitudes and our use of money. Being rich in itself is not wrong. It can be that wealth has gotten outside of biblical, moral, and legal means, but there are times that God has blessed people in the Bible and in the world today with riches. God has given them that to them for them to steward. If it is earned properly and wisely, help having wealth is not a problem. We just need to remember who that wealth really belongs to So being money is not in itself is not wrong, being rich is not a wrong in and of itself, and having stuff is not wrong in and of itself. This goes into our essence of our lesson with these two weeks regarding materialism. It's okay to have things as long as our perspective on those things remains a biblical perspective. Private property is a biblical principle and a biblical right. In fact, private property is the belief system that puts into practice the commandment thou shalt not steal. Because if nothing could be owned by anybody, nothing could be stolen by anybody. So the Bible assumes that you have the right to possess things when it says other people don't have the right to take those from you. God believes that your right to own stuff should be legally and morally protected. Again, going back to financial principles in Proverbs, there's many verses that have to do with saving. Stuff accumulates in the house of people who use their money wisely because they save and they can have it. So having things in and of itself is not wrong. So we get this idea of materialism. Where did it come from? What does it become? What does the Bible had to say about it? And thirdly, this morning, how does it develop? How does materialism develop in the heart of a Christian? We saw that this attitude comes from an improper theology and sinful attitudes. And we've looked at it in detail from kind of a secular perspective. But because we're surrounded by the world, it will try to infect us with its false religion. We said materialism is a false religion, a false theology this world promotes. And we're around the world. We hear from the world. We're educated by the world. It's all around us. So if we're not careful, this mentality, their religion can creep into our mindset as well. We will always theologically and mentally assent to the truth that we are eternal beings and that this life is only temporary. However, we can easily live our lives as if the material is all that matters. Here's just a simple practical example. When it comes to children, raising children, what are you pointing them towards with your instruction, your example? Are you pointing them towards material success or pointing them towards pleasing God. It doesn't matter what kind of job you end up with as long as you please God, or I want you to be successful. What do you point them towards? With your instruction? and your um your example, because both of those are directing your children. The Bible talks about children being arrows in the hand of a mighty man. Thing about arrows is they go where you point them. And what are you pointing, what are you pointing your family to? So just a practical example of how we can let that materialism creep in and we make it the most important things in our life. We know that this life is short and we know that eternity is forever, but most of the time we live like this life is all that matters. We can become a lot more interested in laying up treasures on earth and forget that we have a responsibility to lay up treasures. in heaven. Now there's three primary attitudes that would cause us as Christians to pursue materialism. These are all contrary to the Word of God. They are all sinful attitudes and they're attitudes that we must we must overcome if we're going to free ourselves from this materialistic mentality. So first of all, this morning we have the idea of covetousness. Covetousness, it's the primary motivation for materialism. All the Bible definitions We looked at greedy of gain, the love of money, he that will be rich. This is all goes back to this idea of covetousness. It's just the fact that we want too much stuff. You know, we just came to the Christmas season and just about all of us were asked the question, what do you want for Christmas? We have the question, what do you want? And and most of this, most of us it, oh, I know what I want. I got a list of things that I want to have. We want things, and that's not necessarily wrong in and of itself, but goes back to our motivation and our heart's attitude towards these things. Coveting does go beyond simply having a Christmas list, but we live in a culture that promotes wanting things. I read yesterday that a young person will see over twenty advertisements before they're done being a teenager. Before they hit 20 years old, they'll see over 20,000 advertisements. I grew up in the 90s and And in the 90s was the time where advertising to kids on television became the thing to do. There was commercials all the time that had kids having fun and laughing. and drinking Kool-Aid and eating fruit roll-ups and wearing pop-out roller skates on her shoes and everything that they were these it was all geared towards Getting kids to want stuff. Go ask your parents to get you this thing. That was that was all the marketing that was going on there. I had a friend that used to change the channel every time the program could cut would come on so he could go back to watching commercials. Very frustrating person. to try to watch TV with. Instead of changing the channel when commercials came on, he'd changed the channel when the show came back on so he could watch more commercials. It's interesting that God included covetousness. You know, the other nine commandments could be enforced by society and government. But covetousness is an inward sin. It does have outward manifestations, but it can be hidden in our hearts. So what is covetousness? Covetousness is a strong or inordinate desire of obtaining and possessing some supposed good, usually in a bad sense, and applied to the inordinate desire of wealth or avarice. The idea of inordinate in this definition is excessive or immoderate or behind the limit or beyond the limit. The idea is that your desire for things is out of control. Or you have desired what God has forbidden or what God doesn't want you to have. That's the essence of covetousness. So when we look at the idea of covetousness in the Bible, there's several re references to it. Forty-one times the word covetousness or covet is mentioned in the Bible. We see that it's forbidden for those who are in spiritual authority. We see it's a characteristic of the flesh We see that it should not be named once among believers. We see that covetousness is idolatry, and covetousness is a characteristic of people who live in the last days. We look at the New Testament specifically. I like going and looking at the definitions of the words when you go to the Greek language because it's a very draws a picture, it's a very picturesque language and kind of gives you an illustration in the word itself. And there's several words the New Testament use. Or translated as covetousness. One means greed that would cause you to commit fraud. A strong desire that would cause you to do something immoral in order to get what you would have. That's one of the definitions. for covetousness. Another idea is the one we talked about already, the law love of money or being fond of silver or being a friend to money. Another means that you set your heart on something or you lust after it. That's another idea of covetousness. One me one definition that a word that's translated covetousness is the idea of stretching for something. Reaching and stretching is saying, that's what I want. You reach out for something. And this one was the most interesting to me. It's used three times, I believe, in the New Testament. But that word covetous means the idea of being the one holding the most, holding more things. Whoever has the most, that's the idea of covetousness. I want to be the one holding more things. That's the attitude that's that's pictured for us there in this word of covetousness. It is our out-of-control desire for things, and it is our desire for things that have been forbidden to us that lead us into materialism. So that's covetousness. That's one way that materialism develops in a Christian. Secondly, we see the idea of conformity. The second wrong desire that leads us into materialism is conformity. Romans 12, verse number 2, be not conformed to this world. We go back to what we're talking about with Christians adopting the world's mentality. We do what we do because it's what everybody else is doing. You think about the idea of a fad. A fad comes through, why is it popular? Because everybody's doing it. That's why we enjoy it. As I as I said already, growing up in the growing up in the nineties, I remember being a teen and having interests that were not my interests. Things that I got really good at that really had no appeal to me. Um but just because everybody else played hacky stack I had a hacky sack. Just because everybody else knew how to walk the dog with a yo-yo, I knew how to walk the dog with a yo-yo. You know you get these attitudes. I I would wear when I was a teen. I had a pair of bands, tennis shoes, because everybody had bands tennis shoes If you were around when I was eight years old, you'd have seen me in a pair of cutoff shorts and a jean jacket, because again, it was the 90s. We do what we do because other people are doing them That's the idea of conformity. That's the attitude that Christians are not supposed to have. We're called to be different from the world. Yet so often there's very little difference in the life and priorities of a moral, unsaved individual and someone who calls themselves a Christian. The idea of being conformed is the idea of fitting into a pattern. You see, the world has a pattern for everything. There's a pattern for what kind of a man or woman or child you're supposed to be There's a pattern for what you should be interested in. There's a pattern for what kind of car you ought to be driving. There's a pattern for how you should spend your money. There are a pattern for the types of clothes you should be wearing. There's a pattern for the type of drink that you should uh you should enjoy. There's patterns for how much you should spend on your kids at Christmas. There's patterns for what kind of an engagement ring a man's supposed to buy. There's a pattern for what kind of clothes your kids should have There's a pattern for how many cars uh a family should own. There's a pattern for what type of house and yard you're supposed to have. The world has patterns and expectations for all of us, and we often conform to those without ever thinking twice about it. So one reason we're so caught up with things is because the world's so caught up with things. And we've failed to be different. We have failed to stand in opposition to this world because everybody's supposed to have one of these. Every kid's supposed to have this many sets of clothes. Everybody's supposed to have this this type of a home or whatever application you want to do. want to make, there's a conformity as what the world is doing. And if we're not living contrary to the to the appetites of this world, we're going to go right along with it. So covetousness, conformity are two attitudes that would cause a Christian to go into materialism. The third one that I find in the Word of God for why a Christian would participate in materialism is that of comparison, or another word for that would be envy. Envy is ill will, discontent, or a resentful longing aroused by someone else's possessions, privileges, or talents. In America, we call this keeping up with the Joneses. There's a level of built a built-in level of covetousness, pride, and discontentment in our flesh that causes us to not want to be outdone by anyone else. We have a hard time being content with our stuff when other people have more, better, or nicer things than we do. The neighbor got a new car, I want a new car. My brother got a bigger house, I want a bigger house. This church member got a nicer video game system, I want a nicer video game system. So-and-so got a 75-inch TV, I want an 80-inch TV. Um we're not we we look around and we see what other people have and I want that for myself. That goes into pride, discontentment, and covetousness. It's built into our sin nature from the earliest of ages. How many times as a parent have you had your child ask for something that somebody else got? Well, so-and-so just got one of these. I want one of these too. It's because they want what somebody else has. It's this envy and it's this comparison that we have We teach our kids, you know, so-and-so um so-and-so got this, somebody comes up, child comes up, say, hey, so-and-so's dad got them a hoverboard, uh, when do I get a hoverboard? We teach our kids life isn't fair. I'm not so-and-so's dad, um you're not getting a hoverboard. And then the neighbor buys a new grill with a uh with a Bluetooth technology that keeps track of the temperature and you stay inside while your food cooks and all of a sudden your grill doesn't work anymore. See the problem doesn't go away just because we got older. We still have the same thing of so-and-so got one of these, when do I get one? This comparison, this envy that we have. We in America we have an especially we especially have a big problem with materialism. It's rooted in the unbiblical idea that this life is all there is. That's the essence of we'll talk about next week, but the the the rich fool said, I'm just gonna store up what I have. God says, hey, there's more. There's more to it than just this life. We participate in materialism because of a sinful lusts of covetousness, conformity, conformity, and comparison. These are what causes materialism in our lives as beliefs. So the that's the idea or the essence of materialism, what it is, where does it come from? What does the Bible have to say about it? Next week we're going to continue the lesson with the cures for materialism. How do we get over these sinful attitudes in our lives as believers? We're going to go ahead and