The alphabet, last week we talked about overcoming presumptuous sins. And if you have your notes this morning, which are available in the back or online, we are talking today about overcoming a quick tongue. overcoming a quick tongue. The uh letter Q is our next one here. You know, as uh as Individuals, believers, people in general, something that we often get ourselves in trouble with is what the Bible calls this little member. We have this little member and it can cause a lot of damage. It can cause a lot of problems and we tend to get ourselves uh into trouble quite often when it comes to our tongue. There's an illustration uh that's given often in in uh um children's ministry to to teach you about this and I was going to share that with you this morning. So if I got a Stephen come up and give me a hand. Stephen, you want to give me a hand here. Just come stand right up here on the side here. There we go. Alright, what we're going to do is I'm going to see your skill level here on do you brush your teeth? Okay, good. Alright, so you should know how to work this. What I want you to do is I want you to squeeze everything out of there onto this plate. Can you do that for me? That wow, that's really good. That is a good job squeezing toothpaste. Alright, that's almost there. Almost got it all. There it is. That's well there we go. Okay. So got all that out. Was that hard? Pretty easy to get it out there. Now you've made a mess, right? What I'd like you to do is put all that back in the toothpaste tube for me. Go ahead and clean up that message you just made. Is that gonna work? No, you're not gonna do that. We do the same, you can go get a napkin. We do the same with our speech. It's very easy to put a mess out there, uh, but trying to clean it back up Trying to put it all back is not going to work. When you speak too quickly, you put yourself in a position where you have created a mess that it is uh impossible or uh very difficult to try to clean up the damage that was caused uh with our tongue and that's why we need to guard uh guard our mouth, guard our tongue from what we can say. There was another story given of a young man who was in a um seminary back um I thought it was in the sixteen hundreds, so it was uh a long time ago, and he was dealing with this idea of of spreading rumors and and gossip and was just known for being a loudmouth and one of his uh professors called him in and said, I have an assignment for you. I want you to take this feather pillow up to the top of the dormitory, open the window, and shake all the feathers out And uh um so he went and did that, came back and said, is it done? It is. He said, Okay, well now I should go pick them all back up. Well well we can't do that. Why? Because that's all been broadcast and put out there and and what you've done can't can't be taken back. And the same is true when it comes to our when it comes to our words, when it comes to our speech. It is very easy to make a mess, it's very hard to deal with it. So we looked at the the illustration there of squeezing out the toothpaste. It was a lot easier to squeeze it out than it was to put it back. And another question to follow up to that is it when it comes to dealing with the mess, is it easier to try to put it back or is it easier not to make the mess to begin with? A lot easier not to make the best to begin with. So if we can learn to curtail our speech and use wisdom when it comes to our tongue, overcoming a quick tongue. That's going to put us in a position where we're not going to create as many messes, have as many problems that we have to deal with. Our tongues are very dangerous things. We use them constantly, and it is easy to get in trouble with them. Last week, Pastor Patrell made the point about how it's impossible for someone who talks as much as preachers do uh not to say something wrong or mess up what we're trying to uh to say. He gave a little more illustration than that, but I'm not gonna I'm gonna guard my tongue on the rest of the illustration that he gave there. We have the idea of you you talk a lot, it's very easy to get in trouble uh with your words. Um even even uh in in simple things, simple mistakes that you make when it comes to to your speech. Last week I was teaching a discipleship class And we were talking about the judgment seat of Christ and how it's different than the Great White Throne judgment, but for the whole class period I kept calling the judgment seat of Christ the Great White Throne Judgment And I would catch myself and no no that's not the right one. We're talking about the judgment seat of Christ, but just misspeaking, and thankfully I caught it and the class knew what I was talking about, but That's a that's doctrinal heresy if you mix those two up. Uh so it's very easy even uh not to just not to just do harm, uh, but to misspeak, to say something wrong, to to m uh use our tongues in a way that causes damage or confusion and so we need to we need to really guard um our tongue The tongue is so easy to sin with that it gets two mentions in the Ten Commandments. Think about the Ten Commandments, God summarizing his moral law for mankind. Here's the way you ought to live. Two of the ten deal with our tongue. Which two? Can somebody can somebody tell me which which one at least one of the two that deal with Stephen? Thou shalt not bear false witness, yep. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. So two of the ten uh have to do, twenty percent of the Ten Commandments deal with our tongue. But if we go a little bit further than that, we can see it's even more so because you have the command Honor thy father and thy mother. If you go to the New Testament in Matthew as well as in Mark, when Jesus is dealing with the Pharisees, he says to them, You know that Moses said, Honor your father and your mother. uh but you say if I say this it's okay. And he makes an application to the way you talk to your parents as it ties to honoring your parents, the way you talk to and about them. So the sin of dishonoring your parents is also in the New Testament tied to our tongue. So now we're up to 30% of the Ten Commandments that deal with our tongue. But as I was thinking about it a little bit more, we get to the final commandment, thou shalt not covet. Now, thou shalt not covet is a command that is not given any specific punishment or ruling in the rest of the law saying when somebody covets, here's what you're supposed to do to them. Because coveting is a sin of the heart. And only God can judge that sin and is semi-coveting or not. But when we look at how God dealt with the Israelites, we see that outside of the sin of unbelief, for which he wiped out a whole generation of Israelites for not going into the promised land. The sin of coveting was illustrated in a sin of the tongue that God killed a lot of the Israelites for, and that was murmur. Murmuring and complaining, they wanted something that they didn't have. They were coveting the leaves and the melons and the lentils that were back in Egypt. They were covet coveting uh what the other nations had around them. They were coveting uh these things and that that manifested itself in complaining. Again, a sin of the tongue. And so now we're up to forty percent of the Ten Commandments are broken just with our tongue. And uh what what a dangerous thing that is, and how easy it is for us to get into trouble with our tongue. It's something that we need a lot of practical help with. Just how do I do it? How do I bring my tongue under control? And we look at the idea of practical in the Bible. What would you say would probably be the most practical book of the Old Testament? Practical, just how to live life. Proverbs. Proverbs, just practical how to live. What should you do? How should you live? And when you look at the book of Proverbs, there are over 200 references to our words, our sayings, the things that we've said, our tongue, our lips. You look these words up, there are over 200 references. to the tongue or our speech in the book of Proverbs. There's 915 verses in the book of Proverbs, so about again, one in five or twenty percent of the book of Proverbs. Deals with our tongue, deals with our speech. And so you see how much time God dedicates in the Bible to talking about learning control this little member. When we get to the New Testament, we can look at the idea of practical, and probably the most practical book by most people's consideration in the New Testament would be the book of James. And the book of James deals a lot with the tongue. It would be very good to do a study, a topical study on speech in the book of James. We don't have time to do that whole study this morning, but I want to walk through the book of James with you and this morning real quickly at the introduction time here and just see how much the book of James talks about our speech. So if you're there in James chapter 1, just follow along, I'll give you a verse and I'll just read the part of the verse that talks about our speech. So James 1 Verse number five, if any of you a lack wisdom, let him ask. That's speech of God. Verse 13, let no man say Verse number 19, wherefore my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak. Verse number 26: if a man seem to be religious and bridleth not his tongue. James chapter 2, verse number 3, Ye have respect to him that wear the gay clothing and say unto him, and to the poor, say to the poor. James 2, verse 12, So speak ye. James 2, 14, what is a prophet uh my brethren, though a man say he have faith? Verse 16, if any of you say unto them, verse 18, yea a man shall say Chapter three, verse number two. If any man offend not in word, chapter three, verse number five, even so the tongue is a little member, it boasteth great things Verse 6, the tongue is a fire, and so is the tongue among our members. James chapter 3, verse 8, the tongue can no man tame. Verse number 9. Therewith we bless God and curse men. Verse number ten, out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. James 3. 14, yeah, better bitter ending of strife in your hearts, glory not and lie not against the truth. James four verse three, ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James four eleven, speak not evil one of another. He that speaketh evil is of his brother, speaketh evil. of the law. James 4 verse 13. Go to now ye that say today or tomorrow. James 4, 15, but ye ought to say James four sixteen, but now rejoice in your boastings, and all rejoicing is evil. Chapter five, verse number twelve, swear not, let your yea be yea, and your nay nay James 5, 13, and he afflicted, let him pray. Any marry, let him sing. Verse 14, is any man sick among you? Let him call the elders of the church. Let them pray over him James 5, 16, confess your faults, and the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. So just this one short book in the New Testament Very short, very practical, very easy to read. You could sit down and read the book of James. If you were not not taking your time, just reading straight through, it'd take you 15, 20 minutes maybe. And all of those references to our tongue and what they call the book of James because the Christian life just how to live your life on a daily basis and all these references to what you should say, what you shouldn't say, how you should talk, how you shouldn't talk. Here's some cautions. Here's some warnings and all this tied to our speech. There are a lot of instructions, illustrations, warning, and restrictions put on our speech by God in this little book. So to introduce his discussion, he's going to talk about the tongue quite a bit in the book of James. To introduce his discussion in this book, he begins chapter one with Something that a man says, and then a woman against a quick tongue. And that's where we're going to begin our study this morning talking about overcoming a quick tongue. So James chapter 1, if you go back there, verse number 17. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. So we're going to start this morning as we talk about overcoming a quick tongue. Let's pray together. Lord, we love you. And we thank you for your word. What we can learn from it, I pray you bless this study this morning as we look at this idea of the tongue. Lord, there's uh no one here who's not messed up at some point when it comes to something that we've said, Lord, and there's no one here that's not going to do it again. But I pray, Lord, that we would minimize the offenses that we cause uh by our speech, by our words, by carelessness with our tongue This manner of answering something quickly, Lord, that we'd have wisdom in that regard. Pray that you bless our time around your word this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So we see this warning here in James, or a command, or an instruction: be swift to hear, be slow to speak, and be slow to wrath. So he's giving this instruction about our speech and saying Don't be so quick with your tongue. Don't be so quick to give an answer. Don't be so quick to give a response. Don't be so quick to speak out and speak your mind. This is where we get ourselves in trouble most often with our tongue. When we say something and we say, Oh, shouldn't have said that. It came out before I had a chance to think about it. We didn't run it through the filter. Is this a good idea to say before I say it? We get in trouble. with our spouses, we get in trouble with our friends, we get in trouble with our coworkers, with our boss, because we say something and we say, Oh, no, I shouldn't have said that. Because why I was too quick So James gives us warning here about being quick to speak, but I want to look at it first of all this morning in context. What exactly is he talking about? And it might surprise you as we study the passage in chapter 1 here what he's actually referring to when it comes to being uh quick to speak in this context, the actual context of the passage, the interpretation. But there's a lot we'll learn from this context when it comes to how we answer quickly in other scenarios. So we see it in verse number 19. The first word there is the word wherefore. Wherefore, that's a key word. But if you that word, it should cause you to pause. and say, wait a minute, this is this is pointing me to something. Wherefore is very similar to the word therefore. And what we uh teach is that when you see a therefore, you find out what it's Therefore, wherefore is an application word. You notice that I just gave you. Because of that, here's what you need to do. So if we want to know why is he telling us not to be quick with our tongue, we need to go back in the passage and say, what groundwork did he just lay? What was he just talking about to give us the reason why we should not be so quick with our tongue? If we want to figure out why rash words are forbidden in this verse, we need to see what rash words is he referring to. So if we go backwards in the passage, we find the words spoken rashly in verse number 13. Verse number 13 says, Let no man say. This is the second reference to words in the book of James. The first one is where we are told to ask for wisdom. But when he gets to this point, he says, Don't say this. Here's something that you should not say in this situation. So people were were jumping to this conclusion, were making this statement, and he said, Hey, you need to cut that off. You don't need to let your de yourself say these things, and then he gets later to warning. So because of all this Therefore, don't be quick to speak. So what is this person saying? What is the saying being brought out here? Verse 13 is a man saying, When he is tempted, I'm tempting the tempted of God. The rash words that are spoken in James chapter 1 that he's warning against are the words that are blaming God for temptation. Blaming God for his temptation sin. Now this comes all if we're going to look at the whole context here. This is all talking about trials. James chapter 1 deals a lot with Christians who are in trials. and people who are going through a difficult time. And he warns them, when you get into the middle of this, don't say that you're tempted of God. So we're going to actually back up a little bit further to verse 13 and work our way into it to see what's going on here. All the way back in verse number well it starts actually in verse number one. See in verse number one it says James the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. So you see there, he's referencing his audience. That would be the twelve tribes that are scattered abroad. Now he's talking to a Christian group and they are Jewish people, he's saying twelve tribes, and they're people that have been scattered. You go to the context of history and when this is written, they were scattered around the world because of persecution that took place on the Christians at Jerusalem. So they've been scattered. And they were scattered because of persecution. So they're facing difficult times. They're facing trials and that's his audience. When he gets his audience established that there are people who are in trials, he gives them discussion on trials in verses two and three. In verse two he says, My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Hey, when you're in the trial, when you're in different trials and you're facing these different struggles Count it for joy. There's reason to rejoice in the midst of the trial, why knowing this, that the trying of your faith Work with patience, verse number three. You're going to grow in the midst of the trial. And God's going to use that trial to mold and to shape and to develop you. And God's going to grow you as a Christian as a result. If we go to history, what happened as a result of these persecutions. What happened was the world was reached with the gospel. See the church at Jerusalem uh was growing and it was doing well and and they were having people being saved and baptized and added to the church. There were the events of Pentecost. There were 3,000 saved. A couple chapters later, there were 5,000 saved. Daily were added to the church. Sessions should be saved. Things were going great, but they forgot the last command or instruction that Jesus gave to them. And that's go into all the world and preach the gospel. They were there in Jerusalem preaching the gospel, seeing great revival, but God said, hey, there's more people that need to hear. So God allowed trials and persecution to come on the church in Jerusalem, so everybody had to scatter. And when they scattered, they brought the gospel with them. And God used that trial to cause these people to grow, and these people who were church members went out and become evangelists and soul winners. And churches were started all over the world as a result of these trials. So James is pointing out, hey, there's reason to rejoice because your trials can bring you growth and maturity. Verse number four, but let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. This is that maturation process. So you as a Christian, when you are in a trial, that trial is ex- is stretching your patience And patience, when it's allowed to do the work that it needs to do, it's going to make you perfect or complete. And you won't lack anything. You'll grow and mature as a Christian. You'll have what you need to be who God wants you to be So that's where he gets to talking about their trials. Then he gets to verse number five where he says, if any of you lack wisdom, say, wait, you're you're you're impatience, you're struggling in your trial, and you can get to the point where you don't lack anything. Well, if you're lacking wisdom, Ask God for it because you it needs wisdom to go through a trial and see it from God's perspective. Because when I'm in a trial, I want to uh win in fear, win in doubt, run in circles, scream and shout. That's what I feel like in a trial But God says you look at it from my perspective, you get my wisdom, you'll see patience having work. So ask for patience, and you can have it. Then he goes on to say, well, if you're asking for patience, you need to ask faith, not to wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. Um and he says you need to have that faith when you're in this trial. You're asking God for patience, looking for the answer. Let not that man, a man that's unstable, a man that's tossed about. says, let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord, a double minded man is unstable in all his ways. Someone who who who's not mindful of seeing God's perspective in the trial. They're double-manded. They're unstable. They're not going to have God's wisdom in the trial. They're not going to let patience have its work. They're not going to make it through the trial and receive that maturity that he's saying the trial can work in their heart. And that's important because we're going to see those people brought up again. So this idea of trials is being discussed, needing wisdom, seeing growth in your life. And you get down to verse number 12. It says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. If you go through the trial, if you go through the temptation and you endure you remain steadfast to the Lord, well you're gonna have blessing and you're gonna be rewarded for that. But pointing out that people are rewarded for enduring also points out that there's some people that didn't endure. That goes back to those double-minded, those that didn't stay faithful in the midst of the trial, and that leads us into the verse number 13. Let no man say when he's tempted, I'm tempted of God. These people who go through the temptation, who go through the trials, the difficulties, they're unstable, they're not letting patience habits work, they're not maturing, they don't endure, and then they blame God That's where we get to verse number 13. They blame God. They said, well, it's God's fault. Let no man say when he's tempted. Now he's shifting from a temptation being a trial to temptation being a temptation to sin. The sin is unbelief, the sin is the lack of faith, the sin is the is a sin that you go into, but these people who fell or or went away from God in the midst of the trial and then blame God for it. Well, it's God's fault. That was the thing that they were saying. That was the statement that they were making, blaming God for their sin. Verse number 13. God does allow us to go through trials. God will put trials in our lives, but God does not tempt us to do that which is evil. So how do we get to temptation? How do we get from one temptation to the other? Well, it's those who were double-minded and unstable. They did not endure. They fell into sin in the midst of their trial But why did they fall into sin? Because God did it? Because God put them in that position? No. Verse number fourteen, every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lusts and enticed. When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. Do not err. Don't go away. Don't veer off the path. Don't stray, my beloved brethren. Warning you that when you're in the trial and temptation shows up, don't go follow that temptation because that's being drawn away from God in your own lust And you don't get to blame God for that. It was your fault. You went after your own desires, so don't make the claim that God was the one that didn't. Instead, you see the next couple verses, God has given us good gifts, including our salvation. Verse number 18, through his word, of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So this whole context, you got these people in trials, and you can let trials have their work that they need to do in your life and you'll mature. If you're unstable, if you don't endure, you're going to go off and you're going to fall into sin. You don't get to blame God for that. Wherefore? Let every man be swift to hear. Swift to hear what? The word of truth. The word of God. Slow to speak. Don't be so rash in your speech and say this is all God's fault. That's not what was going on here. Be slow to speak, be slow to wrath. Don't get mad at God for the position that you've gotten yourself into. And that's the warning he's given here here in the context of just walking through this chapter and seeing where God brings us to. In this command to be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, swift to hear the word of God, swift to hear God's wisdom Slow to speak, not blaming God for our failure, slow to wrath, not getting mad at God for the trials in our lives. So today we're going to key in on that one of the slow to speak. and not be so rash in our speech. So as we see this passage in context, and it has to do with blaming God for our failure, what are some lessons we can learn from that about rash speech? Being quick to speak with one of them. Speaking rashly comes from the face of a lack of wisdom. If you had the wisdom to see what God was doing in the situation, you're not going to blame God for where you're at and having fallen away. You're going to see, well, I'm here because of my own choices So it's a lack of wisdom. Now lack of wisdom is a nice way of saying foolishness. And so when we're speaking rashly, speaking quickly, it shows our lack of wisdom. There's a verse in Proverbs that kind of was uh spun and uh and quoted um I don't remember who it was that had quoted it in a little bit different way, but they said it's better to um be quiet and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt Uh that's the speaking rashly shows foolishness. Uh there's wisdom in refraining your speech. And we see this in the context of James chapter 1, if you're lacking wisdom, you're unstable. And that leads to this place where they're speaking rashly. So rash speaking comes from a place where there's a lack of wisdom. Another lesson we can learn from this context of this passage, speaking rashly involves speaking on things you do not fully understand. The people here who were quick to blame God didn't know what was going on. They didn't know the whole story. And how often is that the case when we speak too rashly? And then later we find out the whole story. And uh realize we were too quick to answer uh when we didn't really know what was going on. And that's what happens here in speaking rashly and a warning why we shouldn't do that because We often don't have the whole story. We'll look at that a little bit more in one of the verses we'll look at in Proverbs. But speaking rationally comes from a place of ignorance of the situation. I didn't know everything that was going on, but I was happy to share my opinion Uh I don't mind I don't mind giving people a piece of my mind and then you're saying I didn't really know what was going on and there are lots of things uh I could give and people around the room here could give. Well there's a time But I went and I said this and then later I found out this is what had happened and and uh okay so that was that was me uh putting my foot in my mouth uh being a fool because I spoke without all the information. This is times as a parent where you have to go back to your children to make apology, as we've heard illustration of uh within the last few weeks to say, look, I didn't I didn't realize everything that was going on, and I acted rashly, and I need forgiveness for that. And we get to this point if we're if we're speaking rashly, it comes from a place of not knowing everything that's going on. That's why it's better to keep quiet and wait Not be so quick to speak. These people did not know what God was doing in the Mr. Trials I spoke without knowledge Speaking rashly, a third lesson we can learn from this passage, speaking rashly often hurts or defames someone who is innocent. Here they're blaming God for something God did not do. They're blaming God for something God did not do. Why? Because they're speaking rashly without all the information. And how often when we speak rashly do we end up hurting people who were not at fault, who were innocent. Or we talk and we destroy somebody else when you have a quick tongue. Uh somebody who's quick witted. Now there's ways to be quick witted uh that you can bring humor and and light to a situation. You spend Spin something and make a pun. Those are fun. But there's people who have a quick wit to tear other people down. And this person hadn't done anything, but I just destroyed them in front of everybody else so that I could get a laugh. And that's the that's the quick tongue that brings destruction to someone who's innocent, defames an innocent person. These people were doing that to God. Job is commended in the book of Job for having not charged God foolishly He didn't blame God foolishly for the situation that he was in. He was commended for that because he was able to uh curtail his speech when it came to his wife told him, Just curse God and die. were looking for him to speak rashly and he didn't he didn't do so and God commended him for it. So speaking rashly hurts innocent people. And a fourth lesson we can learn from this passage of Scripture of what's going on here, speaking rashly is often used to deflect personal failure. They were the ones that had done wrong, so they were the first ones to defend themselves. They were the ones who had messed up, so they were the first ones to speak and accuse somebody else. They they they um they were deflecting that. There there's a saying about um if you throw a rock into a pack of dogs, the one that yelps is the one that got hit, uh first person to speak up and defend themselves is often the one who Needed to hear the instruction or the rep the reprimand because we're quick to come to our own defense when we know we're guilty. And that's the situation here. Speaking rashly is a cover for personal failure And we see these four lessons here about rash speech, quick speech, from the context of the trials that are going on in James chapter 1. So God warns us, don't be so quick. So we have the the context here of the quick tongue mentioned in James chapter one. We'll go on and look at some other verses now, other passages of scripture, and give you some caution. All know from personal experience. The Bible's laid it out for us, these these principles, but we know when we talked rashly that we have some things to be regretful of and some damage that we have caused. Number one of the cautions, your tongue will get you in trouble. Your tongue will get you in trouble. We're in James, go ahead and chapter 3, verses 2, or 1 and 2. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man and able also to bridle the whole body. Every one of us. We all offend and we all do it with our words. That's where we're all in. And so he cautions about everybody wanting to be a teacher. I want to be the one up talking. Well, just so you know, the one up talking gets in trouble the most because we have the most to most to say There's a verse in Proverbs we'll look at in a minute, multitude of words. There's a caution there about talking too much. And so in James we see that your tongue will get you in trouble. Proverbs 21-23 lays it out very clearly, again, very practical book. Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. If you can keep, the word keep is a military word. It's it's it's a fortress, it's the innermost protected place in the castle the keep. That's where if the castle was attacked, they put the important people in the keep. It was the most secured. It was the most most um the thickest walls. And they said that's where the keep that's where we if we really want something to stay protected, we put it in the keep. And he said, well, keep your tongue that way. If you want to take your tongue and just put it behind bars, lock it up, keep it shut down, if you can keep that tongue under control, well then you can keep yourself out of trouble. And so he's he's given the caution there. Who keeps his tongue his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from trouble. How many here, how many here have ever gotten themselves in trouble with your tongue? Everybody ride along with me. We're all going to raise our hand. We've gotten ourselves in trouble with our tongue. If we would have learned to hold on to it, then not let it out, well then we would have kept ourselves uh kept ourselves in trouble. You've almost seen uh probably a situation where somebody said something and they almost look like they want to grab it and bring it back. Because like I wanted to hold on to that. That wasn't supposed to that wasn't supposed to come out. And there's almost a physical response as if you could grab the words and and pull them back and put them in. Like the uh the the feature they've added to Gmail now where you can undo an email. I sent that Shouldn't have done that. I'm gonna undo it. You didn't used to have that option. Um you've ever ever texted the wrong person a message and oh that wasn't supposed to go to them Uh well you want to pull it back. Well that's our words. We get that way. I uh it came out, I want to I want to bring it back because I know I just caused trouble when I didn't guard myself in this area How many have ever said, me and my big mouth, right? We've let stuff come out. So your tongue will get you in trouble. A quick uh quick tongue, a quick wit can be fun for you and others when it's used properly, but when used improperly, uh it causes trouble and causes pain, which is our second point here about our cautions A quick tongue, or your tongue can cause great damage. Your tongue can cause great damage. Proverbs 13, verse number 3. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. But he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. You're going to cause damage. You're going to cause destruction when you don't protect what's coming out of your mouth when you're not guarding your tongue. Proverbs 1821, death and life are in the power of the tongue. And they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. Death and life. You have the power to bring health and life with your tongue. You have the problem of the power to bring destruction. And death with your tongue. Great power is in this little member. James chapter three describes that in detail of how great a matter a little fire kindleth, and how our tongues are just such a little member, but they can do so much Damage, so your tongue can cause great damage. You know, there's the old saying, sticks and stones may break my bones with cannot hurt me. Someone rewrote that saying and said, uh sticks and stones may break my bones, but words might hurt me deeply, causing me great emotional, mental, and psychological pain leading to lowered self-esteem and decreased work-related efficiency. As far as how how words can be destructive. Now Kind of a side note here, the point of the stick and stones quote, that's to encourage you to develop a tough skin. It's not to encourage bad words. Alright, it's not that's the point there. There's value in teaching young people to not let words just destroy you because you're gonna encounter people who use words improperly, and if they just destroy you mentally, psychologically, emotionally, you're not gonna do very well in life. If you need to develop a little bit of a tough skin, especially as Christians, because all that live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Um and thankfully, at least in our country, that persecution is usually verbal. Thankfully, because I'd rather have somebody yell at me than hit me. That's my personal preference. You may have a a different preference on that, but I don't mind the words as much. Especially because I spent a couple years as a salesman. Um when you go door to door sales you get used to people not being happy with you. So it makes soul winning very easy because uh they're not nearly as mean to a soul winner as they are to a lawn care salesman um and you come to the door there But we encounter, so that there's value there in teaching to not be not let the words affect you so much. But the truth, the other truth is true as well, that words can cause great damage. Don't be the one that's careless with the dangerous weapon that is in your tongue. Uh when you have someone who has a a you we'll use the example of um shooting guns. Several people here enjoy shooting guns, and if you ever gone to a gun range and you've been involved with somebody who has not been familiar with guns, there's a term called flagging Um flagging is when they are being careless and swinging the gun around and pointing uh pointing the gun. I was in a situation with someone one time who I was letting shoot And I gave them instruction here, hold it this way, point it this way, and then you are going to squeeze the trigger and you're going to do that. And with the gun in their hand, their finger on the trigger, they turned to me and said, How did I do that again And the gun was pointed at my stomach and my car, um which I'm either one I'm going to get shot. Um when I did it, go over and grab the gun, move it out of the way. They're just swinging around being careless, and people are like that with their tongues Just careless here, careless there, causing damage, hurting people, just because they're careless with the dangerous weapon that is your tongue. So don't be the one that's careless with your tongue because your tongue can cause great damage. A third caution when it comes to a quick tongue, do not give your opinion when you do not know the whole story. Proverbs 18, 13. Unto him. When I I think of this, I won't give the whole story, but this verse, whenever I read that, I my mind always goes back to a situation where uh something had happened and I was very indignant and righteous indignation and I I gave somebody a piece of my mind and uh and just shared my thoughts with them and corrected them and instruct them in a in a godly loving attitude. Um they called me and said, what was that all about? Um that wasn't me. Oh Well I feel about this big now because uh because I feel like an idiot because I because I answered a matter before I heard it, therefore it's a folly and a shame. I felt like a fool and I was ashamed because I spoke before I knew the whole story. You know there's three sides to every story if there's two people involved. There's his side, her side, and what actually happened. If there's three people involved, there's four sides of the story. His side, his side, his side, and what actually happened. If there's four people involved, there's five sides of the story. Alright, so don't answer a matter before you hear it. People will come to you with their side of the story, not looking for help, looking for allies. They want you to join them and say, well just be with me on this situation. I want you to be on my side. This is where you get the question, well whose side are you on? Well I want to help you both. I want to help the friendship. I want to help the relationship. I want to help the marriage. I'm not on your side or his side. I want to help you both come to a resolution. This represented situation. This happens in families, churches, job situations. It's why the Bible says do not answer a matter before you hear the whole story. Give you just a practical tip here, the easiest way to handle this is to bring the person to the person they have a problem with. Oh really? Pastor Derek said that Doesn't it sound like him? Why don't we go ask him about that? Oh no I no I don't want to go talk to him about that. Uh that's the because they're not looking for help, they're looking for allies So just that's a quick way to get yourself out of the situation. I'm not going to be at people's sides. Let's go talk to let's go bring you together and talk about it. And if they want to talk about it, they want resolution. They don't want to talk about it, they only want an ally in their side of the story So caution, do not answer the matter before you hear it. And we get to the corruptions, the corruptions of a quick tongue. A quick tongue can destroy your testimony and stunt your Christian growth. Quick tongue will destroy your testimony and uh stunts your Christian growth. If you're there in Hebrew um James again, chapter one, verse number twenty-six. Look at this verse. James one, twenty-six. If any man among you he's talking to He's writing to Christians and talking about their congregations, the people among you, if they seem to be religious, look religious, they look spiritual. It's not his tongue. Thieveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain. Useless. This man's if you can't control your tongue and you claim to be a Christian, well It's destroying your testimony. Because people are looking at you saying, well, Christianity is not doing them any good. A lost person looking at a Christian who can't control their tongue is making the assumption, well, their religion is useless. It's not making any change in them. So it destroys your testimony. It also stunts your your personal growth. Your spirituality that you're trying to achieve. It's not doing you any good. Your walk with God's not doing you good if you're not learning to control this little member. So it stunts your spiritual growth and it destroys your test Secondly, a quick tongue will hurt those around you. We talked about destruction already with the with the warnings there, but a quick tongue will hurt those around you. Proverbs 12, 18, there is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword. But the tongue of the wise is health. Words we said already are a dangerous weapon. Your words can pierce like a sword. Following this illustration, a soldier and a surgeon use the same instrument. A blade. They both use a blade, but one uses that blade for destruction, and the other uses that blade for healing. Here in Proverbs, there's a speaketh like the piercings of a sword. But the tongue of the wise is health. There's a way to take your words and just cut and destroy, like a soldier wielding a sword, or there's a way to take your words and bring mending and healing. Like a surgeon, and it all comes back to the skill and the goal of the one with the blade. See, a soldier may be very skillful at destroying other people, and there's people very skillful with their tongue at destroying other people. But you a surgeon is very skillful with his blade to bring healing. What's the goal? Do you want to hurt people? You want to help people? You develop this skill with your words, and you can have words that bring health as opposed to words that bring destruction. What are you accomplishing with your words? Lastly this morning we get the idea of overcoming. I've called this the chomping of a We need to learn to bite our tongues, so we're going to say chomp for sake of alliteration. Bite our tongues. Someone said that God gave you 32 teeth and two lips in order to keep your tongue in check. This is an illustration of what the psalmist prayed in Psalm 141, 3, set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth and keep the door of my lips. God, I need a soldier guarding right here so this little thing doesn't get out of control. I need a guard there. A couple principles about controlling your tongue. Number one, controlling your tongue is not something you can do on your own. James 3, 7 and 8, for every kind of beast and of birds and of serpents and of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It's an unruly evil full of deadly poison. No man can tame the tongue. God has to do that. We're out of time this morning, but a couple more principles here just to read those quickly for you. Controlling your tongue is a fruit of your Christian growth. We saw that your religion is vain. If you can't control your tongue, if your religion is doing something for you, you're going to be able to control your tongue. Proverbs 1019, controlling your tongue can be as simple as limiting your speech. In a multitude of words, there won't not sin. Maybe not talk so much. That's a good way to keep yourself out of from from making a mistake with your tongue. And lastly, controlling your tongue requires a change of speech. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth but that which is good to the use of edifying. If your tongue is used for destruction, turn it and use it for health. As Christians, this member gets us in a lot of trouble. We need to learn to overcome our tongues and the danger and the destruction that's caused because of it.