Those are the small books all the way towards the end of the Bible. It's a revelation you went too far, but you can skip over first, second, third John real quick because they're so short Get to first John chapter number five. There is in the heart of man the desire to win In fact, I don't know anybody that likes to lose. Uh it's just something that's there. I mean I mean, it doesn't matter what you're playing. You can be from battleship to basketball. Whatever you're playing, you want to win Scrabble to soccer. You want to win. It's just the way it is. There's some people that are so competitive Pastor Gus, I mean some people that are so competitive. You know, uh they'll do anything to win, you know, even injure players. No I couldn't believe he said that. I'm like, he has not read my introduction. He he played right into it Oh, some people are so competitive. I mean have you met somebody like you could you could be walking and you pick up a rock and throw it and you just laid down the challenge You know, I mean they're they're like you know they're picking up a rock and and they're gonna like, did you try and hit that tree? 'Cause I can hit it for you. You know, or or you know, whatever it is they can they can throw it farther, right? They can be more accurate It's just it's just that competitive nature. But we we like to win. There's exc it's exciting to win. I mean it doesn't matter what you're winning. There was a blonde lady standing in front of a uh a soda dispenser or a can what do they call those things? A vending machine. Yeah, thank you. Uh Eliya, a vending machine. She said she had all these Pepsi and Mountain Dew and all these cans around her. Somebody came up and said, What are you doing? She says, I'm winning. We love to win. It doesn't matter what it is in life, we enjoy winning. And that's kind of our it's kind of our nature. I don't think there's necessarily anything bad with about that. That's uh how God made us. We we like to win. I want you to see here in the Word of God in 1 John chapter number 5 our text this morning. Follow along as we read here verses 1 through 5, and we see the fact that God expects us as Christians To overcome. He says, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and every one that loveth him, that begat, loveth him also, that is begatten of him By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not grievous, for whosoever is born of God overcometh The world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth that Jesus is, The Son of God. That kind of echoes back to that very first statement where he said, Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. You know, not everybody is a child of God, contrary to popular belief today. It you know, everybody was created by God, yes God created everybody, there's no question there, but not everybody is a child of God. You've got to believe on Jesus Christ, as many as believe on him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God. So he says here, he said, those that believe on God, those that believe Jesus Christ and what he did for them, trusting in him, his death, burial, and resurrection, what we understand to be the gospel, those that believe that, overcome. We overcome. It's God's plan, God's desire for us to be victorious Christians, to be overcoming this World. We are currently living in a day full of unprecedented challenges. Just this week I was talking with a doctor, and he's talking to me about the real, literal uh psychological effect COVID has had on many, many people. How it has affected them this long continuing uh battle with this disease that people live in fear of. It's had an effect. People are living and facing things today that they've never had to deal with before, never even really thought about or considered dealing with. And they're starting to feel like it's a losing battle. And our church just recently, a few weeks ago. Guy was on his way to pick up his daughter and he had a wreck. Totaled his car. Totaled it. Cars Total. Not only that, busted his femur, compound fracture, was put into the hospital. Praise God for doctors. Praise God it wasn't worse. We're gonna be okay. We're going on for God. Three, four days later, when his wife was on the way to the hospital to pick him up and bring him home. Her car broke down. Their only other car, right? They took it to the shop, found out that it threw a timing belt on an interference engine, which means it destroyed the engine. So now they have no car. I mean when stuff like that happens, don't you start to feel like, okay, have I done something wrong? Is there Is my name Job? Did did somebody forget to tell me I'm Job? I mean what's going on here? Uh Lord, uh where where y you feel like it Can anything go right in this world? Has anybody else been there? You felt like, man, it's I mean one thing after the next you start to feel like that old cartoon. You remember it in the Sunday comics, The Born Loser Everything he did, he lost. I mean, he messed up. One day he was talking to his son, and his son was lamenting the fact that everything his dad attempted to do uh ended up failing. And his dad said, Well, son Pailure builds character and his son said, well you must be the biggest character in the world. You know, you feel like that sometimes Like no matter what you do, you can't get ahead. No matter what you do, it's a struggle and it's a battle and you you just feel like you're losing I want you to know this morning that God's plan is for you as a Christian to overcome. He wants you to overcome. I want to encourage you with that this morning. Oh, I know we face battles. I don't need to go into or spend any time describing the struggles that are alive and active in our world today. For you all are dealing with them and carrying them. But we know that God's plan is for us to overcome. Each and every one of us As Christians are meant to overcome. Now I know that sometimes Christians fail. But that, beloved, doesn't make you a failure, It just gives you another opportunity to try again. You see, the only time you become a failure is when you cease to or you stop getting up. When you stop getting back on the horse, when you stop trying again, that's when you become a failure. Sometimes you fall, sometimes you falter, but failure is just another opportunity to try again You haven't become a failure until you quit, until you give up, until you say, I can't do it. That's it. I'm done. Then you're a failure. But God doesn't want his people to be there. It is his expectation, beloved, that we would overcome some things. It's part of God's plan for us to overcome. There's no reason for any of God's children to live defeated, discouraged lives, because we should be overcoming. I want you to see, first of all, beloved, in this text here, that we see that we're to overcome our own allurements. You have an allurement, you have a desire, something shiny that you like. And we all have allurements. We all have things we like. I mean This week I saw on YouTube the 2022 Grand Wagoneer. Beautiful, beautiful car. I was going to send it to Brother Glover and say, here's your upgrade, brother. It's a hundred and ten thousand dollar vehicle. Built-in massagers on the seats, you know. I mean Yeah. So many things in that car, I'm like, man, this is ridiculous. A hundred and ten I mean I can't even comprehend that kind of money. $110,000. But you know, I mean we have allurements. We have things that we like and desire. He says here, beloved That we as the children of God, he says, we, when we love God and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not grievous. Beloved, God's commandments aren't grievous. Contrary to popular opinion or or the way many people think about Christianity, and they think, oh, it's so many, thou shalt not. It's all of the restrictions and oh it's so hard, but God's commandments aren't grievous You know that they're good for you, just like you tell your child he he he can't run into the street. And the child thinks, Why are you stopping me from doing what I want to do? But you know, as a parent, there's a reason Because of the inherent danger that lies in the street. And God knows the inherent danger that's out there, and so He puts some guidelines and some restrictions up for us that we could have happy, successful lives and we can overcome. If we would live inside his boundaries. But we've got allurements. This word here, over overcome, literally means to conquer. We can conquer little many things, but sometimes the hardest is our own desire. I know that you many of you know the story or the history of Alexander the Great. Man could conquer the then known world But couldn't conquer his appetite for alcohol. He's believed to have died of complications from alcohol poisoning After a particular long night of aggressive drinking, he did not recover. They they they took the the alcohol away but his abominable pain and and uh all of the stuff going on. They they didn't know if the pain and what he was having was was From the alcohol poisoning or or from the withdrawals because he didn't have more alcohol, so they didn't know if they should give him more or or not give him any more or what. Ultimately within a couple weeks that took his life Conquered the world, but couldn't conquer his allurements. Couldn't conquer his own passions, his own desires. And you might be here this morning and you look at your life, what God wants you to do, and how God wants you to live and And you're frustrated because you know God's expectations, but your own desires keep taking you away from them. I want you to know this morning that God expects you to overcome. He wants you to be able to be victorious Christian To conquer those passions, those desires, those allurements that are drawing you away from Him. Any man would be a fool to say this world doesn't have an allurement. Every one of us have allurements. You say, not me, Pastor. Well, tell me your secret. In my mind, there's only one person in this world, that one kind of person in this world that doesn't have an allurement. That's the kind that we roll down frontier, put into a box and walk by and say, boy, doesn't he look good He's left all of his allurements behind. But until we get there, we've got some things that catch our eyes. We got some things that are passions of our hearts. And we've got to bring those things into check and under control God has given us, beloved, the power to overcome those alertments. The appetites that you have. Those appetites that you know, like Alexander the Great, it was destroying his life. But he couldn't put it down. And maybe you're here this morning. You got something in your life that you know is destroying your life. You know it's consuming you. It's Destroying your relationships, it's hurting your family, the people you love most in this world, but you feel like you can't get over it. God wants you to have victory tonight. You can have victory. First John chapter 2, verse number 16. He says, For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Is not of the Father, but of this world. Love it, we have that lust of the flesh That desire that's in our own flesh, the the James tells us that you're drawn away and enticed by your own lust. The passions that we have in our own hearts. The Bible tells us clearly that the heart is desperately wicked I know we like to, you know, talk about our halos and and think about how good we are and and you know dress up and and look you know look right in front of people, but if we get honest before God in the stillness of the night, we know Except for the grace of God, the wickedness that lies in our heart. The glorious truth that I have for you this morning is that God wants to and will give you victory over Over that to that. You can overcome that allurement, that lust of the flesh, whatever passion that is that you have. The lust of the eyes, that's the desire of your mind. Maybe greed or jealousy or anger or hatred. You got something that's controlling controlling in your life. That that pride of life, the ambition for honor or popularity. To be loved and lifted by men many times at the sacrifice of being lifted by God. God says, humble yourself, and I will lift you up. These things, beloved, we can't overcome. And I know it's a battle that we all face and we all deal with, and sometimes we feel like we can't. But we've got a promise from God today that you can't overcome. If you're not living right now a victorious Christian life, let me implore you to Invoke the promise of God and beg for the power of God to live as an overcomer. He wants you to overcome those allurements. He wants you to overcome your adversaries. We see in verse number four of our text here, he says For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Beloved, you know we have some adversaries, and I'm not talking about your neighbor. Okay, you you might have an adversary there too, I don't I don't know. But we have some adversaries The greatest adversary we have, the Bible tells us, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom you may devour. The devil is a roaring lion, beloved. We, I think, sometimes think about the devil in an entirely too placid way. We we whether we you know make him out to be the cartoon the the the world has mocked him to be or we think of him as as well it's yeah the devil's there but maybe not really Pondering the real impact that he has. But I want you to understand the devil is powerful. He is, beloved, a ruler of darkness. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 12: For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. He is a ruler of darkness. This is not something that some screenwriter in Hollywood made up to be able to write a horror show, to be able to write something that would scare people. I'm talking about something that is real and powerful, the power that Satan has as our adversary to impact and hurt our lives. He's real. But God has given us the victory over that real adversary. The devil has authority here on earth. He is the ruler of the darkness here. And beloved, he's blinded the minds of so many people. If you're like me, you've you've looked at and pondered sometimes how in the world somebody can do something. You look and you just think, where is their mind? How is that even possible? The ruler of darkness is blind to them. And exercised his will through their light. But that is the amazing and powerful thing about the glorious light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Is it frees the heart and mind of a man from that darkness where they were blinded by Satan and shines light into their life where they see the glorious truth of God's word? And begin to live victorious Christian lives apart from that. This is why, beloved, we're told as God's people to put on the whole armor of God. That you may be able to withstand against the wiles of the devil. He's a wily character. He's smart. He's tricky. He has a plan But you can stand against them. You can resist them. You know I read this week about a sheep farmer up in Montana was having the the hardest time trying to protect her sheep. She did everything that she could, but them coyotes, man, they would find a way. She would put 'em in a pen. She would she would put you know put uh fake protection devices out there, she put radios that were motion activated and when the when the coyotes came around the radio would blare and and all this stuff trying to protect uh these sheep but the all the time she was l losing sheep. Until she found an animal. A llama? Llama, they kind of discharge us stuff. I think that's what it was. She found a llama that really just not afraid of stuff. Like probably just ignorant, but whatever it is, the Llama The Llama out of curiosity would see would see a wolf and the llama would just run up there. Just run up like what are you doing here, you know? And and the wolf would look at that aggressive behavior As, well, yeah, I don't want any part of this, and we take off. And and that's how she's protecting her sheep. That's what we are when we resist the devil and he will flee from you God's given you the power to overcome your adversary, beloved. Just a week ago I got an email, well actually d just in the last seven days, an email asking for prayer because somebody's dealing with very real demonic attacks in their home You know, beloved, we love to talk about angels. And you can't very well embrace and believe and talk about the angels of God and your guardian angel that protects you and all of that. And deny the presence of demonic angels. These spirits that are under the command and control of Satan, and they would, if they could, do harm to you You remember the battle uh uh between Satan and Job? Now listen, God is in control And this is what I told the individual is greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And God's plan is for you to be victorious and you can't overcome. Listen Every time Satan has decided to walk out on the battlefield with God, he stood there and he lost. Every time Satan and God have faced off, Satan has walked away defeated. God is one every single time. Now, if I kept getting whooped, I would stop going out there. But Satan hasn't learned, and he keeps trying to do whatever he can to disrupt God's plan. And you and I, as God's people, have an adversary, and he's out to hurt and destroy all that he can in your life. We need to be aware of this and be prepared to stand against Satan. To resist the devil so that he'll flee from you. God has given you the power to overcome this world. You can be an overcomer today. Spoiler alert, beloved. I've read the end of the book. I've read the last curse last chapter. And we win. We win. We like to win. Amen. That's what we started out with. We like to win. Well, in the end, we win. But right now, day by day in your life, you too can be winning. You can overcome, because that is God's plan for you to overcome. The Bible says, be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. You ever feel like this world, that evil in this world is just plowing you over? Just overcome with the evil, the wickedness. I look around the auditorium and I see different people in your stories. There's somebody here that's in our church today that's involved in uh rescues. Searching the woods when a child goes missing. Somebody's kidnapped or something happens. When you're faced with that in the reality of a six-year-old girl missing somewhere, you think about the evilness of this world and you just think how in the world. How could this be? It's it's a wicked world we live in, but we're not to over be overcome with that evil. We are to overcome. Because greater is he that is in you than he is in the world. God wants you to be victorious, beloved. And you can overcome your anxieties. In 1 John chapter number 4, if you're in 1 John, would you back up there to 1 John chapter 4? I'll show you it's another familiar verse, but he says in 1 John 4. 18, he says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear Because he hath torment. Fear, sorry, hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Beloved, he wants you to overcome your anxieties. Those fears that you have. So many people in the world today are living in fear. Dealing with fear on so many different levels, so many different aspects. Fear torments. He says it right here, because fear hath torment. There are people tormented, literally tormented, because of the fear that they're living with day by day. They're governed by this fear. So many of them anxious. You know that word anxious comes from root words, which means to be pulled in different directions. You've got a fear and you've got a desire and you've got something you're supposed to do, but the fear restricts you from that, and and it's literally pulling you apart. That anxiety. So many things to worry about, pulled in every direction. But God wants you to overcome today. Some people's anxiety and fear are so powerful they can't function It's it's real. I want you to know today God wants to give you victory over that people. He wants you to overcome. Why? Because he loves you. Because you can rest assured in his love He says there is no fear that that word fear is a phobia. There is no fear in love. What do you fear today What is it that's strangling the life out of you? What is it that has consumed your heart and mind with worry? The fear of dying, the fear of financial ruin, the fear of sickness Yes. Let me ask you, how many of you locked your house when you left left your home this morning? Locked your home? Why why do we do that? Common sense. Yeah, because today's we're wicked world. We don't want somebody to break in and and take everything. If you're fear of losing it all, what do you fear today? You fear embarrassment? Ridicule? Loneliness? The truth is, beloved, we all have fears. The question is, is When your knees begin to knock, will you still them by kneeling? Remembering God's love brings faith in the place of faith. I've told you before, and I apologize if it if it gets old, but it's such a very fitting illustration for right here. I've told you about how in We climbed the Grand Tetons and I was supposed to back over that hundred and sixty foot cliff. I was going to repel off of this cliff a hundred and sixty-foot drop. How I looked And I wanted my dad on the other end of the rope. You remember that in my mind I'm like, you know what, I want my dad to c control that rope because here's what I know. I know that my love the love that my dad has for me, he would lose his own life. before he let me fall. Now this guy he'd probably just say, oh well I mean, he doesn't know me, the guy, the guy I was paying, he's like, so I lose my five hundred bucks, oh well, you know, whatever. I mean, I don't know, but he I don't know him. But I know the love my dad has for me. You see, love casteth out fear. And I knew if my dad had the other end of that rope, I could go over that, and I I did not have to fear. No matter what. Your heavenly father loves you more than we can even comprehend. And that love should cast out the fear. Because we know he's in control. That he, beloved, not only would give up his life for you, but he did give up his life for you. Hey. No greater love has a man than this than a man laying down his life for a friend. God already laid down slightly. And that love should cast out the feet We should be able to overcome today, beloved, because God has the other end of the realm. For each and every one. Matthew six, twenty-five and thirties through twenty twenty-five through thirty says, Therefore I say unto you Take no thought for your life, what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, neither gather into barns, yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit to its statute? And why Take ye thought for him. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore if God so clothed the grass of the field, which is today and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe thee? O ye of little Faith. You see again it comes back to that faith. Faith that is rooted in the fact that we know he loves us Because love casteth out fear. And fear and faith are diametrically opposed. They cannot exist in the same place Because faith will overcome fear every time, but fear quenches your faith. God wants you to overcome your anxiety today Too many of us are overcome with the evil that's in this world, and we should be overcome. Can I ask you today, do you feel overcome Do you feel like it's been too much? It's been too hard? The struggle, the battle, it's been too long. I mean man, I thought 2021 was supposed to rescue us. Now here we are in 2022. A and and and we're still dealing with it Who knows how long it's gonna go? But it's okay. Because my heavenly father has a role.