But we have a series that we do in Team Sunday School between other larger series. We usually take six to eight weeks on a topic, and then we'll take a two, three-week break and do a couple different series between Between there. One series that we have um has to do with becoming a man uh and or or a woman of God and we split the teams up into boys and girls and we uh I deal with the boys and my wife deals with the ladies, uh teaching them. just some some practical application about what it means to to serve God as a as a man, what it means to serve God as a lady, not necessarily full-time service, but just being being who who God has called you to be and in that role. Another series that we do, which we're going to look at this morning, is a series called More Than Conquerors. So we are going through the alphabet and looking at 26 different sins going by the letters A B And uh I I thought about just doing this series, but then I realized, you know, it's six months of preaching on sin would get a little depressing. So we decided to split it up and we'll do one or two lessons every couple, every six or eight weeks or so. So we've so far in this series we've gone through overcoming anger, overcoming bitterness, overcoming a c critical spirit, overcoming discouragement, overcoming envy, and we are on the letter F, which in my lesson plan was to go over overcoming fear. So that's what we're going to be dealing with this morning, the topic of fear in the Bible. Really going to get into a Bible study to see what the word fear means throughout the Bible and how it's characterized. And then how can we overcome it? How can we overcome fear as believers? So if you'll take your Bibles to start out with in 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 7. We're going to go through a lot of different scriptures. I'm not going to ask you to turn to all of those for sake of time. We do want to finish in time for those that are watching at home to make it in for the morning service. But 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 7, a very key verse in the Bible about fear, especially as it relates to the Christian. We see there the Bible says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. So God is it for us as Christians, God says, I did not give you, or I it's not his intention, or it's not his will, for us to live in a spirit of fear. Instead, he's given us the ability to overcome that fear, and he gives us some keys to that in this passage. So this morning we're going to look at the topic of overcoming fear as Christians. Let's open with a word of prayer on this lesson. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word and what we can learn from Pray we'd be challenged uh by this thought, Lord, and you'd help us as Christians, Lord, to learn to cast all our cares uh upon you, Lord, to learn to overcome fear uh in our lives so that we can have boldness to be uh what you'd have us to be as Christians. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. If you are interested in a set of notes, I do have some back in the in the welcome center. I'm sure uh one of the young men wouldn't mind grabbing that for you if anybody needs those that did not have a chance to get them. You can just put up your hand there. Okay, I think everybody's got them. Um so we got a couple there. Just so you can follow along and get these uh look up these scriptures later. We're gonna start by discussing the character of fear. What does fear look like, or what is fear, or how can we define what fear is. We have two dictionary definitions we're going to start with. The first of this comes from the Webster's 1828 dictionary, and it describes fear as a painful emotion. or passion excited by an expectation of evil or the apprehension of impending danger. In our world today, we are very aware of this idea of fear, especially relating to the virus that's prevalent in our society right now. People are afraid. Afraid of impending evil. Afraid of impending danger. And they're changing their behavior. They're changing where they go. They're changing They're changing who they associate with all because of this fear that they have this impending danger. So we're we're familiar with this idea of fear and how it can grip. an individual. A more modern definition of fear is very s very similar, but I like to look at the two, an old definition and a new definition. Dictionary. com describes fear as a distressing emotion aroused by impanion danger, evil, pain, etc. , whether the threat is real or imagined, the feeling or condition of being afraid. Well that's how fear is described in the dictionary. I want to look now at fear in the Bible. When we look at the idea of fear in the Bible, there's many words that we can look at. There's the idea of being afraid, of being anxious, of being terrified, of being being uh in in fear of ha being afraid these different things. The idea of the idea of fear is brought up in the Bible close to seven hundred and fifty times. God addresses fear. He understands it is a natural tendency of humans to live with worry, to live with fear, and he addresses it in the Bible In some ways he addresses the things that we're supposed to fear. In other ways, he addresses what we're not supposed to fear. So we see this idea of fear addressed quite a bit in the Word of God. The phrase fear not is actually in the Bible 16 When we look at the words of the Bible for fear, when you go to the Old Testament, it was written in Hebrew, there are 20 different Hebrews Hebrew words for the idea of fear. So there's a lot of ways to express fear and the types of fear that you can experience. When you get to the New Testament in the Greek, there are nine different Greek words. So fear is very prevalent and there's a lot of aspects to it. It goes from when you look at these definitions, it goes all the way from the idea of being timid to running away in fear. These word words range from his idea of trembling. Uh in in Daniel, when God's hand wrote on the wall of Belteshazzar, the Bible says that his knees smote together. Um because he was afraid. And so the idea of trembling in fear. The fear can refer to the thing that frightens you, to a just having anxiety. These are all different aspects of fear that is that are addressed in the Bible and in these different words that are used. As we look at fear, it's mentioned quite a bit in the Bible, but I did read through all the references to fear, and uh I found some key verses that really can help us understand entered into the world. When Adam and Eve listened to the serpent and they fell into sin and uh disobeyed God, Adam was hiding from God. And Adam answered and said, I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and hid myself. This is the first time in the Bible and the first time in human history and in the history of humanity. So we understand from this verse that fear was not something that God had planned in his perfect world. When everything was good, fear was not present. And we know that we look at um things in the New Testament, when we get beyond eternity, that fear is going to be gone again. But while we're on this uh corrupt earth, while we're on this earth that is cursed by sin, while we're dealing with the effects of sin This is a fear that Adam had of God because he knew that he had sinned. So sin, uh the fear is tied to the entrance of sin into the world, according to that verse. We go to Deuteronomy 10 and verse number 12, we have another key verse there. Um there it says, And now Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but to fear the Lord thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord with all thy heart and with all thy soul. Jesus said in the New Testament about the greatest commandment. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, with all thy soul. There are a couple different places in the Old Testament where that p that idea is repeated, but I found it interesting here that part of that command that Jesus didn't refer to in the Old Testament when he or in the New Testament when he quoted this verse was that we have a responsibility to fear God. And there are many verses we could use to illustrate this point that God has commanded us to fear him. But right here in this verse, fearing God is put right next to being obedient to God and to loving God and to serving God. Those things are all treated equally in this verse in Deuteronomy chapter ten. So God places a fear of God on a preeminence in our lives. We also see in Genesis chapter 20 and verse number eleven, another first time the idea of fear comes up. It says there, and Abraham said, Because I thought, surely the fear of God is not in this place. And they will slay me for my wife's sake. If you remember the story, Abraham had gone down to I believe it was to But he had lied about his wife to protect himself. And he gives the reason here. He says, because I thought the fear of God was not in this place. This is the first mention of the idea of the fear of God in the Bible. And we see that Abraham looked at a group of lost people, a group of pagans, and he assumed that their character would be immoral. He assumed that they would be sinful. Why? Because So we learn from that passage that the fear of God motivates you to live holy. The fear of God, even an unsaved person will live a moral life if they have the fear of God. And that's what's going so wrong in our country right now, that there is no fear of God. That's talked about in Romans chapter one. There's no fear of God before their eyes. People don't fear God. But the Philistines And they had more morals than he did. And the king of Egypt had to reprimand him for lying about his wife and his relationship there So this is the first mention of the fear of God. The second mention of the fear of God in the Bible takes place in 1 Samuel chapter 11, and this is directed towards the Israelites or God's people. So there is a an effect that the fear of God has on unsaved people. There's also a fear of God that has an effect on God's people And this is the second use of it. This is talking about when the Philistines were invading Israel and they called to Saul for help. Saul had been anointed as king. but had not yet taken pla uh his leadership role as king, and the the cities called out to Saul and said, We're under attack, we need your help. And it says here in 1 Samuel 11, verse 7, he took a yoke of oxen And hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hands of the messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of the Lord fell on the people, and they came out with one consent. So here, God's people experienced for themselves the fear of the Lord. This is a passage that I'll point to when people will will make the argument that, oh, the fear of God, that doesn't have to do with actually having any fear for God. It just has to do with reverence to God. We're going to get into that more in this lesson a little bit later. What is meant By the fear of God. But you can't look at that verse and say that didn't have to do with some fear. And the fear of the Lord fell on them He put the fear of God in them is how he would say it today. So that is the second mention of the fear of the Lord. Those first two mentions, one deals with the effect that the fear of God has on unsaved people, the other has the effect of what happens with the fear of God on God's people. If we continue through the Bible, we come to the book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 12, verse number 13. Now you know the book of Ecclesiastes has to do with Solomon's search for meaning. for purpose, for finding true joy and true peace uh in life, and he tries everything that his wealth can get him, everything his influence can get him, and he finds it's all vanity. But when you get down to the end of the book, you hear him say, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter, fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. After all his searching for the um For purpose or for meaning, he found that that meaning was found in fearing and obeying the Lord. If we continue through the Bible again, we get to the book of Proverbs. This is a verse that contrasts the fear of God with the fear of man. And here it says the fear of man bringeth a snare. The idea is that when you have the wrong kind of fear in your life, what it does is it traps you, it holds you captive. It doesn't let you do what you need to do, it doesn't let you be free, instead it holds you in bondage. So we see a glimpse here into what the the effect that the wrong kind of fear can have in our lives. The New Testament equivalent of this comes in Matthew chapter ten, verse twenty-eight. Fear not them which kill the body but are not able to kill the soul. Rather fear him which is able to So this is the New Testament distinction between the fear of God and the fear of man, and specifically points to the discrepancy in the abilities of God versus the abilities of man. Man can't do what God can do, so why would you be afraid of man instead of being afraid of God? Going back now, I know I skipped a verse there, but Isaiah 41, verse 10 gives us the principle of how God's presence will help us to overcome fear. Isaiah 41, verse 10 says, Fear thou not, for I am with thee Be ye not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. So this verse teaches that the person and the presence of God is our reason to not be afraid. A quick outline for you about this verse, we see that God's presence keeps us from fearing. He says in the verse, I am with thee. Because we have God with us, we don't have reason to be afraid. We also see His person keeps us from being afraid. He said, I am thy God. Be not a spade. I am thy God. Who God is keeps us from having fear. We see His power can keep us from Keep us from having fear. It says in the verse, I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee. We also see your position. He says, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. All those in that verse gives us reasons why we're not going to be able to do that. We don't need to be afraid because of God's presence, because of God's person, because of God's power, and because of our position in the hand of God, being upheld by God, keeps us from having to deal with fear. And to wrap up these key verses, Dealing with fear, we get to 1 John chapter 4, verse number 18. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. 1 John 4 has a lot to say about the love of God, but one effect of the love of God has in our life, according to this verse, is to cast out fear. This brings us to the question as we're talking about the idea of overcoming fear. Well, is fear a sin? As we look through those key verses there, we see that there are actually different types of fear. And when it comes to whether fear is a sinner, sin or not is going to depend on the type. And I believe we can broadly categorize biblically fear into three groups. The first group that I would uh bring up is what I would call biological fear. Biological fear is a natural biological response to a perceived immediate threat. It's how you respond when somebody jumps out around the corner and yells boo. Alright, you don't control that. That wasn't a sin against God that you jumped and screamed. Uh that was just your natural response. You you jerked, you you reacted, your body got tense. That's a biological uh event. The fear um Another example of that, one time I was in California and I was surfing. I was on my surfboard about twenty feet away. I saw a rather large fin come out of the water And my heart skipped a couple beats. My muscles got a little tense. That's that's fear. That's a natural response to an impending threat. That's a biological response. I believe this is the fear that God was addressing a lot of times in the Bible When he said, Fear not when himself or an angel would appear to men. Think of the shepherds on the hill, uh waiting at the nativity, when the angel appeared to them in the middle of the night Said, fear not. Well, of course they're going to be afraid. Middle of the night, they're on the field, it's all peace and quiet, and suddenly there's a multitude of heavenly hosts. There was a natural response to fear, and God told them, Hey, don't be afraid. And we see that throughout the Bible. Whenever God appears to man, his first admonition to them was, Well, don't be afraid. That's that biological fear that he was addressing. This is a natural response and is not necessarily something you control. Now I put that caveat in there because you can learn to control your response to that fear. when you uh somebody jumps out of the corner and yells uh boo at you, you can get to the point where you can just jump or you can scream it around the room. Um there's different responses and you can learn to control that response and if there's something that makes you afraid, there are over there are ways to overcome those fears. Fear people can overcome a fear of spiders or a fear of snakes or a fear of doorbells or these things that people have fears of, you can learn to overcome those. So even though you have that natural biological response, there are aspects of that that you can overcome. But just the fact that your heart skips a beat, your body gets a little tense, that's a natural response that God gave you so you can protect yourself. And uh that in itself is not a sin. This is usually accompan accompanied by a physical response. We either freeze, we get ready for flight, or we get ready for fight. Um your heart rate will increase, your digestive system That might be a new diet idea if you just have somebody scare you halfway through dinner, your digestive system shuts down. So that might be something we could We could try out at some point. But this is just a physical response that we have to an impending danger or a perceived impending danger. That in itself is not a A second type of fear we see in the Bible is what I've called holy fear. This is the fear that we are commanded to have by God. We're going to deal with this a little bit later. In more detail in a little bit, but God has commanded us to have a fear of Himself, to have a fear of God. And obviously, since God commanded us to fear him, it is not something that we can And then thirdly, we can categorize broadly into sinful fear. This is the kind of fear that God has commanded us not to have. As we saw in our key verse for this So there's a kind of fear that is contrary to the work uh will of God and therefore is sinful for believers. Fear was not present before the fall, and feel fear will not be around in eternity. It is specific to our fallen sinful nature and to our cursed world. Now I want to take a take a sidestep here and talk a little bit about medical fear or what's what's diagnosis fear or anxiety, phobias that are dealt with in the medical realm. And I understand I'm not a doctor, but I want to give you a biblical perspective on an aspect of the fear that often gets diagnosed medically by modern psychology. I want to start out by saying that I believe there are medical conditions that that re-r uh manifest themselves in fears or in mental mental health disorders and those that need to be treated medically. Understand that that is a real thing. I'm not denying that. I'm not saying that that's not something that needs to be addressed, and there would be people that I would counsel to go get some medical help with some certain things. that they're dealing with. But understand when you when you look at psychology, modern psychology, that's the study of the mind and the um and the behavior of humans. They begin that study, however, by rejecting the designer and the creator of the human mind. They don't even understand why you have a mind. From an evolutionary perspective, psychologists don't don't know where c consciousness came from, where self consciousness came from, how we knew that we're what separates us from animals. Now we do because we under The Bible and what God has created, but because they reject God, they reject that premise to start from. So there's going to be some faults in their understanding. One of those faults is that they do not understand sin and morality why something is right or wrong. From many psychologists start from the premise that people are basically good, which we know that people are basically sinful. We have a sin nature. And so starting from these different perspectives are going to lead them to some And one of these is to often categorize sin as a medical issue. Again, I'm not denying that there are some issues that people deal with with anxiety, with fear, with d depression, things like that. Those are real medical issues. But the tendency is going to be to describe sin as a medical condition instead of a human condition. And one example of this, I was looking up some mental health disorders, and there's one called oppositional defiant disorder, ODD. That's kids that misbehave. They have ODD. I didn't know if you knew that or not. It wasn't that I had bad kids. They have ODD. Oppositional defiant uh disorder. There are mental illnesses that People have that they have categorized for lying, for stealing, for committing abuse, for having fear. These are all things that have been categorized as an illness because they don't believe in sin. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, and when you don't fear God, your wisdom is going to be off base. Talking about overcoming something. When I was talking to a teenager about overcoming discouragement or depression, overcoming fear. If you want to overcome something as a believer, God has given us the ability to overcome sin. So if our tendency is to categorize our sin as a medicine condition, it's something we can treat. You can treat a medical condition, but you can have victory over sin. I was re reading a couple months ago a really good book on that idea of how how Man's tendency is to dismiss their sin as a problem. Well, if it's a problem, it's something that you deal with. If it's a sin, it's something that God can give you victory over through the power of the cross. So there is a type of fear in the Bible that is described or identified as being sinful. So I hope that is clear to everyone we can understand that. So what are some of the causes of fear? Now I'm not going to get into things that make you afraid, like clowns and needles and heights and all those things. That's not the causes of fear from a Christian. When we're dealing with sinful fear, where does that come from? First of all, it comes from a lack of faith. In the end of Mark chapter 4, the disciples are in a boat and they're in a storm. And they became fearful even with Jesus on the ship. Now we could take a whole message to talk about this idea of them not having faith in Christ because he told them they were going to go to the other side and they they give in to fear. They wake him up and say, Don't you care that we perish? Jesus answered them in verse 4, he said, He said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? He said their lack of faith brought their fear. It wasn't the storm that brought their fear. fear. It was the lack of faith that brought their fear. So he was looking at from a spiritual perspective instead of from a human perspective. Warren Wearsby said, We do not understand and then obey, that's instruction. If we obey by faith, then we will understand, that's illumination. George Mueller said faith does not operate in the realm of the possible, there is no glory for God in that which is human. humanly possible. Faith begins where man's power ends. Faith is being obedient to God regardless of our circumstances. Our own understanding or our or our abilities. If you're in a position where you cannot do what God wants you to do, you're living in a place of fear. Because if God has told you to do something, you say, Well, I can't do that. God told you to be a witness, well I can't talk to people That's fear. Because God has commanded you to do something. He's going to give you the ability to do it. If you have faith in God, you can be obedient to God. So a lack of faith is a root cause of fear in the life of a Christian. We also see a lack of God's presence. We saw in Isaiah 41 a verse that describes how God's presence in our lives should cause us to live free of fear. This is repeated in a familiar verse in Psalm 23: Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will Fear, no evil. He said, I don't have to be afraid of evil. Why? Because God is with me. When you're distanced from God, you're going to have fear as a Christian. While the patrels have been out of town, we've been taking care of Odin over there. Now Odin is a rather large dog, and my boys like Odin. Andrew more so than Titus. Titus gets a little nervous around Odin, but Titus's comfort level with Odin is directly proportional to how far he is away from The closer he is to me to me, the braver Titus is when it comes to playing with Odin. But if he gets about 15 feet away, he is terrified of that dog. Why? Because there's distance And we when we distance ourselves from God, we're going to put ourselves in a position to have to face fear. This distance can be caused by lack of fellowship, by sin in our lives, by neglecting our relationship with God, or by being in living in rebellion to God. Regardless of the reason, when you're far from God, you're putting yourself in a place of fear. Fear also comes from a lack of prayer. Prayer is, of course, tied to our walk with God, but is specifically used as a means In Philippians 4 and verse number 6, the Bible tells us, Be careful for nothing. That means don't worry about anything. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Prayer is the way that we transfer all the burdens that we're carrying to the Lord. There's been times in my life where I've gone to help someone, maybe my grandmother or something like that, with groceries. And they're bringing them in the house. And I'll especially with an old uh elderly person, you go help them grab all their groceries, you see them struggling, you say, Here, let me take that, you grab it all. What almost always happens is they're going to take one thing back from you So I'll take ten bags of groceries and they'll pick out a lemon and they'll carry that into the house. Why? Because they just want to help me carry that. Well God I need your help carrying this cancer but I can take care of the poison ivy on my own. Um God I need your help with this with this person in my family who's dealing with sickness, but um you know I I'm okay uh as far as this situation goes, my finances because I'm doing I'm doing all right meeting my own. We want to carry some of our own burdens. But by prayer, God says we can put all of our care on the Lord. This is not to say that we have no responsibility of our own, but God said to cast all your burdens on Him. If anybody's on Twitter, here's a tweetable quote here for you. If you give when you give a load to God, he doesn't need you to carry the other side When you give a load to God, he doesn't need you to carry the other side. So it comes from a lack of prayer. And this last one was interesting as I studied it. It kind of surprised me. But fear also comes from a place of pride. In Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 through 34, the whole passage deals with We're not going to take the time to read all of that now. But we see that fear can come from a pride when you believe that you're the solution to the problem. This kind of seems like a paradox. If you think you're the solution, why would there be reason to be afraid? The quit we get to the qu uh place where we're afraid, we ask, what am I gonna do? That's relying on myself as the solution and when I'm relying on myself as a solution to my problems, a lot of problems I have are bigger than me. So when I'm relying on myself as a solution, thinking that I can handle it, knowing that I can that's going to cause me to fear. We see the answer to this in Matthew chapter 6, verse 27, where it says, which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto a stature. Of all the things that we worry and we fret about, Jesus just boils it down simply there. He says, well, you guys like to worry about stuff. How much worrying is it going to take for you to grow an extra foot? Well, I can't do that. Well, I can't do anything. I need God to help me, so why am I worrying as if I'm the solution instead of relying on God who is the solution? We fear because we believe we are the solution, but we know that we are unable to meet the challenge. There's a time that we were, when Titus was about two years old, we were at Pastor Tom Almanza's house. Pastor Tom has a uh cat, and when you're two years old, the cat is about the size of the mountain lion would be to me. So Titus is afraid of this cat. He doesn't he doesn't like animals He likes him at a distance but not up close. Well he was afraid of this cat and he um kept hiding and he kept going around. He was afraid because in his mind he knew that that cat was gonna attack him and no one would be able to save him. So he was terrified of that cat. Well, after this went on for a little while, I took some Legos and I built a toy gun for Titus. And I gave it to him. And instantly all that fear was gone because now he could handle the threat, at least in his two-year-old mind. That's what he thought. Now I can take care of this problem. But when you think you're the solution, but you know you're not, that's going to put you in fear. So when we have the pride to think we can handle life on our own, we're going to live in fear because we can't. We get thirdly here after we saw the causes of fear, we get into the contrast of fear. Matthew and Proverbs, we read the verses already, that offer a contrast between the fear of God and the fear of man. Proverbs twenty nine twenty five The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe And Matthew 10, 28, fear not them which kill the body, but are able to but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to but destroy both soul and body. in hell. One is the fear that we should have, and the other is a fear that we shouldn't. First of all, the fear of man. This would be the sinful fear that we were talking about. It's not limited to fearing men, but would include all the fear that we ha we are not supposed to have as believers. And this idea of fear, as we see it in Proverbs, is the fear that puts us into a trap. Sinful fear prevents you from being obedient to God. This can be manifested through unbelief. I don't think God can take care of me. That's living in fear, that's being trapped as a believer. It can be manifested through disobedience by not being a witness. I'm afraid to talk to people, so I'm not going to be a witness. So I'm not able to do what God wants me to do. Why? Because I'm living in fear. It has me trapped. And this also causes a lack of faith when we have anxiety and worry. That's the sin that comes out of us giving in to fear instead of being obedient to God. The fear of man. We also see the fear of God. Instead of trapping you, the fear of God is going to motivate you. The idea of the fear of the Lord appears close to forty times in the Bible And this fear is twofold. It is a fear, we mentioned this already, that it is an actual fear of displeasing God and being punished for it. Now God is a loving, merciful, and gracious God, but we learn in Hebrews that he chastens every child he has. And what he implies there in Hebrews, and he says, is that if you haven't been chastened by God, you're not one of his kids, because he chasteneth every son whom he receiveth. So, yes, God loves you. Yes, God gives you grace. Yes, God gives you mercy. But God also will chasten you. So that's something we should be afraid of. I don't want to be disciplined by God. We should be afraid of displeasing our God through our sinful actions because He can and He will punish us for them. But it's also a reverence. When I was young, I obeyed my dad because I was afraid of getting in trouble Now we'll point out here, we don't have time to deal with this, but I was never afraid of my dad. I was afraid of getting in trouble. I was afraid of being disciplined, not afraid of uh of my dad. But as I got older, it didn't take long, it wasn't like when I got into my twenties, I was still nine, ten, eleven years old, it wasn't the spanking I was afraid of anymore. I didn't want to displease my dad. I wanted to honor my parents by being obedient to them. And so I wasn't motivated as a nine-year-old to go cut the grass because if I didn't I was going to get a spanking. I was motivated because I wanted to be obedient and I wanted to honor my parents. And that's the same thing as with God. As we mature, we have that respect for God's authority, and that's a fear of God that we caught will cause us to be obedient to Him Real quickly now we're going to wrap this up with the conquering of fear. How do we overcome fear as a believer? First of all, we need to confess sinful fear as wrong and find forgiveness. You can identify the fear in your life, say, you know, that sinful goes against what God's commanded me to do and to be and to live as a Christian. God forgive me for that fear. That's the starting point. We find forgiveness for fear. And then we see in 2 Timothy 1. 7 where we started this morning. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. So it's through these three areas that we find victory over fear. First of all, power. The most common Hebrew word for God in the Old Testament is the word El. This means God, but more specifically it refers to God's strength or God's power. If you just see God in the Old Testament, most likely that's the word power right there And it's through God's power that we can um overcome fear. God has given us power, and God has given us Himself. In Psalm 27, verse 1, the Bible says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? With God for us, who can stand against us? We saw how much fear can come from a lack of faith and o and belief in God. When we rely on God's power, there is no room for fear. So the power of God is how we can overcome fear in our lives. Secondly, we see love, not of uh he not of not the spirit of fear, but of power and of love. We don't have time now, but I would encourage you to take time to read all of 1 John 4 and see what it says about the love of God. But verse 18 says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear. How does God's love help us overcome fear? First of all, God's love for us overcomes our fear. Why are my kids not afraid when they're with me? It's because they know I love them and when I let anything hurt them. God loves you, and He has the unlimited ability to protect and preserve you according to His perfect will. Our love for God should help us to overcome fear. When we love God, we'll obey Him. If you love me, keep my commandments. If there's something that God wants you to do and it causes you fear, if you love God, you're going to do it anyway. And through that you can overcome your fear. Anybody who's going to teach about overcoming fear tells you you have to confront what you're afraid of. and overcome it and and go through it and face it with courage and that'll help you overcome your fear. When you love God, you're going to obey God. And when that comes to knocking on a door and talking to somebody you've never met before, you do it anyway and God can help you overcome your fear. So it's through God's love. And it's also God's love through us that helps us overcome our fear. Are you afraid of being a witness? Well, if you allow God to love that sinner through you, you can overcome all fear. Jesus went to the cross because of love. There's a lot more to be afraid of on the cross than what we face talking to people that we come into contact with in our lives. We can be a witness through love. And lastly, according to this verse, we overcome fear by having a sound mind. Most fear happens right here. Worry, anxiety, what's going to happen? How am I going to deal with it? How am I going to meet this challenge? What am I going to say? What am I going to do? All that fear happens up here. And God says you get a sound mind. That word sound mind means disciplined. Self-control. That's the idea of a sound mind, to have your mind under control. We looked at Philippians 4 verse 6. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. But if you continue reading, it says the peace of God, so that would be the opposite of fear. The peace of God, which passeth passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. We find peace in our mind through Christ by not worrying and And it says in the verse, whatsoever things are true, go through the passage, think on these things. We get our mind under control, we can overcome fear as believers. God says the solution to fear is to get your mind under control and to put it in subjection to his word. 2 Corinthians 10, verse 5 says, casting down imaginations. and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. That's the sound mind, to discipline your mind. When that mind starts to run wild with all that could happen, well, running wild is not having a sound mind. To have your mind in control and in subjection to the word of God through power, love, and a sound mind. we can overcome fear as believers. Let's close in a word of prayer and we'll be dismissed to get ready for our morning service. Lord God, we love you. We thank you. uh for your word and what we can learn from it Lord. We thank you for God this thing that we deal with as as people, as humans, this fear, Lord, you didn't just leave us uh to deal with it on our own. You gave us some principles from your word that can help us to overcome it, Lord. It is our tendency, it is our nature to give in to fear, to give in to worry, to give in to stress. But Lord, that's not the life that you you intended for us as believers. Something that you wanted us to overcome. You wanted us to have power. You wanted us to experience your love. And you wanted us to have a sound mind. And that comes uh by being submitted to your word. I pray you'd use this lesson to help uh your people as they deal with situations in their life that's gonna that would tempt them to anxiety and to fear, but instead learn to cast all their care upon you and live their lives in the power that you want them to To have, Lord, pray you bless this morning service here to follow, we ask all this in Christ's name, Amen