So we have been talking about uh this aspect of putting your life in order is the overall topic that we're discussing and specifically getting in line with uh the Lord. And so You should be in your notes there. Uh what is it, 30 page 37, top of 37? 39 is where we left off last week, page 39. So that the The lesson is part one or lesson one of part two. And uh so this is a series of lessons specifically designed or talking about uh today's lesson is overcoming the world and how do we do that? We began last week and looked at the idea of overcoming the world. Uh as it's a choice. You and I, we make that choice. It's a decision. It's something that we have the power to do or not to do. And I know that you're all glad when you came into Sunday school today that the lights were on That it wasn't dark in here. And uh that's the thing. We make a choice to turn the lights on. We don't have to sit in the dark. And the same thing is true. Uh we have light given to us that's available to us as Christians that teaches us how to live and we make a choice of whether we're going to use it or not. And so the first area that of light that we have and the cho the decision we make that we looked at last week is what? What what's the topic that we looked at last week? We choose to live by what? Starts with the W. The Word of God. To choose to live by the Word of God. That is a source of light. So it's a choice. that we make. Point number one there, you choose to live by the Word of God. And we're not going to reteach that, but we walked through that and went through The different things. Of course you have that diagram there with the Bible and it gives us direction, it gives us promises, protection, comfort, uh correction, principles. These are areas that uh the Bible sheds light on for us and gives us direction and and insight for our life, and so we must believe that his way is best. Then last week we just got into you choose to live by the will of God, the second aspect here. of overcoming the world. You choose to live by the Word of God. You choose to live by the will of God. We introduced this last week right as we are closing. You submit your will to God's sovereign will That is, God has a sovereign will for you. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. In God's design, He made you who you are. And uh so God has a sovereign will for you. There's just some things that you can't change. You are who you are, uh, and you can't change that. And we talked about that a little bit last week. But you know, a lot of the problems that people face today, a lot of the issues that we even see in society today are driven by the fact that people are discontent with who they are This whole, I'm not going to get into it, but I sure want to, but this whole thing about gender dysphoria, it's rooted in not being content with who God made you. And and just trying to you you hear young people talking about, well, I want you know they're trying to find themselves. And you see them get out and get involved in and do all these different things and and you know they they dye their hair and get tattoos all over the place and and put piercings everywhere. And I I debated whether putting some pictures on the screen of some some people and what they've done. There's people implanting uh protrusions underneath their skin. They're they're adding things under their skin, little horns that they have on the top of their head to make themselves look like devils and and just crazy things that people are doing, why they're discontent with where they with what God made them to be. And if I'll tell you what, if you could just realize that God's in control and this is who He made me and and God has a plan and in God's plan I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Boy, it would solve a lot of these problems. And so we want to uh uh embrace the sovereign will of God, accept your appearance as from God, accept your circumstances as from God. There's some circumstances, and we talked about this last week, there's some circumstances that you can change. There's things that you can do. You know, if you take all your money and gamble it away and you you end up on the street, okay, that's not God's fault That's because you used uh y you know unwise decisions and took your what God had provided for you and wasted it, your substance, instead of using it wisely, and you you you put yourself in bad circumstances. But understand that our circumstances many times are out of our control and that God knows. Except your trials as allowed by God, sometimes even test or trial or burdens that we endure. We know that ultimately God is in control and that He allowed it. We may not understand why. We may not understand what He's trying to teach us in it. But we we come to the place where we know that God at least allowed it. And that uh by and large helps us uh to overcome this world when we see those things. Secondly, you submit your will to God's stated will. as found in the Bible. God's stated will, as found in the Bible. So we know that the Word of God, this is a uh you know, a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. This is what's supposed to be guiding our life He has given us a stated will, a will that he has described for us, and this is our guide for truth and practice, not just as a church, but as individuals, as Christians. And we've got to get into the Word of God and obey the commands of God, heed the warnings of God. You know, God in His Word gives us cautions. God tells us this uh that uh When lust hath conceived it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death, we know that when we let that lust run away and we overcome with a particular sin, whatever it might be, that ultimately it's going to bring death, it's going to bring destruction, it's going to bring ruin. Well, you can't ignore that and overcome the world. If we want to overcome the world, we've got to heed the warnings of God. We've got to obey the commands of God. Let her see there. You submit your will to God's specific or he has special. I like specific better, but individual will of God. That is the fact that God has a specific will for you He has a plan. You're fearfully and wonderfully made. God designed you and built you as you are. You have been given talents and skills and abilities that nobody else had. And so you take those talents and skills and abilities and you fulfill God's specific will for you. And this is a challenge that sometimes many people get very burdened down about, you know, how do I know God's specific will to know exactly what God wants me to do? And boy, I wish I I had that kind of direction for my life and I knew that You know how you say, Pastor, God has led you and directed you, and I just I just wish I had that in my life. Well, it's available to anybody. Everybody can know that. And by and large, it's found out by simply doing what you know you're supposed to do right now. You're in church today. God wants you in church. By doing God's revealed will. God leads you into His specific will. It just happens that way. It's not that you have to get down and do your devotions and light has to shine from heaven and you've got to get a revelation from God and And somehow the the scriptures have to open up and and you know the Shekinah glory rests down in your your personal devotion time and God gives you direction, Pastor Caleb, or or he didn't call me that. He says, Caleb, I want you to be a pastor. No. Just do what God wants you to do today, and do what God wants you to do tomorrow, and do what God wants you to do on Tuesday and on Wednesday. And if you do that each and every day, this time next year you'll be doing what God wants you to do And five years from now you'll be doing what God wants you to do. If you just daily walk in God's reveal of will, you will be in God's specific or individual will for you. You know, using your talents. Now God, I believe, has called me to pastor. uh at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I believe that without question, this is what God directed, God led, and put me here. But that's not everybody's got God's will for everybody. To even to pastors, not necessarily God's will for everybody. When I went into the ministry in 1999, the pastor called me and says, Hey, I want you to come and and be my assistant pastor. And I said, Well I'm certainly willing to pray about it. I desire to serve God with my life, but I want you to know that I've never had a what you would call a calling I've never in my devotion said, listen, I know God wants me to preach, or I'm supposed to be in full-time Christian service. I'm just willing And uh now I believe in a call. It's very evident in Scripture, God calls men, but I want you to know how God has led me in my life has been one step at a time. That's how he's directed me. He he did not and some people when I was seven years old God showed me I was gonna be a missionary to Africa. Hey, praise God, and God does that for people and I'm excited for them And don't doubt that at all that God directed them that way. But I just know for my life, God has directed me one step at a time. The pastor said, That's fine with me, I don't have a problem with that. If you're willing to serve, I'm willing to work you. And I said, Amen. Uh I'll come And uh so I prayed about it and I told people that the decision in 1999 for me to go into the ministry uh only seconded by the fact that I knew I was supposed to marry uh the lady I'm married to, uh, I knew I was supposed to go to Lawrence, Kansas to be on staff. I knew that. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, God could Confirmed it in my personal devotion time. He gave me that piece that I for two weeks I prayed and I just didn't know. Should I do this? Should I not? I sought advice. I talked to a bunch of people. Is this what you have for me to do? And I sought it. But in my personal devotions, in prayer time, God confirmed in my heart and without a doubt I knew that's what I was supposed to do. And so you just do what God wants you to do and he will lead you. in his specific will. God's given you talents. There's some people here you can play the piano. Okay? It's not God's will for me to play the piano for for the church today. Uh because I can't play the piano You've got some skills. There's some of you here you can sing really well. There's some of you here that's not your skill. That's not what you should be. You you're not going to be singing solos today. Uh you know, we sing solo nobody can hear us. That's what we do. Uh but uh you know other than that, it's just you what I'm saying, God's given you a talent or a skill, use that for God And you'll see him bring that about in your life. Then you choose, number three, you choose to live with a transformed mind. Transformed mind. You must deny the world and its thinking. Now Titus 2. 12. Titus 2. 12 says, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. We've got to deny the ungodliness. We've got to live soberly. We've got to live righteously. We've got to live godly. Every Christian must develop a new and biblical philosophy Towards these three areas that he's touching on here. I think you need a biblical philosophy for all of your life, for every area. But he kind of impacts these three. First of all, is entertainment, education. and employment. Um your entertainment. You know, you want to have a biblical philosophy with regards to your entertainment. What are you consuming for entertainment? You know that it's impacting or influencing your life. uh in entertainment. What what are you consuming for your entertainment? What is it that's teaching you? Do you have a biblical philosophy regarding uh your consumption of this world's entertainment. If you're going to overcome the world, you've got to be guided by biblical principle. You've got to be guided by the Word of God. What about education? Education. I feel very, very strongly about Christian education. Um I Mary and I have had conversations and our kids are getting older and so I don't foresee this being an issue, but I want you to know when our kids were very young, I told Mary, I said, if if we're living in a place the state or anywhere and they say you can't give your your kids a re a compulsory attendance to a public school, we'll move. Because it's that important to me. If I had to move to another country, I would move my family to another country for the right to give my children a Christian education. This is vitally important. Vitally important. And if you're not fully convinced in your heart and mind about that, I would encourage you to look at it, consider it. We're talking about being guided by the biblical principles with regards to uh well read Psalms 1. Okay, I'll not uh sit under the counsel of the ungodly, nor stand us in the way of sinners. Uh what Psalms 1 very clearly is a description of somebody that is walking into the world and and he's saying, listen, I'm not going to do that. And uh I just can't imagine turning sending my kids off. You understand that n I I know there are some good teachers. We have uh in our church Teachers that are Christians that love God that teach in the public school. And amen for that. That's great. We need some more godly influences in the school. But I'm not going to throw my kids to the wolves because there's one good teacher there. Okay. Uh it's very important That we think about what it is they're being I want you to know most teachers, and you see it all over the news today, most teachers have an agenda. They want to knock you as a Christian for desiring to give your kids a Christian education, and yet their entire agenda is the opposite of that. They want to do all they can to influence your child against God. You need to have a biblical principle regarding education and what your kids are being taught, what you're being taught. Regards to employment. Uh, you know, is it okay to take any job? If we're letting biblical principle guide us, A biblical philosophy towards these things. Is it okay to take any job? Let me ask you this. Would it be alright for me to uh get a second job and uh work in the nightclub on the weekends No, not weekends because I'm a pastor. But what about during the week? What about weeknights? No, that that you say, well obviously not, Pastor, or you shouldn't do that. Well I'm not partaking of that stuff I'm just working in that environment. I'm just around all that sin. Is that is that okay? Well, obviously it's not acceptable. Well, let's go a little bit, let's go, let's move ourselves away from that just a little bit and say, well Would it be okay for me to let my daughter work down at Texas Roadhouse where she has to serve alcohol? No, see there's there there there oughta be some biblical principles that guide the decisions we make And it wouldn't be right. I mean even the world knows that you shouldn't be serving other people alcohol. They're not they don't allow kids to do it. You've got to be twenty-one years old just to to carry a bottle of alcohol to somebody's table and set it there Even that's the world standard. That's not Christian standard. And yet a lot of Christians don't have a problem with that. But if we're going by biblical principle, you really you shouldn't have any part of it You're going to carry that alcohol to that table and give it to that person, and they say that you are impaired, regardless of whether you meet the legal limit or not, you are impaired after the first drink. And you give that person a drink and they get in their car and they run a stop sign and kill somebody's son or daughter? That that something ought to guide you. You say, well, this is important. I'm not going to work somewhere where I'm asked to do that. There ought to be some principles that guide you as regards to your entertainment, your education, your employment. There is a way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. You must develop discernment By learning to apply scriptural truths. Okay, Christian, our are you paying attention? Discernment He gives you a description of discernment here. I think it's in your notes. That highlighted section at the bottom, definition of discernment, the power or the faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another. as truth from falsehood, as virtue from vice, acuteness of judgment, power of perceiving the difference of things or ideas, and their relations and tendencies The errors of youth often produce from the lack of discernment. The errors of youth are often produced from the lack of discernment. And so I was pondering this and trying to think about a practical way to think about this. And I thought, you know what would be very practical? My dad never went to the doctor. Okay, I told you before when I was four years old I fell 16 feet and I blacked out on the way down. I fell 16 feet on from from the the loft in a barn down to a hardwood floor. On the way down I blacked out. My dad checked my vitals and said he'll be okay. Let me know when he wakes up. Four hours later, I woke up. My dad wasn't even there. They had to come and they had to they had to go get him uh to to come and check me out. Ultimately I had a broken arm and about twenty-four hours later we went to the hospital and found out, oh yeah, his arm's broken. Now dad never went to the hospital. Okay, now what I'm saying is over your lifetime you start to get some debout medical things. Sometimes uh now we can go to the other extreme and today because of public health care and the government's paying for it, people go to the doctor for every little bitty tiny thing and it does I mean you've got a little cough, oh let's just go to the doctor. Oh, you've got this, let's just go to the doctor. That's not discernment. That's just defaulting to letting somebody else pay for it. Okay, if you had to pay $125 to go have a doctor tell you, oh yeah, you're sick. You would say, oh, I'm sick. I don't need a doctor to tell me that. Okay, you but because somebody else is paying for it, now we've gone the other way. But here's what I'm saying. In this this verse here uh that it references, uh Hebrews five fourteen says, be but strong meat belongeth to them that are full of age, even those who by reason of use Have their senses exercised. Have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So by reason of use, that is, by reason of spending time in the Word of God, By learning the biblical principles that God has given to us, we start to exercise discernment. We start to use some wisdom and say, wait, That is not in line with what God teaches. I shouldn't be a part of that as a Christian. And here's where the practical illustration comes in. We start to, over time, as we get older, we start to learn a little bit about Uh, you know, like my dad knew I had no internal injuries because I didn't have a fever. A fever is a sign of internal injury. So he watched, he said, watch his temperature Let me know when he wakes up. If he gets a fever, come and get me right away. So he he he had some wisdom with regards to what the body was doing. And we don't When you're very young, especially you got new parents here, you get that first child, first little thing goes wrong. Oh my goodness, what's wrong? What do I do? It's crying uh what w wait, what's the problem? Uh after five kids you say uh Call me when he wakes up. Okay? That's where you get to. You start to learn and figure out, oh wait, he's okay He's fine, he's gonna live, you know, whatever. And but there's different people that have different levels of discernment in regards to medical stuff because by reason of use There's some people in here you have worked in a hospital. Maybe you've functioned or actual nurse here this morning. And and so Those are people that you would go to and say, hey, wait, my son has this and this and this going on, and I don't have enough discernment to know whether Should I take them to the hospital? Are they gonna be okay? Are you guys there? Are you following me? You tracking my story? Okay. So they have a lot more experience because of their position or because their life commitment towards that. And so you go to them and you get their advice. But after you've gone to them a bunch of times, the next time you see that, you say, Oh wait, I've seen that before. I have learned That what this is. I know that I have a sore throat. I know it's going to take amoxicillin to kill it. I've got to get some ammoxicillin. I don't need to go pay a doctor $125 to tell me I have a sore throat. I've been through this like 40 times So I need to find a black market to No, I'm just kidding. No, you what you do is you what I'm saying is the more you learn, you start to have some discernment about that just in the physical realm. Well the same thing is true in the spiritual realm, and Christians, the only way we do that is by reason of use. By using by using discernment. And that's what we need. If we're going to overcome the world, we need to do that. Then he he gives you here some a diagram of some contrast between the world's philosophy and God's philosophies. The world's philosophy is I have my rights. God's philosophy or godly philosophy is we We are not our own, we're bought with a price. Worldly philosophy, you deserve more. Get all you can. Godly philosophy, we're debtors to all men. We should be giving. Worldly philosophy, you can do anything that you want to do, just do it mentality, right? But we can do nothing without him. Worldly philosophy, don't judge me. Godly philosophy, we all stand in judgment before a holy, thrice-holy God Worldly philosophy, tolerance. That's a buzzword today, isn't it? Tolerance, be tolerant. Godly philosophy is God expects holiness. Worldly philosophy, moderation, godly is total surrender. Self-esteem. Godly philosophy is humility. The world wants to puff you up, wants to build you, wants to think more highly of yourself and just really just you are an amazing person and we're going to give you an award for showing up today But you didn't earn the award. There is such a thing as having earned the award. Having uh having dedicated yourself and committed yourself to accomplishing a task and then somebody earned that award. And not everybody gets to earn it. There are somebody some people that are more highly skilled than you. And you know what our suicide rate today is higher than it's ever been. I don't think the emphasis on self-esteem has fixed the problem The worldly philosophy. Follow your heart. Just if it feels good, do it. Follow your heart. After all, God, even Christians, after all, God wants you to be happy. But what does God say? The heart is desperately wicked, who can know it? If there's anything we shouldn't be following, it's our own heart. You know our own heart is prone to wander. You know our own heart is is prone to desire and go after things that we we shouldn't pursue. Live for the moment. Set your God says, set your affection in things above. My light verse, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. We don't live for the moment, we live for eternity. And God provides for the moment. You must maintain biblical thinking by developing a personal conviction. Without convictions, the world is sure to influence your life. Convictions. Listen, you need developed personal convictions. That is a standard by which you live. That is a principle that guides your life. A conviction. You don't change it. When Mary and I got married, we decided, this is twenty-seven years ago, that we were never going to have a TV in our home. I don't have a problem with you if you have a TV in your home. I'm not preaching against that I'm telling you what we decided to try and protect our home. We weren't going to have a TV in our home. And what I mean by TV is something connected to uh an antenna, something connected to cable. uh that allows us to just get broadcast into our home whatever. I have an amazing screen in my basement. It's awesome. 65 inch 4K. I mean it is sweet. But you know what? It's not connected to cable. It's not connected to an antenna. We have control over what gets played on that And I love watching a good movie. If we can control what gets played. If we can control what's coming across that, because there's some things that ought to guide our entertainment. And when you just got it on the local news or you got it on whatever, you know whatever comes through on the commercials, you have no control over whatever comes through even if you're watching a good show, the commercial's gonna come on and and uh you're gonna be watching all that stuff. And so for us, we said, you know what, we're not going to do that. When we got married, we decided that we were going to have family devotions every day. It was something we were going to do as a family. For 27 years, we've done that. It's been part of our life. It's a conviction. Do you have convictions that guide your life? Otherwise, we see here our convictions help protect us from the creeping of the world. Jude 1, verse number 4. Jude 1. 4 says, For there are certain men crept in unawares. They've crept in. People weren't aware of it. And this is what happens, that the influence of the world just kind of creeps in a little bit here, a little bit there, before we realize it, we are living by worldly philosophy instead of living by godly philosophy You know, you you watch missionaries come back from the foreign field after they've been out on the foreign field for four, five, six years. They come back to America and they are shocked. Just in four or five years, the difference that has taken place in American society. They come back and they're like, man, I don't remember it being this bad They've been away from it. They've been removed from it. And they can they're they come back and they're just like, my goodness, this is just wicked. This is just so far. I mean I can't even imagine that. I thought we were a Christian nation. But because we're here and we live in it every day, we get desensitized to it. And it's okay. We start to embrace it and feel like it's all right. He says here, over time, through the influence of the world, unbiblical thinking and sinful habits may be established that are difficult to change. It's best if we do not allow these wrong thoughts and habits to be formed, but once they are established, we must cast them down. You must be serious about bringing about change in your life if you want to be successful. And and 2 Corinthians 10 verse 4 or 5 is casting down every imagination, uh the weapons of our warfare. We know that's what this verse is talking about. You must choose to live as a witness to the world. Here's the thing, beloved, if we're going to be a witness to the world, we can't be like the world. It's a wrong philosophy to think that, oh, you've got to be like them to win them. The world knows what they have. They don't want more of that. You wouldn't you wouldn't go to somebody uh who was addicted to heroin. And say, listen, can you teach me how to uh not uh you know how to how to get over heroin? No, no, he knows what he has. He wants to get over that, he wants to get past that He wants to go find somebody that's had victory, that's come through it, or that that uh has found a way to live successfully and say, Will you help me We don't need to be like the world to win them. And if we're going to witness to the world, then we can't be like the world. He says here, you must preach the gospel to every creature. We know that, Mark 6. 15. We're familiar with that verse You are an ambassador for Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 20, and you are to pray for laborers. So if I'm praying for God to send laborers into the harvest, How many of you think God might touch our heart to go? At least to be a witness in our in our harvest field We're to be living as a witness. And so if we're going to be a witness, we've got to be overcoming the world because the world needs deliverance. The people in the world need something that's beyond or bigger than they are They understand that and they're looking for a way to have victory. If you're trying to evangelize the world, you're less likely to be like the world. The keys to victory here now, the keys to victory, you must be crucified to the world. Galatians 6. 14. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. That means let's let's stop trying to go after the world. Let's stop trying to seek the world. Let's decide, hey, we know that is not what God wants for us. We want to overcome the world, greater as he is in you than he that is in the world. God will allow us and enable us to overcome the world, but we've got to crucify the world. It's necessary to cut off any change or association with the world. Listen to this paragraph. Consider the influences in your life. Television, internet, cell phones, sports, entertainment. Are there people, places, philosophies, or things of the world that need to be removed from your life? My kids, uh, you know, uh I'm such a compassionate father. Last night we were sitting in devotions and we're talking was about eleven o'clock. I had just got home from the church and uh we're talking and my brother Daniel's been very sick for the last week. He actually went to the hospital and uh so I checked in with him and asked him, you know, how he was doing. And uh he said, Doing doing better, but I still have a severe infection in one of my feet. And so I was giving the family the update. And my kid said, Did you tell 'em to cut it off? No. because you know, my kids know I've I've done that many times with them. They're like, Dad, my hand hurts and you know and I say, Well, if I hit your foot your your hand won't hurt anymore So trust me, you know or if uh if we cut it off it'll stop hurting, right? You know, and so they They know that that I and I'm like, no, I didn't tell Daniel that. But you know, sometimes there's some things that shouldn't be there. You need to get cut them off. You need to get them out of your life. You need to remove those. If we're gonna have victory over the world, we we gotta stop playing around with it. You gotta stop being entertained by it. It's gotta stop embracing it, stop seeking after it. Um Then he says here you must live, you must live, that's the the blank there, you must live soberly, righteously, and godly. And if you're familiar with that verse, you know that that's the blank there. As we strive toward godliness, you must set priorities for your money, your schedule, your job, your personal conduct, your hobbies. Your Christian service. You know, setting priorities. If we're going to be victorious over this world, we've got to have priorities. You know, he mentions money here. What is your priority? I enjoy good investments. It's fun. You invest in something and watch it grow. But you know, if Marlboro was growing, I wouldn't invest in it. Because I'm not going to support that. There's a uh there's a I hesitate to tell you because I don't want any of you going investing in it. Uh but there's a very successful gambling, online gambling, uh it's called DraftKings. And over the last few years, you could have made a lot of money having been invested in DraftKings. But as a Christian, I'm not going to put my money in that. I've got principles that guide my decision. It's not just about my return. It's not just about what I get back at the end of the day. It's about what am I supporting with God's money, because it's God's money. So there's got to be some principles that guide what I do with God's money. We've got to think about those things. Let that it's talking about discernment. It's talking about reason of work of use. Is this what God would have for me to do. You must keep yourself unspotted from the world. James 127. But pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted From the world. Boy, what a challenge is that. Unspotted from the world. Have you ever gone to do a project in dress clothes? My dad is notorious for this. And of course my mom. She's like, Roger, you did it again. Uh Dad will he'll he'll shingle a roof in in a suit. You know, it's like if if he if he showed up here and we were shingling and he was in a suit He would jump in and help us and he'll think, well be careful. But you know how that goes, right? You know how that goes. By the end of the day he's got tar on his on his suit pants or whatever and he's like, ah, it's just suit pants. It'll be all right Uh, you know, I got it at Goodwill anyway. Um he probably paid less for his suit than most of us paid for our, you know, jeans or whatever. That's a pretty frugal guy. But, you know, he was notorious for that. The idea of, oh well I'm just gonna Yeah, I'm just gonna fry up some bacon. I won't get any grease on me. Yeah. You know that's happening, yeah. You you're gonna there's no way I would fry bacon in the suit It's gonna c it's gonna come off. I'm gonna put on something that I don't mind getting spots on, right? Uh and that's the challenge, man, being out in this world and keeping ourselves unspotted. What a challenge. We can do it with God's help, but it is a challenge. And then we see here that compromise results in a lack of victory Compromise, biblical truths will not bring victory. Compromising, that's uh the next blank there, I think Uh compromising biblical truths will never bring victory. And this is a philosophy or uh something that's been embraced by the church today, the idea that, well How many of you know that somebody that is an alcoholic always has in his mind that well if I could just have a little drink, just a little drink, then I won't crave or desire this anymore The craving will be gone. Right? Somebody addicted to drugs? Oh, I need it. I need it so bad. But if I just had a little bitty bit, then it would take away the craving and I would be alright. How many of you know that doesn't work? They take a little bit, and they take a little more, and they take a little more, and before they know it, they're completely high, and they've fallen off the wagon again. And they're discouraged and depressed because they can't get victory. Compromise is not the way to get victory. We've got to draw a line in the sand. We've got to say, I can't cross that line. If I want to overcome the world, I can't play around over here on the weekends and then or weekdays and then jump over here on Sundays. Compromise is not the way to do it. Saul did not obey completely, and he was condemned by the prophet Samuel. He did not obey completely. And you know the story of Saul that uh he God had given him a command and told him what to do and he decided differently. And God told the prophet, Go tell Saul that uh The kingdom is going to be removed from you, and I'm going to give it to David because you did not obey completely as Christians were to obey completely. Samuel pointed those things out. You can read that. Lastly, here, the very last page is really just a diagram for you to spend some time and think about yourself. Again, this is just for you. Think about your philosophy and where do you line up? Are you having victory over the world? Basically the Bible tells us Forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together is the manner of some is. We're to honor the Lord's day. We're to put God first. We know these things The world says, seek after sports, shopping, pleasure, do what you want to do first. Sunday is your only day off. Go to the lake. And so I'm a really godly Christian today if I will honor God as long as there's no conflict. I'm going to honor the Lord's Day, I'm going to be in God's house as long as there's no other thing that might get in the way. As long as there's not something else. But what where where do you fit? Do you line up with God and the Bible, or do you line up with the world completely and you're going to live for self? Or are you trying to find some compromise in the middle where we can feel comfortable? But compromise is never the solution to overcoming the world. We've got to line up with the Word of God. This is for you to work through on your own, to look at and say, listen Lord, where do I line up? Honestly, search me, O God. Search me, oh God, and walk through this and say, do am I lining up with biblical principles that should be guiding my life? And you can work through that on your own