Or lesson here, let's go ahead and read 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse number 1. There the Bible says, Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. Let's uh open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word and what it can teach us, Lord. I pray you'd be with us this morning as we look at this thought that you would help it to be clear to us what you want us to understand on this matter, Lord, and that we would grow as Christians to be more what you'd have us to be. Lord, we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. By way of review, because it has been a couple weeks, we understand here that at Corinth, the book of 1 Corinthians is Paul addressing a carnal church, church that had a lot of spiritual problems They weren't mature Christians. They should have been. Paul addresses that, but they weren't. They hadn't grown. They were weak Christians. They were very worldly Christians And they had some issues there in the church. And Paul kind of addresses that in the first six chapters, some of the problems that were going on in the church. When you get to chapter seven, he actually starts to answer a letter that they wrote to him. And they sent him a list of questions. They couldn't text him or email him uh mail him, but uh they sent to him a letter, so here is his response. He's answering uh the question In chapter 7, had to do with things regarding uh dating and engagement and marriage and um uh divorce and things of that nature in chapter seven. Chapter eight here he's dealing dealing with the question regarding uh the eating of meat Now the eating of meats is not uh whether they were going to be vegetarians or vegans or whatnot. Uh it was because there was in their culture, uh most of the meat that they would have been accessible to them had been offered before it was given to them in the market or even at a friend's house, had been offered to idols. And there were some in the church who said, hey, I came out of that lifestyle and I just don't feel like we should be participating uh in these activities and others in the church said, no no, it's fine. The idol is nothing. There's only one God. It's just a piece of meat. And what's the big deal? And so there's discuss discussion going on in the church and they had written to Paul about it. And Paul was giving them the answer here regarding that. Now he starts out in this chapter not specifically dealing with the question of meat. What he's dealing with is their attitude towards the question. They had become puffed up in their knowledge, he says there, to the point where they were using their knowledge as an excuse to do something that they shouldn't have done When it comes to eating meat specifically, we looked at three other places in the Bible where we're told we're not supposed to eat meat that's been offered to idols. So they had God's word on the matter. Yet they were going beyond God's word saying, well, I know this is true and I know this is true, so it should be fine, right? And ignoring the clear truth of the word of God. They were using their knowledge to get around what God had said about something And we called this promiscuous knowledge, a knowledge that allows you to do what's wrong, and a knowledge that allows you to sin. That's what they were dealing with. This was the corruption of their knowledge. They had a little bit of knowledge. In fact, they thought they had more than they did because if you look at the verse we just read. It says there in in the second part of that verse says, we know that we all have knowledge. That's most likely a quote from their letter. They said, Hey Paul, we already know all this, but there's some people that don't know as much as we do, and can you tell 'em? Can you tell them that it's okay? Um so Paul didn't go after the ones that didn't think it was okay. He went after the ones that thought they knew everything. Uh and that's what he is addressing here in this chapter. So we looked at how this um group of people, these um carnal Christians, had begun using their spiritual knowledge to allow them to do something that was wrong. And we looked at a couple examples two weeks ago of just ways that we can We can kind of get around things that we know is wrong because we hide it, but we give ourselves permission, spiritual permission, to go ahead and do these things. Because, well, I know. I know it's really nothing. I can handle it. And that's this attitude approaching sin. We concluded our lesson last time with this idea of what our desire should be And how our desire should be to stay as far away from sin as possible. Taking our example from Job. In the first verse of the book of Job, it tells us that Job was an upright man who eschewed evil. That means he turned aside from evil. Meaning When he saw something coming in his life and said, that's an opportunity to do us wrong, I'm going to stay as far away as possible. I'm going to turn away from that And how our attitude and the attitude of the Corinthian Church here is like, well, I know where God said is wrong. I know that idolatry is wrong, but The church had gotten the point where they said, you know what, we could go ahead and go to the pagan temple. We could join in the pagan feast because it's a bunch of free food and it it's really good and it's cheap. We can go there because we're not worshiping idols So we're not breaking God's law. We're just getting as close as we can and enjoying as much sin as possible. And really our attitude should be should be the other direction And we brought up the idea of having a standard in your life, having a conviction. A standard is a line that we draw and say, I'm not going to cross this And the closer you draw that line to what God said is evil, the more likely you're going to to go into into the evil. So if my the line is here that I'm not going to worship idols, and the church was drawing their line Just about right here, so anybody walking by the temple thought they were worshiping idols. If they would have said, you know what, I'm not going to go to the temple, that's a little bit farther away. They said I'm not going to be at a place where they're blessing the meat. That's a little farther away. They said I'm not going to eat meat offered to idols. That's over here. And they're saying I'm going to make sure that I stay as far away from sin as possible. And that should be the attitude in our life as well. Instead, this promiscuous knowledge takes us to the point where we say, you know what, I want to see how close I can get and still be a good Christian. I want to see is how close what what's the what's the the least or the w the the worst music I could listen to and still be spiritual? Uh what's the what's how far how far can I go and participate in these things and and still not not be doing what's wrong. And that's the opposite attitude that we're supposed to have. We looked at an example of this from the life of uh Adam and Eve Eve. And you know, when Adam and Eve were tempted there in the garden, Satan told him and said, Hey, God said, God said you could eat freely of all the trees of the garden. Um and that's part of what God said, that they could eat fruit of those trees. So he was offering them this knowledge. He said, Hey, you know you can eat any tree that you want to. And well yeah, God did say he could eat every tree. Now he didn't say except for this one, but he started by saying you could have all the trees. So m w they could use that knowledge to try to excuse, but what did Eve answer? She said, No, God said you could eat of the trees, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it lest ye die. And she often gets a hard uh hard time there about adding that phrase and saying, Neither shall you touch it. But there's there's an opportunity of interpretation there that maybe that that's a rule that Adam and Eve had made for themselves. You know, I get I know God said not to eat it, but it'd be better for us if we didn't even touch it. That way we don't accidentally eat it. Like I know it's pretty, we can put it in a fruit basket, we just won't eat that one, but why don't we just say let's not even touch it, and then it's not a temptation That should be our approach to sin. God said don't do this. Well, you know what? I'm going to say I'm not going to do it over here. That way, I never have to risk it. I don't even have to risk this idea. But the Corinthian church were doing the opposite. They were using their knowledge to dabble in as much sin as was possible. We are good at spiritually talking our way out of what God has said to do. A couple of examples when we know that God has said we're supposed to separate from ungodly influences, um like well that doesn't sound very Christian and very loving. I can still have these uh friendships in the world because you know I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna win them to Christ. And yes, that's true. We need to be trying to win people to Christ, but a friendship where we're allowing them to influence us is God says you're supposed to be separating. Keep yourself separate from ungodly influences. You know, I can worship God at home. Yes, you can. But that's not the place of corporate worship Something we've heard over the last year is people that say something like, oh, you know, the church isn't a building. The church isn't a building. Well, that's true. That's that's knowledge. But you know The next step is that the church is actually an assembly. So, yes, we don't have to be in this building to have church, but we have to be together to have church. And so there's where we use knowledge to say, well I can get away with this because this spiritual thing is true. And that's the knowledge that they were using. You know, I I have a I have a right to be mad. I'm willing to forgive people, but but they have to show me first that they're really sorry, or they have to come and apologize. So we we we sound spiritual, but what we're using is we're drawing our line as close to what's wrong as possible. That's what the Corinthian church was doing. So that's this first type of knowledge that's corrupted that we see here in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And that's really the attitude of a carnal Christian, is that I'm going to do as much wrong as possible and still try to be right. This second type of knowledge is not found here in this chapter, but I'm going to address it anyway because it comes from the same place that this knowledge does. It's actually the opposite end of the spectrum, but they're both coming from the same place. the same source. And we called the first one promiscuous knowledge. I called the second point here persnickety knowledge. Now Pastor got ahead of me a couple weeks ago on Sunday night and he he brought this up. And so we're going to go over that again. But this is the other end of the spectrum. The other way that Christians can corrupt spiritual knowledge is by having a feeling of superiority because of their knowledge. This knowledge that's not prided in how close can I do what's wrong, it's a knowledge that's prided in how much I do that's right, or how much I don't do, or how far away I say from what's wrong. And hopefully that'll become more clear as I go through it. This type of knowledge gives its possessor a feeling of superiority because of their knowledge. The biblical example of this would be the Pharisees. Think of the Pharisee and the publican who prayed. Remember the Pharisees. I thank you, God, that I'm not. Well he actually, if you look at the verse, he said he prayed with himself. He wasn't talking to God. He said, I thank thee that I'm not like this guy over here. And so you have a carnal church that goes, I'm going to new use my spiritual knowledge to stay as close to sin as possible. Then you get this other end, this prideful uh Pharisaical church that says, you know what? I am so good, and they're all so bad. And that's this other end of the spectrum of this knowledge. Thank be that I'm not as like this this publican who doesn't know as much as I do, who doesn't have this enlightenment and this knowledge that I have. Instead of priding themselves in what their knowledge allows them to do, that would be the promiscuous, I know enough to do what's wrong. Here the corrupt knowledge prides themselves in what their knowledge doesn't let them do. I'm so spiritual I don't do any of these things And it's the other. Now, you've got to be careful here because yes, there's a lot of things we shouldn't be doing as Christians. But there's a pride that's brought into this idea here of this knowledge that is a corrupting influence. If there had been any of this type at the Corinthian church, which we don't see in this passage, but they would have been the ones who would go out in the square and would say, I'm just going to publicly fast for the whole month. Because I don't want to eat what they're eating in the feast times. Um, because I'm not these like these Christians over here who are participating in eating this meat that's offered to idols. I actually fast whenever there's meat on the table. I just don't eat And they're going to have a prideful attitude in what their what their knowledge is not letting them do. This is an opposite extreme where I set my rules way beyond what God has called sin. And no one else is as good of a Christian as I am, because they do not draw the same line that I do. One example of this, uh I can I can give you here to kind of talk about this idea a little bit more detail. uh would be the example of of of men men's hair. Uh it's an i easy illustration uh to make in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, a couple chapters from here. Uh God says, is it does not nature itself teach you that it is a shame for a man to have long hair So God says long hair is shameful. So what's what's the what's the deal there? Long hair? Long hair, God said no. So then we have to decide where am I going to draw my line. And so my line, actually, I wrote this for illustration for last week If I hadn't been if I'd have been here last week, I'd have had a hair haircut by now. Because this is kind of right past my line. I like my hair shorter than this And so that's where I've kind of drawn my line. I was a little bit shorter than right here, which is a good reason to have your line further away, because if my line was right at the line of how long hair is, if I miss a haircut, I go into sin So I draw my line further away so that I say, you know what, here, this is where this is where I'm comfortable with. And so that's my line that I've drawn. Now others, I was going to use Matt Mills for illustration, but I'll see you here in today. Let's use uh Pastor Caleb. Uh he's he's drawn a different hairline. I mean he's drawn a different line with his hair uh than I have. Now I don't know that that's because oh Matt Mill is here. Alright, there he is back there. Alright. So it is long. He's he's due for due for a haircut. So, now that's uh th those are both a preference of uh of hairstyle, but they could have made that a biblical eviction. You know what? I'm gonna stay as far away from long hair as possible, so I'm gonna take it all off Alright. Now, that's fine for them to do until they get to the point where, well, look at Pastor Derek. His hair is way longer than mine is He is so much right. Especially down here. Alright. He is so much more wicked of a Christian than I am because he hasn't drawn his line right here. And that's where we get to this point of this persnickety knowledge is that we're saying that no one else is as good of a Christian as I am because they haven't drawn the same lines that I have. Now it's important to draw lines. And as as a church and as Christians, we need to draw our lines as far away from sin as possible. But we don't look down at someone else who doesn't have the same line that I do. We don't look down and cut apart at other Christians because they haven't drawn. Now we need to encourage Christians that are living their life too close to God's line to move their line further away But we don't look down at others because they haven't drawn the same lines that we do. God has uh drawn lines and we have an obligation to exhort a Christian brother or sister that has crossed God's line It is okay to judge sin by God's standard. We just gotta make sure it's God's standard and not our standard. Um, to say, well, you're sinning because you don't have the same line that I do. Remembering my line's here and God's line is here. Sin is when you cross God's line, not when you cross my line. Now I want to also put another thing in here. It's good, it's necessary, it's important to have a corporate standard. So we as a church we're going to draw a line over here. And if you're going to work at the church, you need to meet the church's line. And we're not saying if you're not at our line, you're in sin, but we're going to say if you're going to be working at our church, you need to be in this line. Same is true for any institution, colleges, especially Christian colleges get a lot of get a lot of uh um flack for the lines that they draw. Well what right do they have to say that I can't do this? Well you're going to their school. They have the right to say you can't do this because they've drawn a line as an institution saying, you know what, at Pensacola, boys and girls ride different elevators. There's nothing sinful about a guy and a girl being in an elevator at the same time. Um but we've drawn the line that you're not going to ride in the same elevator. And uh Fairhaven, where I went, they have a lot of lines that that I don't follow today in my life, but while I was there I followed their line. And it's important for having these institutional lines. But this knowledge here is a knowledge where you look down on others because of what you know. And that's this personicity knowledge that we need to we need to overcome as believers. There's a danger with this knowledge that it corrupts you begins to cause you to look down on others because they don't know as much as you do. This is one reason why a pastor is not to be a novice. When you look at the qualifications of a pastor, it says there that he should not be a novice. Why? Because lest he be lifted up in pride and that he's going to fall. I don't know, I've I've been involved and around young preachers for most of my life since I started preaching myself when I was about 13. I was around young preachers a lot and one thing you see happen with novices, young preachers, is they'll find something in the Bible that they thought nobody else knew. And and and they see something that maybe they thought somebody else misinterpreted. So they'll get up and say, I know pastors have been preaching this for years, but the Bible says they're gonna they're gonna they're gonna be lifted up. What they're doing is they're lift up that's kind of this persnickety knowledge They see something and they think they've got the understanding on it, and everybody else is wrong. So they know everything now. And that's this attitude here. I'll give you an example right over in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 I've actually seen this done with this passage. So we hear we hear at funerals we hear the passage, right? Eyes have not seen, uh, nor you heard what God hath in store for them. Well, I I I've heard this brought up before in this way, where you get to verse n that's verse number nine, as is written, I have not seen nor ear heard. So we have this verse about heaven and how great it is for God. Then you read verse number ten, it says But God has revealed them to us by His Spirit. So wait a minute. I have not seen, you have not heard, but God's revealed us those things. So we have we have more when this was written I had not seen, or had not heard, but now we got the Word of God, and the Spirit has revealed those to us, and so they'll say we don't have any surprises in heaven, because right here it says God revealed them all to us. And everybody else that preached this verse on God I have not seen, ear has not heard, they're all they've all misinterpreted. That's this pride of I just I know a little bit more than everybody else now. And that's this attitude when I I learned a little bit more and now everybody else is wrong. And not having humility to say, you know what, maybe I maybe I don't know all that I need all of that there is. This group at Corinth had come to Paul and said, hey, we have all the knowledge. You just need to tell everybody else that they're not as right as we are. And that can be our attitude that we have as far as being lifted up in pride. I'm sure you've heard a reference in maybe an older movie or an older book to someone putting on airs. Putting on airs, to somebody who who who left the small town, they went to college and they come back and they're all that in a bag of chips and everybody else just is just as Through that don't know anything. That's this attitude we can get as Christians, this type of knowledge that we need to overcome. This brings us into, we saw this, uh we saw the promiscuous knowledge, the knowledge that allows them to sin. The personicity knowledge is knowledge that looks down on others because they don't know as much as us. And we see these both come back to the pride of knowledge. These two types of corrupt knowledge both stem from pride. One is a pride knowledge that prides itself in what you're allowed to do. The other is the knowledge that prides itself in what you're not allowed to do. What's the connection between the two? Pride. Pride is the is the root problem with both of these types of knowledge. They both stem from pride. What it is in both cases is a focus on self instead of a focus on God. The promiscuous law says, what do I need to justify for me to do what I want? And the other is how holy can I be so I look good to other people? Focus on self and not a focus on what God wants from us. They both stem from pride. We get to the point where my it's my standard instead of what God says about it The definition of pride in the Bible is found in Romans 12. 3. The verse there says to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. In 1 Corinthians chapter 8, here verse number 1, Paul calls it being puffed up. Look at the end of the verse that says, Knowledge puffeth up. This word of puffed up carries the idea of being inflated. We would say today that he got a big head. Being inflated. That's what this pride does. This knowledge does. It's given them a big head. It's inflated them. When something's inflated, what it's really showing is a lapse lack of substance. Well they thought, look at us, Paul, we have all the knowledge. Paul's in you Yeah, there's not really much there. Um as far as we get this this puffed up, we get this knowledge, this pride, and it has inflated us. It looks like there's a lot there, but it's really empty on the inside. Our church, we have we have a bounce house. When the bounce house is inflated, like we had it up a couple weeks ago, uh it takes up 3,400 cubic feet. Pretty big stuff, right? Until it's deflated. Then it takes up about fifteen cubic feet as far as your space goes. And that's somebody filled with this knowledge. You look at them from the outside and whoa, look at that person. But there's no substance there There's no substance. Paul says this type of knowledge, a knowledge that stems from pride, looks down on others or allows you to go into sin, that's a knowledge that looks like you got some substance there, but there's really not. There's really nothing there. It's really empty on the inside. This was the appearance of Mass, but it was just the surface, and just on the surface, and just at the side. This was the Corinthian church. When they looked at themselves, they were impressed with their own knowledge. They even said, we have all knowledge. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Paul is addressing this attitude a little bit earlier in the book. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse number 10. I had somebody reading this a couple weeks ago asked me about this verse. Like, this is this doesn't make any sense. And I'll show you why here in a minute. This is Paul talking. He said, we are fools for Christ's sake. but ye are wise in Christ. We are weak, yet ye are strong. We are honor or ye are honorable, but we are despised. Now Context, we know Paul's talking to the Corinthian church, the carnal church here. So what's going on here? Well, Paul's being sarcastic is what's going on here. He says, oh, oh, you were the fools. Apostles, the ones that the ones that know Jesus personally, that that walked that that given are writing scripture. Were the you guys. You guys are the wise ones. You know, we're despy. You're strong. We're the weak ones. You're the one that has true spiritual short. What he's doing is pointing out here that, look, you need to reevaluate what you think of yourself. And that we not not to think so highly of yourself, that this church had elevated themselves to the point where, man, that weakling, Paul, spiritual weakling, doesn't know what he's talking about. Um that was the attitude that they had gotten up. Why? Because they were lifted up in pride So pride is the pride is the enemy here. And Pastor Gus preached a message a couple weeks ago on that very topic of pride. So the pride, how does it show itself up in the promiscuous knowledge? The pride is the knowledge that says, Well, I can handle it I can handle sin. I'm strong enough to do this as a Christian and participate in this without making it make me fall. Well, this is this is what I think I should do. Well, I know what God says, but but I like this in sin. In the promiscuous knowledge, the focus is on what I think, what I know, and what I understand instead of on what God said. Humility is being willing to set aside my preference for God's instruction I know that God said this and I don't want to do that, but I want to do what God said instead of what I want. That's humility. Pride is I know what God said, but I'm going to do this anyway. That's the pride of the promiscuous knowledge. There was a uh my pastor growing up, Pastor Stan Wardlaw, uh, told the story of a church he was at. He was he had a very rough first um couple years of ministry. He actually was um had several bad encounters with churches. One church that he was at um decided that they were going to kick him out of the church on a Sunday evening, so called him in right before he was getting ready to go to preach. The deacons called him to the back. They set up a tape recorder and they said, here we're going to give you ten reasons why we want you out of our church. Number one, you want a Bible reason for everything we do. He said, you are just restricting us with this Bible stuff That was their attitude that they were saying, we want to do all this, but you keep saying the Bible says this instead. And that's the attitude here at Corinth. It's like we want to go eat the meat, but the Bible keeps getting in the way And that's this promiscuous knowledge that I want to do what's wrong, but God's getting in my way. And that's this attitude here, pride in the promiscuous knowledge. The pride in the persecuting knowledge is obvious. It's the pride that lifts us up and says other people are not as good as I am. I'm better because I don't do this I'm not like those other Christians because they don't do this. If they love God as much as I do, they would fill in the blank We know so much more than those who are not as enlightened as we are. In both cases, the Bible tells us they're puffed up. They are inflated. The thing about being puffed up is that you're pretty easy to pop. That's the thing about being being puffed up So what's the contrast? There's a contrast given here. You have knowledge that puffeth up in verse number eight, knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. I had a sermon title written over here in my Um my margin of my Bible that I've been wanting to preach for some time. Uh haven't done so yet, but we'll include it here. It's c called Puffed Up or Built Up. Uh Knowledge Puffeth Up Charity Edifies. The word edify means to build up. So are you puffed up or are you built up? Paul presents this contrast for the church here to consider. First, he addresses their knowledge. This had been their church's entire focus up to this point. Hey, Paul, we have all the knowledge. We know everything already. I've got this Christianity thing figured out. Now what else do we need to do? I've already got that. I've already got that stuff done. It's kind of the attitude of the rich young ruler that came to Christ and said, These all have I done. What else is left for me to do Um I just said, okay, we think you got all that done, let's see. Here's here's the here's the here's the next step. Can you do this? Um and so they're telling Paul, well we already know. But then Paul tells them that all this knowledge that you say you have is empty All that knowledge is going to do is pump you up. Now, this is not to say that knowledge is you is worthless. It's important for us to grow in our knowledge and understanding, and we should be pursuing knowledge. But knowledge is not the end, it is a means. God does not intend any Christian to be filled with knowledge for his own self-advancement and gratification. God gives you knowledge so you can give it to others. It's not to lift you up with how much you know. So we have this knowledge that puffeth up. He contrasts it here with charity that edifieth. He's contrasting the knowledge, the knowledge that puffeth up, with the charity that edifieth. Now, charity is the Bible word for Love, the Bible word for love. Specifically the God type of love, the agape love, the love that's willing to give, the love that's willing to sacrifice. Now, was the Corinthian church willing to give and sacrifice uh in the knowledge that they had? No, they all wanted what's best for us. We w we don't we don't care what it's doing to everybody else. We want to use our knowledge to better ourselves. That's not love. Love is willing to sacrifice. for others. Welling love is willing to put myself down to lift someone else up. The classic illustration of this God-type love, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he Gave. Gave. God gave. That's what love does. Love gives. Love doesn't take. Love doesn't promote self. Love is for others. So c Paul contrasts it here. He could have gone and said, hey, you know what the Bible says God said not to do that. But instead he's addressing the attitude saying, hey, you guys are lifting yourself up here, and what you're doing is you're ignoring this other thing that's so much more important of loving one another. While knowledge is focused on self, charity is focused on others. The result is that charity edifieth. As I said already, this word edifieth carries the idea of being built up. It carries the idea of being a home builder or construction. It's a fitting contrast to knowledge. While the knowledge looks good, it's without substance. Charity may not be impressed as impressive, but there's a lot more to it. There's a lot more substance that is there. Paul uses this idea of loving your brethren to answer a question regarding the eating of meats. He told them if they were really spiritual Christians, they would uh surely they would not want to bring spiritual harm to someone who did not have as much knowledge as they did. concludes this point in verse number thirteen, where he says, Wherefore if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no meat while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. He said, Hey All the knowledge I have, if I knew it was going to harm somebody else, if it was going to bring harm to my brethren, I love him so much that I'll as long as the world's around I wouldn't eat meat just because I love him. And I want to do what's best for him instead of what's best for me The illustration that he brings out here. So the contrast is you can have knowledge, knowledge that puffs you up, knowledge that lets you sin, knowledge that lets you look down on others, or you can have love that puts others before yourself. And what's the choice that you're going to make? So we get to the last point here, and that's the conquering of knowledge. How do we conquer this attitude? If we have this pride that's lifting us up, and we're either in this dabbling in this knowledge that allows us to just skirt the edge of God's line Or we're going to use this knowledge that's lifted us up so much that we're so much better than those around us. How do we overcome that? Paul gives us the answer here is that we overcome it through love. Loving one another. This does not mean that we ditch the knowledge in the standards. We still need to have our lines that we've drawn in our lives and say, I'm going to do what's right. It doesn't mean we ditch the standard, we ditch the knowledge. We just look at others through love. instead of through our our knowledge. Look in 1 Corinthians 8 here. We'll look at the difference in the chapter where Paul's talking about them and when the focus shifts to others. In verse number one, he says, We know that we all have knowledge. We, us. Verse number two, if any man think he know anything Verse number four, we know that an idol is nothing. Verse number six, but to us Verse number eight, meat commendeth us if we eat, we are better, neither if we eat not, we are the worse Then as he shifts their focus, say, hey, you guys are so focused on self, you want the right answer? You need to start focusing on others. Look at verse number 7. It's not in every man. For some, and then you get to the end of the verse, it says, their conscience, being weak, is defiled. Verse number nine, to them that are weak is how the verse ends. Verse number 11, the weak brother. Verse number 12, if you sin against the brethren and their weak conscience, verse 13, if meek make my brother to offend, end of the verse, lest I make my brother to offend. There's contrast right there in the past. He's saying, here's where you have the problem. It's what we know, it's what we do, it's what we eat, it's what we have, it's the knowledge we have, and Paul says you're looking at all wrong. What about them? What about your brother? What about the others that don't have the same knowledge you do? What about my brethren? It's the changing their focus from He said, you want to overcome this attitude in your life? Quit looking at you and cart start looking at other people. Looking at what you can do for others. Love is supposed to be the defining factor of the Christian His power to be identified by the world. Jesus did not say, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have more knowledge than everyone else. What did he say? He said, um By this shall men sh by By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if ye have love one for another. Paul reiterates this in verses 2 and 3 of our chapter here. He says, If any man think he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. Verse number three, but if any man love God, the same is known of him. If you love God, people are going to know it. The problem in Corinth was nobody could tell this church loved God. Nobody could tell. Paul said if you really love God, other people are gonna know about it. Right now, all people know is how sp smart you are. And that's that's the problem. That people don't know your love for each other, they don't know your love for God. Other people will be able to tell. This does not separate us from biblical knowledge. God also said, if you love me, keep my commandments. So loving God, yes, we do that. And if we love God, we're going to do what God said for us to do. If we're going to obey God's commandments, we need to know them. So the knowledge comes in here. But a love for God and a love for others will keep a Christian from being puffed up through corrupt knowledge. So the first step to overcoming this false knowledge that we should We're going to jump to the book of James now and look at one other way to overcome this knowledge. James chapter 1, verse number 22, and that's through work. James one, verse number twenty two, very familiar passage It says here, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. And then notice here at the end it says, deceiving your own selves. Deceiving your own selves. James 1. 22 gives us an interesting perspective on corrupt knowledge. This verse lists a group of people who have deceived themselves. So this leads us to the question: how did they deceive themselves? And in what way were they deceived? Well, we see in this uh this passage, if you notice in verse 26-27, James is dealing with the idea of what it means to be truly spiritual. Numbers twenty six, verse number twenty six, if any man among you seem to be religious, this man's religious as vain as it ends, and then verse number twenty-seven, pure religion. So what he's dealing with context here is somebody who seems religious versus what true religion is. Someone who seems spiritual to someone who's actually spiritual. This is the contrast he's making. So the deception is someone who thinks they're in this camp where they're they have the true religion, where they think that they're truly spiritual But James is addressing here, he says, they're seeming to be religious. They've got the look, they've got the facade, they puffed up, could we say? They're not built. They're not built up. They're they don't have what's real. They have just the appearance of it. The people thought they were spiritual and religious based on how much they knew about spiritual things. Look at verse 12 again. It says, be doers of the word and not hearers only. The contrast was that when you're a hearer only, you're deceived into thinking you're spiritual. If all you do is know the things of God, then you're deceived into thinking you're really spiritual. If you're not doing anything, then you're not then you're lacking true religion, is what he's saying here. Now we don't work to be saved, but when we are saved, we're going to work for God So he's drawing this contrast here. He says, if you're a hearer only, if you know all the spiritual stuff, you've been in church your whole life and you know your Bible inside and out and you've just got filled with all this knowledge. If that's all you got, you're deceived into thinking you're spiritual. He says here, be a doer of the word, not just a hearer only. This was the same problem that was faced by the church at Corinth. They thought they were so spiritual because of all that they knew. We know all this stuff. We've heard it all. Paul says, Well you're not doing it. You're not doing the things that you've heard. So you you have um you've become so spiritual you think you can participate in this sin. James points out that knowledge alone leads to a false premise. If these people were going to actually be spiritual, they would need to do the things that they were hearing. The members of the Church of Corinth were not being obedient to the things that they had heard. They had heard been told that you're not supposed to eat meat after idols. But they had all this other knowledge that was allowing them to participate in the world So they weren't doing what they had heard. They heard the word of God, but they weren't being a doer of it. Therefore, they had a false religion. They used a little bit of knowledge that they had to excuse their sinful behavior. The danger of knowledge is that it can puff you up and prevent you from serving. Remember how Jesus showed the disciples that the greatest among them would be the one who was the servant of all. He told them this at the time when he was washing their feet, being a servant. If you're puffed up in knowledge, you're not going to be serving others. When you're filled with pride, I'm not putting others first. Boy, can you imagine one of the disciples so filled with pride arguing about who's going to be the greatest? And what if one of the the other ones are there, hey would you mind washing my feet? What? No, I'm gonna be the greatest in kingdom of heaven. What are you talking about? When you're pumped up in pride, we're not going to be serving others. Again, it goes back to that love there, but it also comes into this work. The Church of Corinth used their knowledge to benefit themselves. They did not care how it affected those around them. Being a doer overcomes corrupt knowledge Simply being obedient to what God has commanded does not use knowledge for permission to sin or knowledge to look down on others. Serving others is the antidote to pride. We must commit to being a doer and not simply a hearer of the Word of God. So you have these two contrasts, these two types of two types of knowledge. One is of a carnal Christian who I'm going to use my knowledge to get as close to sin as I can The others going to use their knowledge to look down on others and because I'm so spiritual. Paul says you need to love, and James says you need to work. Loving and serving others can keep us in the right perspective as a Christian. So we need to learn to overcome these types of knowledge in our lives whenever pride starts to show uh its ugly head