But today we're going to look at the idea of overcoming offense. Overcoming offense. Going through the uh going through the Bible here, going through the uh alphabet of things that we should be overcoming uh as believers and got to letter O and uh got into studying this and like ah this is uh well is there another O we can look at I was gonna look for something different but I could not find another O so God directed this this way and we're gonna look at the idea of overcoming offense. You know, we live in a culture that's preoccupied with offense. Uh people seem to enjoy uh being offended. It kind of goes contrary to you you shouldn't like to be offended, but people are always striving to be offended. They're looking for ways to be offended. They're looking for people to offend them. They're finding things that aren't offensive to be offensive. And we're just living a culture that's kind of preoccupied with this idea of being offended People are offended by others' actions, they're offended by other people's inactions, or people not acting fast enough. They find a way to be offended in every situation. People are even getting offended for other people. Well I'm offended for them because they should be offended and they're not, so I'm offended on their behalf. Just looking for the opportunity to be offended. You know, people today can even be offended by something like good manners I know that may be hard to believe, but when I was in college, I severely traumatized a young lady in the school. You're not going to believe how this happened. I just gave her a horrible insult right to her face No, we were standing in a line and she said, Your name's Derek, right? And I said, Yes, ma'am. And you couldn't believe, you know, the the the w how I offended her. uh by saying yes ma'am. Took him a little while but they kinda realized okay that's just kind of the way he is. He grew up down south. That's the the kind of the way they excuse it. Oh don't worry about him. He just grew up down south. Um he says yes ma'am to everybody. Um but I remember even later that week when I held the door for somebody. Whoo, wow, people can really just be a uh offended uh offended these days. I think about this idea of being offended and kind of just, what are some reasons? Why do people get offended so easily? Why do people almost seem like they want to be offended? And uh there's several motivations that I come up with from looking at the way things are are. First of all, people are too comfortable, lazy, and bored because of our great wealth. They just have too much free time on their hands, so they find things to to they find causes to get behind to get and to rally about. the guy that's going to work every day uh just to make enough money to buy food for dinner for his family so that he can go to the to work the next day to make enough money to buy food for his family, uh he's not too offended about what pronouns you use. um or you mess his name up or say something wrong. He's he's more preoccupied with things that actually matter. Our needs are all met in our country that we live in, so people can find other things to busy themselves about, and one of those are coming up with offensives offenses. You know, when uh when kids would fight, especially in a farm or back, you know, uh historically in older days, uh Brother Glover probably knows something about this, being on the farm. And uh but Brother King and my family growing up on the farm. When you get kids that just can't get along with one another and they're fighting, you know what dad would do as a solution? Put you to work. 'Cause if you're then you're too tired to fight. Um if you go out and you you muck stalls for a little while, uh you go cut cut lumber, you go split wood, and then you're too tired to fight, and so that's the solution, not to have so much free time Um if you have all these nice toys, let's just take some of them away, then you'll have less to fight about, right? And that's the way we are in our country, like a bunch of spoiled kids. We have so much and things are so nice and no responsibilities, so we're always finding something to fight about and be offended about You know, another reason that people are so offended is because of narcissism. They think more highly of themselves than they ought to think. Our country is preoccupied with ourselves and and how great we are and how much we deserve to be recognized and how special we are and uh so we get we get upset uh when somebody else doesn't recognize how special uh we are There was a politician recently that was offended because someone cut in front of them at a at an ice cream shop to get um to get ice cream. What a terrible individual that was to treat them that way. Can you believe that somebody would treat me this way? That they cut me in line. Uh you know, the problem was they didn't notice you. uh because you're not as important as you think you are. Uh but that's the way we are. We get how could they do that to me? Um we get so offended because we think too highly of ourselves. And that's our culture that we live in people are people who are being lifted themselves up uh for no reason. And then when somebody attacks that that you've lifted yourself up but given yourself all this self-esteem without the the work to back it up and then that's very fragile. And so when somebody doesn't recognize that or affirm that, then we get offended. People today are also easily offended because there's cultural power and credit that comes in our culture from being a victim. Someone hurts you, then you have power over them. and you're culturally more valuable. You have more social credit. So people are looking out for ways that they can claim to be mistreated. They say, oh look, they hurt me. That makes them bad and me good. And that's what they're just looking for these opportunities to be offended. There's another reason I thought of that people are offended today, and that's because they've never been taught how to respond when things don't go their way This is especially a problem with my generation, uh the millennials. Uh we're not taught how to respond when things uh when things don't go our way. We've always been told yes. We've always been now, not me Um I had I had parents that didn't didn't do this to me. They didn't treat me like this. So yes, it is a problem with the millennials, but we're gonna say it was a problem with the ones that raised us. Because they there were the ones that didn't tell us no, um and didn't didn't didn't squelch our personalities uh the way that they ought to have been They can't handle being told no. They can't handle hearing a different opinion. They cannot handle being not congratulated or affirmed. You know, they didn't have a dad like mine that told them, here's a quarter, go call somebody that cares. That was uh now some of the young people here are like, how do you call somebody the quarter? Um is uh is but that was my dad's response uh when I was upset about how somebody had a different opinion than me or something like that. Uh yeah, here's a quarter, go call someone that cares. And uh this is just a few reasons, there's for many more, but there's a few reasons why we live in a culture that's so easily offended Very powerful verse in the Bible, Psalm 119, verse 165. Why don't you look there with me? Psalm 119, 165. There the Bible says, Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. This is one of the most annoying verses in the Bible Because we feel very self-righteous and justified when we've been offended. After all, you don't know what they did to me. And here the Bible is saying, well, that's your fault For being offended about it. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them shall offend them. You know, one of the things that makes this verse so aggravating is that it puts all the onus on us for being offended. You know, it doesn't matter what they did. If you're offended, there's a problem with you. Great peace have they which love thy law, nothing shall offend them. You're offended? You're missing the first half of the verse. That's your fault. That's just offensive of the Word of God, isn't it? To point out that we're the one that's the problem in that way. Who is the Bible to tell me that I'm the one that has the problem? You know, it kind of takes the wind out of your sails, doesn't it? When you're all self-righteous and I can't believe and I have a right to be upset and I you don't know what they did and how I was mistreated and oh it's my fault. That kind of just takes takes things away. I remember one time I was dealing with some young people, some teenagers, and uh one was very upset about something that the other teen had said to them. Now what the other teen had said to them was stupid, and they shouldn't have said it. But they were all upset a and all just tangled up in themselves. But this was a young person who was trying to be very spiritually minded. So I sat down with them and hey what happened and what did they say and how did you respond? And you were all bothered about that and that really that offended you, didn't it? Yes, it did. And I said, well, let's look at what the Bible has to say about what they did. And we go to this verse, and he just kind of Like, man, I was ready to be mad, I was ready to be upset, and now you're just saying I can't, because I'm supposed to love the Bible and I'm not supposed to be offended So today we're going to continue our series on being more than conquerors. We're going to look at this topic of overcoming offense. Overcoming offense. How do we get to this point where we can say nothing shall offend them? Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. And God, we thank you for the Bible, what we can learn from it, Lord, even when it directly challenges the way that we think and the way that we may want to respond to a situation or what is culturally normal of how to respond to things, Lord, the Bible teaches us to be different. And Lord pray that the lesson today would come through clearly and that we would strive to um overcome uh this area of offense in our life so that we can strive to go forward uh for you on a daily basis in our lives. Lord, we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So let's look at this idea of overcoming offense. First I want to define what is an offense and where do they come from and how do offenses happen? And what's the what happens when there is an offense. So first of all, we understand that our modern idea, when we hear offend or I've been offended, what comes to mind is that we have been angered, annoyed, or irritated The actions of someone else has caused a disagreeable irritation within us. We also associate the idea with displeasure we feel because of something that goes against of how against our perception of how things ought to be. We think things are supposed to go this way, it doesn't go that way, and then we're bothered by that. That's what we think of when it comes to this idea of offense. We're irritated at the actions of someone else. Say they did something that I didn't like. That's what we kind of have have brought this word offend to mean. Now that when you go to the Bible though and look at this word and what the word meant historically, we can understand there's a little bit stronger of a meaning behind it Something that gives us a little bit more of a picture of how this interacts with our lives and how an offense can interrupt what we are trying to do. So in the Old Testament, The word offend carries the idea of something that would cause you to trip or stumble. That's where this word, nothing shall offend them. Nothing's going to cause you to trip up, nothing's going to cause you to stumble. This is the same word translated, stumbling block in other places. There's prophecies about Jesus is how he would be a stumbling block. There's a command in the law of not putting a stumbling block in front of the blind. That's this word for offend, not to cause you to trip up, not to cause you to stumble. We get to the New Testament. It's a similar idea. It's the idea of a snare or a trap that would cause you to trip or to stumble. It's the same word, or the root word for our word scandalize. That's the word for offend in the New Testament. The Greek word there is something that that that that throws you off, that that messes messes you up with you had a an intention and something interrupts that intention. The etymology of the word has a combat origin. If you look at the word offend, I was telling some some people recently that if you take words in the Bible sometimes and you kind of switch them around, you can understand what they mean. Offend means to fend off. It was a military term that you're fending off. If somebody has something that they wanted to do, maybe an opposing army wants to come and attack your city, you fend them off. You disrupt their intention Somebody's you're in a you're in a fencing match, sword fighting, somebody's planning to to stick you with a sword, you fend them off, you disrupt their t intentions. And that's this word here, is that there was an intention and something got in the way and caused you to mess up what you were trying to do. When you see the word offend in the Bible, it points to something that would interrupt your progress I know probably nobody else here has ever done something like this, but as a young person, maybe you've seen somebody, not you, but you've seen somebody trip somebody else that was in a hurry to get somewhere You know, they you see them coming and they are very focused on where they're going, and it's so easy when they're just they got a goal, they're focused, so easy to go like that and boom. They they hit the ground. I know nobody else has ever done that. Um but you have where you see somebody, they've got somewhere they're headed, and it's easy to get in there and to offend to cause them to trip because they have a goal, they have a focus, and you want to interrupt their progress by knocking them on the floor and laughing about it. And so that is uh that is that is this idea of offend You know, perhaps there's a time, let's let's look at a hypothetical situation uh where you know you had a really, really rough day Stuff went wrong at work, stuff was wrong with the car, things went wrong with the family. You got mad at a coworker, you didn't finish work on time, you hit traffic on the way home, you yelled at your family, you kicked the dog, had one of those kind of days. Then the next morning you say, you know what, you lay your head on your bed at your ph your on your head on your pillow at night and you say, you know what, tomorrow I'm gonna have a good day. Tomorrow I'm going to have a good day. That's your goal. You have a focus. I'm going to do this. I'm going to have a good day. And so you wake up. early in the morning, you eat healthy, you kiss your family goodbye, you go out to the car and the battery's dead. But you know what? I'm going to have a good day, right? That's not going to trip me up. I'm going to have a good day. So you decide, you know, I'm going to take my spouse's car. They don't have to go anywhere today. Get in your spouse's car. They didn't get gas. So they're out of gas. Well, it's okay. I'm gonna have a good day. So you drive to the gas station, you get gas, and now you're late for work. But when you're like it's okay, I'm gonna have a good day But you get the gas station and and gas jumped another fifty cents last night. And you know what? It's okay, I'm I'm gonna have a good day, but you're you're starting to waver uh i i in your in your stamina that you're really gonna do this because things are starting to starting to get in the way. Things are starting to uh offend you. You got to work, you're late, and the maintenance guy decided to finally fix your phone the day you have an important phone call. And so there's another thing that gets gets in the way Then you spill your coffee on yourself and just blow up at the world and say, you forget the good day thing. It doesn't work. That doesn't work anymore Because all you wanted to do was have a good day. All those things that got in the way of what you wanted to do, that's this word offenses Nothing shall offend them. Nothing's gonna trip you up. Now you got you overcame some of them. Hey, I'm not gonna let that offend me. Hey, I'm not gonna let that offend me. But as they pile up, you lose track of what the goal was And that's this idea of offense. You know this happens spiritually as well. God speaks to your heart about something, you make a decision for the Lord. And uh yes, this is what I'm going to do. Let's say you decide to start coming to Sunday school. I'm going to do this. God spoke to my heart. I I want to be there. Um I want to be there early. I want to sit towards the front, and I'm going to I'm going to be in Sunday school And then the next the first week you realize you forgot to change your alarm, you slept through Sunday school, and you know what, that's okay. I'm gonna do this. I'm I'm gonna go to Sunday school. Next week a relative calls you in the morning to to share with you all the latest family gossip. By the time you get them off the phone, you miss Sunday school again. You know what? I've got a goal. I'm gonna do this. You know, the next week you leave on time, but halfway to church you remember you left the stove on, half turn around and go home. And come, but I'm gonna do, you know, all these things that get in the way of you have a goal, you have something you want to do, those are the offenses. Those are the things that are trying to trip you up. from making progress towards a goal that you have. You know, you get the picture. If you're headed the right way spiritually, things are going to come up to try to get you off track. But it's up to you not to be offended. It's up to you not to let those things trip you up. And we're getting ahead of ourselves here, but great peace have they which love thy law when your love for the goal outweighs the offenses, you're going to keep get up and keep going. When what I want is more important than what just happened to me, What just happened to me is not going to bother me that much. Because I'm going to get up and I'm going to keep going. That's this idea of nothing shall offend them You know, there's many ways that offenses show up in our lives. Things that we deal with, they they show up in different ways, uh wearing different costumes, but they're all there with the same intention to to try to trip us up, to mess us up from what we're trying to do. Often Circumstances will do this. We kind of illustrated that with the alarm clock and the and the leaving the stove on. That just things happen. Life happens and it messes us up and tries to mess up the goals that we may have. But you know, sin Sin offends us, and it gives us opportunities to stumble. In Acts chapter 24, verse number 16, the Bible says, And herein do I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense toward God and toward men. Void of offense. I want my conscience, void of offense. I don't want to have done anything that tripped me up spiritually. I don't want to allow sin to get me off track of serving God. Sin will always do that. Sin will always get you to turn aside from what God wants you to do. God has a way for us to go. You see this often in Psalms and Proverbs that there's a way that God wants you to be on, and don't turn aside to the right hand or to the left hand Don't go away from that way, but sin always makes us take a detour. Sin always gets us off track. Sin always trips us up and it offends us. It trips us and it messes us up in our determination to serve God You know, the idea of sin is actually really closely related to this word offend, to miss the mark, our word for sin in the Bible, very closely related here, because you messed up. You missed what you were intending to do. Sin is that mistake that pulls you away, takes you out of your pursuit of God. Satan knows this. Satan knows that sin will trip you up, so he's going to put temptation in your way to cause you to trip up. He's going to give you those opportunities to sin along the way in hopes that you'll mess up and you'll stop serving the Lord. James chapter 1, verses 14 through 16 describes temptation. It says there, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived it bringeth forth sin. And sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Don't err. Don't go away. Don't go after those things. You're tempted when you're drawn away. You have a goal. You're serving God. You're going forward. Temptation comes and it draws you away. Lust conceives bring forth sin. Sing when it's finished bringing forth death. The warning, don't err. Don't turn aside. Don't go that direction. Stay with the goal of serving the Lord. Don't let sin get in the way and trip you up. when you have a goal of pleasing God with your life. So sin. Sin will give us opportunities to stumble. Now someone else who gets in our way and causes us to stumble, we do. We cause ourselves assemble. Matthew 5, 29 through 30, if thy write I offend thee, pluck it off and cast it, pluck it out and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and cast it from thee. For it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell. He gives the illustration there. You know what? You're your own worst enemy. Your hand, your eyes, your your your your your flesh, it gets in the way of of letting you letting you come to God. And here is talking about somebody being being cast into hell, so somebody prevented from salvation, but we can make application to You know what? I get in my way sometimes. When I want to serve God, it you know it's me that causes it, causes it not to happen. We're often our own worst enemies. You know, there's only one thing that's keeping me from being in top physical condition, from having low body fat, from having strong muscles, from having an early morning wake-up routine, you know what's preventing me from doing that? Me. Yep. Yep. I'm the one that's in the way. If I could deal with this guy, I could be in shape, and I could be a good athlete, and I wouldn't hurt so bad after the men and boys camp out. Um if I just would get out of my own way, right? You know, there's only one thing keeping me from being as spiritual as God wants me to be. There's only one thing keeping me from walking with God the way that I'm supposed to be. You know who's doing that? Me. Me. I'm the one getting in my way. Take your Bible turn with me to 2 Peter chapter 1. 2 Peter chapter 1. We looked at this verse yesterday with the group that was doing discipleship, and it just fit in perfect here with this point, 2 Peter 1, verses 3 through 9. The Bible says, according as his divine power hath given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. When you got saved, God gave you everything you need. To live a successful Christian life and to be godly. When you got saved, God gave it all to you. You didn't have to earn it, you didn't have to strive for it. You didn't have to say, well, one day maybe I'll get there. He gave you everything that you needed Everything that you needed for life and guidelines. God gave that to you at your salvation. But you keep reading, it says there through the knowledge of Him that have called us to glory and virtue. whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, to virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, to temperance, patience, to patience, godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness char For if these be in you and abound, they make you that you shall be neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says there, I've given you everything you needed to be a successful Christian. I gave you everything you needed to walk with God. I gave you everything you need to partake of the divine nature. I've given you everything you need to escape the corruption that's in this world through lust. You have that. at salvation. But you need to put it into practice. You need to have faith. You need to add to your faith virtue. You need to add to your virtue temperance. And you need to add to your temperance brotherly kindness and charity. All these things, you need to put that all into practice. If you do these things, you're going to abound. But it's up to you to implement them. God gave you everything that you needed, but now you need to put it into practice. Notice in verse 9 what happens when we don't. When we're not putting these things into practice in our lives, verse number nine says, But he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he is purged from his old sins. It's a Christian who's just living like a lost person. He was purged from his sins. He's forgiven. He's just forgotten what God did for him. And he's just living like any other any other lost person, a Christian that's not being successful, that's not having victory, that's not partaking of the divine nature. not escaping the corruption of the world through lust because he's not putting into practice what God's given him to do. We're our own worst enemy when it comes to the spiritual walk that God wants us to have. When it comes to making us stumble. When it causes comes to us being offended and not pursuing God the way we ought to, it's us that gets in the way. So we can cause ourselves to stumble. Fourthly, we see that people can often offend you and give you an opportunity to stumble. In Luke 17, verse number one, the Bible says, Then said he unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come, but woe unto him through whom they come. You will be offended. In perception or in reality by other people. It's guaranteed. Offenses will come. It was promised to you in the Bible that you're going to be offended. Let me go a step further. You will be offended in perception or reality by saved people, by your church family. That that there's going to be things that you could have an opportunity to trip up because of the actions of someone else. No, it's the opportunity. It's not they're going to make you trip up. Tripping is up to you or not. We saw that in Psalm 119. But they'll give you that opportunity. Now I say in perception or reality, because most things that we're offended by from other people Aren't really what happened. We can kind of elaborate in our mind about what happened or what they meant or what their intentions were, and we get this perception, but often our view is skewed or misinterpreted. You know, I don't know if you know this, but but but some of some of you, either in here or in church, look at us really funny while we're teaching. And uh and and we can get take the opportunity to say, man, the way he's looking at me, I'm either preaching heresy or he thinks I'm a terrible teacher Or I say, you know what, that's probably his resting face. That's just the way they are. And we get that way with people in church. They looked at me this way. And this this is what they they were saying, we get this perception built up and we cause ourselves to trip over these over these perceived offenses. You know, all the petty things that we allow to get under our skin, where we have assigned malice to a brother or sister in Christ, are things that we've let trip us up and offend us, and often it didn't even happen No, he didn't shake my hand. They didn't notice that I was gone. He didn't visit me when I was sick. They stole my parking spot. She's sitting in my pew. They didn't want to talk to me this morning All these things that we build up in our mind, we we get this idea and we trip ourselves up in our pursuit of God. And there's a lot of people who've tripped up and are out of church because of something that didn't happen. Because they got offended about something from someone else and it didn't even happen, and they've allowed that to cause them to be offended, and now they're not pursuing God anymore. So we need to guard ourselves from offenses. You know one strong element that should be in a church as Christian brothers and sisters is love. You know, it's our love for each other that's supposed to identify us to the world as Christians. In John 13, 35, Jesus said, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one for another. This is how the world knows your disciple when a church loves each other. We gave the illustration a few weeks ago when we came back from Belize, but there's a man who's saved and believes right now because he watched people from different churches come together and work together in Christian loves and he says something's different about that group. And it touched his heart and God used that for him to be saved because he saw love. Can you imagine if we got down there and everybody's a personality contest and bickering and fighting and disagreeing and people walking off the job site because somebody used our tool and got dirt on it and and and and all the things that we could get upset about That man wouldn't be saved today because he wouldn't have seen the love that was there. And so it's our love that identifies us to the world. You know, there's a chapter in the Bible that teaches about love. Anybody know what that is? 1 Corinthians 13. Yep, 1 Corinthians 13. You know one of the verses in there about love that says charity seeketh not her own. You know, it's not worried about herself. Not worried about yourself when you have Christian love. It's not all about me and my own promotion. Is not easily provoked. Not so easy to get offended or get upset about things when I have love, not quick to be angered. Thinketh no evil. If I have love, I'm not assuming evil motives of others, assuming evil intentions and actions of others. That's Christian love. So we have this idea of these things can come in and they all give us opportunities to stumble, but whether or not we stumble, that's up to us. We have that choice to make. So that's the first point. What is an offense? Secondly, this kind of is a little bit of a side note, but it fits in real well here, and we're going to do a little teaching on it: is don't be offensive. Do not be offensive. Number two. It's a little separate from the main thrust, but it's an important Bible principle we should be practicing. So why not? Why shouldn't we be offensive? What's wrong with that? What's wrong with being offensive? Well First of all, we understand that God's going to judge those that cause others to stumble. We saw Luke 17. 1, he said to his disciples, It's impossible that offenses will come. But notice the next part, but woe, the word woe in the Bible means judgment Woe to him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea than that he should offend one of these little ones God's going to judge us for offending others. When we cause someone else to stumble through actions, yes, they're responsible for stumbling. That's on them. But God's going to point to you and say, What did you do that for? Why did you act that way? Why did you cause someone else to stumble? Why did you offend one of these little ones? As the verse says, God's going to judge those that cause others to stumble. So we should guard ourselves. From making others stumble. You know, not being offensive, secondly, protects your church family Protect your church family. You know the love we're supposed to have as a Christian. Proverbs 18, 19 says, A brother offended is harder to be one than a strong city. Their contentions are like the bars of a castle. Now there's a lot of churches that have people that sit over here that won't talk to people that sit over here because there's something happened and there's an offense there and there's nothing going to reconcile them because the brother offended is harder to be one uh than a than a strong city. We cause division in the church when we have offended one another, so don't be the one causing the offense. We we guard ourselves to to not of not offend others so we don't cause cause those divisions. There's a lot of churches that have never, that it's been years since they've seen revival, since they've seen lost people saved, since they've seen visitors in church, because this half of the church doesn't get along with this half of the church. I was in a meeting one time where there was the strong preaching and great messages, and then something happened where a young lady over here. got up in tears and walked over to a young lady over here who was in tears and they hugged each other and they came down here and we saw ten or so people saved that night. And the preacher made a comment. He said, when church people start going this way, sinners start coming this way. And that was a point that he brought out of this idea that when we're offended, we're we're causing division and strife in the church, and that's not showing The love of Christ. So be careful not to offend because it protects our church family. Also, not being offended protects the ministry Or sorry, not being offensive protects the ministry. 2 Corinthians 6. 3 says, giving no offense in anything that the ministry be not blamed. That the ministry, when you are offensive, it reflects on your church. It reflects on your church family. We tell people they're going out soul wanting to remember, especially with young people and how they run from door to door doing John Romans. Remember, you're representing The Lord and Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And what you do reflects back on, what do you see them kids from? Where do they come from? It reflects back on the ministry when we're offensive. So we need to guard ourselves from being offensive. So how do we keep from being offensive If we don't want to. We don't want to because God's going to judge those that are offensive. It protects our church family if we're not being offensive and it protects the ministry if we're not offensive. So how do we keep from being offensive? Number one, we understand truth is always offensive. People are going to be offended by truth. Truth is offensive, but you don't have to be. The gospel is offensive enough without us adding to it. We see in Matthew chapter 15, the disciples came to Jesus, they said to him Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended after they heard this saying? You were preaching, then people got upset. And Jesus didn't really care because truth is offensive. But notice that the next thing here. Not being offensive requires humility and laying down our rights. This is another, just two chapters later in Matthew 17, the disciples came to Jesus and said, hey, we're supposed to pay the temple tax. And Jesus says, well who's supposed to pay the temple tax? Children are free. We don't owe the temple tax, notwithstanding, lest we should offend them Go to the sea, cast a hook, take up a fish, take the money, go pay the taxes. Jesus wasn't worried about the truth offending somebody, but says, hey, we don't have to do this. We have the right not to pay this tax, but we don't want to offend them. So let's go ahead and let's lay down our rights and have some humility, not assert ourselves and go not be offensive. And so it takes humility, it takes laying down our rights sometimes. You know the idea of a stumbling box. I'm not going to be a stumbling box. That's this word offense. And he's saying, you know what? I have the right to do this, but because of my church family, I'm just not going to do it. I'm going to have some humility so that I don't offend other people. You know, not being offensive requires walking in the spirit instead of walking in the flesh. In Matthew 16, Jesus turned to Peter and said, Get thee behind me, Satan, for thou art an offense unto me. Why was Peter an offense? For thou savorest not the things of God, but those that be of men. You're you're walking in the flesh, and that makes you offensive. You're not loving the things of God, else you wouldn't be offensive. And so you know what things that we do in the flesh, that's what hurts other people. That's how we offend people is when we get when we get in the flesh. And also not being offensive requires paying attention to those around you. This is kind of more just a practical point. Be polite. Don't interrupt people. Treat other people with kindness. Notice those around you. Pay attention when somebody is distant, maybe seems like there's a problem. Just pay attention. Just be aware of the needs of those around you That's how we can keep from being offensive. So, number three, this morning, how do we overcome offenses? How do we overcome? How do we get past things tripping us up and preventing us from walking with the Lord? Number one, we need to have the right pursuit. Have the right pursuit. Psalm 118 165, a verse we started with. Great peace have they which love thy law Nothing shall offend them. The foundation to getting to the point, how do I get to the point where nothing offends me is to have a love for the law of God. Have a love for God, have a love for God's word that overcomes anything else that gets in my way. That is more important to me than anything else. Notice that it does not say one must perfectly keep the law to have nothing offend them. Just love the law. Make God's law important to you. Make the Word of God important to you. Make a pursuit of God important to you. You know, Pastor gave the illustration a few weeks ago of the pursuit of a young man to win the heart of a young lady. Gave that illustration. Because of the love that he has or thinks that he has in his heart for this young lady, he's not going to let anything get in the way of his pursuit. You know, he may get tripped down tripped up, he may get knocked down, she might not answer a text, she might say no a time or two, but that's not gonna those aren't going to offend him. Those aren't going to trip him up if he's really got this pursuit going on Things aren't gonna get in the way that that throw it off. Say, okay, well, she didn't reply to my text. I guess everything's over now. Now he might say that, but he's gonna get up in the morning and he's gonna go pursue again. Um uh a little bit of drama that goes on as a young person there But uh but pursuit, what are you going after? And if what's your goal is greater than the offense, then the offense doesn't bother you. Christian that has a love for the Word of God and a love for God is a per and that is pursuing God will not allow the things that are trying to trip him up to stop his pursuit. If you have a walk with God, then fleshly circumstances aren't going to stop you. I think I've given the illustration before. We had a man come to our church when I was a young person, and I was standing in the foyer and My pastor asked him and said, Hey, uh, why are you looking to leave your other church and come here? And he's gonna say, Well, Pastor, you're not gonna believe this. But we had a church picnic and uh I brought a box of toothpicks, not just any toothps. I brought the colored toothpicks and nobody sent me a thank you note He said, I'm just kidding. They're they're they're leaving the King James Bible. But that is the way people are that things can get so under our skin that we're just getting ready to give up on God because I didn't get a thank you note But if our pursuit for God is there, we're not going to let these fleshly circumstances mess us up. Love God, pursue God, and nothing will be able to trip you up, nothing will offend you. Romans 8. 5 says, For they that are after the flesh, do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. If you're after the spirit, the things of the flesh You don't mind them because you're minding the things of the spirit. But hey, it goes the other way too. We don't have time to develop this thought, but when you're pursuing the flesh, uh God's going to put some things in your way to offend you and trip you up Like a sermon that you're going to get mad about. Like something in your Bible reading, like a Christian brother or sister coming and saying, Hey, I was concerned about this in your life. Those things are there to trip you up, to quit you, get you to stop pursuing the world and get back to pursuing God. Kind of a side note there, but but let those things trip you up. So you get back to instead of being after the flesh, go back to being after the spirit. But when you're after the spirit, you mind the things of the spirit. You don't mind the things of the flesh. They're not going to get in your way. So number one, have the right pursuit. Number two, let God control your circumstances. Say, they that love thy law, what does it start with? Great peace have they Great peace have they that love thy love. It's a byproduct of the love, is that I have peace, that I'm so focused on God, these things don't bother me, they don't matter to me. I am at peace because I know that God's in control You know, nothing anybody does to you is worse than what you've done to God. Nothing any anybody does to you is worse than what you've done to God. And God forgave you. God overlooked your offenses. He let that punishment fall on his son, and he forgave those offenses that you did to him. We can do the same when we have a focus on God. Let God have let God have the offenses. Let God handle those things that bother you so much. Say, you know what? I'm gonna have peace. God's gonna take care of it. I saw a meme meme the other day. It was quotes that said, God, quote Vengeance is mine, I will repay. And then it said, me, can I help? That's our attitude sometimes that we want to be we want to be involved. But no, God says, hey, let me take care of it And you know what? How much peace does that bring? That I don't have to be the one to go deal with so-and-so, because God can take care of it. And you have peace when you love God's law. Like God handle the circumstances, and hey what? Does the verse say nothing shall offend you If I'm focused on God, I'm pursuing God, I'm letting God control the circumstances, then when this thing gets in my way, I can just I'm gonna keep going for God. It doesn't matter what they said, what they did, I can just Just keep going. I can keep pursuing pursuing the Lord. Let God control the circumstances. Third, be humble. Romans 12, 3 says, For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that's among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith You know, we're not as important as we think we are. Right. Here does this sound familiar? How could they, like, ugh, the them How could they do that to me? Like I'm so important. How could they treat me that way, right? Because I'm so important and they're not. No, I'm not as important as I think I am. And if I can have some humility, why wouldn't they treat me that way? And if they really knew who I really was, they'd treat me a lot worse If they really knew what was in my heart and the way that I am and how much I fall before the Lord, I don't deserve to be treated any way special But we get the opposite. Like, no, me, me, how how could they treat me that way? That that I'm just so I'm just so important There was a preacher that had a great influence on my pastor, and he had was approached by a young man in ministry and he said, I'm having a problem with the people in my church and they're saying these things and it's hurting and I don't know what to do and how to respond to it, and the preacher said, Well play dead. That was his advice. Play dead. Dead people aren't bothered by stuff. You walk up to a casket and you say, You are ugly. He doesn't care. Um, doesn't matter. You know what? We're supposed to be dead to this flesh. And so when something says somebody has something bad to say about this flesh, doesn't bother me. That thing's dead. Alright? So that's uh some humility that we need to have. Lastly this morning we need to learn to deal biblically with real offenses. When something really has gone wrong, and we've got a pattern in Matthew chapter 18 and kind of a parallel passage in Luke chapter 17. This follows the verses about offenses are going to come and woe to them who to by whom they come, and it's better if a millstone is hung around their neck if they offend one of these little ones. But it goes on from there about these offenses and how bad it is, and people are going to be judged, and it says Take heed to yourselves, if a brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, if he repent, forgive him. And if he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, And seven times again, uh seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. There's not Probably any of us that have had seven times in one church service that somebody's made us mad, other than pastor. Um listening to preaching sometimes, those offenses that get in our way when we're pursuing the flesh, those those those get under our skin But seven times another church member do something to us. Seven times something gets in our way and shows us up. We just forgive it. Just forgive it. Somebody offends you, forgive it. God's going to take care of it. He said then verses 1 and 2. God's going to judge those who bring offenses. But as it comes to us We're taking to ourselves. Don't let these things get in the way. Don't let this thing that a brother or sister did trip us up from serving God. Is that so so much more important to you than pleasing the Lord, being mad at them This is more value to me. I want to be mad at them instead of worried about pleasing God. Loving the Lord. Pursuing God. We need to learn to deal biblically with real offenses Somebody did something to bother you, talk to them about it. And they're going to say, no, I didn't mean to do that. I didn't even realize I said that. I didn't even know that that had happened. I'm sorry. And you say, okay, I forgive you. And then it's done. You don't have to go ten years not talking to each other. You can just be done. You can just have it have it dealt with. Deal biblically offenses. But it goes down to primarily the focus of this verse is that when I love God, when I love God's word, I have a direction I'm heading, and when something happens and somebody forgets my name, I can just say That's not going to bother me. When when my car breaks down, it's going to be okay. When when when uh somebody gets sick and all the kids are sick again, uh you know what? That'll be all right. I'm just worried about pleasing the Lord. And nothing offends me. I don't have to walk around with a chip on my shoulder. I have the peace of God in my heart. Nothing shall great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Let's close