This is an alphabetical study, so our next letter in the series is the letter L. And as I said already, and you can see in your notes there, we're going to be talking about the topic of laziness. Now when we think about laziness in the Bible, what words in the Bible describe laziness? Sajani? Slothful. Slothful? Yep. What's the other word that we usually think of with laziness in the Bible? Was that idle? Idle. There's one more. There's one more word that's a little bit more common than idle. Very, very descriptive word. Sluggard. Alright, so we have a sluggard, we have slothful, we have idle. You all hit the three words that are in the Bible used for um um for laziness, and we think of those two that are most common. sluggard and slothful, we obviously have an illustration from nature of this characteristic or this this trait that people have of being lazy, that of the animal of the sloth and the I guess it's an insect of a slug So we have these two illustrations, the nature of laziness. So I went in to look at what is it about these animals that we would call somebody a sloth or a sluggard based on their behavior and I found something very disturbing. We're not called slothful and sluggards because of the animals. The animals are called slothful and sluggards because of us The term for a lazy person was a sluggard and a sloth before the animal was given that English name Um so the animals are d described as a lazy person when somebody saw a sloth. That said, hey that reminds me of so-and-so uh when they saw a sloth and somebody saw a slug down there. We didn't ought to call that this because that's the kind of person that that looks like. So made uh made me feel about this big, you know, as people, what is it that we we we tend to act like these animals? Nope. When people saw those animals like that's just like a lazy person uh when they saw those animals. So We have this idea of the this picture of the sloth, the sluggard, reminding them of a slow person, of a lazy um person. I did some looking into a sloth and They are their fastest when they're up in the trees. That's their habitat where they are their fastest. And a sloth in the tree will typically move roughly 13 feet a minute. Um that's their top that's not quite their top speed because when they're chased by a predator, they'll bump it up to fifteen feet a minute. Um I don't think too many sloths outrun too many predators. In fact their way their their their way they protect themselves from predators is they look like part of the tree because they don't move enough. They're just a bump on the logs, you could say. They'll actually move slow so slow that moss and algae will grow on them just like they were part of the tree and then all their predators can't see them uh because they're moving so slow. That's the idea of a sloth. On the ground, a sloth will move about ten feet a minute. Now what about a slug? What about a slug that is it reminded um somebody who ever gave the name to a slug of a lazy individual. Well they're slow moving. Uh they can't be bothered to find a home to live in. Uh they leave a trail of their mess behind them everywhere that they go. uh sounds a little bit like a teenager unfortunately. Um and uh we've all been one of those leaving messes behind us everywhere we go. Um and that's the the description given of a of a slug It's uh it's amazing that the survival of these two creatures named after the human characteristic of laziness. One's dependent on their being gross and nobody wants to eat them. That's the slug's defense, is that you're just you're just so gross nobody wants to do anything with you. And then you have the as I said already, the uh sloth is so lethargic that most predators don't even notice them. Now these are definitely not characteristics that we want to emulate in our lives. So if laziness is so undesirable, why is it so easy? It is very, very easy to be lazy, even though we don't like it, even though we don't like the fruit of it, even though we don't like the way that that it looks and the way that we are characterized when we're lazy, it is very easy to slip slip into. People are like water. We tend to settle down to the lowest possible level. Level of energy, level of productivity. We want to find the bottom. What's the least that I can do and get away with it? This is one of those things that's a temptation for all of us Everyone in in one way or another struggles with this idea of laziness. Sometimes when we hear preaching, it's very easy to say, oh, that message is for so-and-so. Um but laziness is one that one that hits all of us. Anybody that that that knows me knows that I enjoy work. I enjoy working, I enjoy working. I work on all my vacations and all my days off. I I enjoy working, but I know it's very easy for me to sit down and be lazy. I could sit down and watch 14 hours of TV. I wouldn't enjoy it. I wouldn't feel good afterwards. I wouldn't be very happy with myself, but I could do it. As good as any of them. And it is very easy to slip into slip into laziness. Laziness is actually direct rebellion to God's plan for mankind. Because what's the antidote to laziness? What's the opposite? Productivity, work, go going about and doing work. And you know the work is given to us by God. Where did work come from? You know our flesh wants work to have originated with the curse of Satan. But work was around well before that. Work started for man in the garden. In Genesis chapter two, verse number fifteen, the Bible says the Lord God took man and put him in the garden of Eden to God gave man work, God gave man a job before he gave him food to eat. Before the God said, Every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, he said, You're here in the garden to dress it and to keep it You've got a job to do. Before you're allowed to eat, you've got work to do. You know, God gave man a job before he gave man a wife. Um Abe wasn't around yet, and Adam was given the job of keeping and dressing the garden and naming all the animals before he was given his wife. And so from the very beginning it has been God's plan for us to work. So natural man rebels against God's plan. So it's our flesh in rebellion to God that wants us to be lazy. So that's a little more serious. And typically when we have a lazy time or a lazy day, we kinda just throw it off like, well I deserved it. I've been working hard. What's the big deal? I'm just just sleeping in today. Well, laziness is direct rebellion to God's plan for you. Uh so it is a serious topic in the Word of God. In the Bible, most of our references to laziness come out of the book of Proverbs. Can anyone tell me the very specific audience of Proverbs? Who is Proverbs written for? Young man. Young man, alright, which young man in particular? This one. The son of who? Of Solomon The son of Solomon. So you think of the son of Solomon. Solomon wrote Proverbs for his son. Now by application it's written to young men or young people, and all of us can benefit from the study of Proverbs. I've been reading Proverbs every day for a couple months now and really been enjoying doing that, but Proverbs is written specifically to the son of Solomon. Who was he? He was a prince. He was a young person that grew up privileged and wealthy. As a privileged young person, he needed to be taught the value of hard work. He needed to be taught about the danger of laziness. 'Cause who in that time would it have been easier for them to be lazy than for a son of a king? Uh very easy to to let other people do your work for you, to to laze around so Solomon had to teach Teach his son, hey, you have experienced privilege, you have experienced these benefits, so you need to guard yourself from the idea of laziness. Now, as I was thinking about that, thinking about us today, everyone in this room has grown up with more luxury and more opportunity for laziness than the son of King Solomon. One of the wealthiest men in history, uh King Solomon, we've all experienced more privilege, more, you know, Netflix wasn't around. for Rhoboam uh to sit down and watch in his room. Uh he couldn't go have a hot shower when he just walked in the bathroom and and turned the tap on. He didn't have uh a a restroom in his in his house uh attached to his bedroom Uh they the he didn't have a Walmart to go to. He couldn't go get on an airplane, uh no hoverboards around, all these things that people enjoy today. We have even more luxury and more ability to take it easy. Easy, even than the son of the richest man in the world when the Bible was written. So if he needed some warnings about being lazy, uh we're gonna need those warnings as well, those regarding slothfulness. So we're going to start with a passage in the book of Hebrews, if you found your place there, Hebrews chapter 6. We're going to read verses 9 through 12, and we're going to come back to these verses at the end of the lesson as well. We'll spend most of our lesson today in the book of Proverbs, but I wanted to start here because this is an admonition given specifically to Christians. Hebrews 6, verse number 9 says, But beloved, we are persuaded better things of you. and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and your labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister And we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end, that ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience have inherited Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word, Lord, in this aspect of our lives that we need to be challenged in and reminded, Lord, of the industry that you want us to have in our lives. in our lives spiritually, in our in our lives, in our work ethic, in our families, Lord, that we would learn to overcome this temptation of laziness, Lord, to live our lives according to your will. Um to be the kind of Christians and people that you want us to be, Father. Pray you bless this study this morning and ask us in Christ's name. Amen. So we look at this idea in Hebrews 6 of what's going on here. You look back at the first verse. He says, therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection. He's kind of getting into this idea that there are some very basic truths he's been covering so far in this book. Very basic truths regarding salvation. He says, we're at the point now where we need to move on. In fact chapter five ends with the idea of people who are spiritually mature are ready for meat and not just the milk of the word. They're ready for some stronger truths. And he's going to make that transition and say, I'm going to give you I'm going to give you some more direct, some stronger truths, not just talk about your salvation. and how much better Christ is. We're going to get down to where the rubber meets the road. And one of the first topics he gets into in here, he says, you don't need to be slothful as a Christian. As a Christian, we don't want you to be slothfully. We want you to be doing things that accompany salvation, meaning God saves you. God wants you to get to work. So there's things that go along with your salvation. We don't work to be saved, but we work as Christians. God has something for us to do. He says we're going to move on from just this the simple truth of salvation and we're going to give you what you need as a Christian. And one of those first things we need to understand is that we're not supposed to be slothful. We need to move on to have industry. Laziness is a fruit of the flesh, so it should not be part of the life of a Christian. Laziness is rebellion to God, so it should not be part of a Christian's life. So we need to work as Christians. to overcome laziness in our lives. We'll go to the notes now. Our first point there is kind of defining this idea. What is laziness? We go to the dictionaries first. I have one older dictionary, Webster's 18 The idea of laziness is to be disinclined to action or exertion, to be naturally or habitually slothful, sluggish, indolent, to be adverse to labor, or to be heavy in your motions. This is the idea very just I don't want to work. That's the attitude of laziness. Dictionary. com, more modern dictionary dictionary gives the same idea adverse or disinclined to work to activity or exertion. We go to the Bible and we look up these words, we've talked about them already, but we have the word sluggish or sluggard. We have the word slothful and we have the word idle. These are the Bible words that describe this idea of laziness. The word sluggard means indolent. which means habitually idle. It is their habit or their tendency to be doing nothing. And that's the idea of a sluggard is that when you find them, when you come on them, they're not going to be doing anything. It's their habit to be idle It actually comes from the the word that is translated sluggard comes from the word that means to lean on something. Somebody that's just leaning on something Leaning up against the wall, uh leaning on their shovel while everybody else is working. You've seen somebody of that nature. It was very common when somebody would be doing something and there wouldn't be really something for you to do. You kind of end up watching what they're doing, maybe leaning on the shovel, and the boss would show up and he had an expression he would always use He'd say, are you watching or working? Are you watching or working? But that's the idea. Sluggard is just leaning around, just being habitually idle. That's the idea of a sluggard. We found the word slothful in the Bible. The slothful is a very interesting word because its foundation or its root is the idea of being deceitful, to be a liar. That's part of this idea of slothful. The root word actually carries the idea of throwing something. So it's kind of interesting. You have deceit uh tied into this idea for lazy and you have the idea of throwing something. You know, when you don't do something that you're capable of doing and you instead instead throw your responsibility to somebody else. You're being slothful. You ever heard a kid whine about doing a job? But I can't. Why don't you have them do it? That's to throw your responsibility on somebody else and to be deceitful because you could do it. You could get something done. You could work. You could be busy but you're letting somebody else take care of your responsibilities for you. That's the idea of slothful And just uh for for our for parents that are listening, if you have the other child go ahead and do the job, you're doing a disservice to the one that was whining about it. You need to train, and we'll talk about that more in this lesson. Parents have a direct responsibility to train their children not to be lazy. So slothful. Being deceitful, being a liar, and throwing off your responsibility. Because when you don't do your job, somebody else is going to have to. So somebody else has to pick up your responsibility. You've thrown it onto them. We have our third Bible word, is the word idol. Now the word idol very simply means not working. When we go to the New Testament, when Jesus tells the parable about the laborers that were hired at different points of the day. the the master of the house kept coming into the marketplace and he'd see the men there and he said, Why stand ye here all day idle? That's the idea of Just not working. Why aren't you working? Why aren't you busy? Why aren't you doing something? That's the idea of idols that you are unemployed, that you're not working. Now you're not doing something. Now we have built a culture in our country especially of where we have rewarded laziness. We've gone far beyond just allowing laziness. Now we're penning people uh to be lazy. God's perspective on this is very clear in the Bible. If you can work and you don't, you are slothful and idle. And God's perspective of slothfulness is that you are deceitful or a liar. So God has very strong ideas. I know that's very harsh, but that's what God said about it. So we look at this idea of laziness. That's kind of the words that are used and the definitions that are given. What are some things that laziness is often seen as in the company of. You want to look at words and how they're defined in the Bible. Often you can look at things that they're grouped with and get learn a little bit more about that characteristic. So laziness is often in the Bible associated with wastefulness. In Proverbs chapter 18, verse number nine, the Bible says, He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. So Wastefulness, slothfulness, laziness, they go hand in hand. See, a lazy person will not take care of the things that he has. And as a result, he will ra waste the resources that God has given them. A lazy person, if they're not going to be industrious, if they're not going to be be busy, they're just going to let the things that they have uh go to waste, that they're going to fall apart. They're not going to take care of the things that they've been given or that they're stewarding for God. And so as those things fall into disrepair, they end up wasting them. They go hand in hand. So a lazy person will waste the things God has given him. A couple of examples. A lazy person will waste their money. I've watched people that do not work, they have their income provided by others, go to a grocery store and load up with hundreds of dollars of soda and chips and snack cakes. Um just wasteful. Wasteful of their income, wasteful of their finances, wasteful of their bodies as they as they eat those things and take care of them. Just wasting their money. You know, the lottery is played overwhelmingly by poor people. Rich people don't play the lottery. Poor people pay the lottery. Not saying that everyone that is poor is lazy, but the lure of the lottery is to get something for nothing. And what happens? They end up wasting their money. So he that is lazy is brother to him that's a great waster. So as we look at his association If you find yourself being wasteful, it it points out something about some other characteristics in your life. So a lazy person will waste their money, a lazy person will waste their time. One of the most common illustrations of a lazy person in the Bible is somebody doing what? Nothing or it's in Proverbs quite a bit. On his on his bed, sleeping too much. Uh that a lazy person will waste their time. And so a an illustration in the Bible, the lazy person is someone who sleeps too much Sleep is one way that we can waste our time, but there are many other ways in our world today that we can waste time and be lazy. The average daily time spent with media in the United States this past year, um, just media on your phone, uh looking at Social media looking at YouTube media looking at those types of things this past year reached an average in America of thirteen hours and twenty-one minutes a day. 13 hours and 21 minutes a day consuming media on average. At the end of 2020, the average household was subscribed to seven different streaming services. I didn't even know there were seven different streaming services that are available. Um but they're people are out there. TV, streaming, video games, social media, tech devices, they're all geared towards and designed and programmed to cause people to waste time. And so a lazy person will waste their t waste their time. Time is the building block of life. When you waste your time, you waste your life. So laziness is tied to wastefulness. And the lazy person will waste their um they'll waste their money, they'll waste their time, they'll also waste their talents. God has given you a gift. And He's given you skills and He's given you abilities. All of these need to be developed and used. A lazy person will waste the talents that God has given them. Just for an illustration, has anybody ever been ex experienced a scam where you have been scammed in some way? Scammers are excellent salesmen. If they would go get a real job, they could make millions of dollars a year as a top salesperson in any company, but they want $200 a time in the parking lot trying to catch somebody and deceive them that they have a great talent and they don't want to put it to work, so they end up wasting um it was just a simple example, uh wasting uh their talent that they have been given. But wait l lazy people, they'll be they're very wasteful. So a lazy person in the Bible is associated with someone who is wasteful. Secondly, a lazy person in the Bible is associated with drunkenness and gluttony. In Proverbs 23, verse 21, the Bible says, For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty, and drowsiness, which is the idea of laziness, shall clothe a man with rags So we think about this, what is this idea of a drunkard and a glutton? It's somebody who has no discipline or self-control over their physical actions. That's a drunkard and a glutton. No discipline, no self-control over their physical actions. Well what's a lazy person? someone with no discipline or self-control over their actions. So we see this association in the Word of God. So we need to be on guard for these things that when we're lacking in self-control when we're when we're wasteful with the things that we have, we need to be aware that those things go hand in hand with laziness and we need to overcome that in our lives. So we look at this idea of laziness throughout the Bible. What are some symptoms? How can we tell if laziness is a problem in our lives? Go to the book of Proverbs, chapter 6. We'll look at this one first, Proverbs chapter six. We are going to come back to Hebrews at the end if you want to save your place there. Proverbs chapter six. We won't go read to all of these. But just look at what the Bible says a lazy person is or a lazy person does, so we can start to tell, is that something that I need to be on guard for in my life. So Proverbs chapter 6, verse number 9, we get our first one we mentioned already that a symptom of laziness is too much sleep. Proverbs 6 Verse number nine, the Bible says, How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard, when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? This is a very common illustration we'll find there's several passages of Proverbs we can look at. Somebody who's sleeping too much, the Bible says, is a lazy individual. Now understand a lot of people the last couple weeks have been sick. And if you have been sick and you have been sleeping too much like I have, sometimes your body needs that when you're sick, but it shouldn't be a habitual problem in your life that you are sleeping too much. A lazy person lacks discipline, they lack self-control over their bodies, and the easiest way to see this is through them sleeping too much. Now part of a parent's job, I said we're going to get into the parents' responsibility throughout this lesson, is to train their children to not be lazy. And when it comes to this aspect, that means Making them get out of bed. Making them get out of bed. You shouldn't be allowing your children, sorry guys, you shouldn't be parents shouldn't be allowing your children to sleep in the bed all day. They should be getting up. You need to motivate them to get out of bed And there's lots of ways to motivate them, but that's another lesson. So we need to be getting up out of bed. If your parents don't get you up, young people, do it yourself, because you don't want to be lazy. You don't want to have this rebellion to God in your life to um to get up out of bed. If you're tired in the morning, the solution is to go to bed earlier. You say, well I can't go to bed earlier. I know it's because you sleep till noon You can't go to bed at 9 if you sleep until noon. So that's why we get up early, and then we go to bed early and we can get up in the morning. What is one of the first things that people are taught in the military in discipline? Getting up in the morning, uh morning reveal where they're where they're got the trumpet blowing and the guys come through with trash cans banging on them at four o'clock in the morning, get up out of bed, because the day is starting and you need to be moving. So getting up. Um if you uh spend eleven in bed you're not sick, you're not gonna be able to sleep at night. Um so how can you tell if laziness is a problem for you? How much are you sleeping? He asked the question, when are you getting up? How long will you sleep? Oh sluggard? Hey, lazy man, you're in bed still? When you're getting up, what's the plan here? I remember talking to uh a lady when I was in college, uh, was one of the people on my bus route and she was telling me uh just I um I can't sleep and I've got these these demons that are bothering me at night and I just toss and I turn and like well you spend all day on the couch with the lights off. Um if you would get up and do something, you'll sleep at night. There's a verse in Ecclesiastes that says, the sleep of a laboring man is sweet. When you go put some work in and some hours and you you sweat and you strain your muscles, when you go to bed, you sleep good. If you have a hard time sleeping, maybe you try to need to put a little bit more productivity into your day. So Sleep is the first symptom of laziness. Secondly, another symptom we see in the book of Proverbs, we don't go here, but Proverbs chapter 20 tells us that scarcity is a symptom of laziness. Proverbs 20, verse number four. The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold, therefore shall he beg and harvest and have nothing. We understand the agricultural example that there's a time to plant. and the planting is done in the spring. But sometime in the spring it's still cold at four o'clock in the morning when farmers are supposed to be out plowing the fields. So the slugger says, no, I'm going to stay in bed where it's warm And then it comes time to harvest, and he's not going to have any food because he didn't get up and plant when the timing was right. Laziness will lead to scarcity in your life in every area. I understand that a lazy worker won't have the money or the food to provide for himself and his family. A lazy student won't have the information he needs when it's time for an exam. A lazy spouse will not have invested in their marriage and will not have a good relationship developed when times get tough. If you don't overcome laziness, you will have scarcity show up in some part of your life Someone who's spiritually lazy is going to be spiritually scarce. Somebody who's relationally lazy is going to be relationally scarce. Somebody who's intellectually lazy is going to be intellectually scarce. You're always going to have a short Somewhere in your life when we don't put in the time we need to and we are participate in laziness. So we have sleep, we have scarcity, we also have servitude. Proverbs chapter twelve, verse twenty-four. The hand of the diligent shall bear rule, but the slothful shall be under tribute. Lazy people cannot rule themselves, so someone else has to rule over them. You know, kids, if your parents wouldn't have to be on your case about doing your schoolwork, cleaning your room, doing your chores, getting out of bed if you were already doing those things. Say, why are they always on my case? Why are they always telling them what to do? Well, if you're not doing it. If you were doing it, you wouldn't have to have somebody tell you to do it. And that goes from the time we're children till we're adults. My boss is always on my case and he's checking into what I'm doing. Well, if you did what you're supposed to do. He wouldn't have to come and do that. And you could be in a position where you're checking on other people. But we we stay under tribute when we're lazy. Somebody's going to have to rule over us because we're not ruling ourselves. You'll never be given authority to manage others until you can learn to manage yourself. You want to move up in your company, in your business? Laziness isn't going to get you there. You need to learn to manage yourself, and then you're going to be put in a position to manage others. But as long as you can't manage yourself, other people are going to have to manage that for you So servitude. Another aspect of laziness or a symptom of laziness is shame. Proverbs chapter ten, verse number five. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, but he that sleepeth in the harvest is a son that causes shame. No one's proud of a lazy individual. You get a group of parents sitting around talking about their successful children. Nobody's like, oh, my kid sleeps on my couch in the basement. Um you you don't have anybody bring up that a as a as a thing of pride um that there's there's lazy there's laziness there. The Bible says there he that sleepeth and harvest is the son that causeth shame. Wives don't brag um to the to their friends about how much time their husbands spends spends sitting on the couch. You wouldn't believe how well my husband can keep his refiner propped up. Uh that doesn't that's not a conversation. That's not a conversation that happens A lazy person has nothing that they've accomplished that they can have self-respect for, so there's nothing that others are going to be able to respect them for either. So shame is an association that has to do with laziness. We get solitude as well, Proverbs 10, verse 26. As vinegar to the teeth and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send them. No one likes working with a lazy person. You remember it maybe in school how some people how people would be put on a group project and there was always that one kid. Nobody wanted in their group. Why? Because he wasn't going to do anything. So you didn't want him in your group, he wasn't going to contribute. Anyone relying on a sluggard is only going to get hurt and get irritated. That's the idea of having vinegar in your teeth and smoke in your eyes. You get vinegar in your teeth, you don't want to do it again. You go ask a sluggard to work for you, you're not going to do it again You get smoke in your eyes, that just irritates you. Try to work for the lazy person, just irritating. And so you're gonna it's gonna push them into solitude. Nobody's gonna want to be around them, nobody's gonna want to do anything with them. You'll avoid those things. People avoid relying on and working with lazy people. So solitude also another symptom of laziness is suffering. Proverbs fifteen, verse number nineteen, the way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns, but the way of the righteous is made plain. Now we assume that laziness is May be the case some of the time, but the Bible is very clear that laziness will lead to suffering. The Bible says the path of the lazy or the way of a thoughtful man is as a hedge of thorns. There's going to constantly be suffering and misery in the way that they have chosen for themselves. Um lazy people can't sleep good. Lazy people have pain in their bodies because they cause they lay around too much. I I was sick this past week and spent close to 48 hours in bed And I was hurting for it. Um and so if you're you're you're lazy, it's not the easiest thing to do. I don't know if you've ever seen it, but I I've seen somebody work so hard to avoid working. They they've done more to try to not work than if they'd have just gone ahead and done the job. There's a lot of times working with a cousin of mine. Uh we'd be given a job and and he uh he was always trying to find some way to get out of work. And so he would spend all this time and this effort and I would be done working on the project before he even got started and he'd done more than I did, uh trying to not work. Um you but that's what laziness leads to a path of or a way of thorns. The way of the righteous on contrast is made plain. All those barriers get out of w out of your way when you just do what you're supposed to do So suffering and and lastly another symptom of um laziness I've called scapegoating. Proverbs twenty two verse thirteen the Bible says, The swathful man saith, There's a lion without I shall be slain in the streets. The hallmark of a lazy man is making Excuses. Making excuses. I can't. I I am not able to. I don't know how to do that. I don't they've always gotten excuses. There's another verse in Proverbs that talks about how a um a lazy man can can is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason. He can come up with more excuses than you get seven intelligent men trying to argue with him and he's got an excuse for everything. So if you're constantly making excuses, it's a good symptom that laziness is a part of your life. So these are the symptoms of laziness. We had uh too much sleep, we had uh dealing with scarcity, servitude. Shame, solitude, suffering, and scapegoating. Is that what you want your life to look like? Is that your testimony that you want to have? So real quickly, we're going to go over a couple simple things on how to overcome laziness. Oh, how to overcome laziness. Number one, this is going to be very practical, very simple. Number one, wake up. If the number one problem or symptom of laziness is sleeping too much, the answer is to get up. We read it already. How long will thou sleep, O sluggard? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? Get out of bed, get off the couch, get busy doing something. If you want to overcome laziness, it's going to start with getting up and getting to work. Alright? Another thing we're told in Proverbs is that you can overcome laziness by spending time with hard workers Also in Proverbs chapter 6, verses 6 through 11, he's told, Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways, and be wise. The slugger is encouraged to go check out an ant and learn some lessons about diligence. If your tendency is to be lazy, find industrious people to be around. There's a lot of people in our church family that are very industrious. And if you say, you know what, I tend to be lazy, go spend some time with somebody who works too much. And that'll help you overcome, give you an example to follow, see what they do with their free time. Go around industrious people. Let their motivation motivate you. Learn from their example. If you can't find a person to be around, go look at some bugs. They're busier than you are, according to Proverbs chapter 6. So watch them and learn from them. What do we learn from an ant? An ant doesn't have to be told what to do. An ant doesn't need someone to check off on them and make sure they're doing their job. An ant works when it's easy and it works when it's hard. An ant works to prepare for the future even when their current needs are met. Everything's taken care of right now. Well, there's another need coming down the road. I'm going to work towards that. So go be around industrious people. Number three, learn to take care of your stuff. Ecclesiastes chapter 10 and verse number 18 says, By much slothfulness the building decayeth. And through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through. Proverbs also talks about how a man went by the field of the sluggard, and what did he see? It was broken down and it was overgrown. This goes back to what we're talking about with wastefulness If you have something that belongs to you that you're stewarding for God, take care of it. You know, if we just took care of the things that we've been entrusted with by God, we wouldn't have time to be lazy. Because there's something in my house that's broken right now. And there's something probably at your house that's broken right now, or something that's not clean, or some bed that's not made, or some attic space that looks like a bomb went off inside of it. There's stuff that you could do just taking care of your stuff, and that would eliminate the possibility for laziness if we just took care of the things we've stewarded for God. Is our work done before we sit down to be lazy? So we need to take care of the things that we've been given and steward that we're stewarding for God. Another thing we can do to overcome laziness is to cause ourselves some deprivation. Part of the problem with laziness is that we just have everything. We can get everything, we can buy new, just throw it away and buy a new one. Why do I need to take care of my stuff? I can just get a new one. Everything is disposable. Or or I don't need the work because I've got food in the cupboards. We know the verses in the Bible. That if a man should not work, neither should he eat, or Proverbs chapter 16, 26, he that laboreth laboreth for himself, for his mouth craveth it of him The reason we get away with so many in our society being lazy is because we have so much. No one is forced to work in order to eat. If you had to go to work in order to eat lunch today you would have been at work. Um so if that's not going to happen to yourself naturally like it's done throughout history, we might need to force that on ourselves, come up with some ideas to say I'm going to force myself to not be lazy. Like if I'm not out of bed by this time I don't let myself take a hot shower. About three mornings of a cold shower, you're going to figure out how to get up at 6 30. If you force yourself to have some deprivation, if you say, you know what, I'm not going to eat dessert until this project is done, you're going to figure out how to get that wall painted. So you can have some more cookies. Uh cause yourself some deprivation and force yourself to get some work done. Give your phone away to your spouse and tell them not to give it back until you you've got your room clean or got your clothes put away. Find some ways to deprive yourself and then you force yourself to work. Because if you don't work, you don't deserve to eat. So let's not eat until we get our work done Cause yourself deaths and deprivation. And then back in Hebrews chapter 6, we started our lesson there. We'll just cover cover this real quickly. I know our time is Time is done, but Hebrews chapter 6, verse 9, he says, There's better things for you. We are persuaded of better things for you and the things that accompany salvation. You've been saved, God's got stuff for you to do. So we need to figure out what God wants us to do and get busy about that. And if we do what God wants us to do, we can't be spiritually lazy because there's plenty for God that God has for us to do. In these verses, he says to go beyond your salvation and get on to several things. He knows your work. God has work for us to do. We can list all the things that should be done by us as Christians. But if we just take the four simplest ones, if I went to Junior Church right now and said, what are we supposed to do as Christians? They told me four things, these is what they'd be, these would keep us pretty busy. Read your Bible like you ought to. Pray like you ought to Be a witness like you ought to. Be faithful in the house of God like you ought to. That's not all the work we've been called to do as Christians. But if we stay busy with those four things, and I didn't give you a an amount of chapters or an amount of time, you decide what you ought to be doing for God. Let God tell you what you ought to be doing, and then you're not going to have time to be spiritually lazy So we need to be busy with our work. We need to be busy with our labor of love. He describes the laboring of love as the ministry that we have to other believers, ministering to the saints, and we do minister. We have obligations that we're to fulfill towards one another. And these should keep us busy as well. Just a couple examples. We should be praying for one another. We should be carrying the burdens of one another We should weep and rejoice with one another. We should meet the needs of one another. We should forgive one another, love one another, exhort one another, and there's a lot more one another's in the Bible that we should be doing as Christians. And he ends that verse in Hebrews 6, verse number 12. He says, I don't want you to be slothful, but instead be a follower of those who've gone before them. We've seen their example and how they've inherited the promises. You know, God's not going to be rewarding any lazy Christians when it comes to the judgment. I heard I heard one time of a testimony service at a church where people were talking about sins that they'd been doing and they wanted to get And a lady, I've been lying and I'm gonna stop. And everybody's been testifying. And one one church lady was there and she was getting very excited about the service and she She jumped up and said, I haven't been doing nothing and I'm going to stop. That's where we need to be as Christians. We need to stop doing nothing. We need to get busy with what God has called us to do. God has called us to overcome laziness and to follow the patterns He lays for us and in the Word laid out for us in the Word of God. Our number one example that we're to follow is Jesus Christ. And there was no laziness with him. So as Christians, God's called us to overcome laziness. Laziness is a direct rebellion to the plan of God and something we need to be overcoming as believers. Let's go ahead and close