He was just sharing instruction. Here, here's something you need to know. Something that you need to know. But this parable in particular was prompted by something that happened. Just was responding to an event, and what was that? He was responding to this young man who asked him about an inheritance. But we back up a little bit further, we see that Jesus is in a broader discussion. The Bible tells us in verse 1 of this chapter he was with an innumerable multitude. There are a lot of people around listening He talks to them first of all about the leaven of the Pharisees, which And he warns them about the hypocrisy and the nature of that and is teaching them about this idea. He goes on to talk about to them about you know you need to fear God instead of fearing men He goes on to talk about the worth of an individual before God. Are ye not more value than many sparrows? He talks to them about witnessing He talks to them about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. He teaches them about how the Holy Spirit would teach them and instruct them in what to say. And then he's interrupted by this young man who wanted his brother to split an inheritance with him. I go through that context because you see, this man's interaction with Jesus wasn't prompted by what Jesus was saying. Jesus wasn't dealing with money. Jesus wasn't dealing with loving your brother. Jesus wasn't de Dealing with family issues What Jesus was dealing with was spiritual matters, and this whole time, as this young man is listening to Jesus, the Son of God, the words of God flowing from his mouth, instructing his disciples, he's thinking about money. He's thinking about what what's best for him and what's good for his material well-being. And so he interrupts Jesus' discussion on spiritual and eternal matters. to have Jesus do something for him that's gonna be benefit him materially. It's not as though this young man came to Jesus and said, Jesus, I have this great need, what must I do to inherit eternal life? No, he said, what must I do to inherit my dad's money? That's what he wanted to talk to Jesus about. He wasn't concerned about what was spiritual. He was only concerned about the material. He believed that Jesus would have some sort of authority over his brother and could instruct him regarding this inheritance. He was not interested in what Jesus had to offer spiritually. He was only interested in what Jesus could do for him in a material sense. Jesus does not grant his request, but instead he turns things towards spiritual matters. You look at Jesus' response. He says to the young man, Man, who made me a judge or divider over you? And then it says, and he said unto them, so he turned his discussion back to the disciples and the group, but he's going off of this young man's question about this inheritance to teach on the idea of covetousness. I see a couple lessons we can learn. These are kind of a side note, but good things to see as we're reading this passage of what Jesus did and how he answers. First of all, he gave us a good example of Proverbs 18, verse number 13. In that verse, the Bible says, He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is a folly and shame unto him. Jesus was confronted by this young man who who was uh apparently being mistreated by his family and and wanted Jesus' help and Jesus said, Hey, I'm only getting one side of the story. I'm not I'm not gonna go ahead and tell you what I now obviously Jesus is in in his divinity knew the whole story. Uh as God he knew what was going on in that young man's life more so than that young man did. But he's teaching us there an example by example of When somebody comes to you and has this sob story, there's another side to that story. We need to remember and keep in mind not to just spout off our opinion and and to back off and wait, wait and pray about things and seek the whole story Because every story has three sides. You have one person's side, you have the other person's side, and then you have what actually happened. So you need to make sure that you're you're hearing all sides of a story before you give your opinion on the matter. And Jesus did that. Another thing that he teaches us or gives us a reminder of is that his mission was not to meet people's physical needs or desires, it was to meet their spiritual needs. And we need to keep this in mind because it's easy for us to get sidetracked on meeting people's materialistic needs. There's a lot of people that have a lot of needs, especially when you go to The foreign mission field. And it tugs at our heartstrings to see a person who wants to go to the field and feed hungry children and plant wells. And there's missionaries that do this and they use it as a tool to present the gospel. But our focus is not to meet people's material needs, our focus is to meet their spiritual needs. And that's what Jesus was doing here as well. You know, he often he often would meet people's physical needs, but it was always for the purpose of meeting their spiritual needs. Think of the example of the man with the palsy who is lowered through the roof by his friends. When the man was there before Jesus, lying paralyzed in the bed, Jesus said to him My son, thy sins be forgiven thee. He dealt with the man's spiritual needs. You have a problem. Yes, you have a problem physically, but you have a bigger problem. You have a spiritual problem, and that's what needs to be addressed. And that's what he's doing with this young man here. Young man, you do you have a material problem, but that's not the problem. You have a spiritual problem So we need to keep in mind as we minister to people and and we're working with those in our community, those that come through the door of our church, and as we close Go out to the mission field, uh, that we need to keep in mind that we're there to meet spiritual needs. Now we can meet physical needs as a means to an end. I'm gonna help somebody so that I can share the share the gospel with them, but the focus always needs to be on the spiritual. And we see these even with that man we just talked about with the sick of the palsy, we just said my thy sins be forgiven thee, those around said, Hey, who's this guy? Who does he think? So then Jesus met the guy's physical needs. He gave him healing. Rise, take up thy bed and walk, but only to show that he had the power to forgive sins. need it at the same time. And that's what Jesus is doing here with this young man. He does not give this young man the material possessions that he was focused on. Instead, he points him to the necessity of considering the eternal. This young man in the crowd, he was a materialist. He was in the presence of the one who could give him the abundant eternal life. could make him a son of God. And his only thought during the whole discussion was on what was best for him right now. And he was only focused on what what could benefit him materially. He wasn't interested in what Jesus could do for him spiritually. So Jesus responds to this young man's uh attitude and perspective by teaching the whole um assembly that was there about the idea of covetousness He gives them the warning, first of all, when he says in verse number fifteen, take heed, beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things Which he possesseth. And then he goes in to talk about the parable about the rich fool. We took a little bit of time to look at this last week, but covetousness is an out-of-control desire for things. out of control desire for things that you want stuff and that is not not within within control. We gave the example of having a Christmas There's nothing wrong with having things that you'd like to have. But when your desire for things is not under control, it's out of control, your flesh is running the show, it is a sinful desire for covetousness. Like to make the point that um when it comes to to covetousness, you don't have to have stuff to want stuff. We look at this idea of materialism and say, oh I don't have very much, so I'm not a materialist. It's those people that have the big houses and all the nice cars. Those must be the materialists. You know, you don't have to have things to want things. Yesterday a a video showed up in my feed of a comedian talking about things that are worth more than money So I I watched it to see if there's an illustration that I could use. And he was talking about being a comedian. He said I've been a comedian for 20 years and I haven't gained any weight. All the traveling on the road, he says, I'll tell you the secret to my diet. Step number one Always eat less than 1,000 calories a day. And he said, you guys see you guys is uh don't don't believe me on that. See it's it's step two of my diet that makes step one work. Step two is never make more than $9,000 a year. So just the fact that we we don't have as much as somebody else doesn't doesn't say we're exempt from this temptation of of wanting things. We can still have um wrong desires even if we don't have as much as somebody else might have. Because covetousness is a problem of the heart, not a problem of the closet or of the of your of your house or your storage units that you might have. So as Jesus was sharing the literal words of God on eternal matters, all this young man could think about was the things that he wanted. The reason why we need to be aware of covetousness Is because our life does not consist of the abundance of things that we have. We're not made up of just our as we talked about at the beginning in the introduction Our net worth. That's not all you are. The things that you have, the things that you possess, that's not what defines you. Although that's our what our culture would like to do. Our culture wants to define you by what you have. We gave the example last week of a homeowner You're defined by what you have. But that's not the essence of what man is. Man is so much more than that. We are not simply the totality of our material being and our material possessions. We we went into this a little bit last week about this idea of how this materialistic mindset in our world is kind of what has caused so much of the the the panic surrounding COVID is that people are so consumed with material that the fact that they might die just terrified them. Uh because they're not aware or are not thinking about things of eternal nature and they're confronted with their own mortality. I remember talking at some point last year to somebody who is um asking me about about being around and and going out and seeing people and aren't you aren't you worried that you might die? Well, I'm going to Uh at some point I'm going I'm going to die. It's it's a reality that I've confronted because I've got a spiritual mindset to say, you know what, this life isn't all there is There's much more to life. In fact, even uh a couple days ago I was messaging with the missionary and and we got into joking about when I was going to die during the comment. He wanted my books He said, as soon as you die, can I have all your books? I said, Well, no, when I die, this is what's gonna happen. He's like, Well when are you planning on doing that? We're going back and forth, but but it is just a uh a thing that we could uh we could uh have some fun with because it's a reality that this life isn't all there is And there's so much more when it comes to looking at eternity. So Jesus then, after after dealing with this idea of covetousness and warning us that we're not made up of what we have, Jesus goes in this parable about the rich fool. We've already read the parable, but just to summarize it, there was a rich man who had a very large crop one year. He decided essentially that he was going to to retire. He was going to store up all his wealth, retire, and just enjoy his material wealth for the rest of his life. He had prepared plenty for his material satisfaction. Had his life been only material, he would have lived well and long. The problem is that his life was not simply material, because man is spiritual and eternal as well as material. By ignoring his spiritual and eternal nature, this man was not prepared for his eternity. You see, materialism will only get you so far. Man, this man could have lived out his days in wealth and prosperity, eat and drink and be merry, take thine ease. He could have done that, except that's not all he was. He has an eternal nature, he has a spiritual nature, and he was not ready for that aspect of his life. He was all ready for the material side of things He had done everything. He had made all the preparations. He had a good 401k. He had all the retirements saved up. He had the barns. He had the properties. Everything paid off But he wasn't ready for his death. Because he had forgotten that man is more than just his material being. Materialism only gets you so far. This is why Jesus said in another place. What shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What benefit is it? You gain the whole world. Let's just say you can have it all, keys to all the kingdoms of the world. One day you're gonna die, and that's not gonna do you any All the wealth, all the power, all the influence, everybody knowing your name doesn't do you any good when it comes to the time of your death. If we live our lives only concerned with our material well-being, we will live a spiritually bankrupt life. This is true of the unsaved. If someone is not saved, they don't know the Lord is their Savior. They live this life only for their own material benefit. And they will lose their eternal soul to the torments of hell and like a fire because they forget to consider the eternal and the spiritual But this can also be true for the saved. If you are saved, you have given some thought to your eternal and spiritual nature. However, after salvation, it's entirely possible for a Christian to live the rest of their lives focused on their material possessions. 1 Corinthians 3, verses 11 through 15 tells us of just such Christians. This is the passage where Paul's teaching about the foundation. He said, For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. So if you're saved, God's put into your life a foundation, Jesus Christ. And then it's up to you what you're going to do with that. Now if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones would hay stubble. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. And if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. And if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. So this is an example that a construction example that Jesus is giving or Paul is giving through the Holy Spirit of a person who is saved They have the foundation of Jesus Christ, and then they have the rest of their life to build on that foundation. Some people build on that foundation things of eternal nature. And then when it comes to the judgment seat of Christ, when our works are tried for our reward or for our loss That goes through the fire. And there in the fire it sees is our work that we did of eternal nature. And there's a lot of Christians who are going to show up and they're going to have some beautiful things. They're going to have a beautiful home. They're going to have a large retirement. They're going to have a lot of things, the nice cars, things that they accomplished in their life, and it's all going to burn up. And they're going to have nothing when it comes to eternity And there'll be some who maybe didn't have those nice things in this life. But their focus and their mindset and their perspective was always on eternity And doing things for the Lord and investing in treasure in heaven. And when they come through and their their life is measured, it's gold and silver and precious stones. It survives the fire and they'll receive a reward So it's entirely possible for a Christian to live their lives completely focused on their material well-being and ignore the spiritual and eternal nature that God has given them at their salvation. So we need to be aware that this is a temptation that we can fall into. As Christians, and we have to guard ourselves from it. So if we're going to overcome, we see this parable here, if we're going to overcome this idea of materialism, what do we need to do? First of all, we need to understand that we need to change our belief If I want to change my actions, I need to change my belief. Change my focus, change what I'm thinking, change what I believe about something, and then my actions are going to follow So when it comes to materialism, really the perspective we need to change, we need to understand biblically the worthlessness of materialism. The worthlessness of materialism. Our beliefs determine our actions, so we need to do confront these beliefs biblically. Two beliefs we want to confront is number one, that the material is all there is. Again, this is the the underlying theology to materialism is that material is all there is. We've addressed it several times already We understand that man is a material being, but he's also spiritual and eternal. God united man's body, his material being, with his soul, his spiritual being in creation. Without the soul, man is simply dirt. With the soul, he was created in the image of God. Man's body cannot exist without man's soul, yet the soul will exist for a time without the body When a person dies, their soul is separated from their body. Their body goes into the earth and is turned back to dirt. Their soul goes either to heaven or to hell One day their souls and their bodies will be reunited, but for a time one will live on while the other rots. So this points us on to the next point is that just by this simple truth we understand that which is more important, the material or the spiritual Materially, you're gonna rot one day. Your body, the one what you're looking at right now, it's gonna turn into dirt, gonna get eaten by bugs and worms and And it's gonna just decompose while my soul goes to heaven to be with the Lord until God gives me a new body to reunite my soul and body. But one one lives while one rots, which one's more important? The one that's going to keep living. We need to keep in mind that the spiritual is more important than the material. So the second false teaching or false belief that we need to confront is the belief that material is more important. We would all confess that the spiritual and the eternal are more important than the material. Went around the room and said, Hey, is your spiritual life or your physical life more important? Everybody here, it's my spiritual life. That's what's more important. However, we have to ask the question and consider ourselves, do we really live that way? As the old saying goes, actions speak louder than words. We would all assent, yes, my spiritual life is more important than my physical life. Which gets more of your attention? Which takes up more of your time. And we all we all lean too far the wrong way. Let's look what the Bible has to say about our material possessions and see if our material things are all they're cracked up to be. Turn with me to Ecclesiastes. We're just going to look at one passage, three verses. Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, chapter 5. There's a lot of verses we could go to. A lot of verses we could look at to talk about how worthless the material world is when it's compared to the spiritual. Ecclesiastes 5, 10 through 12. We'll read these three verses. We'll do them one at a time and kind of look at what the Bible says about our material wealth. You understand that the book of I'm not even the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm in the Song of Solomon. There you go, Ecclesiastes. Understand that the idea of Ecclesiastes or one of the main themes is the vanity of life when Ecclesiast compared to the spiritual. Solomon is the author. He he gathered all that he could of this life's enjoyments. He had all the pleasure, he had all the money, he had all the immorality, he had all that the world had to offer and came to the conclusion and said it's not worth it. He understands the vanity that is in what this world has to offer. So really the whole context of Ecclesiastes, there could be a study on materialism. What does the material world have to offer? nothing without without God. But here he takes just a couple verses to talk about talk about money specifically. Verse number ten says, He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase This is also vanity. We understand from this verse that material things would never satisfy. If you have a desire for material things, you will never have enough. If you had the fanciest, most expensive meal possible. It'll keep you full just as long as a little Caesars $5 pizza will. You have you have it it's not gonna satisfy. Oh that was that was delicious. You can play and there's some things out there I've seen some videos you can you can pay seventy thousand dollars for a dinner um per person and uh you know what you're gonna be hungry again in a couple hours It's not going to satisfy. And the same is true with this material word, anything that we want, say if I could just have this, then I'll be happy. And then they come out with a better this And then I say, well, my this was the best, and now it's not the best anymore. There's always going to be better and nicer things than than you have. If your goal is to have a million dollars in your retirement What happens when you get a million dollars? Well now I need two million dollars. Well now I need five million dollars. Now I need ten million dollars. There's no end if material success is your only goal because it never satisfies. There's no satisfaction there We'll talk about this more when we get to the idea of contentment, but if you always need to upgrade to the newest and best, it's only going to last you until a newer and better one comes along. If you're covetous of stuff, stuff will never stop. That's what verse 10 tells us. Let's look at verse 11, see what else he has to say about material wealth. Verse 11, when goods increase, they are increased that eat them. We'll stop there, we'll come back and finish the verse as we get into it a little bit more, but it kind of gives us two thoughts in this verse. When goods increase they are increased that eat them. Have you ever heard the saying success is relative? The more success, the more relatives, the more that you have, the more that there's a draw on your time and your money and your things that you own. For example, there's nothing wrong with having two cars. My family has two cars. But when you have two cars, that's two sets of tires, two gas tanks. Two sets of oil that need changed. Two exteriors need that washed. Two interiors that need vacuumed. I was thinking about just the other way, man, I I should just This is too much money and gas. You just need to drive one car because it'd be cheaper. Because the more that you have, the more there is a draw. The more that goods increase, the more it increases that eat them. There's a lot of burdens that come along with having more material goods. When my wife and I first got married, uh we were still had somebody living a renter renter living in the house that we're living in. So we moved into the parsonage where Pastor lives now over at the uh at the new property We moved in there. When we ended up moving down to our house, I wrote a song about I had a mansion just up on that hilltop. But while while we live there in the house, my wife and I talked several times, boy, I would not want to have a house this big. This is a lot to clean. Because when the two of us were living in that big house, I had to fix things in rooms that nobody lived in. And they got dirty and nobody was even over there. Whole whole sections of the house that were house that was never touched Just the more you have, the more you have to take care of. Nothing wrong with having a big house, but again, the more you have, the more you have to take care of. That's the first part of the verse. The more that goods are increased, the more they are increased to eat them The second part of the verse, but what good is there to the owners thereof save the beholding of them with their eyes? He says there, he's talking about somebody who has made it financially. They have more money than they know what to do with. Their basement probably looks like Scrooge McDuck and it's just filled with gold and you could just dive in and swim. Um although physically you dive in and break something because you can't swim through coins of of metal. But um Let's just say that you hit that point. What good does that do you other than to look at the pile? That's what he says. You got all this money, what good does it do then now you have it to look at It's just it's just a pile. The you you when you get to a certain level of of of success, you strive for your whole life for material perspective. Stuff is the um be all and end all when you get to be let's say 85 years old you look at your investments there's just a bunch of zeros. What good does that do you? You can look at the pile just look at the pile When you're on your deathbed, do you want to be in a room surrounded by all your name, brand, clothes, cars, and money that you've accumulated? Or do you want to be there with a family that loves you One might ask, can't I have both? Uh sure. But again, what does it matter if you die with a Ferrari in the highway or the driveway or you die with a Honda in the driveway? Doesn't make any difference to you. Just get a look at it. You get all this stuff for what? So that you can look at the pile. That's what he says in verse number eleven. Then verse number twelve he says, The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. You know, the more that you have, the more you have to worry about. Financial success will never bring peace. It uh it often brings um turmoil and anxiety. I have an example of oh we're gonna have to skip that example. We're gonna have to keep going with our our time here. But you have nice stuff, you worry about it more than when you have junky stuff. So there's more more that you have uh the more that you have to worry about it This is just one passage in the Bible. There's a lot of other things we could talk about in the Bible about the emptiness of material success. And if we change our belief about material things, we can successfully change our behavior. The behavior that came out of a wrong theology of materialism was covetousness, conformity, and comparison. If we get our focus right, we can have different behaviors. The different behaviors we're looking for is number one, contentment First Timothy chapter six, verses six through eight says, But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment let us therewith be let us be therewith content. This is the opposite of the three behaviors we dealt with last week. Instead of comparing ourselves with others, coveting what others have, or conforming to the world's standards, we should be content with what the Lord has given us and wants us to have. What is contentment? Contentment's defined as a rest or a quietness of the mind in your current position. Whatever your current position is, you can have rest and quietness of mind. There's there's not the the constant anxiety and we talked about the covetousness. that there's the the over um the the intense desire for things that's not what contemptment is contemptment is rest or quietness of your mind in your current position Wherever God has you, you're satisfied. Wherever God has you, whatever God's given you, you're satisfied. That doesn't mean we can't we can't work hard and try to please the Lord and God can bless us with With more, that all can take place, but wherever you're at, you're satisfied with what God's given you. This is the idea of contentment. You're satisfied with the current state that you're in. He gives us in these verses the reason for contentment. He says we brought nothing in the world. We can bring nothing out. Everything that we have we receive from someone else. When we die, somebody else is going to get it. So there there's there's no reason for us to be striving and striving and striving for things Just be happy with what God's given us. He's again pointing out the temporary nature of material wealth. You only get to enjoy it in this life. It will do you no good in the next. He then gives us the expectation of contentment. He tells us what do you need? How much do I have to have in order to be content? He said food and raiment. Be hard. Be hard to be content with food and rainment. and raiment. You got something to eat and got something to wear? God says you can be happy with that. God's given all of us a lot more than that. And a lot of us are not happy with it. God says all you need to be happy with me is food and raiment. You got food and clothes, and you got God, that's enough for you to be happy with. God says to be content with these things. These words for contentment as pastor are very interesting. We're not going to take a lot of time. We have the first word, he said, godliness with contentment. That's just the idea of being satisfied. But the second word, content, he says in verse number, I'm on the wrong But in verse number eight, he says, having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. This word content carries the idea of raising up a barrier. Of putting up a wall. And the picture is of a city preparing for a siege. That you are, there's enemies out there and they want in here. So you have put up a wall and everything that you need is already in the city. You have what you need, and you're not gonna let the enemy into influence you any differently. That's this idea of contentment is realizing that within your walls you have what you need. Within the walls of God that's God's put around your life, you have what you need You can be satisfied with that. Very interesting word. No matter what the enemy has to offer, they're satisfied with what they've been given inside their four walls. So contentment is the first attitude we need to have if we're going to overcome this sin. of materialism. So first is contentment. Secondly we want to get into the idea of charity. Charity, Acts chapter 20, verses 30 through 35, Paul's giving his testimony here. He says, I've coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me. I have showed you all things, and how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak. And remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, how he said, It is more blessed to give than receive. Another belief uh behavior we need to develop in order to overcome materialism is that of charity. Now I'm referring to charity in the idea of generosity Not the biblical love Hebrews chapter or sorry, 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Although biblical love is going to cause you to be generous, but we have this idea of generosity in the Bible. Throughout the Bible, lots of verses we can look at about how generosity God will bless that, God will encourage that, God will honor you for it, it'll make you a better person. Other people will respect you when you're or you're a generous person. But Paul here specifically ties in this passage, I have not coveted because it's more blessed to give than receive. He makes this connection in Acts chapter 20. I'm not eager for this world's wealth. I met my own needs when I was with you. I met the needs of others when I was with you. Why? Because it's more blessed to give than to receive. Receive. If I have a problem with the love for stuff because I love myself, I need to turn my focus on others, give away some stuff because I love other people. So generosity will help us to overcome materialism. If we want to overcome our focus on what's material, we can work on giving to the material needs of others. This causes us to get our eyes off ourself and instead focus on others. So we have contentment, we have charity, and then And to keep the alliteration going, we have cashing. Cashing as in the definition being to store something in a secure place for safety. Matthew chapter 6, verses 19 through 21, lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt. And where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also This gets us to the crux of the idea of materialism. Materialism is this material world is all there is. The idea of investing in eternity keeps keeps gets our perspective away from what's now into what's what's coming, what is our eternal and our spiritual nature. If I told you that I had an investment option, Where you could earn enormous returns, some 30, some 60, some 100fold. It's 100% safe. You could never lose the investment. You would think I was a car artist. If I gave you that that sales pitch right there. However, if I could prove it to be legitimate, we would all scrape together every spare cent we could find in order to invest in this investment. Well, I have the word of God on that investment strategy. That if we put things you lay up any treasures in heaven, they'll never have a downturn, they'll never have a correction, and they'll outperform any market ever Instead of seeing how much stuff we can accumulate in this life, why don't we get our focus on how much we can store up for the next? There's so much more to you as a person and your life simply than the material things you're able to accumulate. If we want to overcome this idea of a focus on stuff that is because we focus on this life, we need to focus on the next. What can I send ahead? What can I invest in eternity? And that'll get our mind away from what's best for me right now Now. Keep the eternal and the spiritual in mind. Cultivate your contentment, cultivate your charity, cultivate your cashing, and you will overcome this false doctrine of materialism that is worshipped in our world today. A wrong belief that results in a wrong action, let's get our let's get a biblical mindset, let's believe right, and then we'll act right away