Your Bibles this evening to Luke chapter number ten. We'll be there in a little bit. This week while I was riding in a car for a little while, um Something came across the airwaves. It was very brief message that somebody had said made a comment along these lines. We have become so consumed with the unimportant that we have left no time for the truly important. And uh that kind of it wasn't exactly what they said, but something along those lines, and I began to ponder and I began to think about it. The passage of Scripture in Matthew where Jesus is talking to the scribes and Pharisees, and he says, Woe unto you, hypocrites, ye pay tithe of mint and anis and cumin and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith These ought ye to have done, and not left the other undone. He goes on and says, You you're straining at gnats, and you you know, you're you're swallowing a camel. And I just was pondering and thinking about the idea that it seems like today we fill our lives often with meaningless pursuits, things that really do not add that much real value to our life. They do eat up our times like perusing social media, checking out next door. uh you know, watching, you know, the next Netflix series of whatever it might be, the the time wasters that are so much a part of our life today. They're things that We allow to come in and not just those things but other things that we begin to fill our days up with. I want to talk to you tonight about the idea that we gradually allow more and more things into our life to where our life is really overcrowded. Overcrowding leads to being overwhelmed. But we're the ones that did it. We have overcrowded our life to the point we were all where we're overwhelmed. Our life has a tendency to get more and more crowded. It it starts out very simple. It's just a small thing. We don't think much about it. We just feel like, well, I can Add this or I've got some free time here, so I'm gonna do this, or you know, you you you begin, well I have some needs, I got some bills I gotta pay, so I'm gonna go ahead and pick up that overtime and You pick up the overtime and then you're you're making some extra money and then you think, well, uh I'm going to we need to buy a car and you get a car but then the the car needs maintenance and you gotta have all the maintenance done on it and then God uh blesses your life and you have a child and then with the child comes uh doctor's visits and and diapers and clue clothes and and school and education and homework and a extracurricular activities and and all of these things and and and it that's just with one kid and then you have two and then you have three and and and life just getting busier and busier and busier and you're like man I've got more needs now so I've got to go and I gotta pick up a second job. I've got to go get some extra work and you go and you pick up some extra work so that you can pay the bills for All the things that you've got and and you've got all of these things that just continue to add to your life and you're trying to spend time with friends and with family and and and to do what you need to at work and then to Do what you need to at church and you volunteer to prepare some food for uh an event at church and then you think, oh, I've got a few minutes so I'll go ahead and help this brother with this thing and and I've got a minute so I'm gonna help somebody with this. And and our lives get more and more overcrowded, more and more full. They become we become overwhelmed. I know that that is a very prevalent feeling in society today and even in the church. Where we are overwhelmed because it we we seem like there's more to do than we could possibly get done, and it gets to be so much We find ourselves, and we've all said it, longing for the simpler days. The warning tonight, beloved, is be careful. What you do with your time so that you do not become overwhelmed. First of all, if we consider the tragedy of the situation, An overcrowded life, beloved, often chokes out spiritual nourishment. An overcrowded life will often choke out spiritual nourishment. When we're light when our life is overcrowded, we many people are full of anxiety There's so much pressure to do all of these things that are demanding your time and you're not sure how you can do it and You certainly aren't going to be able to do them all to the fullest of your ability or very effective. And so there's anxiety, there's rush. You feel rushed all the time. You feel like you never quite have enough time to do what needs done. And that's what happens in the world today. But that's what happened in the Word when the Word was choked out. In Luke chapter 8 and verse number 14, we'll be to the reference I gave you in just a moment, but in Luke chapter 8, 14 he says, And that which fell among the thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth And are choked with the cares and the riches and the pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. They bring no fruit to perfection. Why? Because the cares and the concerns and the worries and the pleasures and all the things that are demanding our time have choked out the spiritual nourishment that we need as God's people. Beloved, oftentimes in our lives we feel like or we think that, well, this is just temporary. I'm busy right now because uh it's planting season and we got to get the garden in. So right now I'm really busy because we got to get the garden in and there's all this stuff that has to be done, but you understand that as soon as the garden's in that we move into summer and now you gotta weed the garden and now you gotta uh fertilize the garden and you gotta water the garden and and then you move into the harvest season And and oh it's busy right now because uh we gotta get the kids to soccer, but soccer season gives way to basketball season and basketball season gives away to uh baseball season and and what I'm saying is temporary A lot of times in our mind we think, oh, I'm busy just today, just right now, because it's just temporary. But temporary has a problem that it fills up with something else as soon as there's a vacuum. As soon as there's a few extra minutes, it gets filled up with something else. Don't believe me? How many of you that are retired in here thought That once you retire, you're going to have all this time to do the things you never got to do After I retire, boy, I'm gonna be able to get this done, I'm gonna be able to read these books, I'm gonna be able to travel and see my friends, or I'm gonna go visit their grandkids after I I'm gonna learn an instrument after I after I retire. I'm gonna do this after I retire. And I've heard people say, uh, I gotta go back to work to take a break. I'm retired and I'm I'm busier now than when I was working every day. Like what happened to all the time? That's what I'm saying is our life just gets filled up. It gets overcrowded and it gets too full of things that are calling and demanding our time. We have been doing so much, maybe even good things, but they have kept us from the best thing. You're running on spiritual empty. And beloved, that's why you're so short with others. That's why you've lost your joy in serving Jesus. That is the problem that we find Martha dealing with here in Luke chapter 10, verse number 38 through 42. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village and a certain woman named Martha receiving him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his words. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving. Beloved, she was doing good things. She was investing in giving time towards putting on being a good host. But she came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? bid her therefore that she help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things But one thing is needful, and Martha has chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her. Beloved, there's so many. So many things that overcrowd our lives that we have neglected that most important or that one needful thing and we are running on spiritually empty You can even be too busy at church. You get involved in different ministries. And you've got a lot to do and those that are in charge of the music recruit you to help with the special music and you you're you're willing and glad to do that. And then Don talks to you about being a usher and and and Joe talks to you about being in security and brother uh Glover talks to you about being in the sound booth and brother Pastor Gus talks to you about helping in a Sunday school class and and and on Sunday i you running to and fro in every direction all over the place and you're not getting spiritually fed I mean, I'm glad that we have a serving and a working church, and I'm thrilled that you desire and want to serve and fill the needs And and but I also know that you have to, in your heart and mind, make a conscious effort to say, I need to be fed spiritually I need to be in the auditorium. I need to be sitting under the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God. I need to hear from heaven You can get busy and be involved in the ministry and doing all of these good things, and you're going to dry up on the vine, you're going to die spiritually in the house of God. Because you're so busy doing all of these things, and it's wonderful, and I'm glad that you're serving, and we need people to serve, and I But I want to caution you that you have to decide of your own free will and your desire is, listen, I can't do that tonight. I need to be in church. I need to sit with my family. I need to be under the preaching of the Word of God. I need to be fed spiritually. I need to hear from God. And yes, there's always going to be more that needs to be done in the ministry. But beloved, not at the sacrifice of your spirituality. Cumbered about with much serving. I'm asking you tonight to put a priority on your spirituality. Be in the house of God and under the preaching of the Word of God. No matter who you are, without time at the feet of the Master, you will dry up. You will grow spiritually cold. Your service will become cumbersome. You'll get short with your brothers and sisters in Christ. You'll get bitter and angry about somebody that did something to you. Why? Because you haven't been fed spiritually. The spiritual must come first. We've overcrowded our lives and many times with good things. But now we're overwhelmed even in our service. Beloved, the overcrowded life chokes out spiritual nourishment, but it also keeps you from being effective When you've got an overcrowded life, you can't do anything very well. You've got too much stuff going. You're doing 30 things halfway. And you guys know what it's like, because that's how we tend to live in modern society. We tend to kind of like just barely get this done before we have to do the next thing. And so there's this rushing to and fro. You're not very satisfied with yourself. There's no fulfillment because you're not even fulfilling the first mile in a lot of areas, let alone going the second mile. Because you've overbooked, you've overcrowded your life. You don't have enough time to make right and wise decisions. When you overcrowd your life, you'll make poor decisions. We see that in 1 Samuel, if you want to turn there, 1 Samuel chapter 13. There's a number of verses here that I want to read to you. So 1 Samuel 13, verses 8 through 14. This is Saul here. Saul is pressured for some time, and he makes a very unwise decision. You guys know the story. As we read it, you'll remember. He tarried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. But Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me, and a peace offering, and he offered the burnt offering And it came to pass that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came, and Saul went out to meet him, and that he may salute him. And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Mi'kmash Therefore, said I, the Philistines will come down now upon me to Yogal, and I have not made supplication to the Lord. I forced myself, therefore, and offered a burnt offering And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly. Thou hast not kept the commandments of the Lord thy God. which he commanded thee, for now would the Lord have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever. But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord hath commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee. You guys know the story here. These the Philistines were at the door and the people were were restless and uh but Samuel was supposed to come and make this offering. But Saul said, Oh, I I don't have time. I've waited seven days, and Samuel's not here, and it's time to I I've got to do this. I mean, there's no time left, and so he decided to go ahead and do it, and he lost the kingdom. Beloved, when you're making decisions in an overcrowded life with a limited amount of time, you're bound to make some wrong decisions. You're bound to do some foolish things. And so what I'm warning you tonight is I'm imploring you is to exercise some caution and to use some wisdom. And let's not get our lives too overcrowded. Your ministries won't be very effective from myself all the way down to the nursery. When your life is overcrowded, you come flying in at the last minute, very ill-prepared for class. And you you know you haven't got ready to teach that, I mean you're you're just winging it, you're just getting by today because Everything has demanded your time all week and you've gone from one thing to the next all week and you haven't had time to sit down and prepare and get ready or spiritually uh sensitive to the Spirit of God to be able to lead that class and you You come in and yeah, you're going to get through it. And yeah, the kids might not have any idea, but you know that your ministry is suffering. Because of the busy life. A beloved, the a target needs to be set. In today's world, we have every opportunity. But you know, just because the opportunity is available doesn't mean we should do it Vehicles mean that we can go anywhere we want to? Anytime we want to? Electricity means we can work all night if we want to. We can we can we don't have to keep any kind of schedule as far as that goes. I mean there was a time that the sun dictated the day and that was a simpler time They got up with the sun and they had the sun hours, the day hours to work, and then they pretty much had to shut it down and and go to bed and get ready for the next day. And by the way, they worked hard enough they didn't want to be up all night. Playing games. Watching the the latest series. Credit cards mean that we can buy whatever we want right now even if we can't afford it. What I'm saying is we've got so many options today and we can take so many steps and do so many things all at the same time and everything is available to us and We don't have to wait until we have the money and we don't have to not go there because we have the capacity to do that. But beloved, we we might ought to Limit what we do, just because it's available doesn't mean we should. We're too fascinated with fun and too focused on finance today. It's all about entertaining us. It's all about the accumulation of more wealth. And our families get the leftovers. And God gets whatever's been discarded. You guys remember I gave you an illustration back, I think it was in January I went up to the attic and pulled these out for you. You remember this, the average home that spends ten ten dollars or ten percent of their income on food, fourteen percent of their income on transportation, twenty-six percent of their income on housing. 19% of their income on taxes. And they get out all the way down here and they have zero percent for savings. And average in America is 2. 5% in giving. That's all giving. That's charitable giving of every kind, not just the church. But do you remember the illustration? You see, this is how most people live their lives. They start here and they work their way through. And when they get down here, they've only got the tiniest little bit to give God, and they've got nothing to put into savings. But the problem is is because these need to go over here. And we need to do the same thing with our time. We're letting everything else consume our time, and our families are getting left with whatever happens to be left over, and God's getting even less. We say it, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Seek ye first. Then why is it for most people time for God and ministry is all the way down there instead of here. We need to prioritize, set a target. Here's what's important. This is what I need to be giving my time to. If something's going to suffer, it's not going to be God. It's not going to be my family. It's going to be work. It's going to be pleasure. It's going to be perusing the internet. It's going to be there's something else that's going to suffer because this is going to be a priority. I'm going to get this set first. Have a target. We need to follow the Lord's example. In Mark chapter one He says, and in the morning he rose up a great while before day, and he went out, and he departed into a solitary place, and there he prayed In Luke 5. 16, and he withdrew himself into a wilderness and prayed. Luke 6, 12, and it came to pass in those days that he went out into the mountains and prayed, and continued all night in prayer You see, beloved, Jesus never allowed his life to get so overcrowded That he didn't have time for the Father. Jesus was very, very busy You see it on the pages of Scripture. You see people all the time calling for and desirous of Jesus' time. But you know what you do not see on the pages of Scripture? You do not see Jesus running to and fro. Matter of fact, how did he get most places that he went? He walked. He walked. We see the opposite. When Jarius' daughter was going to die, you remember Jesus was like, I'll I'll get there. I I'll get there. When Lazarus, the the one whom he loved, was dying, he didn't say, Oh boy, oh my goodness, oh all these people need me, and all these people need me, and I gotta run to Lazarus No, he said I'll get there. I'll get there. What I'm saying is we need to follow his example and when you live your life by established priorities. You know what things you can let go, and the anxiety and the stress and the pro and the concern over it, the overwhelmed feelings are not there because you've taken care of what was important. And if something gets left off, well that's okay. That doesn't mean life has no activities. It doesn't mean that life is not busy, but it means it is ordered. It's scheduled. It's disciplined. We talked today about how busy we are How we have no time. Beloved, I am as guilty as anybody in here, if not more guilty of this tonight. But I wonder if maybe we've just overcrowded our lives with the meaningless so we don't have time for that which is truly meaningful. The average American spends seven hundred hours a year on social media. 700 hours a year. The average American spends 2700 hours a year watching television. 2700 hours a year The average young men, for ladies it's significantly less, almost half. But the average young men Spends ten hours a week playing games. You know that uh that's five hundred and twenty hours a year That's four thousand one hundred and sixty hours during just thirteen years spent playing games. Four thousand hours. You know at fifteen dollars an hour, that's sixty-two thousand dollars. What I'm saying is that we have allowed the meaningless to consume the most valuable thing we have. our time. Do you know during that four thousand hours you could become a concert pianist? You could learn a foreign language. You could earn a college degree in that time. But by and large, our society is letting that time today be eaten up with the meaningless Do you think our society is better off for it or worse off? So as God's people You see, we need to follow the pattern of Jesus lived. We need to be what Jesus wants for us. He says to us, come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest How long has it been since you really felt rested? Since you really felt rested, you felt like I've got enough sleep. I'm rested Amy and Michael, they're on vacation this week, so they might feel rested. I don't know. But most of the time, don't our lives just get Twofold to we we just kind of just getting by don't don't feel rust rested we feel rushed everywhere got too much to do but see God doesn't want us to live that way God wants just to have rest in Him. I'm going to conclude with this. Where should the priority be? Loving God and loving people. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. The second It is like namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbors thyself. Loving God and loving people. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.