We're going to read this passage of scripture. This is uh poem Sunday in uh recognition of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem. An acknowledgement of the day and hour when he would uh give his life uh a ransom for all. Look in Matthew chapter twenty-one Beginning in verse number one and follow along as I read down through verse number eleven, he says, And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Beth Page unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples Saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you Ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will send them. And this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, as a colt, the foal of an ass. And The disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and brought the ass and the colt and put on them their clothes, and then they set him thereon. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strewn them in the way And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. Lord, as we come to you this morning and look back at this familiar passage of Scripture, reminded of the events that took place on this day Lord, I pray that our hearts would be open and tender to the message that you have for us. Lord, on my best day, I'm a weak vessel. A poor administrator of the truths of your word, but Lord, your word is powerful. Your message is true, and what you have to impart to the hearts of your people today, maybe even beyond my thinking. And I ask you, Lord, that during this time you would help me to step out of the way and that your word and the Holy Spirit would Come into this place and speak to the hearts of your people in a real and powerful way concerning these truths that we're reminded of on this day. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. This, the week of the cross, begins with Christ's triumphal entry. It begins with what we celebrate as Palm Sunday. And we, of course, next Sunday will get to rejoice with the thought of the resurrection. But there is no resurrection without the crucifixion. And Christ, of course, coming into the city on this day, knew exactly what was going to take place. He knew the suffering that he would endure as he came into the city amidst the applause of men. It didn't produce in him any great feelings of exaltation because he knew what God's plan was. He knew that the cries of Hosanna to the highest in just a week would be turned to crucify him! Crucify him We see this begin with Christ's preparation, really in answer to prophecy and the fulfillment of it. We see a parade This parade and this great crowd gathered. Everybody loves the parade. The excitement of the parade. They stand for hours and waiting to watch the the next uh float come by or the next uh marching band come by and and uh maybe the next politician come by or sorry to ruin the service. Uh but who knows. They they watched the parade. I remember as a little boy uh we went and we spent the night on the street So we could have a good spot. We slept on the ground, on the curb, in Pasadena, California, so that we could have a good spot to watch the Rose Parade I don't remember anything about the parade, but I remember sleeping on the street. That was awesome. To me that was I mean we were little. I was little. I was something. We we spent the night so we could I literally don't remember anything about the parade, but sleeping on the street was fun. For a little kid. That was exciting. Dad and mom probably didn't get a lick of sleep and they probably that's why we never did it again. It was probably terrible. But uh the parade, the parade draws people, the excitement And all the energy that's there. And people come just to see why everybody else came. You know, that's what church ought to be like, amen. People ought to be coming to church just to see why everybody else is coming to church Like, what's going on over there? There ought to be something happening in God's house that draws people to God's house. They want to come and see what God is doing in the hearts of God's people, and if God's doing something, he will draw men to himself. People will see that and they were drawn to this parade, the excitement of it, the time of of thrill and and energy, and they were uh really thrilled with it. Now Christ, you know his ministry, he He really up to this time was about ministry. He wasn't about drawing crowds or trying to get public recognition. Now everywhere he went, he drew a crowd. People came. came to be healed or to see someone healed. They came to find this man who was named Christ and to learn of him. Remember the story of Zacchaeus? I mean he he wanted to see, so he he climbed up the sycamore tree. He wanted to see Jesus and find him. So everywhere Jesus went, he drew a crowd. But here, this was the City of Zion, Jerusalem, the place where they were thought he was coming to be crowned king, and they lifted him up and praised him Boy, the Jews had been looking for a Messiah for 3,000 years, and here he was. But you see, the problem is that they were looking for somebody to deliver them from their problem. the problem of Rome. They wanted to be delivered from the problem. They didn't want to be delivered from their sin. They didn't want a savior that would take care of their sin problem. They wanted a savior that would take care of their physical problem. And we've got a lot of people today, come on now, we've got a lot of people who are looking for a savior. But they want a Savior that's going to deliver them from their problem. Maybe their their problem might be a financial situation they're in and then It's too heavy for them and they need some help in that. Or it might be some fine some family relationships and the struggles that are there. Or it might be a very real and critical health problem that they're facing And they want a Savior that's going to deliver them from that. But you see, they're not recognizing and seeing who Jesus really is. Who Jesus, why he really came. Oh, he will help us miraculously in many of the areas of our life. But beloved, he came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to save sinners. That's why he came. He came so that man might know forgiveness of their sin. And there's too many people that want to be delivered from their problem, but they're not seeing the reason Christ came. They're not seeing the reason that he went to the cross to forgive them of their sin. Beloved, we reap many, many great blessings. As Christians, God is so good to us and his blessings are so bountiful. I mean, we can't even count them, or we can't even name them one by one. We couldn't list them all. God has been so good to us. But all of those blessings are icing on the cake. All of those blessings are are be above and beyond. Those blessings are just, I mean, you you just stand back in awe because really, if we never got anything else, what Jesus came for is to give us salvation. That's what he came for. And the people there, the Jews, were crying, Hosanna to the highest, because they wanted to be delivered from their problem, but they didn't see him as the deliverer from their sin. They didn't recognize and acknowledge God's ultimate plan. But this parade had to happen, friends, as a fulfillment of prophecy. The I'm not going to go into it this morning, but you know the fulfillment of prophecies regarding uh Christ His birth, his life, and his death. There are hundreds and hundreds of them that came true, 100%. And the percentage chances of all of those coming true is millions and millions to one I mean the chan the people that have that have done the math on those things, uh I mean I've read it before, and it's just mind-boggling the the chance of one of them coming through But then to take that chance that all of them came true. Each one had to come true because he's God. This was the fulfillment of the prophecy. You see, there, this is the prophecy of Zechariah 9:9 He says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee He is just in having salvation, lowly in riding upon an ass, and upon a colt, the foal of an ass. You see, all the way back in Zechariah it was prophesied this is what was going to happen. He's going to come into the city. He's going to be riding on a donkey. Zion's going to praise him. They're going to recognize him. They're going to see him. And this is fulfillment of the prophecy of Christ. You know, this week, this time. It's mind-boggling the impact that it has had on everything since. Not just people that have put their faith and trust in Christ, but upon the world as a whole You know if there was no other evidence at all for the reality and the truth of Jesus Christ, I mean you know how how fickle our world is and how fickle people are and how they are all about the next new and exciting thing. And yet here we are, these thousands of years later, still proclaiming and holding to the truth of Jesus Christ's death, burial, and resurrection. Just the fact that that is still being portrayed. Still being herald forth. Against all the opposition there is against it in the world, and all the effort and time invested in bygone years to try and squash out Christianity. And yet it's still being preached. Because it's truths. Boy, what a Prayed that was given in his honor. He came riding on this donkey You know, he was riding the donkey on purpose because it was a testament to the type of king he was going to be You see, a king would ride a donkey in a time of peace, and they would ride a horse In a time of war. Christ was portraying to the world he was going to be a king that would bring peace He would bring peace. And he has. He's brought peace to every soul that has surrendered and submitted to him, trusted him as his He's brought peace to their soul. Every place that Christianity has gone and been taught and preached, He is the King of peace. There's many lessons we can learn about this this donkey we could dive into and and think about. You know, you're thinking this this donkey's uh uh a donkey by description really is a burden bearer. It's a a servant, uh a worker. And the donkey was brought to Jesus. Aren't you thankful today for the time when you were brought to Jesus? But you know what's amazing is after the donkey was brought to Jesus, the donkey brought Jesus to everybody else. Amen. That's what we're supposed to be doing. We've been brought to Jesus and gloriously saved by putting our faith and trust in Him, and now it's time for us to take Jesus to the rest of the world. Amen. Wow. We see these people, they had a parade, but not only that, they praised him as Christ. You know, we should all be praising him as Christ. Revelation 5, verse number 12 says, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom. And strength and honor and glory and blessing. Worthy, worthy is the Lamb. We should be praising him as Christ for who he is. Amen He is God in the flesh, the creator of the world, praising him for who he is as a faithful father. As a friend that sits closer than a brother. Every attribute and aspect of God, our Heavenly Father, should be a measure of praise for us Not only should we praise him for who he is, but we should be praising him for what he does. Oh my goodness, he does so much, dear friend. So much for us. 1 Samuel 12, 24 says, Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, for consider how great things he hath done for you. Serve the Lord and fear him with all your heart. Why? For no other reason, just think about all the great things he has done for you. I mean, I'm a debtor, friend. I'm a debtor, and there there's no way I could ever do enough to repay or to in any way make a down payment on what Christ has done for me Not just in salvation, although that be the greatest, but even day by day. Man, I'm in debt to him, my Lord and Savior. You know, we've all seen that brat, that kid who has been spoiled by his mom and dad. I mean he's been given everything he could ever need for life Not just everything he needs, but really everything he pretty much wants. And yet he's still kicking and complaining and whining and screaming and isn't happy at all. And you know, you're standing over there thinking, you know, if you send him home with me, I could help you with that problem. I could help fix that situation that you're dealing with there. Uh you know, he does not need more ice cream He needs what Daddy used to call is an attitude adjustment. That's what he needs. And you look at him and you think, kid, come on. Look at everything you've been given. Look at everything you've been provided. You've got a mom and dad that love you and provide for you and care for you, and they're in the home, and you're so blessed you can't even know how blessed you are. And yet you're complaining? And oh friend, that's us before our Lord and Savior. Jesus Christ, He's done so much for us. How dare we complain? Psalms 150, verse 6 says, Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. We still got breath. We got breath to praise God. We've got breath to praise him. And I know things happen in life and we get discouraged and oh we get downhearted and and and you know the trial weighs heavy on us, but man, let's just get back looking at the blessings. Let's get back looking at God and what he's done, and we'll have reason and cause to praise him. We shouldn't praise him, beloved, just with our lips. It ought to come from a heart of love. Lip service is not enough. Those along the road to Jerusalem, they gave Christ lip service They said, Oh, Hosanna to the highest. There's a lot of lip service. But in the next breath, they would be saying, crucify him. Christ said, the people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Let us not be guilty, Christian, of saying, praise God, oh, Jesus is good, and hallelujah, what a Savior. Well our heart is far from him. When we've wandered so far from home Our praise should be more than just the praise of our lips. It ought to be a love that comes from our heart, deep within of us, from a true and abiding relationship. The Bible is very clear, if you love him, you'll obey him. He said in John 14, 15, if you love me, keep my commandments. You know, kids, you've got a great opportunity to show your love to your mom and dad. You say, how? Write 'em a note. I think that's a good idea. Put some money in it, that's even better idea. How how? I I like 'em. My kids have jobs now. They're earning money, you know Uh how just do what they ask. And man, your your mom and dad were just that you're you're you're you're testifying, you're you're saying in the loudest way possible, I love you. Just doing what they say Say, just doing what they ask. And that means the world to them. You could stand out on the street corner and yell, I love my dad. And although he might think that's funny When you go when you go into the house and you don't do what he wants. What you cried out there on the street doesn't hold much weight. Child of God, we just need to obey him. Because of all he's done for us. You know, those on the road to Jerusalem, they called his name, but they didn't know who he was. They praised his actions, but they didn't know what he was going to do. My, how great the crowds were along the streets of the parade. But how few were willing to walk up Galgata with them. How few were willing to be there when he was carrying the cross. For we know, beloved, this parade was but a prelude for the cross. It would be but a few days. And all the superficial recognition given on Palm Sunday Would change. In Matthew 27, verses 22 and 23, Pilate said unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all said unto him, Let him be crucified. And the governor said, Why? What evil hath he done? He could find no cause, no reason to crucify him. Did they give a reason? No. They just cried the more, saying, Let him be crucified. How quickly they changed King was on their lips on the street. But really, they were the king of their hearts. And I wonder how many of us are that way. In God's house we recognize him as king. In God's house, we praise him as Lord. Lord. We say, yes, he is the authority. He's the first and the last, the beginning and the end. I mean he's he he is all in all. But then we walk out and do our own thing. We walk out and disregard him. We live our life the way we would. These on the streets, that's how they were. You say, Pastor, how can how how do you know that? Well, by their actions. He stood on the Mount of Olives in all his glory, but he was raised on Mount Golgotha in shame. They called him king. But a few days later they called him a criminal. They were casting their garments before him for the parade. A few days later, they were casting lots for his garments. They laid branches and flowers down before him as he walked into the city. And a few days later, they took the thorn branches and made a crown and smashed him on his head. They talked like they knew him, but they didn't. Before him was God in the flesh, who would give him self a sacrifice for the world. But they didn't see that. I wonder how many people come to church the same way. They gather in God's house and they they l they they like the excitement of it. They like the singing and the joy and and And the camaraderie. They like the family atmosphere of it, the friends that they have and and how they can engage one another and and kind of the community that's built around this church thing. You know. But are they really Christians? Do they really see Christ as the Savior of their soul, the forgiver of their sin? I wonder how many of us our Christianity is just Sunday morning deep. Just Sunday morning deep. The parade is on Sunday morning. We're all going to gather for the parade because it's exciting and the energy is there and the the the just the oh it's such a good time and boy we we feel good about it But I wonder how many of us will pick up our cross on Sun on Monday. Because that's what it takes to be a follower of Christ He said, Pick up your cross. Jesus picked up his cross for you and for me. Shouldn't we be willing to pick up our cross for him. As we close this morning This Palm Sunday. And the events that took place over the next few days in the life of our Savior, we ponder them and think of them. We wouldn't have the resurrection of next Sunday without the crucifixion of this week. As we're reminded of these truths, I wonder: would you think of your life? Ponder your heart. Is it just the excitement that's drawn you? Or do you have a personal, deep, abiding relationship with your Savior? Do you know him for who he is? Do you praise him for what he does? Are you willing to be part of more than just the joy of the parade? Willing to pick up your cross and follow him Is your Christianity deeper and stronger and more meaningful than just Sunday morning? Beloved, as you remember the cross and you remember what He did for you, I implore you to get real with yourself and before God. Have you accepted him as the Savior that he came to be? Not just the deliverer of your problems. Not just somebody you can come to and cry out for in an hour of need. Although he is those things and more. But the reason he died was to forgive you of your sins. Have you done that? As he carried his cross for you, will you carry yours for him?