The first and seconds are, let's say those together. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles And then you have another three books. All of those books together make up those books of history, those three books that follow the first and seconds. And I don't know if this helps you or confuse you, but for me, if I can break it up in my mind, it's easy to bring it back And to like, oh, there's three books. Uh what are those last three that make up the books of history? Very good. You guys are getting it down. So that's awesome. Glad that you're committing that to memory. We are going to begin today in chapter number 21. We are looking at the general history on our overall timeline. uh and dealing with uh into the patriarchal history here began with Abraham and now we are in The this morning we're going to be picking up with Isaac. Their stories overlap for for a little while, for a few chapters here. We stopped with Abraham specifically because Isaac is born. And that Son of Promise is given. And so we'll be referencing that today and then continuing a little bit of his story. As we have studied the life of Abraham, we've learned a couple very important lessons. First of all, We learned that faith is integral to the Christian life, that is foundational. And we learned that God wants to bless all of his children. And this is seen over and over again in the life of Abraham. And he stands as a testament and example to us. The culmination of that blessing is in the promised son, Isaac. Then from the very beginning to the closing chapters of the life of this man Isaac, we see that he was a son of a famous father. Who was his father? Abraham, right? That's who we're talking about, Abraham's son, Isaac. So Isaac's father was Abraham, right. It's also in the diagram there. You can see it uh that I gave you this morning. But uh so This has been said of him numerous times, but so it's not original me, but he was the son of a famous father, and he's also the father of a famous son. So we're going to begin to look at that, the life of Jacob next, but uh Isaac kind of fits right here in the middle. Uh there's not a whole lot said about him sp specifically really of the patriarchs, the least is said about him of all of them. And that's why they kind of reference him this way. Like it's kind of like Abraham was this great figure and his son was a great figure and of course he's the connecting link And there are a few things said about him, and of course we we uh are taught some lessons, and so we're going to touch on those today. So we first of all we see his birth in chapter number 21. It was promised. He was the promised son. The promised son is born. In chapter 21, let's look here. He says in verse number one, and the Lord visited Sarah As he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. God had promised that they would have a son, and finally the time had come. We see in verse number two that it was at a set time. He says, For Sarah conceived and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken. Listen, beloved, God does things in his time. And his time is always perfect. It was a set time. God knew when it was going to be. By his plan and his design, he knew when Isaac was going to be born, and he didn't want it to be just that they were going to have a son, but he wanted it to be a miraculous. son a son that there was no question that it was God that did it. Now let me just throw this out here. There is a I had never heard this until this last week in my studying on this, but there is a false teaching here that's I don't know if it's how long it's been around, but they said that this is the first Immaculate Conception. Okay, this is what was being taught by a pastor to a group of people. He says, notice here how it says, and the Lord visited Sarah. As he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. And they took that as he did, and tried to say that this was an immaculate conception, that Sarah did not know Abraham, and that this was the first uh virgin birth, you know, which is not true. That's not in the text, that is not taught at all here. That idea of God doing what he said he was going to do, that he uh let her get pregnant. You know, God is the one that gives life All of us, even today, God is in control of those things. Sometimes the doctors are befuddled. You know, you say, well, I don't know why I can't have children. The doctors say, well We don't know either. Seems like you ought to be able to have children. Or sometimes my mom uh was told numerous times that she couldn't have kids. Doctor said, Nope, you can't have kids. So when they went on their honeymoon, they weren't too worried about it. Nine months later, they had their first. They had six kids before she was thirty. So they went from not being able to have kids according to doctors to God saying, Nope, that's not my plan for you. Here's your first And there's a kid. So God is the one that's in control of that. And what he's talking about here is God did unto her, is God said, now it's time you're going to have a son. By natural means. So if you hear that false philosophy or that false idea out there, I want you to know that it is, that it is not. True. It was a promised son delivered in God's time. For over 25 years, Abraham and Sarah had waited on the promise with no presence. This is an exercise of Abraham's faith. They had to wait. And of course we looked at a little bit where he went Sarah said, Oh, we don't have a son and what are we going to do? And you know, she said, why don't you go into Hagar? And they tried to solve it themselves and created a big problem. We're going to address that some today as well. But ultimately God in his time delivered the Son. Amen. So we see that his birth was miraculous. In Hebrews 11, 11, let me read it to you. He says there uh Though through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed and was delivered of a child when she was past age. Well past age, God knew and he wanted it to be understood. This is a miraculous birth that God did this. This is not something that just happened and and you could say, Oh, well, obviously she had a kid. That's what ladies do. I mean they're married and and No, God wanted it to be a a recognition of his hand and saying, This is the promised son. There's no question, there is no doubt, this would not have happened under normal circumstances, but here God is doing this. for you as an answer to your faith and a fulfillment of the promise. We see that his birth brought great joy. His name means laughter Laughter. In verse number six, he says here, and Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh So that all that hear will laugh with me. Now this is a laughter of joy, and we don't have time to go back and talk about when she laughed out of doubt. And and God kind of rebuked her for that. But here she's laughing out of joy. Her laughter of doubt was changed to a laughter of delight. And it was a fulfillment of the promise, a laughter of joy, and all those that see it would recognize that, hey, God did what he said he was going to do, and we can rejoice. with her. And that's what he's ta what she's talking about here. So his name means laughter because it brought that joy to their life. Now Christ's uh birth brought great joy as well. Now I'm Going to try in reference, and I have a section in here in your notes about how Isaac is a type of Christ. But even through here, you'll see some of the likenesses, some of the similarities between Christ the promised son who was promised and Isaac who is promised. So here we start to see right away that picture that God was foreshadowing and showing that one day there would be a promised Son, Jesus Christ. And so Isaac stands as a very powerful, probably the most vivid illustration of Christ in all of the scriptures. uh foretelling of the coming Messiah. So there's many things about his life that typify that. Obviously one of those that he was promised Another here we see that he brought great joy. We know that Christ brought great joy in Luke chapter 2 and verse number 10. But his birth year brought contention. It brought contention in verse number nine. Notice chapter 21 and verse number nine. It says, And Sarasaw, the son of Hagar. the Egyptian, which he had borne unto Abraham, mocking. Now who is the son of Hagar? Ishmael, right. So Ishmael was standing back there. Ishmael is 14 years old at this time. If that's not in your notes, you might want to mark it down there somewhere. Ishmael is 14 years old at this time. And you can imagine the relationship for 14 years that he has had with Abraham. How close they were. I mean, multiple times in their life, Abraham looked at God and said, God, are you sure this is not the one? Can this be the one? I mean he's here already. Why couldn't we just recognize him as the one? And God said, no, he's not the promised son. And so over and over again, but you can imagine how close Abraham was to Ishmael Being his son and and Abraham kind of saying, Wow, why couldn't this be the one? And now the promised son is delivered. And Ishmael's standing back there, and all of a sudden that relationship that he had had with his father was in jeopardy. And he's back there kind of like, what am I, chopped liver? You know, who who who am I? I mean, I've been here for 14 years. And now all of a sudden this little baby is going to take my place. And you'll see that jealousy come in Any home when a new child is born and the old one that used to get all the mom's attention has to kind of be a little satisfied with playing with the brothers and sisters or by himself because the baby needs care. And here Ishmael, even at 14 years old, is a little bit jealous and is having a problem with this. And there's contention that begins right there. And that contention we know has continued all the way until today Now, Ishmael ultimately is sent away. You'll see in verse number 14. We see that he is sent away. In chapter 21, verse number 14, he says, And Abraham rose up early in the morning and took bread. And a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulders, and the child, and sent her away. And they went to wander in the wilderness Now Abraham was very troubled about this. If you know the story, we don't have time to read it or for me to even really dive into it all greatly, but you know Sarah, she has the promised son now. And Sarah's the one that brought this whole thing up in the first place. She's the one that said, go into Hagar. And now she's mad about this and she says, Hey, this is the promised son. You need to send them away. And Abraham has a problem with this. You'll see in verse number 12. Abraham goes to God and says, What am I supposed to do about this? Lord, I mean, she wants to send him away because the promised son is here. But God gives him peace and direction about it. See verse number 12, he says, And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight. Because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman. In all that Sarah has said unto thee, hearken unto her voice, for Isaac shall be thy seed be called. He says, This is the way it's going to be It is true, you do this. So Abraham consulted God and followed God when he sent them away. He did not just do it, but he was being obedient, and God said, this will be okay. I'll take care of them. And God took care of them. We see that Ishmael was sustained by God. In verse number 17, we see that Ishmael was sustained by God. He says here, and God heard the voice of the lad. And the angel of God called unto Hagar out of heaven and said unto her, What uh aileth thee, Hagar, fear not, for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is. You know, God sees you where you're at. God sees the burden you're carrying, and even though life sometimes is very unfair, circumstances have brought you to a place that wasn't your doing, and you have to bear the brunt of some great burden, God hears you. God knows where you are. God sees you and God sustained them in the wilderness and gives unto them a great promise. And recognizes his pain, hears his cry, and says, listen, I'm going to bless thee. Even though you're not the promised seed, I'm going to bless thee. You're going to be multiplied. You're going to see great blessing. So we see that God takes care of him. So not only was his birth like that of Christ, but there are many other ways that we see that he pictures Christ. Another way is in his burden. We see his burden in chapter number 22. In verse number one, a very unusual statement is made. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt. Abraham. Now if you know the Bible at all, you know that uh over in the book of James, the Bible says that uh God cannot be tempted, nor tempteth he any man. So you look at that and somebody would say, wait, there's a contradiction in the scriptures. No, there's not. This word tempt, all you have to do is look at it just a little bit. The idea is the idea of testing. God tested Abraham. God was checking on Abraham to see what he would do. And the difference is, is that Satan tempts you to sin God tests you to prove you, to build you. That's that is the difference. H. G. Thomas said, God tests us to bring out the good. Satan tempts us to bring out the evil. And so that's the difference and the contrast there when it says that he was tempted of God. God was testing Abraham. It establishes Abraham as the father of faith forever, for all of time. uh teaching us that faith really is obedience to God. So Abraham, we see that he trusts God in verses 3 through 6. And this, we could spend an entire lesson right here just on this, and you're going to love this outline. At least I love this outline. It's rich. Uh this the truths that are taught right here are so so powerful. Um we see first of all a calm obedience. Listen, there's no argument Now you guys know what's what he's talking about here, where God comes and he says to him, Hey, you've got to sacrifice Isaac? You've got to put his burden that he had to bear. Uh we're talking about the likeness of Christ. Christ knew he was going to go to a cross. Isaac knew he was going to be killed at some point in here. Ultimately, Abraham as a father, like the Heavenly Father. who had to send his son to be crucified. So that likeness, that picture is there. Their burden is very much the same. And so Abraham knows he's got to sacrifice his son. But there's no complaining here. There's no argument with God, no saying, why is this so? Lord, I can't believe this. You had give me a son and now you're telling me to kill him. You don't see anything like that. You just see a calm obedience. I want you to know that calm obedience is birth out of a complete Trust in God. We will obey God even in the face of hardship if we truly trust Him. If we truly have faith in Him. So we see a calm, I'm sorry, a claim of victory in verse number five. Abraham knows, look at what he says in verse number five. And Abraham said unto his young men. Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again unto you Now he was told he was going to go sacrifice his son. But here he's telling those men that were there with him. He says, listen, you guys abide here. My son and I will be back in a little bit. It is a claim of victory. Even though he knows what God has asked of him to do, and he is going in faith to go do that, he also knows that he is with the promised son. And that God was going to find a way, that God would provide himself a lamb. So we see this claim of victory. In verse number seven, we see a curious boy. He says here, and Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here am I. And he said, behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb? Where is the Lamb? From this time until the pages of Scripture when the silent years were broken in the New Testament. And we see John the Baptist standing up and saying, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Mankind from here until then were asking, where's the Lamb? Where's the lamb? They were looking for the promised land. And he asked of Isaac, Isaac asked of his father, where is the lamb? And he said, listen, God's going to provide a lamb. And God did miraculously provide a lamb for them. We see that in verse number eight. We see a confident father. A confident father in verse number eight. And Abersham said, My son, God will provide himself Now, if you mark in your Bible, I think you ought to circle, underline, or something, mark that word himself there. Because he did not say God Himself will provide a lamb. He said, God will provide himself a lamb. Noting and stating the fact that God was going to be the Lamb in the Son of God, he would be the Lamb that would come and take away the sins of the world. You know, I think it's it's just amazing. uh how obviously you guys know I have been pushing in Sunday school to like get as far as I can, right? There's so much I've been trying and trying and trying. to just like man this is taking too long. And as I was studying this out this week, I thought, isn't this amazing that we are in this lesson on Resurrection Sunday? I mean I could not have sat down and wrote an outline and planned it any better. It's just amazing how God has orchestrated and led in this that we get to see this picture of Christ going to the cross for us so vividly this Sunday morning of all mornings. We see this confident father, but we also see a conceding son in verse number 9. Isaac willingly lays himself down. Can I tell you that Jesus Christ willingly laid himself down? The New Testament says that nobody took his life from him, but that he gave it up, that he willingly went to the cross. He could have called 10,000 angels to set him free. But he died alone for you and me. Amen. That's what Jesus did. And he could have, but he didn't. He was a conceding son. He yielded to the will of the Father. And we see a committed servant in verse number 10. The commitment of Abraham is amazing. In verse number 10, he says, And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. I mean they got all the way there to that point and Abraham was laying there on the sacrifice, laying on the wood, ready to be sacrificed, and Abraham raises up his hand, he was committed to do what God had called him to do. Can I ask you how committed are you? How committed are you to do what God asks of you to do? What would cause you to stop? What would keep you from doing what God has asked of you? He was a committed servant. We see a captured substitute in verse number thirteen In verse 13 he says, And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked and beheld behind him a ram caught in the thicket. by his horns, and Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son This is where the illustration example takes a part between that of Jesus Christ, because Jesus Christ is the Lamb that was slain for us. that substitution. So we see that Isaac, where he was the picture of Christ, that now there's a a s a split in that imagery because the Weight of his burden was lifted off of him and put onto the ram, and that's what was done for us. The ram took our place. Jesus Christ became the substitute for us. So we then we see a commended steward, a commended steward, in verses 15 through 19, where of course God says, now I see your faith. Because thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. Hey, I commend you, Abraham. You know, Abraham understood that he was just a steward. Beloved, everything we have from our children. . To all the what we have in the bank, everything we have, our home, our cars, our vehicles. We're just stewards of those things that God has given us. He's blessed us with all of it. What hast thou that thou hast not received? Every ability we have, every skill we have? Our ability to think and process, your gift to sing or play musical instruments, your gift to calculate, or your gift with your hands. to build or to manufacture. All of these things are blessings of God, and we beloved are just stewards of them. And when we keep a proper perspective of we are just stewarding this skill or this talent or this possession for our Heavenly Father. then it's not so hard when he asks of us to do something with it. Okay, Lord, it's yours anyway. Here you go. Whatever you would like. And Abraham understood, he was just the steward, that this really was not his son, but God's son. You know, in grief share a week ago, I was talking to those people that were there. And I said, you know, as a pastor, one of my goals is to really try and help. And my daughter's taking, not this one, Melissa, wherever she's at, she's downstairs. I said, my my daughter's in here, and my goal is to try and help. people like her to understand relationships. Because if before they are in the place where they are grieving over a lost one, they have a proper perspective They understand that that person is a gift from God and that we get to celebrate and enjoy the relationship that we have with them, but they do not belong to us. They do in a worldly sense, but ultimately understanding and keeping that proper perspective helps us when God calls them home to understand, listen. He was, she was, a gift from God that I got to love and enjoy and appreciate for 5, 10, 15, 50, whatever how many other years it is. And we need to have that understanding that will help us carry. You still experience loss. You still experience grief. That's a very real uh pain in the heart of somebody because of the separation, but it helps you when you understand the truth of it. And coming to that realization sometimes is very hard for people in the midst. So if you have it ahead of time, boy, you're way ahead. You're way ahead. We see here Isaac is a type of Christ, and I could give these to you very quickly. Is there any hope that we're gonna get done? Oh my goodness, no way. Um It's rich stuff, isn't it? It's good stuff. I mean this there's so many rabbit trails we could chase here too with each of these things. But uh I I want to try to keep a broad spectrum overview where we see what God's doing in in preparing his son and teaching us about faith and looking looking ahead. But giving us this picture of Christ is very important. So let's let's talk about it. We see here that they were both called only sons. Christ and Isaac were both called only sons. In Genesis twenty-two, verse number two, he says, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac. We all know John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. We know that they were both uh prophesied or given as a child of promise, that they were both uh said ahead of time that they would come. They were both dead for three days. You say, wait a minute, Isaac didn't die. This is, again, you're talking about typology, you're talking about a picture. And if you'll see in if you want to look at it, in Genesis 22, verse number four, he says, Then on the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. From the time that Abraham was told that he had to kill his son until God delivered the ram and a substitute took his place. So the principle or the idea is that for three days in the mind of Abraham his son was dead. For three days he said this this he's he's gone. I know it hasn't actually happened yet, but for three days he was carrying that in his heart that my son is gonna die. This is this is the end. And that that imagery was in his heart and mind for three days the loss was felt. For three days the heartbreak was there. For three days the grief was present. For three days he longed for his son because he knew what was coming. And so we see the same thing in 1 Corinthians 15, verses 3 and 4, that Christ died for our sins according to Scripture, and that He was buried, and He rose again. on the third day, according to the scripture. So for three days they both were believed to be dead and completely lost and no hope of returning, but God provided a way. We see that they both carried their own wood for a sacrifice. Of course, Isaac there and uh he says, and Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son in verse number six laid it on Isaac. Isaac had to carry his own wood for his own altar. But we of course know the truth that Jesus Christ in John 19, verse number 17, and he bare his cross and went forth to that place. Where we get the principle that Jesus teaches us about pick up your cross. Lift up your cross, bear your cross. We all have a cross to bear, but we have here in typology a picture that Isaac had to carry his own. Would to be sacrificed in Jesus Christ did the same. We see they both willingly laid down their life. In Genesis 22 and verse number 9, he said, laid him on the altar of wood. He laid down willingly. Again, imagine that as a as a individual. There's been some, you know, there's been times when I was in the bedroom. And dad looked at me and said, son, put your hands on the bed. And I felt very unjust. I felt like I did not deserve this. I should not be getting this thinking right now. I can't imagine Isaac being laid down there with an understanding of what was going to take place. And what was going through his heart and mind. But he willingly laid there. And said, okay. He did it. We of course know that Jesus laid his life down. Therefore doth my father, John 10, 17 and 18, he said, therefore doth my father love me because I lay down my life. That I may take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. What an amazing, an amazing picture. So Sarah dies in chapter 23. We're not going to take time to study that, but we move to chapter 24. So three years after the death of Sarah, we come into chapter number 24. and we see his bride. This again is developing a picture for us. It is showing us what God is doing in developing a nation. We're we're getting down to that point Obviously Isaac has to have a bride and he has to uh have children in order for the lineage to follow and we see that in the diagram that I've given you. But also as we talk about the idea of him being a picture of Christ Christ has a bride. And there's some typology here as well that's very powerful and picturesque for us. But we see, first of all, uh the precautions of the Father in verses 1 through 9. Um God is putting together a nation here. Let me see if we can just I'm trying to see if we can Let's just begin reading in verse number one. What you need to see is that Abraham understood that his bride was not to come of the heathen. That he needed to go to his people and to get the bride from there. He says, And Abraham was old and well-stricken in age, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruleth over all that he hath, put I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven. and the God of earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell, but thou shalt go unto my country and to my kindred and take a wife unto my son Isaac. So he had to go and get a son of his own people, not take a son there. So a precautious father, uh he he was very careful about where the bride came from. And I have a lesson that I teach from this passage of scripture on how to find your wife. Or how the title of it is How to Find Your Life's Mate. And I've taught it here, but uh just some principles about what you're looking for in a mate and what you should be trying to find and and we're not going to take time to look at that this morning because that's not the point of it. But we see here the piety of the servant This servant did things right. The servant is unnamed, but we believe him to be Eliezer. In chapter fifteen and verse number two, uh don't turn back there, I'll turn, I'll read it to you. Uh we see in fifteen, verse number two, he says, And Abraham said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? And the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. So the steward of his house mentioned there is Eliezer. This is somebody that had been with him for a very long time, somebody very well respected. And that is tracked through scripture, so we don't know for sure, but believed to be Eliezer. Then the servant travels to Nahor as directed to receive or to find a son. The servant is very prayerful. He is very diligent to find this bride. The servant sought a bride who was diligent uh looking for somebody that would come and if you know the story he says uh Lord would you help me I need to find this person And I'm here and we need to draw water, but not just for me, but for all of my animals, Lord, would you get somebody to come and have them offer to Get water not just for me, but for all the animals, somebody that was diligent. And we see the servant praise in the power of God for God's direction in verse number 15, seeking his his leading and his direction And he answers the prayer before he even says amen. This is amazing. Look at with me, if you would, in chapter 24 and verse number 15. And it came to pass. So here Eliezer is praying, God, we need to find this lady whom you want to put with Isaac. It's very important. We know how important it is. Lord, would you direct my steps? Would you show me exactly who it is that I'm supposed to bring to my master's son? And would you direct me and before the Bible says here that before he was done speaking? That behold Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel son of Malachi, with this son. Bethew, this Rebecca came, God answering the prayer before it was even concluded. We see the purity of the saint Uh in verses 34 through 61, Eliezer explains unto her why he is there, what he's asking of her. Here, this young woman, obviously a lady of faith, obviously a lady that knows how to follow the leading of the Lord, submits and is willing to do first of all, she fulfilled the requirements and asking to Give water to all of the animals. But all those that are involved can clearly see the hand of God and Although Rebecca has never met this man, she knows God is leading and has agreed to travel to Canaan to marry Isaac. You know, God will lead. I don't know who's in here and where you're at in your life, but God will show you when. He'll direct if you wait on him. He can bring them in a miraculous way the person that you're supposed to be with. And so we see that happening here. She leaves all that she's ever known and follows this servant. for the sun. Now again, thinking about the typology in the picture, she's the bride She's leaving everything that she knew here, her home, her land, her dwelling place. She left all of that in anticipation of the sun. You and I as the bride of Christ, the church is the bride of Christ, we're looking for the Son. Anticipating that. When he comes and breaks the eastern sky and we get to see him again. And we are to leave all this world has to offer. Let it go. In anticipation of the sun, to look for him and to please him. What amazing pictures are given here. So we see in your notes there the next blank is the picture of the church The picture of the church. The Father has planned a marriage for his son. The son is waiting in the presence of the Father. Where is Jesus right now? The right hand of God. That's what the Bible tells us. That he is there at the right hand of God. And he's waiting to be reunited with his bride. The bride is here, the church, waiting to be reunited with the Son. And they will be brought together again. We see that Isaac went out to meet his bride, Christ. Is going to go out to meet the bride. We that are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. Christ will come. So we see that typology, the picture that is drawn here. And there's a great lesson in the birthright that kind of concludes this, but we don't have time to really do it justice. So we're going to pause there and uh um we'll pick up next week but um wanted to make sure we we got all of this So we uh also are trying to commit to memory the books of the Bible. Uh so uh let's say the Pinateu together, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Then you have uh the historical books that are divided up into that the Pinate and the twelve books of history um that you get through uh Genesis Exodus numbers Deuteronomy and then you have the three Joshua judges and Ruth And then you have the first and seconds, 1 and 2nd Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2nd Chronicles, then Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. So let's say all the way to Esther together. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther. All right, very good. Now when we get we're learning those solely so that when you get to the end of this year, you're gonna be Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, number, Deuteronomy, Joshua Judges, you know. You're gonna be flying through them because we're gonna say them all together. So uh we're gonna we're gonna learn them. So Hopefully you're starting to, you know, repetition is the key to learning, right? So we're hopefully committing those things to memory. Those of you that have this, uh the I gave you this family tree last week that begins with Tirah, uh who was Abraham's father. Um You know, we we've talked about this as we've kind of walked through some different family trees as we began there with Adam. But we see Tira, who was Abraham's father, had Haran, Nahor, and Abraham. Uh so of course we know Haran died uh before his father, the first time recorded in the Bible that a child died before the parent. Uh that that's recorded for us. And uh but of course Haran was the father of what notable character? Lot, correct. And so because his father was gone, very likely Abraham took in Lot, took care of him. They had a a common bond there where Abraham didn't have any kids yet, was looking for the Lord to provide children, but maybe he felt, well, hey, I'm gonna take care of Lot. They went together, they traveled And so you can kind of see the lineage there, but Abraham obviously is a notable character that we begin with the patriarchal history here with Abraham. So the promises of God, the blessings of God, that Abrahamic covenant, which we're going to talk about today as we talk about the birthright. of Isaac began with God promising Abraham that he was going to establish him a nation and we talked about those blessings that were given to him. So you guys know the history there, but on the map there if you're looking at it. You have uh Hagar. I have a copy here. No, I don't. I thought I had an extra one. I was gonna hand to somebody that needed it. I don't. I left it out there. So you have uh Hagar and of course they got impatient, didn't want to wait on God. They said, okay. Uh why don't you go in to my handmaid Hagar? And that from Hagar came Ishmael. Okay? That was not God's plan. That's not what they were supposed to do. God was going to give them a child, and in God's time he did. He blessed them with Isaac. Isaac is who we're talking about now. So we talked all about Abraham and and what God did there, and then we're talking about Isaac. Isaac uh has such a brief window of history because so much of his uh beginning of his life is really tied up with Abraham as we look at those things last week. In your notes there we talked about his birth, we talked about his burden, how he was really given the task of of being a type of Christ and uh the typology that's seen there in his life and the way that he uh carried his own wood and was going to be sacrificed and you know that type of thing that we what we walk through And we talked about his bride that uh went to find Rebecca. So you see that in the notes here in this diagram, that uh Abraham sent a servant out, go find my son a child, the uh go find my son a wife And they found Rebecca. Rebecca came back. So Isaac and Rebecca together, they had two children. Their names were Esau and Jacob, correct. So Esau and Jacob, uh we move very quickly into story. of the children of Israel. Does anybody need a copy of notes? I think he's got some. He just walked in the back. So you can hold your hand up if you need some notes. He's he'll make his way to you. So They say about Isaac that he was the son of a famous father and the father of a famous son. Because he is so very quickly covered, you know, his his beginning years are all tied up with Abraham, his famous father, and then very quickly we move to his son on the on this diagram here, Jacob, whose name was changed to Israel. We'll talk about that in a little bit, but of course, from Jacob, Israel, the father of the Israelite nations the twelve tribes of Israel, which we're going to get into next. But just wanted to cover that a little bit with you to get that picture in your mind as we conclude the notes on Isaac this morning. Now, this morning I think we left off last week with his birthright. So that's where we want to pick up with his birthright. I'm gonna wait just a moment so that everybody can get the notes uh and we can all be on the same page. So I will tell you that the guilty party that moved the notes that were supposed to be saved was me. I picked them up on Thursday and in my mind I was going to uh take them downstairs. We have a place for the extra copies. And they didn't get there. And this morning, you know how I talked about looking for something you lose this morning? I look I looked in the pulpit, I looked in the church office, I looked in my office, I looked downstairs, I looked up in the sound booth I'm like, it was Thursday right before church. What could have I done with that stack of notes? I mean there is like forty pages of paper there. And so I I looked over on the table in the fellowship hall. So I don't know. I think the dog ate my notes. But they're gone. Sorry, they were they ran out of copies. They're coming up. We got a couple more. So we are now on page 34. in your notes there on page 34 and that is beginning with uh his birthright that's what we're going to look at today in the time that we have so Alright, so beginning here, Abraham passes on all that he has to Isaac before his death in chapter 25. And verse number five. And obviously for the sake of time, we're covering many chapters. We can't read it all. But in five, verse number five, he says, and Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. So Abraham passed on all that he had to Isaac. So we're we're talking about Isaac. This really is the notes concerning Isaac, but here we are still talking about Abraham. because uh he was such a key integral figure in the beginning and the establishment of the nation. God commits uh the Abrahamic covenant That lineage, that's why these are these patriarchs that we're talking about are so notable is because ultimately it's the messianic line that God's going to track and follow down through his nation to bring us Christ. And so he's establishing, he's building his nation, he's setting this up. It begins with Abraham, and that promise tracks down through his son Isaac. We see that in chapter 26 And verse number three. He says, Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee, for unto thee and unto thy seed I will give all these countries and will perform the oath. So he says, hey, Isaac, I am passing on that that heritage, that spiritual blessing. The birthright. I'm giving this to you. You're going to carry on this Abrahamic covenant. The promises that I gave to Abraham, I am now giving to you. And so that promise was passed on to him. Now they knew that uh that messianic line was going to track down through this family. From Isaac to Jacob, uh ultimately whose name was changed to Israel. We talked about that a little bit as we went through the family tree there. Now it appears as though It was going to stop there. Obviously from human standpoint, they look at it and say, wait a minute, if we're gonna have if God told me he's gonna bless me, we're gonna have we're gonna multiply my seed, there's gonna be nations uh you know established, and but what's going on here? We don't have any kids. For twenty years they were childless That's a long time. When you are expecting to have kids, two years, three years, five years, ten years, and and the children don't come, that's a long time Twenty years they waited, and God still had not given them a child. He said this the fulfillment of God's covenant, promise, demanded that Isaac and Rebekah have a son. Yet for the first twenty years of their married life she was barren. What a delight it is to see this spiritually minded husband and his wife take their burden to the Lord. Surely They reminded God of his precious promises, and surely God was pleased with their prayers. So they went to God in prayer in chapter 25 and verse number 21. I believe that's where he says, And Isaac entreated the Lord. for his wife, because she was barren, and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebecca, his wife, conceived. Beloved, that's the right thing to do. When you have a problem, when you have a struggle, or something you don't understand, is take it to the Lord Take it to the Lord in prayer. This they were 20 years without a child and and they said, Boy, God promised it. We need to go to the Lord in prayer. We need to seek God because He said that He would do this And so they went to the Lord in prayer, and God delivered to them a son. God answers their prayers with the birth of Jacob and Esau. Now this the story of Jacob and Esau, there's so many things that can be gleaned from this story. There are twins that are born unto them. In chapter 25, verses 23 through 26. Let's just look at verse number 23. He says, And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb. and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels, and the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger. That verse right there is very key, very critical to understanding this history, because God was not only telling them, hey, you're going to have twins, but he was establishing for them the truth that the older was going to ultimately be in subjection to the younger. That was contrary to culture. That was contrary to the normal way of doing things. He was establishing and explaining up front, listen, my hand is going to be on Jacob. He's the one that's going to be blessed, and not Esau God knew ahead of time that who Esau was going to be. God knew that Esau was going to be a profane man, and that Jacob was not a perfect man by any means. Let me talk about him a little bit here in a second. Jacob was not a perfect man, but Jacob had a desire, an interest in spiritual things He at least wanted those spiritual things. Did he mess up? Yes. Jacob did some foolish things like any one of us. Amen. But God saw his interest. He wasn't wholly given over to the profane like his brother Esau was. And so God recognized that and was going to bless the child that would seek after him and desire spiritual things. God gave this prophecy at his birth. that was going to be the foretelling of what was ultimately going to happen. They knew this before they were even born that Jacob was the one that was supposed to get the birthright. But people We have got to wait on God. Wait on God's timing. Let the Lord work things out. Every time we see it in these stories where men take things into their own hands, they create problems. And that's what we see again here in the story of Jacob and Esau. We have here a conflict that's consistently between the two of the He draws for us a contrast in verse number twenty three there explaining that there was going to be two nations established between them. that they were going to be different in their character, they're going to be different and the younger is going to serve the elder. One of them is going to be strong. One of them's going to be weak. He he lays that out for them. So there's two natures represented. And that is representative of or a typology of the flesh and the spirit. Those two natures that constantly war. How many can testify and say, yep, uh, those two natures are at war? The flesh and the spirit, they're constantly at war. And Jacob and Esau, even in the womb, were constantly in war. Are you glad this morning you're not carrying twins? You're not carrying twins, are you? Okay. Maybe you're gonna surprise us all. Oh hey, look it's twins. Um but yeah, one's enough. Amen. I told Mary I said I I I will Help you with twins. If you have triplets, you're on your own. I'm not I said there is no way I'm ever pushing one of those strollers with three three things in it. I said I ain't doing it Not happening. So praise the Lord. He he uh God didn't do that to us. I wouldn't be surprised if he made me do it just to make me eat my words, but I'm glad he didn't. So we have these two natural nations established. Esau, we know, if you know the story, you know Esau was hairy, Jacob was smooth, Esau was an outdoorsman, Jacob was a homebody. I mean love being at the house. Esau was a daddy's boy. Jacob was a mama's boy. Esau was concerned with the present, the here, the now. Jacob was concerned with the future, looking ahead, had an eye to tomorrow. We see that in their life over and over again. Esau made quick decisions based on his emotions. Jacob made slow and decisive decisions based on his own interests. Small problem right there about how we make decisions. You know, Jacob w had an eye to the future, but really it was for personal gain. You know, like I'm looking ahead, how can I get benefited here? You know, that's how Jacob was kind of looking at things. Like, uh I'm gonna come out on top right here. This is how we're gonna do it. Whatever I gotta do to make that happen, I wanna do And uh Esau didn't care because all he was living for was today. So that contrast is seen there. However, this conflict between these two was exasperated By the foolishness of parents. Now, the bias of parents is what goes in your notes there. The bias of parents. And we see that in chapter 25, verse number 28. Look at what he says here. He says, and Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison. What a reason to love your son. But they had that in common. They had those common interests. But Rebekah loved Jacob. Now this is given to us, recorded for us here in the Word of God, but there was obviously favoritism between the parents here. There was almost like the Isaac and Esau and Jacob and Rebecca, this this little bit of, oh, I don't know why your father does this, oh I know, and and this conflict that was in the home that was exasperated by unwise parents. Parents, every one of our kids are different. They all have some some great strengths and they all have some great weaknesses. And uh but we've got to love them the same. We've got to help them get from where they are to where God would want them to be. And there should not be a level of favoritism in the home. It you are going to create so many problems and so much conflict in your home if you don't learn how to love them all the same. You've got to be very, very careful uh because the fact of the matter is we have an example given to us here. That uh Esau had some common interests with his dad. And that makes it very easy to establish and build a relationship. Like, well, let's say one of your sons really loves getting greasy and he likes working on the car with you, but the other one doesn't. Well, who's going to be out there working on the car with you? But what you have to do as a parent, you have to find out what the other one loves and do something with them on that You've got to find a way to love them the same. Your children should not be able to accuse you, oh well they love him better. Now, children will, regardless. They will regardless, but they should not have there shouldn't be truth in that. Because children are, you know, they're human like the rest of us and they're going to look for some inconsistency or some way that they can, you know, point out mom and dad's insufficiencies But as parents, we've got to be aware of that and work hard to not let that be a reality, not let it be truthful. Certainly don't want it to be that way. So we see here Esau and what he was like. He sold his birthright. And we're talking about that a little bit more this morning. But uh He became the father of the Edomites. His name was changed to Edom. I'll read it for you, but you might want to even write on your uh on this thing here on your what is this called? The family tree, um, you'll see on there it says Esau and right underneath that it says Edom. His name was changed to Edom, and you'll see Jacob and right underneath that says Israel. Jacob's name was changed to Israel. Well you might want to note next to this twenty-five verse thirty. Chapter twenty-five verse thirty. That's what I'm going to read for you. That's where Jacob's name was changed. I'm sorry Esau's name was changed to Edom. In verse number thirty, he says, And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with the same red So we his we see his name changed to Edom because he was a profane man, because he was looking for today. Ultimately They become the Edomites, which create great problems for the children of Israel. And then Jacob's name was changed to Israel in 3228. And we'll reference that in a minute, but at least you've got that noted down somewhere where those where those names were changed. So he sold his birthright, he became the father of the Edomites, and he is a picture of the fleshly lifestyle the fleshly life, living for the flesh, living for the here and the now, without a vision or a look at tomorrow. I always remember Miss Kim Uh one of the messages out of the thousands of messages, well at least over a thousand. I was shocked the other day. I looked on sermon audio and we have over a thousand messages on sermon audio. And I'm like, I'm too young to have a thousand messages that I preached. But uh Miss Kim, out of the thousand messages, uh she said one of the ones that I will never forget is the now and later. The noun later. I preached a message on noun later and I gave out noun later to everybody in in church. And the the whole idea is that we've got to be careful that we don't live for the now, but we always look to the later. Because if we could get our eyes off of now and keep a focus on the later and just think about where we're going to end up, boy, it would change what we do now. and uh just a powerful truth that really impacts her life. And that was Esau's problem, is he was focused on the now, wasn't looking to the later. And uh he he just made a mess of things. He had no interest in spiritual things. It was all about the profane, which means uh worldly, the empty the meaningless, the here and now. But then you have in contrast to that you have Jacob. Now Jacob's name means trickster. He was a trickster. And you see that through his life, his kind of conniving method of achieving and getting what he wants. You guys know the stories of how he tricked uh his father and and now we see in this the you know, basically talked his brother into trading his birthright for some uh pottage, you know, for a little bit of uh soup. Um and I mean it probably tasted good. I imagine if Jacob liked being in the kitchen. He probably was a good cook. But it's still not worth what what Esau gave up. But Jacob uh tricked his brother into selling his birthright. He is a picture of the spiritual life. Now there's a contrast there because we're talking about Jacob being a trickster, so how is he a picture of the spiritual life? Because Jacob had an eye for the future. Jacob uh wanted spiritual things. Even in his desire to get the birthright, the greater blessing of the birthright was not the uh physical inheritance. The greater blessing of the birthright was the spiritual inheritance that he was going to receive. The blessings of God, the power of God, the hand of God, all of those things far more beneficial than some land. And uh he understood that, and it's evident. And so he, of course, is a picture of the spiritual life. His name is changed to Israel, which means a prince with God. Now Uh look in chapter thirty well you don't have to, but uh third I'm gonna read thirty-two twenty-eight. That's where we see his name changed here in thirty-two twenty-eight. He says, and he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel, for as a prince Hast thou power with God and with men that hast prevailed. Thou hast prevailed. So his name, that name, Israel, means a prince with God. And that chapter, chapter number 32, if you know the story there, is when uh Jacob wrestles with God. Jacob becomes aware of where he's at. and what's going on and and he spends the night wrestling with God. He's afraid for his life because his brother Esau is in the region. And they're going to be coming together and Jacob's like, oh no, things are all over. Alt my my chickens are coming home to roost. I I'm in trouble. And he gets alone with God and he begs God. He repents and and he really comes to r wrestle with his own demons and says, listen, I I've got uh gone about this all the wrong way. Lord, will you forgive me? He sends out embassaries to go talk to his brother and sends gifts and says, hey, uh can I send you these? We want to let you know that I'm sorry, and I realize I did wrong, and he confesses that. And so that's where his name gets changed when he realizes who he was and comes to God honestly. And then God says, Okay, now I'm gonna bless you. So the birthright we see was given to Jacob. Now what is a birthright? Okay, I think most of you here have an understanding. We know what we're talking about as far as an inheritance. But in the biblical times, there's several things that it meant. First of all, it meant that the eldest son was to receive a double blessing of his father's inheritance. So he was supposed to receive a double portion. Whatever he was going to give to his children, the eldest son was supposed to receive a double portion of that. It meant that he would also inherit control of all of the property, whatever property that they owned. As the eldest son, he would inherit the control of the property. He was now in charge of the family. It meant that he would inherit authority and responsibility for the younger sons. widows or unmarried daughters of the family. Ultimately he became the head of the household, right? He was the one in charge now. He assumed all of that. Whether it be a blessing or a burden, that was put on to him. That's what the birthright was for the eldest son. And I think I've given you there Deuteronomy 21, 17, 1 Chronicles 5. Is that in your notes Okay, that's where you can read about where God told them what a what what their birthright, uh what that inheritance for the family was supposed to be. Matthew Henry said this. We have here a bargain made between Jacob and Esau about this birthright, which was Esau's by providence, but Jacob's by promise. It was a spiritual privilege, including the excellency of dignity and the excellency of power, as well as a double portion. That's what good F. Matthew Henry said in a description of this, what was being handed on. So we see the exchange of the birthright in verses 29 to 34, I think in chapter 25. So let's look at that if you're in 25. He says, and Isaac loved Esau. Sorry, one, we already read that one, because Rebecca loved Jacob. And verse number 25. And Jacob saw pottage, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with the same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. And what profit shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day. And he swore unto him, and sold his birthright unto Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage and lentils, and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. So we see that exchange of the birthright take place there. I I read that last phrase there and uh he despised the birthright. It has two connotations there. First of all, he didn't see any value there. He despised what he had. He didn't realize what it was worth. And so he threw it away. But I look out of it a as almost like because it's at the conclusion of them talking about him giving it away Have you ever seen two kids make an exchange and then the one that lost the much more valuable thing They're like, well that was stupid anyway. Like like I didn't I didn't I didn't even want it. Who would want that? Boy. I mean he knows in his heart he got taken He knows in his heart he lost something valuable. But he's going to just act like, no, oh boy, I took you. I mean look look at that. It's this worthless thing anyway, not of any value. I mean, you you ha ha y I got food and you got nothing You know, he kind of that's how I see him, kind of that spirit of him getting up and walking away with that. Ah, look at look at that, Jacob, you've got a useless birthright uh and and for for what? And despised the blessing of God and what it meant, the picture that it was. Here's what I want you to understand, beloved, is that character is revealed in a moment. Character is revealed in a moment. Esau was a profane man. Hebrews chapter 12, verse number 16 says, Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau. who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. He sold his birthright for a morsel of meat, for a little bit of food. That idea that he was a profane man looking at the world and grabbing life just living life for just for today. He lived for the present, for the physical He gave up all that he could have had for a little bit of food. Esau was supposed to inherit the greatest portion of Isaac's possessions. And here's the thing. Character is revealed in a moment. Character is revealed in the minute. Now when I was typing these notes up, I thought I had spelled something wrong. I mean I looked at spell check. I went online, I looked at my thesaurus. I I'm like, what is going on here? So I went and asked Mary. I says, is minute spelled the same as minute? She said, yeah. I said, that is stupid. What in the w how in the world can the word that is compound pronounced completely different be spelled the same? That is just I was so frustrated. And it's no wonder I have a problem with spelling when it's things like that. You know, it's ridiculous. It's not my fault, right? Terrible. Anyways, the minute, here's the thing. Character is revealed in the minute. The small details. The little things. This was a small thing, but it revealed the character of Esau, who he was. At this moment The world got to see who Esau was. It was that moment, but it's who he was and who he had been for a very long time. It just came out in that moment. It just came out in that minute thing, that small thing. Character, beloved, is continually growing or going. Your character is either growing, it's being developed and shaped and made into what God wants it to be, what you should be for God, or else it's going by the wayside. One of the two is taking place continually in your life because as you make decisions today, you're either establishing and developing strong, good character in your life, or you are further allowing the character that you had to be eroded. One way or the other it's taking place because when you make right decisions and you do right, you're strengthening your character. Just this week I was sitting down with somebody who was so discouraged spiritually and they were just Tired of fighting Satan and just frustrated with the spiritual battles that we face in life. And I said, listen, I want to encourage you. It's a battle that you're never going to get past. That doesn't sound encouraging, that I'm going to have to do this forever. I said, but you do get stronger. It does get easier. The battle gets more accomplishable because why? Because you're building strength. When you make a right decision and you take a step in the right way, your character is strengthened. Your ability to stand with God, your faith in God, and the power with God is all helped. But when we make the wrong decision, We we tear down our character a little bit. And that we're either growing or going with our character in every decision that we make. Beloved character knows the end does not justify the means. You know, it's never right to do wrong. Although Jacob desired the right thing I mean, he knew he had been promised it by God. He knew it was a right thing to desire, but the deceptive way in which he got it was wrong. And it's never right to go wrong. You know, the world today has a very it's it's a philosophy that's even more and more prevalent today that people feel like it is right to do wrong if the end result is right. But the ends don't justify the means. Right must be done or attained by right means. Or else it's not right. There's a lot of things you can think about. Let me ask you to engage your brain. What is something that somebody might do that is a right thing? that they might try and do the wrong way. What's some examples? You say somebody might try and do this by this means. Anybody So being deceptive in in trying to encourage somebody, like if I was talking to this guy last week and I said, Hey brother, don't worry about it. Next week you won't have this battle anymore. I mean So true. You know what about uh we've all been uh we know we're supposed to care for our family. We're supposed to feed our children Seems very popular today that it's okay if I steal from you to feed my kids. It's a that's okay, because after all, you have two loaves of bread, and it's not fair that you have two and I have none. And so it's okay if I steal from you to f well we are supposed to feed our kids, that's a good thing, but to try and get there by the wrong means is wrong. Any other examples of ways, things that people do? Yes. Doing go I'm gonna go Right, doing what you know is right to do. Um and giving that up for something else. Uh brother Greg. You know what, that's a great example. And I I'm gonna try and I'm gonna step on some preacher's toes here. That really frustrates me. Uh when you hear a story sometimes that these preachers tell. And you're walking away like, yeah, I just don't know. You know, like what? Yeah, that just oh I don't know. I mean it's just so frustrating. Or you heard some other pastor tell that exact same story like five years ago in some other conference or somewhere else. And listen, there's nothing wrong with sharing somebody's story if I say, hey, Brother Steve told me this week that he did this and this happened to him and and this is how he learned from that. There's nothing wrong with that, but for me to tell it like it was my story I mean that is wrong. That is wrong. And we've got to be so careful about that. So listen, in our lives, just remember that right things accomplished by the wrong means is wrong So we've got to be, this is what we see happen here with Jacob and Esau. Character, beloved, is willing to wait on God. Character is willing to wait on God. So the birthright that ultimately would have been his by any case, he acquired by trickery. Now, I don't know how far we're going to get into this, but what I want you to know is that J Jacob was not allowed to enjoy that birthright. Nor was he blessed by God in any means, even though Esau had given it to him. You'll see all the way from chapter 25 to chapter 32. that he does not enjoy that birthright, he does not experience any of that blessing when he acquired it that way. It's not till after chapter 332 when he gets honest with God And he apologizes to his brother, and his brother willingly gives him the birthright that now the blessings of God come with it. And you can you can track down that through that history and see that. And so right thing acquired by the wrong way is is not right. Now we're going to be moving not next week. But the following week is next week. We're out of the property for Anniversary Sunday, so we will not have Sunday school. But the following week we're going to get into um Jacob, excuse me, who's blessed with twelve sons, who's going to be the father of the Israel nations, and we I've listed them out there for you, I think. Didn't I give them the No I didn't. But the twelve sons of Israel, which become the twelve tribes of Israel, and we'll look at that. And then the last person that we deal with on these four characters that's key in the history of Israel is Joseph. And the reason he's key in the history here is how God used him to protect and preserve the children of Israel during a time when they could have been lost, but God miraculously preserved them. So, all right. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed.