Lord, we thank you for today and the time in your word, uh the time to study and to learn. And uh Lord, I pray that you just open our hearts and minds and give us understanding, guide us into all truth, help us to see uh your word and what you were trying to do in establishing a nation here through uh Abraham and uh Lord I just pray you'd bless the study time now we ask in Jesus' name amen Well, if you want to uh look at the books of the Bible, they are, I believe, on page number three in your notes uh where I gave you the divisions there. We have the uh five books of history. Uh that is the Pinate. And then you have twelve books, uh historical books that to give you the history of Israel. I'm sorry, the five books of the law. These are all historical books. uh divided up into the books of the law and the books of history. And then you have the five books of poetry or wisdom, depending upon uh how you want to look at those, but those uh books of poetry, five major prophets and then twelve minor prophets. It seems like the hardest thing for people to learn is those minor prophets because the names are so unusual and different. But as you look at the books of the law, which we're working through I would like to say together the books of the law and the books of the historical books, but you'll notice if you're looking at it that in the historical books there are three names or three books that are given to us before the first and seconds. Just sometimes it helps me in my mind if I'm trying to memorize something to to break it up and to find a way to think about it and to know, okay, there's three books, and then I have the first and seconds. And uh so you know uh right right after the Exodus or whatever, you're gonna come into the idea of Joshua where he's coming into the promised land. So you got Joshua, Judges, and Ruth. You got those three books, Joshua, Judges, and Ruth, and then you have the first and seconds, first and second Samuel, first and second Kings, first and second Chronicles, and then you have three books. So it's uh you divides up nicely. You got those three books and the first and seconds and then the clues, if you know the post exile books Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Now you're going to learn about these books as we move along, but let's say those all the way through to Esther, beginning with the book of Genesis, the five books of the law. and then the twelve books of history. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther All right, very good. Hopefully you're working on those. Just wanted to keep that in front of us. Now we are beginning today on page number 28 in your lesson. Excuse me, hopefully you stopped and picked up a copy uh on your way in and you've got those and ready to go. We have concluded the first eleven chapters of Genesis. This has brought us through obviously 2,000 years of history covering four major events, the formation of the world, the fall of man, the flood, and then the foundation of nations, which we concluded up last week. The 12th chapter begins a new era, a new time, a new way how God is going to deal with man. And I was trying to speak to you last week from memory, uh, but if you look at your overview, don't turn there right now, but if you look at your overview, it'll tell you there how many years are represented in the conclusion here uh from the general history. We are now entering the patriarchal history right here and to get through the patriarch. Now in my mind I last week I I said thirty-five, but it's Roughly round numbers is 350. And uh so the rest of Genesis from twelve to chapter fifty is three hundred and fifty. Now in your notes in the in the overview it says 361. So if you want to get very precise and and look at it that way, it's 361. But a round number like if you read a general study on the book of the Old Testament uh or a study of Genesis, they are probably going to round it off to about 350 years. That's what you'll find in many of the different books that are out there. Wilmington's guide to the Bible, uh, he had a very uh how do I want to say eloquent way of Introducing these chapter 12 through 50. Let me tell you what he says here. Genesis 1 through 11 deals with the world of men as a whole. Now, however, in the patriarchal stage, he will employ a rifle instead of a shotgun. The floodlight instead of the spotlight. Our attention is now drawn from the world to a nation. to Israel, then to a tribe, the tribe of Judah, and my thing just moved here, then to a family, in within that tribe, the tribe of Jesse, and finally to an individual, Jesus Christ himself. And so it's kind of a narrowing down as we get through generally those first eleven chapters, establishment of the world as a whole, and then now we start to see a picture of what God is trying to do with a with a particular individual. It's now time in your notes there for the patriarchs where God will work through one nation for the hope of all men. There's four major individuals in the establishment of this nation that that are We're told about in the concluding chapters of the book of Genesis here, and we're going to study them individually. I began writing my notes and I was Literally in this lesson today, I was going to point number one was going to be Abraham, point number two, uh you know, was going to be Isaac, point number three was gonna and I started studying And I I had today is just Abraham. And uh we're going to be a while on, I mean I'm hoping to get through just Abraham. So The most remarkable thing that we're looking at here, this Abram's call, beginning with that. Abram, of course, was called Abram here at the beginning, is changed to Abraham. uh right at the conclusion of the lesson today, but if you are in your Bibles would like to see it in Genesis chapter 12 and verse number one, he says, Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of the country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house into a land that I will show thee. So God calls Abraham. We see, first of all, here that it's a call for separation. A call for separation. God has always, uh, when he began to work with his people, when he begins to work with an individual all through the scriptures and even today God calls for separation. He tells us in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse number 17, he says, Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate. saith the Lord. God wants his people to be separate from this world and from all of the the you know foolishness and Sin and debauchery and wickedness that's around us. God wants his people to come and be separate from that, not isolated, not you are in the world, but not of the world. Amen. So God's not calling us to go start a compound somewhere out in the middle of nowhere and have no contact with society. We can't fulfill the Great Commission because at the same time he says, go. Go into the world. So we're supposed to be in the world, reaching the world, but he wants his people to live separate. And we see that even here at the very beginning with Abram's call, a call for separation. The heart of men was given to sin and idolatry. We are dealing with a group of people, man mankind as a whole, left to himself, is going to uh lean towards sin and wrong and unrighteousness. But God had promised that he would not destroy the earth again. So God seeking to bring and provide a deliverer to all mankind, to rec re renew the relationship with him, says, okay, how are we going to do this Well, we're going to bring a redeemer. We're going to bring a redeemer through this lineage, this line here. And so he calls Abram out to provide this Savior that's going to come. His genealogies are seen in chapter 11, verses 10 through 26, which we concluded chapter 11 last week. We're not going to turn back there. But also the first 75 years of his life are described for us in chapter 11, beginning in chapter uh Um 12 here, we see he's called out of Ur, it's called Chaldees, which is a wicked place. It's a wicked place. Uh that historically, if you study Josephus or look at some of the history of that place, it was a very uh highly uh it was a place of commerce, it was a place of exchange, and uh You know what, Pastor Gus, I didn't get you uh the map, did I, of Abraham's travels? Oh. Um I wanted to be able to show that this morning. Uh but Ur of the Chaldiz is down at the bottom uh where the rivers come together, uh you know, right above the Persian Gulf. What is the Persian Gulf right now? And Abraham when he leaves he travels what would be north, little bit northwest, uh and travels that direction. I meant to have a map here for you, but that being right off of the Persian Gulf and kind of in the central area was a very strong place of commerce And anytime you get a lot of people together, for some reason it tends towards wickedness. Um some of the most wicked places in the world today are our big cities. It's just just full of wickedness because you're you're putting all of those people together. Um it was the home of the worship of the moon god. The the spelling for that the name of the new moon god there's N-A-N-N-A. uh the worship of the moon god this was well established and recognized. Abraham's father uh worshipped other gods. Joshua 24 And verse number two tells us that. Let me read it to you. He says, And Joshua said unto all the people, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in the time old time Ebenturah, who the father of Abraham and the father of Nakor, and they served other gods Now if you know Joshua chapter four twenty-four and uh verse number I think it's fifteen, isn't it? Uh choose you this day whom you will serve Whether it be the gods of your father Abraham, uh, or uh the gods of the in the land of whom ye dwell, um and he says, Hey, your your fathers, they worship these other gods, but you need to choose who you're gonna serve. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And so he puts it out there for them and says, hey, you need to choose that. Well, that's because he was mentioning that, hey, remember, Abraham's father worshiped these other gods. And uh so they stopped in Haran, that is just short of Canaan. Um it's visually, hey, can you give me uh any map? Can you give me any map and let me see it? uh that we have the Fertile Crescent or whatever. I can kind of point this stuff out even without it drawn on there for you. Um but So it would be oh you can see it right here. We got Ur right here. You can't read it from there, but that's where it's at. You know, here's the Persian Gulf. So right above that, here's Ur. And then they traveled northward, uh, northwest a little bit. I don't know what's on here as far as uh it's not marked. Uh Okay, way up here, all right. Um so it's up here's but you know Canaan is down here, right? Um so w they went up to there and stopped. They paused right there at the very top. That's we'll get to it in a little bit. That's about 700 miles. uh traveling you remember they had to do that on foot or on a camel or whatever, not you know a a donkey or whatever animal but they didn't have cars. There was no Teslas back then So uh travel was a little bit harder. But they stopped there uh at Rennes, 700 miles from you know, a little bit northwest of Ur where they left. Uh I don't know if Haran was named in honor of You know, his younger brother that had passed away. Look at Genesis chapter 11 and verse number 28. Genesis 11, 28. We see here, and Horan died before his father. This is the first time in the scriptures that we see a child pass away before their dad. uh and Tirah in the land of his uh nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. So we see there that uh you know his father had died and Possibly, this is also why Abram felt the need to take care of Lot because Lot's father had passed away. I'm looking for our uh lineage. Um I gave that to you guys. I've got Noah's here. I don't have uh don't know where the other one went. You guys have the uh the one that looks like this but has the other uh lineage on there for to get down to Abram's family. Um so you'll see underneath there uh I'm not looking at it but uh Haran and under Haran is Lot, correct? So Lot's father passed away. Uh and so Lot didn't have his, you know, so Abram thought that um Oh, it's on the one with Noah. Yeah, so you've got that, the genealogies of Noah. So we get down there, uh Abram's father, Taran, then you got his children, Nahor, Abram, and Haran But under Haran is Lot. Now Haran passed away. And so Abram's brother uh passed away, so Lot, his nephew, uh, you know, he may have felt a need to try and take care of him. Hopefully I didn't confuse you with you know, how I talked about that, but just to put those connections together, hopefully. Um he was leaving home or he was supposed to leave his home and his kindred. God called him out and said, Hey, I want you to leave your home, your kindred, come out, be separate. And Abraham only partially obeyed. He only partially obeyed. He did leave. Um I put down here that he took his father with him. We see in Genesis chapter 11 in verse number 31, Genesis 11, 31, we see, and Taran took Abram, his son, And Lot, the son of Aran, and his sons' sons, and Sarai, his daughter-in-law, his sons Abram's wife, And they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees to go unto the land of Canaan. So they left there. Now in chapter eleven, thirty-one it says that his father took Abram But uh we we it's believed, obviously, who did God call? God called Abram and called him out. And so it's believed, and we have a little bit of Bible proof for this that Abram was the one that was called. Abram was the one that was going to move and say, hey, this is w God wants me to go do this. But his father says, you know what, I think it's a good thing. Let's do it. And they decided to go together. And we have a little bit of biblical proof for that. And you can write down in the margins of your notes there Acts 7, verses 2 through 4. Acts 7, 2 through 4. The Bible says, Then God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia before he dwelt in Charan, which is Huran. called by another name. And he said unto him, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred, and come into a land which I will show thee. Then came he out of the land of the Chaldines and dwelt in Charan, and from thence when his father was dead, he removed him from this land wherein ye now dwell. So Abram Was called, however you want to say it, whether his dad took him or he took his dad or they went together, but they left. But Abram was supposed to go by himself. He wasn't necessarily supposed to take his family with him. Um now Abram may have been content to stay in Haran. Haran was also a place of commerce. Haran was also a a like a stopping point, a trading post. It was well traveled. It was a good central location for the then known world and what was happening there. And uh, you know, they they got comfortable there. It took his father's death for him to get uncomfortable and move and go where God wanted him to go And there's many, many Christians, a lot of times, that are on their way to Canaan land, which is the promised land. It's where God wants us to be, and we get caught up We get comfortable, we get distracted in a place that, hey, this looks pretty good. I mean, yeah, I obeyed God. I left where I was, and I've look how far I've come, man. I've come a long way But you're not where God wants you. And you in your heart, you know you're not where God wants you. And sometimes God has to do something to shake up our world. To get us to leave our current comfort zone and go where he wants us to go. That's what happened to Abram because he was not where he knew he was supposed to be in Canaan land. He settled down and got comfort comfortable in Haran. And his father passed away. It got uncomfortable before he began to move and actually end up and go where God wanted him to go. He took Lot, his brother's son, with him, verse number five. We're not going to read that, but we see that. Now listen, we are to love God, obviously, above family and friends. And anything else. He Matthew 10, 37 says, He that loveth father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. And we're supposed to love and follow God first and foremost above everything else. And uh don't let uh things of this world distract you from following and doing what God wants you to do. And Abram probably felt some responsibility to take care of his nephew with his But he wasn't supposed to have his family with him, but he did that anyway. We see it was not only was a call of separation, but it was also a call for service God wanted to use him to provide the promised Messiah to the world, the Redeemer. The promised Redeemer. In Genesis 3. 15 it was promised. And Romans 9, 4, and 5. We don't have time uh to read all of that, but God is going to use him to present the one true God, the Messiah, to the world as well. In Isaiah 43:10, he describes this. He says, Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord, my servant, whom I have chosen. that ye may know and believe me and understand that I am. Before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. It was God's plan that Abram would be a living testimony of God before the world. God was going to use him to protect and preserve the Word of God as well as described in Romans 3, 1 and 2, uh what God had planned for him. We see it was a call for service, but then Abram's covenant. A covenant, beloved, is an agreement, an agreement between two parties that is understood by all and includes blessings for fulfillment. and penalties for failure. A covenant agreement between two that all the the established things were were known and understood. This was a covenant of grace, though, given freely to Abraham. and his promise. So we see it was a promise of supply. Three times God promises to supply for him. Three times God says, I will I will, God giving these promises. And so in chapter 12 and verse number 2, if you want to look at that, we see in verses 2 and 3. I'm just going to go ahead and read 2 and 3, and then we're going to talk about, he says, I will make of thee a great nation. And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee, and in thee shall all of the earth be blessed. So we see this covenant promise given by God here in twelve and verses two and three. We see first of all it's a national blessing. There was a promise of a national blessing. He says, I will make thee a great nation. So a national blessing, establishing a people, a group that God was going to bless as a whole. And uh it was a promise of many people. We're not going to read 13. 6 or 15. 5, but that promise is reiterated and stated in a couple different ways. He says in 13. 6, he says, as the dust of the earth. You talk about a lot of people. He's saying you're gonna you're gonna have like the dust that's on the earth, that's how many you're gonna have. That's gonna be your family, your nation. And then in 15 uh 5 he says, as numerous as the stars in the heavens. And both of these descriptions, I don't believe, are meant to be in a literal sense as in they are going to be the exact number, but in the sense that they're going to be so numerous you are not going to be able to know how many, that it's going to be more than you can count. And uh that certainly is uh seen several places in the scriptures, in God's teaching, you know, even like how much are we supposed to forgive. uh you know the idea is that you forgive so many times you lost count that you're not keeping track and he says, hey, uh here you're n you're gonna be blessed with a nation, with a group of people, and it's gonna be numerous. And then it's a promise of land He's going to give them to them some land. He says in chapter 12, in verse number 7, he says, Unto thy seed will I give this land. It was a promise of land that was going to be theirs And it describes the land in Genesis 15-18. Uh the it gives the boundaries of this land This is the beginning of the promise and their occupation of this land, and it has been under dispute from that time till this. that that land that was promised promised to them by God. So that land was promised, we see it was a national blessing. It also was a personal blessing. A personal blessings. He said, I will bless thee and make thy name great. That I'll make thy name great. It was God's plan to give him a great name. Heaven uh is called Abraham's bosom. You talk about a great name as described in Luke 16, 22. 300 times his name is mentioned in the pages of Scripture. And he was made very prosperous and blessed personally by God, which we'll see as we study a little bit further. And it was a universal blessing to all mankind that was going to be delivered through Abram. He says in 12. 2, thou shalt be a blessing. In 12. 3 he says, all families shall be blessed. And uh so he gives this promise here that I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. I want you to know that this is a promise that was given in perpetuity. It is a promise that is effective still today. It is it continues on. And America being a Christian nation has in its history always stood with Israel. And uh that is in one part why America has been blessed, because God clearly says I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee. Israel is still God's chosen people, and those that stand against Israel stand against God. m movement that's available or pushing the world today uh for Palestine and for Hamas and uh all of those uh the terrorists that are Attacking Israel, I want you to know that is not just driven by human emotion, although there is some of that in there, it's driven by a hatred for God. And they don't want to stand with God's people. They want to stand against God's people. And it's motivated by that, and it's a it's it comes from a complete move away from our Christian heritage. that that America has traditionally always stood with Israel and for Israel because they're God's chosen people, but today people want to do the opposite and uh we're gonna see fruit from that in the years to come. Because this promise given to the children of Israel is still applicable to us today. And God blesses them that bless thee and curses them that curse thee So he tells us here in chapter 12, verse number 3, In thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. We know the ultimate fulfillment of that promise is Jesus Christ. All the families of the earth are going to be blessed in an ultimate way with the fulfillment that came when Jesus Christ was delivered to the world through his chosen people. So it also was a path of struggle, verses five through eight. And I wish we had time to read all of these verses, but they come into this promised land, they come into where they're supposed to go, and wouldn't you know it, uh There's there's struggle there. There's there's some people living there that aren't real happy about them coming. He notices that the Canaanites are there and and the Canaanites don't want them to be there. So they pause in Shechem in chapter 12 and verse number 6. That's 30 miles from Jerusalem. It's 30 miles from Jerusalem. He builds an altar there unto God and spends time worshiping and praising God. He notices the descendants of Ham living in that land. Ham's sons, the Canaans, the Canaanites, were living there, and they probably weren't too excited about him taking that place. He passes on to a place called Bethel in chapter 12 and verse number 8. Bethel means the house of God. Bethel means the house of God. So you want to be sure that you realize that and maybe even do a little personal study on that. The house of God. It was the place where he met and worshiped God Bethel becomes a very important place in Abram's life. In future chapters, chapter 28 and chapter 35, he returns to Bethel. You know, that place where you met God, the place where God speaks to your heart and stirs you, should be a precious place. It ought to be a place that's valuable to you and you look back to, and uh and as often as you can, you get back to. where you have that special place. And Bethel was a very special place for Abram in his life. Now, we see third point here. Abram's corruption, verses 10 and 20. Because of the famine, Abram is faced with fear, and he flees to Egypt. Okay, so there's a problem come up. You know, sometimes even when you're in God's plan, problems are going to come up. It seems like something must be wrong if there's if there's famine and this is where I'm supposed to be and this is what God told me to do, but there's famine here, uh listen, these prosperity preachers that are out there that that try and sell the idea that if you're in God's will and you have enough faith, you're not going to have any problems. They just must not study the Bible at all because I tell you what, you you look at prophet after prophet after prophet You go all the way back here to Abraham at the very beginning, whom God called and told him to go here to the promised land, and then there was famine there. Like what in the world? Why would there be? Continually, God uses these circumstances to shape our lives. to challenge us, to strengthen us for the battle that's to come, to allow us to be a testimony to the world around us, how we by faith trust him and just continue to do what we're supposed to do. So listen, sometimes even in the way that you're supposed to be in, there's going to be some famine. We see that here. Famine comes into the land in chapter 12 and verse number 10. He says, and Abram journeyed going on still towards the south, and there was famine in the land. And Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there. Listen, the description of doing wrong from the very beginning here was listed or written down as the idea of going down. He went down. Now directionally it was down in the map. Can you show us that map again? So directionally it's down in the map. You know that uh the Egypt is down here And the Canaan is right here. And so they he went down into Egypt, but it also is a picture of the direction that you're headed when you're going away from God. When you're not doing what you're supposed to do. I think about the story of Jonah, and and over and over again in the story of Jonah, it says he went down to Tarshus. And he went down into the ship. And he went down over and over again. It describes as Jonah was running from God as a downward path. away from God. And it wasn't until he prayed and asked God to forgive him that the great fish Upt up him. Up he started the other direction, you know. He started going up to where God wanted him to go and started going the other direction. And that's what it takes when we repent and turn back to God But we see Abram here in his con in his corruption because of the famine that was in the land. This uh man of faith started to walk by sight. Here's the problem, that he started to walk by sight instead of walk by faith. Abram was known for his faith. This is something that is established in the scriptures, and yet sometimes even the strongest person of faith can falter. Amen. Sometimes that happens. You can have the greatest faith, but oh the storm is a little bigger than last time. Or it came upon you in a time when you were a little bit weak and you begin to say, wait, I don't know if I'm going to make it through this And that's what Abram did, and he said, Hey, you know what? I can go down to Egypt and I can find a way through this. And so they did. You know, it's only in famine that faith is truly tested. When the storm comes, when the trial comes, when the struggle comes. In Proverbs 24, 10, he says, if thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength. is small. So beloved, our faith is not tested when the sun is shining and there's no problems and everything's going well. Our faith in God is tested. What we say we believe is tested when the storm comes. When the trial comes. Okay, am I still going to do right? It's amazing how many people, when a trial comes, they get out of church That's when they need to be in church more than any other time in their life. Because the struggle's there, the the the battle is there, the challenge is there, and that's when they need the strength of the brothers and sisters in Christ and they need uh God's help and God to meet with them and feed them and and strengthen them through that and yet they say, you know what? I'm gonna go to Egypt right now. And they walk away. Isaiah 31 verse 1 says, Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help. And that's what Abram did. He went down to Egypt for help. He went down there to get help that he was supposed to get from God. So we see the foolish scheme that he tries to, or that he comes up with in verses 11 through 2017. He thought that he could save himself by being deceptive with Pharaoh. Here we see the progression of sin, the the what happens. You know, sin usually begets sin. You know when you tell one lie, it ends up you end up having to tell another lie because you've got to support the last lie, and pretty soon you lied so much you're not even sure what's lie, what's a lie and what's truth. The progression of sin is seen here very clearly where he went down to Egypt, a place that he wasn't supposed to be, and now all of a sudden he's presented with another problem. You know what? Pharaoh He may look at you and say, you're beautiful, and if he knows that you're my wife, he's probably just going to kill me and he's going to take you. And so they are deceptive You know, they tell 'em she's my sister. You remember the story? And we we don't have time to read all of these. I mean we're covering about six chapters of the Bible today, so it would We could take the whole time and read all that, but uh they conspire and give a half truth telling Pharaoh that she was his sister. Now it's a half truth, you remember that quite literally she was. She was a half-sister. And so he wasn't really lying. She's my sister. That's true. But he wasn't telling the truth either, was he? So even all the way back here in the very beginning, God is showing that listen, a partial truth is still a whole lie. And we've got to be very careful about that in how we deal with people and how we communicate, making sure that we are telling the whole truth. God protects him nonetheless. He's protected by God and returned to Canaan. God protects him through this. Even Pharaoh didn't kill him. God had it God had him. God knew where he was and he was protected and he shouldn't have lied. I want you to know that it cost him something though, the fee that it cost him. There's always going to be a fee when we backslide. When we do wrong. The cost of backsliding is very real, and it's also in direct proportion to how far we go. You know the saying, you know, sin's gonna Take you further than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you more than you want to pay. And in proportion to how far you go and how long you stay there, Is how much you're gonna have to pay when you come out of it. And a lot of times there's far reaching penalties, far-reaching things that we don't even realize. But they do come upon us. We see that it cost him first his fellowship with God It cost him his testimony before the world. It's amazing if you read through those verses there, just seeing how uh Pharaoh rebukes him. This wicked king says, Why would you tell me she was thy sister? Why would you do that? I mean, you you brought judgment on my home because you were dishonest. If you would have just told me the truth, we wouldn't have had this problem. You know, Pharaoh rebukes him, and what a sad thing when the wicked world has to rebuke the Christian. You've seen it sometimes where Christians are not where they're supposed to be and people will say, Hey, I d I didn't know Christians went to places like this. And then you're like, oh uh yeah no i it's okay, I'm not doing that, whatever. Even the world knows you're not supposed to be there. And yet you in your mind you want to justify it and say, oh yeah, no, I I can get away with this, or our conversation beguiles us, and people you know they see and they're like, Oh, I didn't know Christians uh talk like that. Yeah. You see, we've got to be careful. It destroys our testimony before the world. It cost him his nephew Lot. This is a far-reaching cost that many people never really see. But do you understand In a few chapters when we get to it and there's strife between Lot and Abram's herdsmen, and they say, hey, you know what? We need to separate, we need to spread out a little bit so that you know we can avoid this conflict. And uh Lot, you choose what you want. Lot chose the well-watered plains. Why? Because back here When Abram was having a moment of weak faith, he took Lot down to Egypt and showed him the pleasures of the world. Now Abram was strong enough that he came up out of Egypt and he was fine. His relationship with God was fine and he was strong and he was doing okay and he came up out of the world. And and although he bore some scars for that time down there that he played around in the fits of sin, but he was back with God and doing fine. The problem is it marred his his nephew Lot in such a way that given the opportunity, that appetite for sin, that desire for those well-watered plains was there, and Lot said, Hey, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go this direction. I'm gonna go down here And Lot ends up in Sodom by and large because of Abram's trip down to Egypt. And you don't know how far reaching your trip to Egypt is going to be. Especially on parents. Your faith is strong enough you can come up out of out of Egypt and and you'll get right with God and say, Man, I shouldn't have done that and And we're okay, and Lord forgive me, and amen. And and you're back on on on the winning side and doing right and everything. But the problem is that you've built an appetite for that filth or that wickedness in the in the hearts of your children And when they're given a chance, when they're 17, 18, 19, 20, they're going to decide for themselves, you know what, I'm going to go back to that. Because I sure enjoyed that time that we did that. I mean your children might someday choose to walk away from God, but I pray it would never be because you gave them the appetite. We've got to be careful about that. How many young men and young ladies turned out to be drunkards, their lives destroyed Because mom and dad, or one or the other, both said, oh, uh, yeah, you can have a little drink. You're 13 now, just a little drink will be okay. I've told you before about my best friend growing up, Jaime. His dad was in the Mexican mafia. You talk about a hard man. He drove a large Lincoln Continental and he carried a Uzi under his seat, had it with him all the time. But his dad was a drunkard. And many times, I should have really never even been in their home. Many times in their home, you know, they're like, hey Caleb, try this drink. Here, this is not, this doesn't have that much alcohol in it. Try this. I never did. But uh he pushed that on his family because it's what he carried And the mess that it made of their lives. We gotta be very careful about those trips down to Egypt. It could have cost him everything. Praise God, God protected him and pulled him back. And brought him back from that. So we see Abram's courage. I was Laughing to think I was going to get through this in a in a one week. Abram's courage. He returns to God not just physically but spiritually. He returns to God, not just physically, but spiritually. In 13, chapter 1. And Abram went up. See the direction change in 13, 1, and Abram went up out of Egypt. He and his wife and all that he had and a lot with him into the south. So he went up out of Egypt and left left that place. And then we see that this experience of great blessing, verses 2 through 6, God multiplies their herd. God is fulfilling His promise to them and saying, hey, I'm going to bless thee. Uh you're going to be multiplied. Your numbers are going to multiply. The land is going to multiply. You're going to be prosperous in this new land. God is establishing a nation. In their prosperity, strife begins to develop. In verse number 13 and 7, he says there, and there was strife. There was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanites and the Perizzites dwelling then in the land. So there was strife there. They said, Oh, here's a problem, we've got to divide, we've got to separate a little bit out And Lot chooses, of course, the plains of Jordan in 1311. He hadn't moved to Sodom yet, but he had started moving that direction. Moving towards that. But Abram once again alone seeks God. He seeks the Lord. We see in verse number 18. He says, then Abram removed his tent, and he came and he dwelt in the plain of Mar, where which is in Hebron, and he built there an altar. unto the Lord. Over and over again you'll see Abram building an altar, finding a place to meet with his God and commune with him. And uh what a what a privilege that is. We're going to get down to his communion in a minute. Let me We got a minute and a half or so. Let me uh let's let's clue that Abram seeks God. War broke out between nine nations around them There was nine nations in that region, and you can read the names of those in the text there, but the f this is the first war that was ever recorded in Scripture. Uh but God Abrams not concerned about this war, this battle between these heathen nations. And you know what? God, I don't think, would really be that concerned about it either, except look in chapter 14 and verse number 12. In chapter 14, verse number 12, he says, And they took Lot, Abam's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. They took Lot. One of the chosen people of God, the chosen children of Israel that God was going had promised this covenant with So they took Lot. We see if you read the passage there that Abram went to battle for his brother, went to war. He he trained his his herdsmen, his farmers. all of his people he trained them all to fight and he said, Okay, we're gonna go get Lot back. He went to fight for his brother's son. Uh then uh Just in concluding here, just remember that there's going to be battle in the world. Here's the first battle recorded in the pages of Scripture, and Revelation tells us that there's going to be battle until the final battle that's won by God. In all of history, from the beginning of time till now, they estimate that there's only been about 300 years of peace of time without a war somewhere. There's wars going on right now. Two of them that directly affect our nation, even though that we're there that we're not necessarily directly involved in it. But then that's just the ones that we read about in the news and hear about all the time. But uh in all the years of of the world's history, they estimate only about three hundred years of peace and The Bible is very clear that there's going to be war, and there's going to be even more war as we get closer to the end, uh, because of the conflict between men. Now we're going to pick up here next week with Abram's Communion, and we should be able to finish that pretty effectively next week. And I thought I was going to get through all the of the four patriarchs in one lesson. Uh but this is uh the foundation of God establishing his nation and uh so we'll we'll see. Uh I guess it's just gonna be what it is. I feel the pressure to get done in a year, but I don't know if we're going to. Uh so but it's been fun, hasn't it? Good study. We're we're learning some stuff hopefully. And uh I hope you're getting I'm hoping we're not getting too bogged down. I mean I was telling Rob when I opened up today, uh we were chatting for just a minute. I said, you know, even in the story of Abram, there's a lot of stuff I have to leave out. Like we're covering some stuff. I'm trying to just kind of hit the highlights We're not really digging down into the weeds. We're just trying to see how God was established in his nation and what happened and how Satan tries to stop it. How Satan comes in and pulls, hey, there's a there's a famine and so Abram has to go or Abram goes down to Egypt and walks away from God for a little bit and Satan's like, Hey, I got him. All right, this we're gonna disrupt this thing. But God gets a hold of his heart and pulls him back and says, hey, we need to stay on track and we see that continual conflict uh going and hopefully you're getting a view of it. Let's close in prayer. Hopefully you have your copy of notes because we are concluding the notes that we began, not last week because that was missions conference, but the week before. as we're going through the Old Testament survey here, just kind of a study in the Old Testament. Now we of course are in the beginning here just in the book of Genesis right now, but that is the first book of the Pinetut which is Saying with Me Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Now, in our in your notebook, uh somebody help me, is it page Six. Well that's where you are tonight. I'm looking for the uh the books of the Bible that I gave you. Uh it's on page three. Um at that page three in your notes. Uh is where I broke up the books of the Bible there. So the books of the law, the Pentateuch, those first five. And you remember the description that I gave you last week as we're talking about trying to memorize or learn the books, right? That uh the You have the historical books, there's twelve of them, and it begins with three books, and then you have your first and seconds, and then you have another three books. So that way you have it, you can break it up in your mind. So you're like, okay, if I get through the Pentateuch, I mean pretty much I think m majority of people, if you have any Bible knowledge at all, you can Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, it around me, you've got that down. But then you in your mind you say, okay, now there's three books. And then there's the first and seconds. And the first and seconds, you know those in in the order that they're in, because Samuel was the prophet who anointed the first king. So Samuel comes before the kings. So you know that Samuel comes and 1st and 2nd Samuel and then 1st and 2 Kings and then the Chronicles Well you have obviously the Kings is the story of the Kings and then the Chronicles is the history of the Kings So the chronicles is going to be after. So you have the first three books there in the historical books is Joshua, Judges, and Ruth, right? So you have you have the Pentateuch, then Joshua, Judges, and Ruth, then you have the first and seconds. First and second Samuel, first and second chronicles, I'm sorry, first and second Kings, first and second chronicles. Then you have the three more books. that completes the 12, and that's the conclusion of this historical books. It's uh Estra, Ezra, and Nehemiah, correct? As far as uh I I said them, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Okay, so let's say those together if you would. You can read them if you want, but you have Joshua, Judges, Ruth. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2nd Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Alright, so I want you to just, as we're going through this, keep learning those, get those things down so that you can have those books in your mind and ready to go. Now we are looking today at the founding of Israel, the four people. We did conclude here we have Uh on our big timeline here, we're in the general history that takes you. We finished up. I'm gonna move this out of the way. Um We finished up here the the general history. This of course is the first eleven chapters of the book of Genesis, and we are currently beginning. There was four major events there uh in the first eleven chapters. What were they? You guys remember? We have cre we have creation. The fall of man, the flood, and the foundation of nations. Those four major events take place in the first eleven chapters And then we begin here in the patriarchal history, and there are four major characters that we're going to be studying in the patriarchal history here in the Old Testament. And uh the first one of those is Abraham. Now that gets us into our notes that we began last week. Hopefully you have a copy of those is My mind just went blank. Um I don't see Brandon here. He's downstairs with the teens. I just know there was no notes out there uh this morning. No new no new notes. Um All right, well hopefully you've got some notes if you need them. We have uh the patriarchal history beginning of page number twenty-eight. We look uh two weeks ago at Abraham's call. Talked about how God called him out of Ur of the Chaldees, gave a little bit of the history there. We discussed that. Talked about what it was, how God separated him. God's plan is for his people to be separate. That's always been the case Then the covenant that was established with Abraham, giving him a national blessing, a personal blessing, and a universal blessing. that all the nations of the world are going to be blessed through him, which we know ultimately the fulfillment of that is Jesus Christ, where all the world is blessed through him We see the struggle that he was in. Then we see the corruption that came. Uh, you know, even the best of men are just men at best. And uh Abraham, uh, because of a famine that came in, that struggle that he faced, he went down to Egypt for a time and then uh you know lied about Sari and uh you know was confronted with that. We talked about that half truth and being careful there, but he uh had some we saw last week concluding Verses 13 through 14, his courage as he returns, not just physically, but spiritually, he returned in chapter 13. So Genesis chapter 13. Let's pick up there this morning. Where he says, and Abraham went up out of Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and lot with him into the south. So they rose up, they left Egypt, but they didn't just leave physically, they came out of Egypt physically, but spiritually he went back to God. That's the thing you'll notice about Abraham is sometimes he s he falters Sometimes Abraham takes some steps and does the wrong thing, but Abraham always went back to God. He went back to the place called Bethel where he met God, walked with God, and you'll find him continually building altars unto God where he can worship God and have that relationship with God. And that's where Abraham had courage to go back to God. But not only that, we see that the war broke out between the nine nations. uh that were in that region and they took lot. Abraham said, well, we can't have that and uh Abraham raised up all of his Servants and family and everybody, and they went and they got uh Lot back. And we want to look today, starting the notes that we haven't got to yet, Abraham's Communion. Okay, now I know that what I just ran through, especially for those of you that uh thinking um I'm I'm going too fast. I need to slow down my mind. Just went uh Amanda's uh mom and aunt are here and of course I just ran through all of this stuff and they're like, uh it's all Greek to me. Uh don't know what you just said. And I understand that. We're going to try and slow it down and uh get into the notes for today and we'll kind of systematically uh go through those notes. Um So we're going to hear with Abraham's communion beginning in chapter number 14, this is 17 through 24. Abraham returns in victory from this battle that he had where you know the the nine People went to war, they captured Lot. He went and got Lot and brought him home. He he returns in victory from this battle and he meets up with Melchizedek. Now Melchizedek is a type of Christ, a picture. Some people would say he's a full Christophany, a physical revelation of Christ in the Old Testament. I believe he was actually physically a king of of somewhere uh and is a picture and a representation of very clearly in Scripture. In the times that he appears in Scripture, he's a picture, a type of Christ that we learn of, giving us that picture even all the way back here at the very beginning of Genesis, Melchizedek. Uh he is the king of Salem, uh which is an early name for Jerusalem. For an early name for Jerusalem. Now This is not to say that he was the king of Jerusalem specifically. We don't know that. We just know that Salem was an early name for Jerusalem. The more important point here, being the king of Salem, is Salem means peace. He is the King of Peace. And we think about him in that type of Christ is that Christ is the King of Peace. There's a couple notable things about Melchizedek. First of all, uh we see that his name means king of righteousness. King of righteousness. The first half, his name is two words that are put together. Melkeh means king Melchah, and Sedek means righteousness. So this man, Melchizedek, is a picture of Christ, who is the king of righteousness and peace. So we put that all together now, Melchizedek, the type of Christ, a picture of who Christ was, and Christ is the king of righteousness and peace. We see That he brought bread and wine as a picture of the body and the blood that one day would be shed for all mankind that was given to us. And I just want to look at some of these verses here in chapter 14, beginning of verse number 17. Would you Just follow along with me in your Bible. He says in verse number seventeen he says, And the king of Sodom went out to meet after him his return from the slaughter of Chernelothmer and of the kings that were with him in the valley of Shabav, which is in the king of Dale. And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine And he was the priest of the Most High God. So he brought a gift to him, and this gift of bread and wine, a picture of the blood and uh the body of Jesus Christ that would be broken for us. As a type of Christ, we see a couple of things that are very pertinent. First of all, we see that the king Went to Abraham. That's backwards from most ways you look at stuff. It would be the servant, it would be the uh citizen, it would be the individual that would go to the king But here we see the king came to him. And that's something that Jesus Christ always does for us, and something that you'll see all through the pages of Scripture, that God is always coming to you. from from Adam and Eve in the garden where God came to Adam and Eve and says, Hey, where art thou? He came seeking them and God is always seeking man. And we see that typified or pictured here that the king went to where Abram was. Not only that, not only did he find him, not only did the king find him, but the king fed him. He brought him this bread and wine, and and we see that clearly in the scripture as well, as far as Christ that your needs are met, not just in a physical matter, but ultimately our greatest need of spiritual change and a heart change with God being restored into fellowship with Him. But He found Him, He fed Him, and He fortified Him against temptation. We have here two kings that are coming, and these two kings have different approaches. You have the king of Sodom and you have the king of Salem. The king of Sodom came first, and the king of Sodom is demanding of him. He's saying, You know what? I see you've won this victory. You can take the people, but let me have the possessions. He he demanded of him. But the other king, the king of Salem, he he came and blessed him. And that's what Christ does, but he also fortified him against temptation. Look in verse number 21. He says, And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons and take the goods to thyself. Now the fact of the matter is, is Abraham was victor in this battle. There were nine kings involved in this battle, and Abraham walked away victorious. This king coming to him had no room to ask for anything. But he came and tried to bargain and say, okay, well, uh, let's call it a uh a draw. Let's call it a draw. You go ahead and take that and the persons and I'll take this and uh take the possessions. But notice what happens uh how Abraham deals with this. Verse number 23. He says that I will not take From a thread, even unto a shoelatchet, and that I will not take anything that is thine. Lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich. He comes and he says, Hey, I'm not going to take even one shoelash from you. He says, you're not going to say you provided or gave these things to me. No, all of my blessing comes from God. He recognizes that. Melchizedek shows up six times in scriptures. We're not going to read all of those, but in Hebrews chapter 7, verse number 1, we have a kind of a description of what just happened here where he says, For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the king and blessed him. So the description of what happened here mentioned to us in Hebrews chapter 7 and verse number 1. Christ is a prophet, priest, and king. A couple notable things about that. First of all, the prophet represents God to man. A prophet meets with God, stands before men, represents God to the men. But then Christ is also a priest. A priest represents men to God So a priest stands in the other direction between men and God. He carries the needs of the men, the sins of men, the prayers of men to God. And a king, the king that rules over men. It is notable that Melchizedek receives of Abraham his tithe. In verse number uh 19 and 20 there, Genesis chapter 14, 19 through 20, he says, And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of the Most High God. Professor of heaven and earth, and blessed be the most thy God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand, and he gave him tithes of all. It is notable here that the tithe was accepted 400 years before the law was given, over 400 years early. The tithe is an act of obedience unto God. And a tithe is just really an acknowledgement that God owns everything. That everything we have is a blessing and given to us and provided by God. Abraham acknowledges this as he in the verses that we just read where he says, Hey, I'm not going to take one shoelacet from you, because lest you say you made Abram rich. But he said, No, you didn't make me rich. God made me rich. Now it's notable that Abram was concerned about his testimony in this regard. And we've got to be very careful with our testimony in today's day and age. Wherein Wheersby said this, the wealth of Egypt had proven a snare The wealth of Sodom would have or could have been worse had Abram not been on his guard. He would have fallen for this very subtle temptation and would have taken away the glory that belonged to God. The people would have said, Abram rescued Lot for what he could get out of it, not because of his faith or because of his love. Abram refused to live in Sodom, sure, but he enjoyed the goods of Sodom just the same. Do you understand how that his testimony would have been harmed had he received of the king of Sodom these possessions at the conclusion of the war and Abram says, Nope, I'm not I don't want any of that. I came, I got my uh nephew back and lot we've got him that's what I've accomplished uh the the all these men that went to battle with me you know you can feed them so that they have something whatever but we're we're we're heading home so he goes home with that Then we see Abram's confirmation in verses 15 through 17. I'm sorry, chapters fifteen through seventeen. Beginning in chapter fifteen and verse number one, we see that Abram's protect that God is Abram's protector and provider. Saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield in thy exceeding great reward. Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield in thy exceeding great reward. God establish Is himself as Abrams protector and per provider. God reassures Abram of the promise in verses four and five. We're not going to read those. The promise continues to be the same. We'll see four times. through these passages of scripture where God reiterates or restates the promise that he had already given. Abraham uh remembers his faith in God in uh 15 verse number six. Look at that if you would. He says in verse number six, and he believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. Abraham believed God. This is his faith, his recognition of who God was and what God said. He believed by faith what God was going to do. He believed in the promised seed that was going to come. He was justified by faith in God and the promise that God has given, and we're justified by faith in the promise that has already come, Jesus Christ. Okay? Now, God reaffirms his covenant in chapter 15, verses 7 through 21. And again, overall, I want you to understand, and I feel like I'm crankin' I'm flying and uh there's there's a lot there overall picture is what we're trying to achieve We're trying to get a vision of what took place in the Old Testament from a bird's eye view. I was telling Dr. Edwards that I was teaching through the Old Testament and I was going to do it in one year. He says, I think you should do Genesis in one year. And I said, I I said, I know. Here we are, uh getting to April and we are only I mean we're just getting out of chapter eleven, you know? And he's like, Yeah, I don't know how you did that. And uh so I'm I'm trying to get a broad view so we can kind of have in our mind a picture as you're reading the Word of God what's taking place and what God's trying to do. So with Abraham, God is establishing a nation. He's building his covenant. He's saying, these are my people. The seed is going to come through this line. uh the seed that ultimately, yes, his seed is going to multiply and be as the stars and as the sands of the earth, but he's also going to deliver the seed the uh Jesus Christ one day comes through his line. He's establishing this for us. And so that's where this promise keeps getting re- reiterated. Now this promises settled here in this covenant that was established in verses seven through twenty-one. Look in verse number seven here, chapter fifteen and verse number seven. He says, and he said unto him, I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit. And he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? So Abram asked, he says, how do I know? that this is really gonna happen. I mean I know you've said it. I know you reiterated it, but Lord, I just want to know how do I how can I be sure? Have you ever been there? Have you ever wondered, Lord, okay, I know this is what the Bible says, or I know this is what I should do, but how can I be sure this is going to work? Well God gives Abraham a unique uh experience here in these these next verses where he settles a covenant with him basically has a ceremony that is typified of that p time period. Today when we have a contract, we'll have the lawyers draw it up and pay them a ridiculous amount of money for putting words on paper. And then we will sign it. And we usually will sign it in the presence of some witnesses. And if it's a really important document, it has to be notarized by somebody that makes a record of that, that it was signed by these people and they saw him do it. You know, so there's no they can nobody can deny it, right? Well, in the Bible times it was more of a public ceremony where a covenant would be sealed. And they would establish this ceremony and they would put these animals of sacrifice down and they would walk through these animals together and establish this agreement, this covenant that could not be broken and could not be changed. But, and for the sake of time, we cannot read it all. You can read it, but I want you to know that God paralyzes Abraham. And Abraham lays on the ground and sees all this take place, but Abraham does not walk through and make this agreement with God. This is very notable because it is all God. None of the power of this agreement relies on Abraham. It all relies on God. Abraham didn't have to do anything. God was saying, I'm going to do it all. Note what J. Vernon McGee says. He says, when we make a contract, it is sealed. But here in the Old Testament, an example of a contract is drawn before us. Abraham is paralyzed in sleep and put aside. It seems very strange that God would paralyze him when he is supposed to be making a contract. But this is going to be an unusual contract. God is going to go through the sacrifice because God is promising something. But Abraham is not going through because Abraham is not promising anything. Abraham just believed. So they established this covenant together, except God said, okay, the covenant is holy, completely, 100% reliant reliant upon me. Abraham, you get to sit this one out. You get to watch. And that's the thing, beloved, your salvation and my salvation is not dependent upon us. We have no part in that. I can't I can't today feel like I'm saved because I did a pretty good job today. And tomorrow feel like I've lost my salvation because I didn't do that good. No, it's all reliant upon him And our salvation is secure because it's nothing that we can do. It's what he does. Amen? Amen. So Abraham uh again this this We get to chapter number 16 now, and Abraham is frustrated with the delay. Okay, he was promised that he was going to have a son, right? And the son hasn't come, and they're getting older, they're getting up in years It's a little less likely gonna happen. They're saying, you know, I don't know if this is gonna happen. It's gonna have to happen quick. Uh, you know, we gotta we're gonna have kids. It's the you know, the time of childbearing is almost past and they're getting very concerned about this and nothing's happened. And so once again they conspire together to solve the problem by human means. You know, when we take things into our own hands, we sure do mess stuff up. We have got to be very careful about that and wait in God's time and let God leave. Sarai, you guys know the story, I think, many of you. Sarai sends Hagar into her husband to give him a son. Now, I could chase a rabbit trail here for a long time, but I don't have the time, but I want you to know just because something is acceptable in society doesn't make it acceptable to God. This was a practice during that time which would have been acceptable if a man didn't have an heir and they were trying to establish an heir to be able to keep the lineage going and keep the property and the family and all that kind of stuff. They could have taken one of the servants and established an heir that way, but this that was not God's plan because the bloodline is very important to God. It has to come through this bloodline. So they go and try and solve the problem themselves. Sari says, well, I don't know, I can't have kids. Why don't you take Hagar and have a child with her and then And we don't have time to read the mess, that whole story, what happened there. But you know, from this union comes Ishmael. Hagar's son Ishmael comes. Now Ishmael is the father of the Arab nations. Can I tell you that there is still today, right now, literally right now, today, a war between the Arab nations and Israel? It has been that way from this time until now, uh from the time of the Bible until now, when we take things into our own hands, we make a mess. The father of the Arab nations was born. God understands that it wasn't their, it wasn't Ishmael's fault that this happened. And God says, well, Ishmael, I'm going to bless you. I'm not going to read all of these verses. He says, I'm going to bless you with great numbers. God blesses them. God prospers them. But even though they were blessed of God, they despised God's choice of Israel being the chosen nation. And they have been enemies ever since. Abram finds himself at a very low point, once again finds himself out of fellowship with God, very discouraged, having made a mess of things. He's out of fellowship with God. And so in chapter 17, we're not going to read it, but verses 1 through 14, again God reiterates and for the fourth time confirms the covenant with him. God calls on Abraham to continue to walk before him. Look at chapter 17 and verse number 1. Chapter 17 and verse number 1. And when Abraham was 90 years old, And there's a word scratched like my Bible's worn through, I can't read the word. Oh, nineteen and nine, the word was gone. It's all painted The Lord appeared to Abraham and said unto him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me, and be thou perfect. God calls on him to walk before him. He wants him to walk in fellowship with him. And here is where God changes Abram's name to Abraham. And I've tried to, thus far in the lesson, to remember to call him Abram, but I know I've I've messed up many times. But we see here in verse number five where the name is changed. Neither shall thy name be called Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham, for a father of many nations So God's establishing the nation of Israel, God's chosen people, and uh through whom Christ will come And he changes his name to Abraham here. God commands that all men were going to be circumcised. Circumcision, beloved, was the sign of the promise, not the source of the promise. The problem with men is we like the sign. And we begin to look at the sign, we begin to look at the ritual as the source. We got to be very careful that we we don't we we like to grab a hold of the ritual because the ritual makes us feel spiritual. But you under spirit you understand spirituality doesn't come from the ritual, it comes from a relationship. The source, Jesus Christ. And so many times in Israel's history you will see them get a little bit out of out of source with God because they are looking to the sign instead of the source. So we've got to be careful about that. Circumcision of the flesh without the heart is useless. I've given you the verses Deuteronomy 10, 12 through 16, but let me read them for you He says, And now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee? But to fear the Lord thy God, to walk in all his ways? And to love him and serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul. Circumcision, therefore. of the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked. He says, hey Taking care of your heart is going to be far more important than taking care of the flesh. Having a right relationship with God, having the heart right is what is necessary, is what is important. And God teaches his people that. God changes Sari to Sarah in chapter 17 and verse number 15. Um look at verse chapter 17, verse 15. He says, And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai, thy wife, thou shalt not call Her name's Sari, but Sarah shall her name be. Her name is changed to Sarah, and we're getting close now to God's promised son, whose name will be Isaac. The sun is coming. He said his name's going to be Isaac. Gives him that in verse number 19. God remembers and blesses Ishmael in verse number 20. God reiterates his covenant relationship with him in 1721. Now, let me just give you a brief rundown of 1819 and 20 uh because that brings us to the birth of Isaac. But in chapter 18, we have the announcement of the destruction of Sodom. You guys have heard and know the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham prays, of course, for the righteous that are there and says, hey, will you spare the city if, you know, all the way down if there's ten righteous? Ultimately there's not even ten righteous. in the city. Abraham goes and rescues Lot out of the city in chapter 19. He rescues Lot, pulls him out, and the city of Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed. Then in 20 we have the story of Abraham and Abimelech. And in chapter 21, Isaac is born. Now, the story of Abraham technically goes through, I believe it's chapter 24. Um let me just confirm here. Alright, so we have um chapter twenty-five, it goes through chapter twenty-five, but we pick up the story of Isaac in chapter 21. And he is the second character we're going to look at. So their stories overlap a little bit, Isaac and Abraham of course being together for that time period. So we'll get a little bit of history of them. uh together, but Isaac's the next main character in the development of the children of Israel and uh the story that God has for them. So Isaac will be next. However, uh if you notice in our timeline here that uh we have right here at the beginning of the patriarchal history is job. So job comes into the overall story in the Bible right here. So I'm gonna throw Job in right here next week. We're going to cover the book of Job in one week. I hope. We'll see. We're just going to give you the h the highlights of the book. We're not going to teach through the whole thing. Obviously, there's many lessons there we can learn. But Job gets in the timeline of Bible history, Job is right here at the beginning. I don't know exactly where, so I'm just throwing it in here in between these two main characters. We'll pick up Isaac Now I have brought my books. These are the books that I study from every week to write these lessons. And I brought them here just so you could see what I do in preparation for this class. And if there's any, you're welcome to come up and peruse them, get the names and titles. And if you want to order a copy of any of these so that you can look at it and glean some of the stuff, obviously I am just trying to put together an overview and uh in a way that systematically in my mind works. But these are the sources that I've been using to study from. That obviously does not include the regular commentaries that I have digitally on my bio on my computer, you know, like Matthew Henry and Warren Wirsby and J. Vernon McGee and Oliver B. Green, those kind of people that I read after, but I have those digitally. Uh so these are the book sources that I have.