We're looking at the Old Testament survey, we're dealing with the second era that uh we have, and that is the era of the patriarchs. Uh a patriarch is a father, he was the spiritual uh leader of a group of people, as well as a uh provider or protector, the patriarch was the was the provider and the protector of a family. Uh and by Old Testament definition that extended to his children and his children's children. As long as he was alive, he was the patriarch of that family and and the other thing. And they lived for quite a while back then, so they were around for a while uh as a patriarch, as a leader of their family, and so they were there able to uh minister to their family for a lot of years. And then they would pass on a blessing. to the one that was going to receive that, that would become the next leader of that uh group or uh family name. And we looked last week or last time we were together looking at the Old Testament survey on uh we talked about Abraham. Um the father of the Hebrew people. This was God's plan for the redemption of mankind was going to come through this line that God had chosen. God gave us the scripture through this line. God gave us the Savior through this line. He g he was sent from Ur of the Chaldees and uh I asked uh Gus to get a couple of maps for us here. Uh I want to show first of all the Trek or the line of Abraham where he went as he traveled, the traveling that Abraham took. Now in this map here you can kind of see on the uh bottom right hand side of the screen there is Ur of the Chaldees. I can point to it here, but then uh he traveled up And went to Horan, which he was supposed to go to Canaan, which we know Canaan is in Jerusalem, which is in between that small body of water there and the Mediterranean Sea, uh where all the little dot black dots are. Those are different spots that he stopped. And then the red line travels down into Egypt for a little while and then he comes back up. So you see his path on this uh map here that shows you where he went. Now it's about 700 miles according to Google Earth from Ur of the Chaldees down here straight across to Canaan. And it's about 1,500 miles, almost twice the distance in the path that he took. Does anybody know why he would have traveled that path opposed to just gone the shorter route? That's a very good uh you're you're on the right track that this is pretty barren desert between if the straight track is through pretty barren desert land. But there's another key thought, and that is he traveled via the way of the Fertile Crescent, which you'll see a lot of times in the Old Testament. Men and uh people will travel and they'll go through the Fertile Crescent because the stark barren nature of the land in between those two areas is very hard to get through. But along the Euphrates River there would have been people that lived there and he could have stopped, he could have got some aid, he could have got water. And uh if you show the picture of the Fertile Crescent, you'll be able to see how much greener the land is in the area of the Fertile Crescent. So you see that real green part there on the bottom right hand side of the screen there is where the Euphrates and the Tirus River, all the minerals and things that are up there, they're flowing down, and it gets greener and greener and greener as you flow down to the edge of the Gulf down there. Well, he traveled up through the Fertile Crescent there across the the greenside and back down. That's the reason that he took that path. And God called him out of Ur of the Chaldees, and uh he went and didn't know where he was going, but was trying to follow God and do what God wanted him to do. And And in obedience, he just took off and headed towards ultimately the Canaan, the Canaan land. Now, the Abrahamic covenant, we look at that. The covenant is the cornerstone of Old Testament. You have to understand the Abrahamic covenant in order to have a good understanding of the rest of the Old Testament. Because this is God's working with his people. God doing something and All of what he's doing is fulfilling the Abrahamic covenant and how he promised to bless them with a personal blessing, a national blessing, and to promise all people a universal blessing. And his covenant uh was passed on, the Abrahamic covenant was passed on to Isaac. And uh it didn't go to Ishmael. Now, why is that? I need to give you guys a microphone so I can hear you. I hear people commenting, but yeah, it Ishmael was not really supposed to happen. You know, uh Ishmael was born as of a relationship with Hagar, uh the servant, in their home. Um they had been told they were going to have a son. And uh, you know, not sure if God was going to come through. I mean they're getting kinda up in age, right? And you know, it's getting older and older and they thought, Well, why don't you go into Hagar? And this was an accepted means of gaining an heir in that time And that child would receive the blessing of the father, provided mom did not have any natural born children of her own. So God uh gave them a promised son, just like he said he would when uh Abraham was a hundred years old and Sarah was ninety years old. Uh and God did that because he wanted the pe everyone to know that he was the one building the nation. He was the one that was doing it. It was not just them and uh, hey, we're gonna go be fruitful and multiply. I mean they were on beyond the years, the age of bearing children. And God gave them a child in a miraculous way. So we get to the second of our people. And I don't think I think last week, last time, we got to the end of Abraham. And we looked at that, but we're going to look at Isaac tonight, the second father of promise, and it covers Genesis chapter 24 through Genesis 26. 26. The life of Isaac is different from that of his father Abraham. The life of Isaac from the very beginning is a is a display of God's miraculous working in the affairs of men. From the very beginning, that is from Isaac's birth on, we see in the story of Isaac miraculous things taking place. And you see God directing in a very real and powerful way in their life. And just from the very beginning of his birth illustrates that fact, the fact that they were beyond the age of bearing children And yet God still sent them uh a son, Isaac. In Genesis chapter twenty-one. You can turn there. Genesis chapter twenty-one. We're gonna try and Look at a few of these passages just to kind of give us a scriptural context of what it is we're looking at, but we're going to hopefully get close to the end of the book of Genesis tonight. In Genesis chapter 21, verses 1 and 2, he says, And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said. And the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken, for Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him God did a miraculous thing and God gave them a son named Isaac. Isaac's name means laughter. He was born in joy. Uh his name means laughter, and he brought joy and good tidings. to his people. Then you have the miraculous thing that takes place in Genesis chapter twenty-two of the offering of Isaac, when Isaac was offered as a sacrifice. And uh the entirety chapter there, Genesis 22, contains that. This is a test of a of Isaac's faith. He's uh offering him and he's the test of giving his son. is an example of the love that each of us should have for God. Whatever God wants, whatever his will is. You say it doesn't make sense. Why would God promise me a son and then tell me to offer him as a sacrifice? I think you know the faith that Abraham had to just obey God is the kind of faith that we should have. That kind of example of just doing what God wants us to do, regardless. In our minds we try and weigh it out, we try and balance it, we try and look at it from uh human perspective and say, well this won't work like that or this will do good or that won't do good. Uh we need to just trust God and do what God wants us to do, whatever it is. And this Isaac being offered as a sacrifice is a picture all the way back here in the beginning of Genesis of the gospel of Jesus Christ. A picture of when Jesus Christ would be offered. Son. Isaac was promised, and they knew he was coming, but they didn't know when. And Jesus was promised. He was going he was coming, but they didn't know when. And then throughout the all of the Old Testament, they looked for when he would come. And many missed his coming uh because they were still looking and they didn't recognize that he had come, but Isaac was a promised son. Isaac uh was Offered by his father. By his father, excuse me. So Isaac was offered by his father. Jesus Christ was offered by his father. For you and I. His father gave him up. But not only that, Isaac gave up his life freely. Now ultimately we know the story. We know he didn't have to, but he didn't know that. Isaac laid down and uh willingly gave himself to be offered as a sacrifice. Jesus Christ did too. Nobody took his life. Nobody took his life from him. Jesus gave his life that the world through him might be saved. Isaac carried his own wood, his own altar, that he would be sacrificed on. And Jesus Christ, too, carried his own cross. Up to that lonely hill to be offered on. You see a very clear picture here all the way back in Genesis of what God was providing a sacrifice. And one day would provide Jesus Christ a very clear picture given to us here in this miraculous test of Abraham's faith in the offering of Isaac. Then another miraculous thing, you have the marriage of Isaac in Genesis chapter twenty-four. Again, an example of how God is working in the lives of his people. God doing an amazing thing. God providing for Isaac a bride. Looking for a bride, David? When do you go back to school, David? Next Sunday? In just a couple days or you have a whole nother week? Oh good for you. These guys, uh John and uh Jacob go back Saturday, so you got an extra week. Lucky lucky you. Well If you're looking for a bride, that's where we're going. Isaac was looking for a bride. Jacob looking for a bride. God will provide, amen. God will provide a bride. But this here, we have a picture of God providing a bride for his son. God prov what what is the bride of Christ? The church. And God is going to provide a bride for his son. In this picture we have here, Abraham was sent to Haran. Now in our picture here of the tr the traveling of Abraham all the way at the top here where the V comes back down. That's Haran. And that's where he went and he stayed there for a while. He was there for some years. Uh we think about him making this trek in just a few days, but he went to Iran and he lived there for a while and then traveled on down. And some of his family stayed there We're going to see the story going back and forth here because when we get down to Jacob and uh you know Laban is living up there in Haran. So they go back and forth several times. But he went back to find a son for for him, and uh he finds Rebecca. Rebecca agreed to travel back to Canaan and to marry Isaac. This is the Father was preparing and planning a marriage for his son. That's what God did. God the Father preparing and planning a marriage for his son, uh Jesus Christ, and that is the church is the bride of Christ. After his sacrifice, he was given a bride. And after Christ's sacrifice, he was given a Given a bride, the church. Rebecca, as a picture of the church, is a is an example of how each and every sinner has to make a choice. They came and they said, Rebecca, would you be willing to? They didn't say you have to. You don't have a choice in this. They said, Rebecca, would you be willing to go and be the bride for Isaac? And she chose to. She said, yes, I'll go. And you can read the story there. We don't have time to read it tonight. But he said, yes, I'll go. Or in a few weeks we're going to read it together in our devotionals. So we'll be good to review it a little bit But she went and she chose to go, and that's the decision that everybody has to make to become part of the bride, to become s to choose Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Uh they have to each make a personal decision to do that. It's not forced upon them Then Isaac inherits the Abrahamic covenant. By God's direction, Isaac inherits the Abrahamic covenant. Look turn to Genesis chapter number 26. It's in Genesis twenty six, and I'm sorry I don't have the ri the v the actual verse written down. So We're not going to be able to reference that. We might see it again in a minute here, but Isaac inherits the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis chapter 26. Isaac, not Ishmael, was chosen. The messianic line will flow from Abraham to Isaac by God's direction. Now Isaac had two sons. Remember Isaac's two sons? Jacob and Esau, Isaac's two sons, Jacob and Esau, God chose to bless Jacob, not Esau. It was by God's providential plan that Jacob would be the one that was blessed. Jacob would receive the birthright, the inheritance. Now, his mother and uh you know, Jacob did a little conniving to try and get it on their own, but I believe it was God's plan from the very beginning, and we're gonna see that in the text here. But These are the main characters that we're talking about, the Old Testament survey. We want to see what God's doing with his people. He's building a nation. So he started with Abraham. The blessing was passed down to Isaac, the messianic covenant was passed down to Isaac, and then it's going to be passed down to Jacob here. You see, a birthright or a blessing was the right of the eldest son. But the eldest could lose that blessing. In this time period, in a time period where much was done by the way of communication, by verbal communication. You know, a a blessing passed on by uh dad, by the patriarch of the family, was as good as handing them a check. I mean it's as strong as a physically just giving them a check. They were they were blessed. It cannot be overemphasized what it meant uh when uh you know the blessing was handed, whether it was through trickery or whether it was meant to be, but when a when a when the patriarch of the family gave their blessing to their heir. It's a very, very important thing and a very, very powerful thing. And here when we're talking about the line of Christ and what God was doing with his people, it was passing on the blessing of God to the next generation. And this is what happened in Jacob and Esau's life. Now Jacob's birth, in Jacob's birth, look at chapter 25, verse number 23. Chapter 25, verse number 23. Here's where I'm saying that God had a plan from the very beginning. In verse number 23, he says, And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb. And two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels. Now you know the story of Esau and Jacob. They were two very different type of people, right? They were two manner of people or separated from thy bows. And the one people shall be stronger. Who was that? Stronger in their personality and in their character. Esau was strong. He was the man's man, he was the hunter, uh but then uh than the other people But then he says here the last phrase, the elder shall serve the younger. This is prophesied by God before they were ever come from the womb. Before Jacob ever displayed his tendency to be a trickster, to be a supplanter, uh as his name means. God had said this is what was going to take place. Now maybe God uh in his knew that Esau, the book of Hebrew tells us that Esau was a profane man. That means a man after this world, uh, you know, looking for these things. And maybe God knew that, but whatever God's reason Many people have speculated different reasons for why God chose Jacob over Esau. We might not know until we get to heaven. But it's very clear that God did. That this was God's plan. from the beginning that Jacob was going to lead, that Esau was going to follow the younger, even though by birthright, normally the eldest would be the one that would receive that. So Jacob begins his life on a rogue path, gradually transformed by the power of God as he begins to work in his life. And uh eventually has twelve sons who become uh the fathers of the twelve tribes of Israel, except for two, and we'll explain that a little bit more as we go here. But so you see Jacob's birth, we talked about that, and what his name means is supplanter or trickster. Um, this is his character trait until God changes him. Then the birthright, which was actually Esau's, he got through deception, through trickery. Esau didn't care about spiritual things, uh, but was worldly in nature. And Hebrews 12, verse number 16 is the verse that says that he's profane, that Esau was a profane man after the things of this world. Esau was the father of the Edomites. The Edomites came from Esau. Did you have the uh timeline, the blow up of the timeline? As we talk about these now this is gonna be I guess that's correct according to how it's laying on the timeline. It might have been easier if I'd have switched it here, but the very large uh right in the center of the screen is Abraham and I don't know if you can see that from back there. Probably not. You can't see it, can you? You can. A couple of people can. Uh then you see uh Isaac and Jacob coming off of there, but it's gonna be so hard for you to see like the other the other names that are that are associated with that, uh, in seeing the plan or the the the passing of the covenant down there. But his birthright, which he received, uh what I was going to show you is Esau. In that thing shows Esau and the father of the Edomites, the Edomite people is listed in there. And uh God prophesied that the elder would serve the younger. I gave you that already. Then this Abrahamic covenant was passed down to Jacob. Now, Jacob, you see Jacob at Bethel in Genesis chapter number twenty-eight. Bethel means what? The house of God. So he's slowly being changed. He get he meets with God and God begins to work on him and God begins to change him. Then you see Jacob with his bride in chapters twenty-nine and verse number thirty. Jacob willing to work for Rebecca. He found the girl of his dreams and he wanted to work for her and was willing to do so. But he was tricked. and was given Leah instead. So you see a principle taught here that you reap what you sow. This trickster, this this conniver, this this uh person in his personality got things by being a little bit shady. What goes around comes around. He worked for seven years for his wife and went home and woke up in the morning and was with the wrong woman. That's a pretty bad trick. Oh man, that would be rough. And then to find out, well, I'll work another seven years. You talk about somebody that must have felt loved. Rebecca must have really felt loved because he was willing to work fourteen years uh to receive her And uh he was tricked, but his bride he works for her, and uh you see God changing Jacob, maybe because he had to reap some of the things he sowed. Maybe seeing that helped him learn, you know what, this is not really the way I need to go. And sometimes God brings things into our lives and we know we're reaping, right? I've got some boys that I know I'm reaping through. Isn't that terrible as a parent? You see yourself and your children, you're like, man, why did I do that? Now I've got to deal with it as a parent. And uh but we we reap what we sow and we see God changing us, hopefully, as we learn from from our mistakes. And that's what Jacob was doing. After twenty years in Haram there he He's up in Haran, he's with Laban. Uh he goes back to Canaan with his family uh and on his route Jacob's name was changed from Jacob to what? To Israel. We looked at that on Sunday in in our Sunday school lesson just briefly. But Jacob's name was changed to Israel, which means having power with God. So he goes from being a supplanter to somebody that has power with God. And Jacob's sons become the tribes of the heads of Israel. Now you have his sons, you have Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Nathalie, Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebelin, Joseph, and Benjamin. And all of them except two of them become heads of the tribes of Israel. And the the story changes here a little bit, and uh we see that we change from being uh the patriarchs To now the the rest of Genesis deals with Joseph and talks about Joseph and it almost like why are we going to Joseph? Because God has established his lineage, that that things are traveling that way. Now he's showing in the life of Joseph how he is protecting and providing for those people. So you got to you start to see in the story of Joseph God leading and protecting and providing this nation that he's building. So they're starting to build there. Now Joseph's two sons, uh, does anybody know who what their names are? Ephraim and Manasseth. Those are the other two tribes of Israel, Ephraim and Manasseh. Levi wasn't really a tribe. They were uh they become the the priests and the Levites and they work with the temple and the tabernacle, uh, and then Joseph doesn't become a head of a tribe. So if you read the story you find out how uh the blessing was was given to Ephraim and Manasseh and they became heads of the tribes. Those are the children of Joseph, and we'll see those in a second. So look um sorry. Excuse me. Now, although Jacob or Israel is still alive, the story of Joseph is a fulfillment of God's prophecy to Abraham. Look back in Genesis chapter 15, verse number 13. Genesis chapter fifteen, verse number thirteen. And I'll be there in a second. So in Genesis chapter 15, verse number 13, he says, And he said unto Abraham, Know for a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. So here is a prophecy given all the way back here in Genesis chapter 15 that is starting to take place with the story of Joseph, where Joseph is sent into a land that's not his. And they're gonna, as a people, are gonna spend four hundred years there So we see Joseph as a slave in chapter 37 and 38. Jealousy motivated his brothers to send him or sell him as a slave. They meant it for evil, but God meant it for what? Good. Amen. So Joseph as a servant in chapter 39, he served in Potiphar's house. He was exalted. He was faithful no matter what he did. He he rose to the top wherever he was because he was honoring God with his life. Not necessarily looking at his circumstances, but it didn't matter if he was servant in Potiphar's house, servant in Pharaoh's uh uh as as a second in command for Pharaoh, or whether he was in the dungeon, each place he rode to the top because in each situation he was looking to honor God. And wherever you and I are at, whatever position or place in life we're at, if we're seeking to honor God first You'll rise to the top. That's just the way it is, because God's going to bless that as you put God first. Joseph, we see him as a seer in uh Genesis forty and forty-one. We know that he interprets the dreams of Pharaoh's butler and baker. And God allows him to interpret this dream of Pharaoh. Again, God directing his steps that Joseph would be right where he was supposed to be when God needed him. And we see Joseph as a savior, uh, and that's to keep it alliterated. In Genesis 42 to 48, where God uniquely prepared and positioned Joseph to fulfill God's will in providing protection for his people. After his reminding his wicked brothers of what they had done, the family came and joined them there in the land of Goshen. uh in northern Egypt. At this time the family consisted of about seventy-five people. Look in Genesis chapter 46, verse number 27. Genesis 46 Verse number twenty-seven. So they're going to the land of Goshen, and uh in chapter forty-six And the sons of Joseph were were bore him in Egypt were two souls. We know what were their names? Ephraima Manasseth. All the souls of the house of Jacob which came into Egypt were three score and ten. So you have 70 there, and then you have Joseph's family, around 75 people that were there in the land of Egypt during this time. So here we are all the way to Genesis chapter 46, and in the nation of Israel. Which is going to be this great nation. There's about 75 people. But what's amazing is how God has provided for them. He brought them into this land as a small nation. They did not realize it, but this nation, Egypt, was going to provide for them, was going to protect them, and was going to keep them pure. until they were a strong nation and could stand on their own. You see, as a little nation, they could have been swallowed up by somebody else, but as part of Egypt, they were protected And they began growing. And we're going to see in the Exodus how that happens. And Egypt ultimately begins to start to fear them. But they were actually kept pure by this because in Canaan they might have intermarried. With the Canaanites. But in Egypt, the Egyptians would not marry them. Because the Egyptians looked down on them and looked at them as inferior because they were sheep herders. And it says in the scriptures actually that they were, the Egyptians thought of them as an abomination. So God is providing protection. Provision and purity to his nation that's at its just barely starting out, and a place for them to grow and become the great nation that God wants. The conclusion of Genesis gives us some of the prophecies about what's going to happen in the years to come. Talks about the tribe of Judah, and there's some neat prophecy there, and I don't want to just flip over it, so we'll next time we'll we'll encapsulate that as we launch in. Into the book of Exodus and the Next Era. Let me uh close this in prayer.