In the book of Genesis or an Old Testament survey and trying to get a bird's eye view, kind of the uh thirty thousand foot view as it were of what's happening in the old testament. So we can kind of connect the dots. We're not drilling down into the nitty-gritty. We're just kind of trying to get a understanding of what's taking place overall. We looked first of all at the general history. The general history covers the first 11 chapters of the Word of God in approximately 2,000 years. And uh so a lot happens in there. It took us a good number of weeks to get through that. But four major events that we looked at uh that take place during those first 11 chapters, and what were they? We start with uh I used F so the formation of the earth or you could just say creation. Uh what's the other three? The fall, the flood And the foundation of nations, the b the uh the beginning of the nations there at the Tower of Babel when man were gathered all together in one place and of course trying to build something up to God and God says, wait, this is not I told you to uh multiply and uh fill the earth and they didn't want to go fill the earth, they wanted to stay together and so God confounded the languages and the nations were established and went to all those different places. And then we began crossed over into chapter number twelve, and uh we continue through the book of Genesis and dealing with the patriarchal history. uh the foundation or the beginning of the nation of Israel. That of course began with Abraham. And uh Abraham the father uh uh faith and of the Hebrew nation of Israel uh because of the promise that God had given him that he would uh gave you know bless him in several ways but was going to uh give him a nation or a people that through him all the world was going to be blessed. And so that uh promise and and gift uh that God had given to him or promised to him was passed down to his sons And uh then from his sons to Isaac, and then from Isaac to Jacob. And we're gonna look at Jacob today. That's where we are. Um I saw Um my mind just went, yeah, thank you very much. Uh Well, I guess it's whatever this is gone. Uh so we we are looking here at Jacob. It takes place in Book of Genesis, chapter twenty-five. through uh chapter 35. And so first of all we want to see his directed uh conception that uh God is in control of these things. And it is God that gives life and God that takes life. But we see God directing in these men's lives and the the lives of their mates where they he is in control and he is uh establishing a nation and bringing forth whom he wants to bring forth. So God told Isaac and Rebekah that Jacob was going to rule over Esau. Now, I'm going to kind of go quickly through some of this because it overlaps what we we kind of got into this sum. As we talked about Jacob last week in the lesson, uh dealing with his father, because their stories obviously overlap. Uh Dad's still here. Um even we get to the end of this, Jacob. Jacob continues to live on all the way until chapter forty nine of Genesis, except Joseph's story picks up, and so they kind of go hand in hand for a while and trying to decide where to stop the line uh of the father and begin talking about the son. So we crossed over a little bit there, so we're going to go quickly through this, but God, you know, God told Isaac and Rebekah that Jacob would rule over Esau. Isaac prayed for his son. We looked at that last week. That, you know, I was thankful that they had a spiritual mind about this, and God gives them twins Jacob and Esau. God tells them of the plan, his plan that the younger was gonna serve uh I'm sorry, the older was gonna serve the younger, which is contrary to normal thought and the pattern that would be accepted in the world, but this was God's plan. Because God knew what these men were going to be like. There was one, although he was a trickster, although he was a little conniving in his uh actions He had a heart to know God and wanted to know God. And uh Esau was profane and given to the world. And so God understood that. Would you look at if you've got your Bibles open there to chapter number 25 and verse number 23? I just want to mention here He says, And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bows. And the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger. I'm just going to throw this out just so you understand. There are some people that would use this verse in try and teach special election. That is, teach that before somebody is born, God knows who's going to be saved. that here God came and told mom and dad, listen, the younger is going to be given this privileged position. The younger is going to be blessed by God and the older is not. And they try and show you that really we have no influence on that, that God has predetermined ahead of time who's going to be blessed and who's not going to be blessed. And uh so there is special election that, you know, basically this goes along with the tulip theory. Uh we're not going to chase down that rabbit too much. I just want you to know it's a misuse of this passage of scripture This is not talking about salvation. This is talking about God's plan for somebody. And God has a plan for all of us that He would like us to do. And you have a special plan that God has for you too. Just like he had a plan for me and he has a plan for your life and he had a plan for Jacob's life. That's not any different than anybody else. And so just to case you come across it or somebody wants to bring that up and say, oh look, see people They the God knows ahead of time and there's nothing you can do about it. No, we're we're to go and we're to tell and uh we're to point out Jesus Christ and give everybody uh opportunity and uh God is not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance And uh people like to talk about that. And it's just something that came up in my research or study. I was surprised that they tried and used that to teach special election uh because God had a plan for uh Jacob's life here. So There was going to be a struggle between uh Esau and Jacob. Now Esau and Jacob are a picture of what that we deal with today. The something's part of our nature or character, what is the battle that's in us? The flesh and the spirit. So Esau and Jacob are a picture of this, the flesh and the spirit, Esau being profane, worldly, fleshly and living his life for that. And then Jacob, the Spirit, working towards that. So that contrast and that conflict between these two is present there and we see that. Then we see his deceitful character, the nature of this man. Jacob was uh deceitful in his dealings from the very beginning. It was part of his character, part of his makeup, who he was. The word the name Jacob means trickster. It means trickster. Now let me just say that everybody is born with a sin nature. We can look at Jacob and say, well, from the beginning he was a cheat, you know, he was a conniver, he was a trickster. Yes, uh, but all of us have a sin nature. All of us have a little bit of Jacob in us, and we have to fight against that flesh and let the Spirit reign in our body so that we can please God. Jacob uh tricks his brother into trading him his birthright, and we dealt with that last week, so I didn't include those notes in here, but in last week's notes dealing with, you know, mom and dad and their their uh uh not being careful about how they love their children and ha playing favorites caused division in the home and we went through all that last week So you can look back at those notes. But Jacob also deceives his father into giving him a blessing in chapter number 28. He he deceives his father. He wants to be blessed, and so he they they connive with his mother. Um his deceit was encouraged by his mother. Look at chapter twenty-seven if you would. We're going to get all the way to chapter 35, so we've got to kind of go quickly and just kind of hit these things. But in chapter 27, verses 5 through 10, we see his mom kind of planning with him. He says, And Rebecca heard when Isaac spake to Esau, his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison and to bring it. So Esau was told by his father, hey, go get me some venison. I want to bless you. I want to give my great blessing unto you, uh your inheritance. Rebecca heard this and and well while Esau's gone and Rebecca spake unto Jacob her son, verse number six saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, Bring me venison and make savory meat, and I and I may eat and bless thee before the Lord before my death. Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. Go now to the flock and fetch me from thence two good kids of goats, and I will make them savory meat for thy father, such as he loveth. And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat and that he may bless thee before his death. He mom connived. You know, I've seen this type of stuff. You've got to be very careful, and I don't have time to chase this rabbit, but mom, you've got to be careful about causing division in the home You y you you're worried about the little poopsie whoopsie and and his concerns and and making sure his needs are met and oh I'm gonna take care of you and y you're not fulfilling the wishes of father and and you're creating this division in the home. You're saying, oh, uh, you know your father doesn't like this, so so don't tell him that we did it. That's terrible, terrible, terrible. You're gonna hurt your family, you're gonna hurt your kids. Talk to your husband, you guys get together on the same page and be unified. uh in the direction that you're leading the children, but don't just go behind your husband's back or or husband don't just go behind mom's back. You guys need to be a team. I'll tell you what, it's hard enough to raise kids as a team. You certainly don't want to do it all on your own. And she was conniving behind her her husband's back to try and get uh her favorite, Jacob, to be blessed. So Jacob deceives his father into blessing him. Uh mom was part of it, but Asau Esau obviously is angered. at his brother for how he did this in chapter twenty seven thirty-seven. He's very upset and that's obviously understandable why. After completing the deceit to save his life, mother connives, again, being deceitful, she she goes and tricks her husband into sending him away to find a bride. Okay, Esau's mad, and Esau is ready to kill his brother. Mom sees this and says, wait a minute, you can't stay here What are we going to do? And she says, Oh, you know what? I know what Esau or I know what uh Isaac would like. Let's let's get together, let's go talk to him and say, Jacob needs a wife. But he shouldn't get away here. Let's send him to get away from our family back with our people. And uh of course that's what they should be doing. They shouldn't be taking wives of the heathen nation that they're around or in, and so they connive together to send him off. So we see uh in chapter number twenty-eight his Delightful conversion. Um, his delightful conversion. Isaac sends Jacob to Laban to find a wife. Verses one and two, chapter twenty-eight. And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and charged him and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan Arise, go now to Pinderam and the house of Bethuel, thy mother's father, and take thee away from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. So he says, hey, you need to go get a wife, go there and get a wife from your uncle Laban. Esau responds to this news in a very fleshly manner. Hearing that his brother is going to get a wife, uh, Esau in a last-itch effort to try and win his father's favor, thinks maybe, well, I will get a wife. I'm gonna take a wife. I'm gonna take a wife of the Ishmaelites Now Esau was already married. He already had two wives. But he's going to quickly go get a third wife and then come back to Dad and say, oh, you know, I I've got a wife. uh of the Ishmaelites in a last just effort to try and earn uh the the blessing from his father. And again He is compounding one sin upon another and making things even worse, but he responds in the flesh, which is his nature to do so Jacob is on the run from his brother. His brothers decidedly determined that he was going to kill him when the time came. If you uh you don't have to turn back there, but in ch Genesis 27, 41, he says, And Esau hated Jacob Because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand, then will I slay my brother Jacob Now you take the the character of these two men. You have one who is an outdoorsman, who is a hunter, who is a herdsman, who spends his days in the sun and in the fields, and then you have what is typically referred to as a mama's boy. He spends his days in the kitchen and sitting around the house and maybe he enjoys reading books and spending his days there in the comfort of the air conditioning. which I'm sure they had. Um and and all that what I'm saying is that he the the contrast of those two, I'm sure that Jacob thought, oh boy, if my brothers wants me dead Not much I'm gonna do about it. I mean it's uh I I my I remember one time when I was a kid and I was so mad at my older brother and I just I just wanted to only time in my life that I ever took a swing at one of my brothers Uh siblings should not be literally fighting like that. But I was young, I was very upset at him, and uh so I wanted to hit him. Uh but there's a lot of years between the two of us and the the younger you are the more difference that makes. You know, he's 17 and I'm ten. And so I I I go after him and he grabs my head like this and he's holding me away and I'm just I'm just swinging a wing, you know, and uh he's just holding me away. You know, he's like, Okay, are you done? Uh are you done I I imagine that's probably what Jacob felt like. If Esau wants me dead, I'm dead. And so he goes on the run and he's afraid for his life. And uh he's he's thinking, this is over, what am I gonna do? He travels about seventy miles from Beersheba to a place that he ends up calling uh Bethel. He lays down to rest. And is given a vision from God. Now Jacob meets with God and God changes his heart. There is a ladder here in this passage of Scripture that represents uh Jesus Christ. Let me read for you what Wirren Wersby said about this. The latter symbolizes Jesus Christ Jacob is a perfect picture of the lost soul in darkness, fleeing for his life away from the Father's house, burdened with sin, ignorant of the fact that God is so near him and wants to save him. The latter pictures Christ as the only way from earth to heaven. He opens the heavens and brings heaven's blessings down into our lives. And he alone can take us back to heaven. Jacob thought he was completely alone there in the wilderness, but awakened to discover that he was actually at the gate of heaven. Because he was alone, he was there with God, and God met with him. This latter also pictures Jesus Christ, but it also pictures the great separation between sinful man and a holy God. There is a great gulf fixed between us. And we cannot bridge that gulf in and of ourselves, by ourselves. There's no way we can do that. Only Jesus Christ can do that. A very interesting verse. If you want to turn and see it, turn to John chapter 1 and verse number 51. We see the latter is a picture of Jesus. Jesus is that ladder. And in John 151, an amazing thing is stated. I would encourage you maybe to to make a note next to it in the in the in your Bible there or make a note in your notes. Write down John 151. But and he saith unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see heaven open, the angels of God ascending and descending. Upon, if you're looking at it, what does it say? The Son of Man. Upon the Son of Man. So the heavens opened and a ladder was Put there and he says, You're going to see the angels ascending and descending on a ladder. No, he says, You're going to see the angels ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. So this ladder is a picture of Jesus Christ that that uh completes that gulf or or uh joins together the great gulf that's between sinful man and a holy uh savior. So then he hears a voice. Uh he hears a voice Let me see here we are twenty eight. Let's look down in verse number 13. Well, let's begin in verse number 12. He says, and he dreamed and behold a ladder. There is your ladder represented. You want to make note in your Bible next to that. John 151, just mark that as a reference to that point, knowing that that's Jesus Christ. Setting up on the earth, and the top of it reached into heaven, and behold the angels of God descending and descending. Then he hears a voice and uh God blesses him. God reaffirms to him the blessing that he gave to Abraham and then to Isaac is now being passed on to Jacob. And he promises him three things here. He promises him a measure of land, a multiplied seed, and a manifold peace. We see that. Let me read for you these verses, verse 13, 14, and 15. And behold, the Lord stood above it, and he said, I am the Lord, God of Abraham thy father, the God of Isaac, in the land wherein thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south and to the And in thy seed shall all families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in the place whither thou goest. and will bring thee again into this land, for I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken of to thee. So he reaffirms that promise that was given to Abraham there. In your notes, you've got a measure of land, multiplied seed, and manifold presence. God blessed him. We see then the charge that uh God gave him, uh I'm sorry, the change that came in his life. He feared God, verses 16 and 17, realizing he was in the presence of God, and he worshipped God, verses 18 and 19 there. He worshipped God. Um and Jacob, verses eighteen, Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put for his pillow, and he set it up for a pillar, and he poured oil upon the top of it. And he called the name of that place Bethel But the name of that city was called Luz at the first. So he changed that name. That was a place that was very special to him where he met and talked to God. And so he worshiped God there. We see his uh devoted commitment. Uh here God brings about change, and we begin to see some change take place in his heart And it takes a little bit of time. Uh he's on a journey, you remember, to go meet a bride, right? He wants to find his wife, so he travels and uh Although God in this place is where changes his heart, uh the process of sanctification takes time. And so you're going to continue to see some things in Jacob's life that are that are both good and good and bad, but he starts to take some steps in the right direction and he starts to grow and let God uh change his heart. We get to chapter twenty-nine and we see through twenty-nine he's he's off to to find a bride Jacob approaches a well after a 450 mile journey. He approaches this well. Then Jacob, verse chapter 29, verse number one. Then Jacob went into a journey and came unto the land of his people of the east. And he looked And behold a well in the field, and lo there were three flocks of sheep lying by it, for out of that well they watered the flocks, and a great stone was upon the well's mouth We're not going to read the whole story, but he comes up and there's some shepherds sitting there and he sees them and he says, Hey, why don't you guys water these sheep? And they said, Oh, uh We're not gonna bother with that until all the sheep are present and besides there's a stone on the on the w well. I mean how are we gonna do that, you know? And And uh so then he sees Rebecca coming and his eye beholds this great beauty and and he he's looking at her and he says, Wow, somebody needs to water her sheep, so he goes and he does it. Um this could be a picture of his changed heart. You see, instead of being conniving, instead of uh being deceitful, he just approaches her and he's direct and he removes the stone and he helps her water uh her sheep Remember, he was not a herdsman. This is not what he would normally do. This is not his nature to be out there and watering the sheep, but he's a changed man He sees her, he loves her, he desires to be with her, and he goes and he meets Laban and uh you can read the story these these These passages of scripture, these chapters we're going through are so beautiful in their presentation and they're such an easy read because they're very uh story-like and tell you what's going on. But He agrees to work for seven years to earn her hand in marriage. In verse number 18, he says here, and Jacob loved Rachel, and he said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel, thy younger daughter. And uh so he agrees to serve seven years, and that was going to be his payment. Ultimately he would get to marry her. And uh, you know, he loved her. He says uh later in the chapter that it seemed unto him but a few days. What a romantic uh statement, ladies, right? This uh he served for seven years and he loved her so much it seemed but a drop in the bucket. I mean it was it was done so fast and and uh he was ready to be with her. Uh but you guys know the story. Uh Laban deceives him and gives him Leah instead of Rachel on their wedding night. in traditional custom it would have been dark, she would have had a bale, uh all all of these things they they him and you know, Laban and Leah conspired together to trick him and He finds that he has married the wrong one. Obviously very distraught and upset. Uh he comes and says, What in the world? You know, I love Rachel. Why did you do this? And he said, Well, I can't I couldn't rightly let the younger one get married before the older one, so you know, oh well. Uh and he says, But I love Rachel, so what are we gonna do? He says, Well if you serve me another seven years In a week, we'll have another wedding and you can marry Rachel. And uh so he does that in a week. Uh a week later he marries Rachel, but he commits to serve for another seven years. So he has to serve 14 years for this And uh here's the thing, you you can't help but think, uh, whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. You see his chickens coming home to roost. You see that taking place in his life because that is what he had sown. Now, yes, he had just met God. Yes, on the road he was alone and he met God at Bethel and and had a vision of heaven and and his conversion took place. But you understand, beloved, that just because you got saved doesn't mean that uh all of your problems are solved. It doesn't mean that you won't have to bear uh you know I have here on my hand uh a scar I cut myself with a $150 Japanese Damascus steel knife, very sharp Just cuts like a surgical tool. Uh it cut deep and hard. Now it healed, but I still have a scar. And that's the thing, sometimes people think, well, if I get saved, it's gonna fix all my problems, all the mess that I've made of my life. Well, no, you're still gonna have some scars. And quite possibly you're still going to have some reaping to do. You're still going to have to deal with the problems that you've created. It's not all of a sudden going to fix all of these problems that you've had. Yes, you're forgiven. Healing can begin to happen, but you're still going to deal with the things that you have reaped. He still has a brother that wants to kill him. And uh just getting saved is not going to change his brother's heart. Changes his heart. But his brother still wants to kill him. So he has a problem here, because now he has a divided uh compassion. Um he uh of course loves Rachel. The Bible is very clear, says several times he hated Leah. And now he's married to both of them. Not only does he have this problem that he has uh Rachel whom he loves and Leah who he got stuck with, but both of them bring into this family their handmaids. Zilpa and Billah. So Leah brought her handmaid Zilpa and Rachel brought her handmaid Billah. And uh Jacob loved Rachel and was stuck with Leah. But this brought great contention in their home. It brought resentment. It brought uh hurt. So many problems. Um now Leah was complicit at the very least, uh and maybe part of the planning to trick uh Jacob into this. I mean there's no way they got all the way through the wedding night without her being part of the trick. You know what I'm saying? She didn't she was not deceived as well. And so she has created this problem that she's got to live with now. And you know what? She rude the day that she did it. She probably was a little bit jealous and envious of of Rachel who was obviously very attractive and Rachel was going to get married and She probably talked to her dad and said, you know, hey, this is not right. I mean she's younger. How can she get married first? And it's not fair and and uh you know she felt left out and so ultimately uh she thought, well, if we do this then then I'll get what I want. But it put her in a situation that she didn't want. Just saying, ladies, you gotta be very careful. Want that, but you really don't. And you'll you'll rue the day that you get a mate that's the wrong one at the wrong time, which we see very evident in this home. Now God heard her cry, God heard her burden, she was hated, and God understood. Look at chapter 29 and verse 31. 29 and 31. He says, and when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, He opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. So God is in control of giving life and taking life, and God decides to give Leah children here. This creates resentment between Leah and Rachel now, beyond what was already there, because now Rachel's not having kids and Leah is, and if you read these passages, we don't have time to read it, but it's continual competition between them. Like Leah's like, oh I have a child. Now my husband will love me. I'm I'm giving him a child and and Rachel's like, oh, I don't have any children, but You know, I can't have kids, but oh why don't you go into my handmaid and we'll have a we'll have a child by my handmaid and and then oh now Jacob will love me the more because I've given him a child and and then And Leah says, wait a minute, I have a handmaid. Why don't you go into my handmaiden have children from my handmaiden? And then he has children from that handmaiden and she thinks, oh now Jacob will love me the more because I've given him child and my handmaid has given him child and and r you know, Rachel or Rebecca's like, oh why don't I? And and they go back and forth through these passages of scripture and and the c the competition in the home to try and win his affection creates such a problem in the home the struggle was exasperated by the fact that they were both uh there and strugg I mean the the problems that were there. Um these four wives Bore twelve boys and one girl to Jacob, and they became the twelve tribes of Israel. Now, I have given you the twelve tribes of Israel, this handout which was back there today. It is very similar to this one, the patriarchal family tree that I gave you a couple weeks ago, but a little more concise. And it also has the order in which they were born. So the numbers on there are the order in which they were born. And so you see Leah. You have the four his four wives, Jacob and his four wives, Leah, Zilpha, Vilha, and Rachel. And uh Leah has child one, two, three, and four. Rachel still doesn't have any children. And so she says Wait a minute, go into my handmaid. So see number five, number five, Dan there, uh Dilha. She says, take my handmaid and have a child. And number six and so Rachel feels like, oh look, finally I've got some kids uh from from my side and Zilpa or Leah says, Wait a minute, no no no, I have a handmaid, so she sends Zilfa in, and so seven and eight are from Zilpha. And then uh Leah goes back, nine and ten, and then God opens Rachel's womb and gives her two children and she has uh Joseph and Benjamin. So that is listed there and you can see i you know in picture form uh the children there. Now let me just throw this out. Um Okay? I I just feel like I need to just say something about this because we read these stories. And we see God blessing them and we see God, you know, opening their womb and giving them children and all through the scriptures uh there are different people that I mean look at the number of wives Solomon had And and you look at these things and you think, wait a minute, these men that were blessed of God, these families and these homes, I mean, is that the way it was supposed to be in the old? No, it was not. God established in the book of Genesis his pattern for the home, one man, one woman for life. It was reiterated and stated very clearly in the New Testament, one man, one woman for life. The requirements for a pastor is is must be the husband of one wife. Not two wives, three wives, four wives, not one wife at a time. Husband of one wife. And uh so very clearly in the scriptures that's taught consistently. Uh God uh tolerated it, but never taught polygamy. And if you look at the scripture, you'll see situations like this. And you say, well, wait a minute, the twelve tribes of Israel, the chosen nation, came from a polygamous r situation. Surely that was God's plan. No, just because people do wrong, God can take bad things and make good things happen, but it wasn't necessarily his plan for that to be so When Jonah was running from God, he wasn't supposed to be running from God. He wasn't supposed to be on that ship. But the mariners all trusted Christ. And some would say, oh, that must have been God's plan for him to be there that time to win those marriage. No. God would have got them some other way. God used his sinful heart to win them, but that's was not God's plan. God's plan was for him to go preach. But he was running from God. So sometimes we see situations like this and we say, oh it must have been what God wanted. No, God didn't want that. That's what he did. And God went ahead and used it to fulfill his ultimate plan, but it was not necessarily It was tolerated, not taught, I guess is the easy way to say it. And so just so you have that in the background. Now he his determined combat Jacob is obedient to God. He does what God wants him to do. In 31, verses 3 he says, And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers and to thy kindred, and I will be with thee. So Jacob's obedient to God. Listen, if we ever want to see God do great things in our lives, we're going to have to get obedient to Him. We've got to decide we're just going to do what God wants us to do. We're just going to be obedient to God. And God will bless you in immeasurable ways. I mean you will be astounded at God's blessing if we would just be obedient. Jacob is visited by angels in chapter 32, verses 1 and 2. We'll see that here. He says Sorry. And Jacob went on his way, and the angel of God met him. And Jacob saw them, and he said, This is God's host, and he called the name of that place Men may listen, he saw these angels, and uh God came and visited him. Uh he had seen angels before. Remember? We we've just crossed about twenty years of history It was twenty years earlier that he saw those angels there in the place that he named Bethel, but now he saw this, and these angels were just likely God visiting him and saying, Hey, I'm with you I think about it like Elisha when uh he was standing there and all the enemy was encamped round about him and Elisha wasn't concerned and his servant was And Elisha said, Hey, would you op God would you open his eyes so he could see that those that are with us are greater than they that are with them? And uh God opens the eyes of Elisha and he's able to see those angels that are there. And I think this is a similar thing in that God was saying to Jacob, Heyah, I'm with you I'm here. There are some times when we were in the middle of the court case and we were in the uh in the courtroom and you know, all these legal guys are arguing and you know In my mind I pictured I pictured that scene with Elisha and just that uh listen, God is here, his angels are here. I would have loved to have been able to see it. But I just had to by faith believe it. Amen. That that the angels of heaven were there and watching over his church and protecting us in the face of that uh great im enemy. But Jacob uh had conflict with his father-in-law Laban. We don't have time to read the stories about the conflict that arose between them But he had concern about meeting his brother. He obeyed God and he was heading back to his father's land. He was going back home. And that of course is where Esau is. And so he's thinking, man, I'm gonna get killed. But this is what God told me to do, so I'm going. So he's concerned. So God sends an angel to say, hey, I'm with you. Now Jacob is visited by God. This happens uh first of all because Jacob was alone Jacob was alone. We've got a lot of ground to cover here, but if you look down in verse number 24, he says, and Jacob was left alone. And there wrestled with a man with him until the break of day. So Jacob was alone, and this man wrestled. with him until the break of day. So Jacob was alone. Listen, if you really want to meet God, if you want God to do a work in your heart, you got to get alone. You've got to get in a quiet place. You gotta get a place where it's just you and God. And uh let God work on your heart specifically. God will do that. Jacob, motivated by the unknown, by the fear of going back to meet his brother who thought he was going to kill him, he begins to commune with God Jacob is assaulted in verse number 24 there where this man comes and wrestles with him. This was a physical struggle that resulted in a spiritual change. We know it was it was it was also a physical nature because uh his thigh was put out of joint. He he he God physically uh had to do something to him to get his attention. Jacob had to come to the end of himself, uh, and submit to God. We see in verse number twenty five that God was able. In verse twenty five, he says, and when he saw that he prevailed not against him, He touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, and he wrestled with him. So Jacob is wrestling. I want you to notice, look back at verse number 24. Notice who's wrestling with who. Because sometimes this passage of scripture is used, and I don't think incorrectly, but it's used to show a a man grabbing a hold of and wrestling with God to get prayers answered and the idea, I will not let thee go unless thou bless me and that is That is there at the end when Jacob starts to submit. But here at the beginning, look at who's wrestling with who in verse number 24. He says, And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him. What I'm saying is God came and said, listen, Jacob, I need your attention. And Jacob was saying, Oh, I'm not sure I'm ready for that yet. And this man, this angel, this God, wrestled with him and he said, Oh, I don't know if I'm ready to submit yet, and I'm not ready to cry, uncle. Nope, nope, you haven't whipped me yet. And Jacob wrestled against this man all night long. All night Jacob was holding up and saying, Nope, nope, I'm not ready to say, Uncle I'm not ready to submit yet. And God is wrestling with him until ultimately he had to put his thigh out of joint, and then Jacob submitted. Then Jacob said, Oh wait, I'm done. Okay, God. You can show me what your will is. Show me what you want me to do. W. H. Griffin said, he went from cunning to clinging. He went from resisting to resting. This was a literal change that he experienced The one who was crafty has now been conquered. Jacob's heart completely yielded to God at that point. He said, okay, God. I'll do whatever you want me to do. Will you bless me? Then the spirit of it changes where he calls out to God and begs for a blessing. We see that God answers his prayer, 27 through 29. God ends up blessing him, and Jacob's name is changed to Israel. They keep changing these guys' names and uh gets you all confused, right? Uh like wait a minute, I thought we were talking about Jacob. Now he's Israel Uh and and that keeps happening and so it sometimes it gets hard to keep track of, especially when you just jump into and you're reading a passage of scripture, connecting the two and realizing that it's the same person and so on can sometimes be difficult but God changes his name to Israel. Jacob means trickster, somebody that's deceitful, somebody that's conniving. But Israel means one who is has power with God. Has power with God. Let me give you these last things here because we got to close and be done. But God has called him back to Bethel. So we see that uh Under under his devoted his devotion is checked. Chapter thirty five. We don't have time to read all these, but um Back when he called him to Canaan, he said, I am the God of Bethel. Now God reminds him of this call, this time, and he says, Hey, you gotta come back. Jacob calls his family to join him in returning to God. Verses two through five. Uh we don't have time to read this, but verses two through five, he he cleans house. He says, Hey, there's some problems here. There's some gods that we've got to get rid of. There's some some You know, a lot of times it's not a matter of we don't know what to do. We know what God wants us to do, we're just not doing it So when God calls him back, he says, hey, if we're going back to God, there's some things that need to change. He removes the odd gods that were in his home. And He removed the old garments. There were some old garments that he had to get rid of. And he builds an altar there. Then we see his depressed countenance. Jacob experiences great loss. His uh Old nurse Deborah passes away in 35-8. His belief beloved wife Rachel passes away in 16 through 20, and his father Isaac passes away. So so many losses here in this chapter. Now His story does not end here. Again, I said he continues to live all the way until the end of chapter number 49. Genesis ends at 50. Uh but we begin well the next chapter picks up with uh um chapter thirty-six picks up with the story of Esau and just has a quick, here's what's going on with Esau, and then we begin in chapter 36 with uh uh I'm sorry, chapter thirty-seven with Joseph. And Joseph's story kind of takes the front of the va balance of that because God is showing his miraculous hand in his protection and provision of his people. And we're going to get into Joseph next week