And then the twelve books of history that make up the historical section of the Word of God Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1st and 2nd Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther. Very good. That's all right. We uh I I can tell the confidence level's getting better. Everybody's uh you know following along and tracking and uh that's what we want to do. We have a real good just quick in our mind where we're at. We know when uh somebody says turn to the book of Ezra you'll kinda know Where it's at. You open the Bible and you know, oh, I need to move forward a little more or back a little bit, and just gaining that confidence uh is is helpful, it's beneficial. So we have uh began studying in the Old Testament, uh, looked at the foundational period or creation, the first eleven chapters covering the four major events there, and then we got into the patriarchal history, and there's four major patriarchs that we covered or are looking at in this section on the patriarchal history, which covers the balance of the book of Genesis. Now we are this morning getting into the last of these four patriarchs, and that is Joseph. You'll see in the title of your notes there the founder of Israel, Joseph, and it covers Genesis chapter 36. through fifty all the way to the end. Um because that's the history. Now this of course we're dealing ultimately with God's plan for the redemption of mankind with his goal and desire to try and Restore man into a loving relationship with him, that relationship that was destroyed by sin shortly after the foundation of the earth. He's established his covenant with Abraham to build through him a great nation that the whole world would be blessed. And uh it's through this nation of Israel that God is going to reveal Himself to the world. It's through this nation that God is going to deliver a Messiah one day. Now that Abrahamic covenant was passed on from Abraham to his son Isaac to his grandson Jacob and to his son uh the sons of Jacob who will become the heads of the twelve tribes. All except for Ephraim and Manasseh, which are Joseph's sons, and we'll teach a little bit on the transition there and why that helped why that happens as we see the twelve tribes of Israel include Ephraim and Manassash. And we'll talk about that as we get down into the notes a little bit. So the our story takes a little bit of an unusual turn as we've kind of been really we've been tracking the lineage of Christ thus far. We've been looking at, you know, okay, here's the the father of the nations and and uh tracking down the the line of ultimately w where Christ is going to come from and then we kinda jump over here and all of a sudden there's Joseph. And there's actually quite a lot of the book of Genesis that's So why is Joseph so important? Why is he considered one of the patriarchs? I mean, he's not even one of the twelve tribes. I mean it's his two sons that become So why is Joseph so uh uh uh critical that the Lord would take this much time? Well ultimately God is wanting to show us uh his preservation protection and provision that he used Joseph to bring for his nation of Israel as he's establishing this nation and as the nation is growing. It is really Quite miraculous uh how God orchestrated these events and put things into place to ultimately allow this baby nation to be protected and provided for until such a time as they were capable and ready to go out on their own. And then of course we get into the Exodus and we see now it's God's calling them out. God's saying, okay, now it's time to go in and to occupy the land. uh the land that of course Abraham went to many, many, many years ago. Uh they were in captivity for about four hundred years. And so there was time there as a nation that they grew and expanded and their numbers increased. And all that time they're provided for and protected by God's plan. So this is what he's showing us when he talks about Joseph and the time that he's taking here. So we see uh first of all uh Joseph, the son, begins in chapter 37. Now He is a figure of Christ. That's your first note here. He's a figure of Christ and have in parentheses there type because that's the the biblical term for it, it's a tight that a picture that you see. And that's because uh there are the similitudes And the likenesses of Joseph's life track that of the life of Christ. You can see they they believe uh in my reading and such there's over a hundred likenesses or or comparisons between the life of Christ and the life of Joseph. I just gave you a few of them here, I think, eleven of them or so, uh, that are things that you look at and say, well, this is what happened to Christ, and the same thing happened to Joseph. So There's a very strong picture drawn for us of Christ and what he was going to go through. For instance, in John 1. 1 he says, and he came to his own and his own, John 11, sorry, he came to his own and his own received him not. Uh well Joseph came to his own and his own received him not. His own brothers wouldn't wouldn't have him. They wanted to get rid of him. And so we see those likenesses here, and we're not going to spend a bunch of time there. I just wanted you to have them uh that you know like he was sent by his father in 3714. Well 1 John 4, 9 through 10 we know that the Father sent Christ. He was hated for telling the truth. They plotted to kill him. His robe was taken. He was betrayed for silver. uh he was exalted to the throne. He became the savior of his people. So so many things uh are very similar in the life of Joseph as in the life of Christ, and so that typology is there. And as you're reading about Joseph, you can think about or picture the ultimate deliverance of the nation of Israel or the world through Jesus Christ and the picture that's there. We see that he was favored by his father. Now, so if you have your Bibles and you turn to Genesis chapter 37, is where the story begins here. Genesis 37 He was favored by his father. And Jacob dwelt in the land where his father was, stranger in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob, Joseph being seventeen years old was feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpha, and h his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report, which we'll talk about in a moment, but Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son in his o of his old age. And he you know the story, he made him a coat of many colors. He was favored by his father. Now you would think that Jacob, Israel here, as he's mentioned in the text, his his name had been changed that, you know, he grew up in a home where favoritism was present. You know, the the conflict and the continual issue between him and Esau growing up. You would think that having grown up in such a home that he would have said, wait a minute, I want to make sure that this doesn't happen in my home. I want to be sure that I'm not showing favoritism because of all the conflict that that I endured growing up. But here's the thing. Here's the caution for you, the warning And when I do premarital counseling, I sit down with them and I say, the problem is, is you will have a tendency towards what you know. It does not have to be your story, but the fact of the matter is, unless you are conscious of it and you on purpose make an effort to change it, you will have a tendency to do what you know. If conflict resolution in your home was uh everybody screaming and yelling at each other Very likely the way you and your wife will resolve problems is by screaming and yelling at each other. Now it shouldn't be that way, but that's what you know. If conflict resolution in your home was solved by uh sullen, moping, silent treatment. Very likely that's how it's going to be settled in your home as an adult, because that's what you know. That's what you've been exposed to. And so you have to be aware of these things, realize the deficiency, and make that change And raising your kids, if you were in a home where uh a parent never expressed any emotion, where the parent never expressed any love You and your mom and dad never hugged you and said they loved you and said you did a good job. You as a son, you hated that. As a son, you despised it, but now you're a father and you're doing the same thing Why? Because you did not consciously in your heart and mind say, I have to change this. My personality is going to be a lot like my dad's. I'm going to find it very hard to show affection. So I need to work to overcome that. And you have to on purpose try and do that so that you can show affection. This is just a great example for us here, you would think, of all people that Jacob, who became Israel, would have at least known favoritism was a problem. He did it. He he used favoritism very prevalently, very uh strongly in his home, and that caused problems for him. Uh this partly, this favoritism was because it was the first son of his beloved Rachel. In chapter 30, verse number verse number 24, we see that him being born and uh We're not going to go back and look at that, but he was born at the first son, and he was treated like the firstborn of the family. He wasn't the firstborn of the family by a long shot. Um I have given you on their little uh chart here the twelve tribes and uh showing you the order, that's why I had Alicia put this together with a number, you could see, you know, the order of their births on there. And so you get down to Joseph, he was number eleven. So he wasn't the firstborn by a long shot, but he was the firstborn of Rachel, whom he really loved, the one he wanted to be with And so he treated him as the firstborn of the family in many ways, including the idea of him going to be receiving the inheritance even though he wasn't the firstborn. And this favoritism caused great problems in their home. Now, he was a boy of an ex of exceptional character. Even in the face of great hardship, even in the face of struggle, uh, Joseph was a boy who had exceptional character character. And I read you there that verse number two where Joseph comes and he brings to his father this evil report. We we see uh a picture of his character there, but we see in the face of hardship, in the face of troubles, you see functionality was rejected. Now we hear a lot of talk today about dysfunctional homes Well, this was a dysfunctional home. We don't have time this morning to go into and talk about the his brothers and all of the tomfoolery that they got into and the things that his brothers did. I don't think he had to look very hard to come up with an evil report. Uh his brothers uh were involved in some pretty uh awful things. There was it was a dysfunctional home. Obviously favoritism was prevalent. Um We talked last week a little bit, uh uh kind of introducing this on the idea of what happened with him. He wanted to marry Rachel, but Rachel, you know, he was tricked and ended up with Leah and then uh Then he finally got Rachel, but both of them brought their handmaids with them and then all the competition in the home between who was having what child and Oh wait, you why don't you go to you can have my handmaid and you can have my handmaid and oh wait, m your handmaid had a child? Well my handmade needs to have a child and that all of that conflict. It was a dysfunctional home, yet still he had some character. What I'm saying is that your situation doesn't define you. Where you're from and the background you came from or the home that you have to live in, praise God if you have a good home where mom and dad love you and encourage you in the right direction. Amen. But sometimes that that's not your story, but it doesn't that doesn't mean you have to throw in the towel and say, no, I don't have a chance. You you still have a chance. God can do great things with you If you will just yield and say, hey, listen, I serve a big God and he can overcome these hardships that I'm facing. He grew up in a very dysfunctional home. Uh functionality, a normal functional home, was rejected Favoritism was recognized, the second one there. Favoritism was reverbed knew it. There was no there was no despise disguising it, no hiding it, no denying it. Everybody knew that Joseph was the favorite, just like in my wife's home, her her sister is the favorite uh growing up. There's no there's no question. There's no that that is the Ongoing family conversation that Joanne was the favorite. She she got all she just uh and uh w what did your dad call her? Skippy? What is he what was your dad's nickname for Joanne? of putting her on the spot. He he still calls her that all the time. He'll think she'll think of it later. Uh putting her on the spot. Anyways It's the joke there that she, you know, he he he loves her the best and he's like, You know it, you know it and uh and they have a great relationship, they don't have problems there, but it is uh the joke there that she is the favorite in the home Um so you gotta guard against that. Frustration was real. Uh d this ongoing frustration in the home, the struggle, the battle between each other and that stuff in that Filth was rampant. Again, we don't have to go through and read the story. You can do these on your own. Read the story of his older brothers. and uh the stuff that they got into. And uh it's it is phenomenal. Filth and ungodly living was rampant. Um what I'm saying is you can let adversity destroy you or you can let adversity develop you That that's the thing. Joseph allowed the diversity, that uh the the adversity that came into his life develop him instead of destroy him. Uh it's not your circumstances It's how you come back from them and so that define you. Some things are going to they they can either destroy you or they can develop you and it's how you respond to them is the fact and that's a matter of something personally that you do. A lot of people, especially in the world today, they want to blame who they are and what they're doing on their circumstances. on the who where they grew up, on the bad neighborhood that they lived in, or that they didn't have the chances other people had. And those things have been proven over and over and over again to be uh just excuses Everybody makes their own choice and you decide whether you want to let it build character in you or you want to live uh in a dysfunctional way. That's that's the fact of the matter is, but Joseph did not. He was flouted by his brothers Now, I didn't make you spell that one. I put that one in the notes for you because it's a less common term. If you want to define it, you can write next to there. That means to be despised or to have contempt for. to be despised or have contempt for. I think that's a pretty good description. They they hated him. They despised him. They had contempt for him. There is no question about that. Uh let me see here. In verse number uh see. Oh come on I'm looking where it says his brothers hated him. It's all it's through here two or three times in the text. So verse 4, and when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. They hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. His brothers despised him, rejected him. Now, they despised him and reje and rejected him. They didn't want it they couldn't speak peaceably to him. This contention between them was prevalent for several things. Uh one really is because of the character that he had, and he brought this evil report. Essentially his brothers would have said he's a tattletale. You know, in verse number two, he brings this evil report to their father. But as a general rule, I would encourage any parent, don't let your kids be tattletales. But you need to teach them there are times, there are situations where you have a responsibility to tell. And young people need to learn this. They need to learn when when am I being a tattletale and when am I telling for the right reason? And it is very important that young people learn how to do this because there is this false sense of honor. that grows in the heart of somebody where they feel like, well, I'm no snitch. And and I'm loyal to my friend And I'm not going to tell on him because I know he's doing wrong and I know he's going to destroy his life and and you know who knows what bad things might happen to him, but I'm loyal to him, so I'm not going to say a word. That's wrong You they need to learn when it is right to go tell authority and when they're just being a tattletale. So there's uh three E's I want to give you uh about this, about how to do it and when when to do it. First of all, uh when there's no exaggeration You say, when is it okay to go tell, or when should I tell? When there's no exaggeration, what you're telling, you want to make sure it's not a matter of you're exaggerating or blowing up. You're just communicating the truth. When there's no evil intended, sometimes one child will come and tell on another child why? Because he wants that child to get in trouble. His reason for telling is he wants to hurt his brother or sister. It is not because he wants to help them. His reason for telling is because he wants to hurt them. And so when there is no evil intended, when it's not exaggerated, when there's no evil intended, and when there is no enrichment gained. So there's no personal benefit. Mom Andrew took both ice cream cones. Okay, the reason that they're telling on Andrew is because they want one of the cones. There is personal enrichment. There is the motivation behind why they're being a tattletale is not to help their brother, it's to get personal gain. And so here's some things you can use as a guideline to try and look at when your c when your son or daughter comes to tell on their sibling. Uh listen, you're being a taddle tail. You you're trying to benefit yourself. You're not trying to help your brother. That's wrong. And you need to teach them the difference between the two. Joseph here uh did it correctly. He came and brought this evil report. As a general rule, discourage that. Don't let your children be tattletales. But H. G. Thomas said There are times when silence is nothing short of criminal. There's times when silence is nothing short of criminal. When there are things happening when people are going to be hurt. where the individual could destroy their life and and especially among teenagers they get this sense of loyalty to one another that uh well listen don't tell mom and dad or don't tell uh this the teacher at school uh you know We got a copy of the test and we're we're all we're the whole class is cheating on this and and we're they're all loyal to one another. They're all hurting themselves. It's gonna hurt them in the long run. It's gonna cause a lot of damage later. And young people need to be taught at times it's nothing short of criminal to not tell the authorities. So We see that his brothers hated him because he brought this evil report, which was really because he had a he was a young man of character. They didn't like that. You know, a lot of times when you're doing right, other people aren't going to like it. Because your your righteousness shines a light on their wickedness, and they don't appreciate that. And so that's what you had here. We see that he had an elegant rap. uh that is that coat of many colors that was given to him by his brother uh by his father, sorry, and they did not like that elegant wrap that he had, that that testament. Every day they saw him they had to see that their father loved him the most. And it just was rubbed in their face. It would just was was up front and and just the re none of them got a coat, but he got a coat And that favoritism was just pushed in front of him all the time and and that hatred began to grow. You know, hatred can grow for anybody if you start giving a lot of time, a lot of thought to it If you start letting that grow in your heart and mind, you see it got to the place where they couldn't even speak peaceably to him. They couldn't even coexist in a in even a small peaceable way. No. Why? Because they kept pondering that. And that that that elegant wrap, that coat that was in front of them every day kind of contributed to that. Um they Hated him because of his dreams. In 37, verse number five, we see his first dream there. In the first dream, his brothers bowed down to him. He came and he says, And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. They hated him even more. They already hated him, but now he shared his dream with them. And it it just kind of like it was a jab in the heart. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you this dream which I have dreamed, for behold, we were uh binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaves. arose and also stood upright, and behold your sheaves stood round about and made objects to my sheaves. They they bowed down. He says, Oh, my sheaf stood up tall and uh you guys all bowed to me and his brothers thought men the arrogant. The pride. This stinking little rat, this this this kid that's being treated as the firstborn and he's not the firstborn. And the the hatred grew in their heart for him. To make matters worse, he had a second dream which included mom and dad. Now Jacob and Israel, I mean Israel and Rachel bow down as well. And they think, oh, now mom and dad are bowing to this kid. What in the world? They did not understand what God was doing and what God was revealing to them. They just let this hatred grow. And therefore he became forsaken by his own. He was forsaken by his own. As a son, hey, he came to his own, and his own received him not. His rotten brothers, who were eaten up with envy, conspired together to slay him. In verse number 18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. They said, Hey, look at- here comes that dreamer. Here comes that young man full of pride and arrogancy. Here here here is that guy. Uh let's kill him. Let's just kill him. He's out here all alone And and so they began to conspire to kill him. Now Reuben, his oldest brother, encouraged them not to uh kill him, but to maybe stick him in a pit. Hey, let's not just kill him, let's put him in a pit Uh you know, in Reuben's mind, and you can read the story here, but in Rubin's mind he thought, well, we'll stick them in a pit later, after my brothers who are all our raider are, you know, settled down or they go away, I'll come back and get them out And he thought, well, I'll save him that way. I mean, but can you imagine the hard-heartedness of these brothers to be able to stick their brother in a pit with the intention of leaving him there to die? To starve to death, to freeze to death, whatever, just to be exposed to the elements. I mean that's worse than just killing them. Just letting them slowly die over time. They thought, oh yeah, this is good enough. Let's do that. They'll drop them in a pit But Judah concludes that there's no profit in letting him die. So look at verse number 26, 37, verse number 26. He says, Come, let us sell him. So he says, and Judah, verse number twenty-six, sorry I was ahead. And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother or conceal and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh, and his brethren were content. They said, Boy, that's a good idea Man, no not just kill him. I mean why not get some money out of it? And so they were driven or motivated by personal gain here and they conclude to sell him. I don't know where Ruben was during this time. Ruben uh being the mind of reason thought, well I'll save him. Reuben must have been out caring for the animals or away for a little bit or something because he comes back and finds out that he's gone. that his brother is missing and didn't know about it until later, but they sell him and they report back to Jacob that he had been killed by a wild animal. Now it's interesting that they use the blood of a kid. To deceive Israel. You remember back in Jacob's life when he did that When he used the blood and the skin of a kid to deceive his father, again over and over, God is showing us the biblical principles that that are that are throughout the scripture, but you reap what you sow. That's why we've got to be careful what it is that we're sowing. He ultimately was deceived in the same way in which he deceived. So we see him as a son, and then we see him as a slave in chapters 37 through 39. The story of Joseph, beloved, is fulfillment. of God's prophecy given to Abraham. Now, this is the story is going to unfold for us here, but I want to read this for you back in Genesis. chapter number fifteen um in verse thirteen. If you don't have that in your notes, you can write that down right there. But let me just read. This is the prophecy that God said was going to happen to his uh nation in fifteen thirteen. He says, and he said unto Abraham, Know of a surety thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. And shall serve them, and they shall afflict them for four hundred years. So all the way back in Genesis chapter 15, God tells Abraham, there's going to come a time When the nation, when your children, when their people are going to go into captivity, they're going to be held captive in a land that is not theirs for 400 years. This story of Joseph is the beginning of that time period where they end up in captivity. And so we see that he is sold into slavery. To Potiphar, verse number thirty seven, chapter thirty-seven, verse thirty-six. Thirty-seven And the Midianites sold him unto Egypt, unto Potiphar, an officer in Pharaoh's house and a captain of the guard So we see this Potiphar, he's an officer in Pharaoh's court, he's a captain of the guard. A couple of blanks for you to fill out there. And listen, this unfair treatment of Joseph this this situation uh from Joseph's perspective at this time, you know, we get to look at the story in hindsight. We get to look back and see what God was doing. But Joseph is living this. And it takes a man of pretty strong character to be able to go through this and not be angry and bitter, not be mad about the injustice that was done unto him. But God is working in Joseph's life. God is with Joseph through it all, we see in chapter 39. Now chapter 38 takes a break from Joseph's story, and you can read 38 there on your own. But in chapter thirty nine we pick up Joseph's story, he says, And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh a captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him in the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had brought him down thither. So he was brought here. Verse number two says, And the Lord was with Joseph. The Lord was with Joseph. As he went into this time of being a slave, God was with him. The Lord was with him Listen, we must endure life's adversities before we can enjoy life's advancements. Okay? Adversity comes to everybody. There is nobody in here that has not endured or gone through some adversity. And this world just loves to play the victim card today. They love to talk about their situation and how they are a victim. You know, I think some of this reality television and uh even I mean you take anything, you take American Idol or uh What's the AG America's Got Talent? You take any of those and what are the what are the the stories that they love to tell? They love telling the story of this guy that went through he was bullied as a child and he didn't have any hope and he everything in life was against him and they try and dramatize all that out And they explain how this poor child had no chance, but now here he is on America's Got Talent or Britain's Got Talent or whatever. Those are the stories. What I'm saying is it motivates people to look at their their struggles and to capitalize on those, to try and use those to further their cause or whatever it is, instead of just getting over it and getting past it. You're just living in that past pain and enjoying it. You're holding on to it and you need to learn how to let it go. That's what God wants you. You're saying that God's not strong enough to bring you through, to give you the victory. You're holding on to that struggle, to that past pain. I want you to know that you have to endure the adversities before you can enjoy the advancements. And this is what Joseph is doing here. He was several things here. He was persecuted by uh his brothers. Joseph was persecuted. But God prospered Joseph. Potiphar promoted Joseph. It was Joseph's industry. And Joseph's integrity that was recognized by Potiphar. As he went into Potiphar's house, he was blessed over and over. In chapter 39, we see verse number three. He says, And his master saw That the Lord was with them. And that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. Wow. What a testimony. What a testimony that somebody that doesn't even believe in God would say, man, God's blessing you. All I know is that since you've been here, things have been going pretty good. I mean we can see the advancement here. We can see how things have grown. We see how smooth the house is running I can tell you that I don't know exactly what it is, but you're a hard worker. His industry and his integrity as an individual. Potiphar recognized that, and Potiphar promoted him because of it. But we of course know the story, Potiper's wife pursued him. She saw this young man and all of his character. What's that verse in Proverbs about the uh strange woman? Goes after what? What's the What's is it the special fruit? Go uh that she goes after the precious fruit or the uh The precious life? Might be I'm sorry, I'm going off the top of my head and not you guys know I don't work well off the top of my head. So I'll have to look it up and let you know. But Potiphar's wife goes after Joseph. This this pure young man with integrity. She saw him and desired him. But his integrity protected him, and then Potiphar imprisoned him Oh man, again, uh everything was going well. I was I was working hard, I was just trying to do right. Now look what happened. He gets thrown into prison. In chapter 39 and verse number 20, we see that he says, And Joseph's master took him and put him into prison. A place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison. Now, we get to look at this in hindsight, but it's quite amazing that Joseph was put into Potiphar's house. In preparation for what he was going to do one day. He was in a home of the leader of the nation. He was at a place where he got to learn and experience and know a lot about how things ran in that country. Then when things got bad, he got put into prison, but it was in the prison where the king's prisoners go. Why is that? Well, because ultimately we know that he the uh baker and the butler are going to be stuck in there And uh he needs to be in contact with them because God has a plan to get him into Pharaoh's house, which takes a little bit of time, but he goes through this. Now he was then placed in prison for actions that he did not do. And on the surface, of course, this appears to be one injustice after another, just continual problems. But through it all, God is faithful to Joseph. You see, beloved, many Christians fail to see God in the storm. They just see the stress. They allow the hardship of life to define them instead of develop them. They become bitter. They become angry And instead of God bringing them through the storm to where he wants them to be, it might have been something that happened five, ten, fifteen years ago. Instead of God bringing them through the storm and bringing developing them and bringing them to the place where He wants to use them greatly, they're still stuck back here in the storm. This is where they're living. This is where they're choosing to abide and hold on to. They're hanging on to it like a child hangs on to a pacifier. That little thing that brings them some measure of comfort and they they they're just sucking on that sour thumb Instead of getting past it and letting God take them where he wants to take them, to do what he wants to do with them. Ultimately we see the success of Joseph's life when we get to the end of the story, but it's only because he was able to go through this without hanging on to it. He was able to let God do what he needed to do, and then he moved on. You see, God gave him power for the attitude that he had. For the attitude that he had, we see in verse number 22. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph, Joseph's hand, all the prisoners that were in the prison, and whatsoever they did there. He was the doer of it. Joseph rose to the top in the prison because his attitude that he had. So we see thirdly here as a seer, Joseph as a seer in verse chapters 40 through 41, in prison he was still in God's plan Sometimes we go through hardship and we must and we think, man, this can't be God's plan. This w what happened? Why am I here? Why am I going through this? But j even in prison, God Joseph was still in God's plan. God was still working things out for his good. Now you can write down next to this Psalms 105, 17, and 18. Psalms 105, 17, and 18 says, And he sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant, whose feet they hurt with fetters. He was laid in iron. He was laid in iron. They bound him. They put him in irons. They stuck him in the prison. He was taken, he was laid in iron. On the surface, of course, everything seemed to be going bad, but God was still in control. God was using life's events to bring Joseph ultimately To Pharaoh's house, where God wanted him to be. So God and his providence is seen in uh in hindsight. We look back. The butler and the baker were sent to prison where Joseph was. Had Joseph gone to a common prison, the butler and the baker wouldn't have been there. Nobody from the king's house would have been in that prison. And Joseph wouldn't have been in that prison if he would have been put in anybody else's house except somebody that high up in the kingdom. That could put somebody in the king's prison. If he would have been a d been uh you know bought and made a slave of uh a lower general or somebody lower in in the kingdom then he wouldn't have been there. But God putting each of these things in place for him to be in this place at this time. Now the butler and the baker, listen, we don't know what they did to get there. The Bible doesn't tell us that, but we know why they're there. Because God has a plan, amen? So we see that God gives the butler and a baker a dream in chapter 40 and verse number five. And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man his dream, in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. which were bound in prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and he looked upon them, and behold, they were sad. So Joseph's there, and here again, a a somebody dreams a dream, and they call upon him to interpret. Joseph interprets these dreams and he tells them very clearly, listen, in three days the chief fellow is going to be restored to the palace. This dream tells us that three days you're going to be you're going to be restored. Just three days from now, you're going to be rest you're going to get back up. Oh, isn't that exciting And they probably were all rejoicing. And then of course the the baker was like, Oh, well what about my dreams? Tell me what my dream is. And I think Joseph with a little less enthusiasm uh said, Well, in three days you're gonna be hanged. Yeah, y sorry, but your life is over. You you've got three days and and uh I'm sure that the baker thought He doesn't know what he's talking about. He probably just made this stuff up, but three days later it happened. And uh so God orchestrated these events to be able to put him, Joseph, in this place at this time. And Joseph, of course, asked the butler, he says, hey, will you remember me? When you're restored in three days, when you're put back before Pharaoh, would you let him know that I was unjustly accused, that I was stuck in this place, and I don't deserve to be here? Would you try and get me out? Would you do that? And of course, uh He forgets. Why? Because the time was not right. It was not time for him to get out. In chapter 40 and verse number 23. We see he says, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. You ever feel like you've been forgotten? You're like, yeah, Pastor Caleb, you forget our name all the time. Yeah, I know. It's terrible. But yeah, been forgotten. He's in prison and he's thinking, man, surely in a day or two I'm going to hear something I mean sure it's been a week now, surely in in a couple weeks, it's been a month. I mean surely he's had a chance to talk to the king to the Pharaoh by now. Well, the sad thing is, is we find out that it is two years before he gets word. Look at chapter 41. And it came to pass in verse number one, and it came to pass that at the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed. And behold, he stood by a river. So we see two years later that Pharaoh has a dream, and that prompts the butler's memory. Hey I know a guy that can interpret dreams. Not only my dream, but another guy's dream, and both of them were exactly right. I think it'd be worth telling Pharaoh about this. And so he communicates that to him. We need to uh wrap it up today. We're going to stop there with uh God gives Pharaoh a dream in 41. 1, and we will pick up and continue with this story of Joseph uh next week. So we see God's providential hand protecting and providing for his people. Getting to the end of this patriarchal history. Remember these dates that are on here are a a kind of a general uh kind of getting us to more even, broad numbers. Uh they're not going to be exact depending upon who you're reading. They might be a little bit one way or the other. But it gives us a general idea of what has taken place here as we just as we study the patriarchal period. We are Note sections starting on page number 40. We began last week and we're going to pick up there just running through and briefly Reviewing as we get down to where we left off uh a week ago. So dealing with this here We'll try and run through this quickly just by way of review. We saw uh Joseph as a son in uh chapter 37 He's a figure and a type of Christ. We talked about that. He was uh favored by his father, having been the firstborn of his beloved Rachel. Uh favoritism obviously was recognized in the home. Filth was rampant. uh very prevalent. Uh he uh was flouted by his brothers, that is to be despised or rejected, uh, because he brought an evil report, because he had an elegant rap, because he had uh engaging dreams uh that were given to him by God and uh the his brothers didn't like that. Now he was forsaken by his own. They plotted together to slay him. decided they weren't going to slay him, but that they would sell him instead. And so we see him as a slave in chapters 37 and 39. He sold uh by the Midianites to Potiphar as a slave, the captain of the guard. Uh his brothers persecuted Joseph, God prospered Joseph, Potiphar promoted Joseph, Potiphar's wife pursued Joseph. We see that in all of it, God was leading. He was placed in prison for actions he didn't do, but he also was given power for an attitude that he had. Then last week we got into point number three. There's a seer, 40 and 41. He was sent to prison. Even in prison, he was still in the middle of God's plan. God was in control. God leads in the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and sometimes you may be in a storm or going through something and you're not sure. But we just trust that we know God knows where we're at and what we're what what's going on. God's providence is seen in uh the orchestrated events that we get to look back upon upon in high insight they say high insight's twenty-twenty and so we get to look back and see the whole story from beginning to end. But the amazing thing about Joseph and his attitude And his testimony was that he didn't get to see it from beginning to end. He was living through it and still was faithful and still did right and gave us an amazing example So we see that the butler and the baker were sent to that prison where Joseph was, and uh we don't know exactly what they did to get there, but we know why they're there because God is deleting Directing the affairs of men. God gives the butler and the baker a dream, and Joseph has to interpret those dreams. The chief butler was going to be restored, and in three days the baker would be hanged. Joseph is faithful to give the interpretation of the dream, whether it's good or bad, he just gives the interpretation and does what is asked of him. Joseph asked the butler, Hey, when you get up into the Pharaoh's house, when you get there, could you please remember me? I've been unjustly persecuted, I've been put here without having done anything wrong, could you please remember me? But he forgets And uh this is, we were right here last week, I believe. We get to this point, he forgets why? Because the time wasn't right. And then we have a two-year window we see in chapter 41 in verse number one. This is where we left off last week Forty-one one and I'm in forty-nine. I'm gonna move back a couple chapters here. In chapter forty one one, and it came to pass At the end of two full years that Pharaoh dreamed, and behold, he stood by the river. So two years later, Pharaoh has a dream, and now all of a sudden he's desirous to know what's going on. I mean I've got this dream and During this time, there's a couple things that are a little bit different than our time. One is God used dreams to direct and lead people, and uh dreams had very significant meaning. Also, people's names during this time period were very significant. Names throughout the scriptures hold a lot of weight. You'll oftentimes see God changing the name of somebody, just like he did for Jacob, changed it to Israel. Why? Because Jacob means trickster Somebody's name many times defined their character, who they were, where they were going to go, what they were going to do. So names were very important in the scriptures. And uh dreams held a lot of weight, and these men wanted to know what these dreams were, and and they didn't understand it. And so Pharaoh's desirous to have this interpreted, and Joseph calls uh is called before Potiphar, or sorry, before Pharaoh, knowing exactly what he's supposed to do down in verse number 14, 41 verse 14. He says, Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon, and he shaved himself and changed his raiment and came into Pharaoh. So he was called up out of the dungeon. Hey, uh there's a guy down there that interpreted our dreams for us, and uh he could interpret yours, I'm pretty sure. And so they called him up to find out. Pharaoh was really wanted to know what this Dream me. And uh we see that Pharaoh says, hey, can you tell me? But Joseph gives credit to God. Joseph gives credit to God in verse number 16. And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me, God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace He says, hey, I don't have the answer you're looking for, but God will give you the answer. Tell me what is your dream. So he begins to interpret the dream in verses 41, I'm chapter 41, 25 through 32. Now, ultimately, we're not going to take time and teach on this, but you know the the if you've been in church long, you know the basic gist of the dream. They were going to have seven profitable years, years of uh great prosperity, years of uh success and abundance, but that was going to be followed by seven years of famine. And the the lesson, the uh overall wisdom that Joseph presents is, hey the wise thing to do would be to take the years of prosperity and prepare against the years of famine. And listen, that would be something wise for each and every one of us to do in our lives as well. How many people take their entire tax check that comes back and they say, oh look, I got a whole bunch of extra money right now, and they take it all and waste it on something. It's gone. They've got that extra money and they gotta go uh they're gonna go spend it instead of saving against the years of famine. You see, the the problem with people buying a $80,000 car and paying $700,000, $900 a month car payments Listen, if you have the cash in the bank and that's what you want to do, that's one thing. But if you don't have the cash, you're presuming upon an unknown future You're saying, hey, for the next six years, my financial situation is not going to change. I'm going to be able to afford this $700 car payment. You don't know that. Something may change. Your whole business, the whole company that you work for could go under in the next seven years and not even be around anymore. And you may end up at Walmart as a greener or who knows what. What I'm saying is you don't know the financial situation. So people presume upon an unknown future. And uh God gave them some insight into the future and says, hey, here's the thing. While you've got it, you need to be saving and planning for when you don't. And all of us know that we have uh days of surplus and days of famine. Amen? That's part of life. You have days that are up and days that are down, and the wise thing to do is to prepare for the days that are down while you're up And uh that is a whole boatload of wisdom right there. If you would take it, uh it would help you a lot in your life. Now we see Joseph is placed over everything in 39 and 40 uh because of the wisdom that he had. He says here, and Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou art. He is literally made second in the kingdom. Now, can you imagine the conversation over at Potiphar's house? You know, where he was a slave and he was unjustly accused and was thrown into prison? Word comes down and Potiphar hears about Joseph being made second in the kingdom and he goes to his wife and says, Well, I hope Joseph doesn't hold a grudge. I hope there was some real validity to what you accused him of because now he's my boss. Now I work for him. And uh if he holds a grudge, I may find my whole household in in prison soon. Uh I'm sure they were uh a little bit of trembling going on over the next couple days till they figured out that Joseph didn't hold a grudge that Joseph was uh bigger than that, amen. Um which we ought to be. Now Joseph is now thirty years old, we see in 4136 and and God gives him two sons, verses fifty through fifty-two. And uh we see Manasseth, he gives him his his son Manasseh, which means to forget. Let's look at that, verse number 50, 40. 150. We see in the second half of that Manasseh, for God saith, He hath made me forget all my toils. See, names have very specific meanings. God blessed him and all that Joseph had been through, all the pain that he had been through, all the false accusations and being sold into slavery and you know outcast by his brothers, all of this stuff. He says, you know what, none of that matters. God is with me. God's blessed me. And God has made me to forget all of that stuff. And listen, if we're ever going to get to the place where we have an Ephraim, Which means fruitful. If we're going to get to the place that we're going to be fruitful, we have also got to first come to the place where we forget But there's some things in our life, there's some things that we gotta be willing and ready to forget. I know you guys have not forgot. Shut the door! Shut the door! Shut the door Uh I know you haven't forgot that. And basically that whole message was on the idea that there's some things that you need to forget You need to shut the door on that. You need to forget those things. You need to let those things go. You're never going to be fruitful, which we see here that uh Ephraim means fruitful. We see that in verse number uh What what what are we at? We're at 5152. And the name of the second called he Ephraim, for God hath caused me to be fruitful. in the land of my affliction. Even in this burdensome time, even in this place where he was technically a slave, here he was made second in the kingdom, and God made him to be fruitful. If we're ever going to be fruitful, we've got to forget some things, let some things go. Amen. Alright, so we see that Joseph is given these two sons, and that God sends plenty during their years of prosperity so that they can prepare for when God sends famine. And uh the God sends famine so that ultimately that his people will move from their home to where he wants them to be, where they'll be protected and provided for. So God is leading his people through circumstances, through situations, he's saying, okay, it's time for you to move And and things got so bad that not just them, but many people had to go to Egypt for supply, but God had specifically prepared a way that his people could be cared for. So we see him as a savior. And 42 through 48, chapters 42 to 48. Now he is the savior of his people because God had put him in that place. God uniquely prepared and positioned Joseph to protect and provide for his growing nation. God uniquely prepared him to protect and provide for his growing nation. A couple of blanks there. We're we're filling in the blanks now. So the famine drives everyone, including Joseph's family, to Egypt. We're not going to take time to read all these passages of scripture. We're down through the beginnings of chapter forty two now. Joseph's family is looking for some help. Looking for a place to live, a way to be provided for, and God had placed Joseph uniquely in a position to be able to do that Now they come down, and we're not going to read through the whole story, but after reminding his brothers of their wicked intentions and what they had done, he revealed to them that uh hey, they meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Look in chapter 45. In chapter 45, Genesis 45, verse number 5, beginning of verse number 5, he says, Now therefore be not grieved nor angry with yourselves. That ye sold me hither, for God sent me before you to preserve life. He says, hey, God had a plan. He had something in motion. We see in verse number forty in verse number seven, he says, and God sent me before you to preserve you a prosperity unto the earth. God had a plan. He sent me ahead of you. You sold me, but God sent me. And he's telling them that. He says, God hath put me here. And verse number nine, God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. God has ye and go up uh let's see to my father and say unto him, thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down unto me, tarry not. He's saying, Hey God's put me in a place I can provide for you. I I I have the funds, I have the means, I have the capacity, it's here. Uh why don't you guys come and you'll be cared for? Upon Joseph's revelation And upon their acceptance, immediately he reveals to them his means to provide for them. Peace is established between him and his brothers. Protection is promised. And provision is available. Isn't that just like what happens when we come to the Savior? At that moment when somebody comes to the Savior and acknowledges that they've been that who Jesus was and God's plan and sent his son, we accept his uh sacrifice on that on the cross at the at that moment that we accept that uh peace is established and protection is promised And provision is provided. That's what God does for us, and that's what God did for them. The family moves to Goshen in northern Egypt. Um Uh Gus, could you get me a map of the twelve tribes of Israel to put up here in a little bit? We're going to be there in a little bit, and you can throw something on the screen for them to be able to see. I'm sure that most of you have something in your Bibles, just in your the your maps that you have front or back of your Bible that shows this, but we'll try and put it on the screen for you. So the family moves to Goshen in northern Egypt. At this time, the family consists of about 75 people Now, there are three different numbers given in the scriptures, and some people have great consternation over this, like, wait a minute, there's a problem here, these scriptures don't match So let's just look at this, if you would, in 46, uh 26 and 27. It's it's pretty clear here that why there's two different numbers. And it tells us in these two verses, but then over in Acts it's another different number altogether. So I'll give you some information on that. Let me get to it myself here. Verse number 26. All the souls that came with Jacob unto Egypt, which came out of his loins beside Jacob's sons, were all the souls, were three score and six. So we have three score and six. So there's 66 says, hey, there's 66 that came, right? Oh, that's the number that came. There was 66. However, in verse number 27, he adds to that number. He says, and the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, were two souls, so we know Ephraim and Manasseh that were born unto Joseph. Of the house of Jacob which came to Egypt were three score and ten. So he says he's adding to this number. So now there is seventy. And he has added Jacob Joseph and his two sons that were added right there in that verse. He says, wait, there's Jacob, there's Joseph, and the two sons that were born unto him. So that takes us from 66 to seventy. And then if you get, we're not going to turn there, but in Acts chapter seven and verse number fourteen, it says there were seventy-five that came And that because that includes there, it includes all his kindred. So that is adding the wives of his sons. That's where the 75 number comes from. And it's pretty clear in scriptures. A lot of times if you look at scripture and something doesn't add up, you say, wait, that doesn't match that Really is just a matter of understanding what the scripture is saying and putting it into context. Don't let people tell you that there's uh contradictions in the Bible or that it's not always accurate because look, here it says one thing and here it says something else. Just Put your thinking cap on and evaluate it and say, oh, okay, uh here it explained it. Here it added these four people, which is why now it's seventy. So just trust the word of God. Amen? So Egypt provides protection for this infant nation. There's this, the nation of Israel is 75 people strong right now. It's just beginning, uh an infant nation, literally uh a man and his family, 75 people. Uh you know, if my dad lives to be uh 150, he probably could be there. You know, he's uh he's got a good start. We start getting into the next generation, that number's gonna start growing quick, right? Um So we see that uh God kept them pure because they in the Cain land of Canaan they might have intermingled, they might have intermarried, but now they're in a foreign land, they're a very different place and Uh they're with the Egyptians, they were looked down on. They were sheep herders. Those in that land wouldn't have anything to do with sheep herders, which is why they chose Goshen. kind of uh out from away from everybody else. And why Pharaoh said, Hey, that's fine with me, you guys can have that land. Uh they were considered a lower class type of people. And so Egyptians would be less likely to be with them. But God was providing them. for for them, protecting them, and keeping them pure during the infant stage of the nation where they could begin to grow and develop. Now you know that they were uh at this time they're seventy-five strong They go into bondage. They spend 400 years here in Egypt. When we get to the Exodus and we start seeing God calling them out, we're going to talk more about that. But does anybody remember from other Bible classes or whatever about how many people they are when they come out of Egypt going into you know the wilderness wanderings and all that. Does anybody remember the size of the nation of Israel at that time? It's about two million. So the nation of Israel is uh estimated about two million people. So they have 400 years to grow and multiply. God is protecting this little nation, 75 people. It's just beginning. But here he's going to use a heathen nation that does not love God or know God to protect them and provide for them. and meet their needs and keep them pure, allowing them to grow into a great multitude. The nation of Egypt, which we'll see this when we get into Exodus, Uh they they got to the place where they're like, man, there's a lot of these people. They came and they were just one little family. Now look, they're everywhere. They're they're just they're taking over And then e the Egyptians say, well, we've got to squash them somehow. And so they begin to put them into bondage, into slavery, and they start getting worse and worse and worse. And that's because God's preparing them to be moved out. And so we're we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves, but I just want to give you that picture to show you what God was doing as he was establishing his nation here and why they had to go to Egypt. Manassas and Ephraim are adopted by Jacob in 48 verse number five. 48 and verse number 5, he says And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manassas, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee, unto Egypt, are mine. As Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. Now Reuben and Simeon are the two oldest, the first and secondborn. And he says Ephraim and Manasseh are going to be mine. He's adopted, they're brought into the family. And this is notable because Ephraim and Manasseh become two of the tribes of the 12 tribes of Israel. And you say, well, wait a minute. He already had 12 sons. How do we have 12 tribes if we've just added two more? Doesn't that make it 14? Well you notice in the 12 tribes of Israel that you do not have a Joseph tribe. So one of his sons, Ephraim, takes the place of Joseph. And then by God's design and God's plan, he had them The nation of Levi was specifically called to minister to be the priest, and so they did not receive an inheritance in the promised land. They were not one of the twelve tribes that received an inheritance, so their name is pulled from that list, and Ephraim and Manasseh are given that. And that's because Joseph received the uh double portion that the senior or the firstborn was supposed to get. Remember back in the beginning we talked about this that because Joseph was Rachel's firstborn He was treated as the firstborn of the family, even though he was not the firstborn by any means, but Rachel was the one that he loved, and so he had that favored position, and so he receives that double portion, which gives Ephraim and Manasseh a portion. That's how that happened. So Ephraim takes Joseph's place, Manassas takes Levi's place because the Levites were called to be priests. Then we see, bringing this to a conclusion, the shade tree, 49 through 50. Jacob has reached the end of his days. The time of his departure is at hand. He's going to bless his children. He's going to, by God's direction, give a prophecy, uh, foretell, uh talk about their nature and character and what's going to happen So we walk through this, Jacob's foreknowledge that God exposes to him. We see Reuben in verses 3 and 4. Reuben lost his birthright due to immorality. It was We're not gonna read the whole story, but you can read read that and and hear about the terrible things that he did, but his immorality. We see their history is wrought with great contention. And he's very clear on that. Then Simon and Levi, verses five and seven, we have a close brotherhood and cruel behavior. He talks about what they're going to be like. I'm in 49, verses 5 and 7. Let me just read it. It says Simon and Levi, verse number 5, there in 49, are brethren, instruments of cruelty. are in their habitations. He says, hey, this is what they're going to be like. This is their instruments of cruelty. And he knows the character of his boys and he knows where they're at and what they're going to do. We see Judah in verses 8 through 12 given very notable uh characteristics mentioned. There's several things. First of all, Judah would be praised by his brethren. In verse number eight, Judah, thou art he whom thy brother shall praise They shall praise him. He says, hey, your brothers are going to praise you. And because we're looking back in hindsight, we see some very notable things about this tribe of Judah that is praised for many reasons. First, well, we'll talk about him as we're going through here. But Judah's hand is going to be on the neck of his enemies, giving him a great praise of leadership. Judah is a lion's whelp in 49 9 he says Judah is a lion's whelp. You know that Jesus is the lion of the tribe of Judah. So the tribe of Judah is the lion's whelp. Jesus is the lion. Judah is going to hold the scepter in verse number 10. This refers to the fact that from the from Judah was going to become the line of kings, beginning with David. uh establishing that rule, the the rule, then all obviously ultimately the King of Kings is going to come through the line of Judah And we see Judah will be a father of Shiloh, which means peace in verse number 10. Great peace is going to come through Judah. Then Zebulin, verse number thirteen, would dwell near the coast and would be involved in commerce. And uh Issachar, verse 14 and 15. I Ishakar would be a source of great strength, would be concerned about security. Uh that's kind of their their passion, their goal, we gotta make sure things are secure. I'm thankful for the guys that are here that take it seriously, that work hard to make sure that you know the church is safe and secure. Uh we see in Dan, the tribe of Dan, 16 and 18, they would have a position of authority and would be a source of poison. Now it's believed uh that from the tribe of Jan will come the Antichrist. Um I'm not sure how at this point you could possibly prove that. I don't know myself of a biblical uh other than people's belief that this poison is talking about the Antichrist will come from there. Um but now we're so far down the line you know, what I'm saying is the intermixing of the races and the co com combinations of, you know, people from all these different uh down through all these years you could say ultimately well he's from the tribe of Dan. I mean ultimately I mean if you wanted to get that far back in people's lineage You might be able to determine that, I'm not sure. But that's what they believe that the poison is talking about, that it would be uh the Antichrist. And then Gad. Verse number 19 is going to bring victory in the inn, the tribe of Gad. Asher in verse number 20 would be successful. Naphtali in 21 is going to be swift. Again, he's given prophecy about these nations and I'll tell you what, uh Brother Bagwell. How many of you guys remember Brother Bagwell? Okay. Brother Bagwell has probably the best set of messages on the names of the twelve tribe of Israel most biblically sound and researched that I've ever heard and I'd encourage you, I'm sure it's available online if you want to hear like these these prophecies and illustrated and lived out where you could see them taking place. Uh very powerful set of messages on on this um the names of the tribes of Israel. Then Benjamin 27 would bring spoils. It's notable that both Saul from the Old Testament and Saul from the New Testament were from the tribe of Benjamin And so you talk about uh people that brought in great spoils, that brought a lot of blessing or benefit to the nation. So we see that Saul of the Old Testament and the New Testament were from the tribe of Benjamin. Then Joseph, of course, ultimately would be Ephraim and Manasseh. These two became the tribes of Joseph or his tribe. That they would be fruitful They would be a fruitful tree. They would be greatly blessed. God's blessing there. Then we see in 49, 29 through 50, Jacob's funeral. And he charges them there, tells them, hey, this is what I want. I want to be buried with my own people. Don't don't leave me here. Don't bury me in this foreign land. This is not where I'm supposed to be. I came down here for seven years of famine and I'm still here. So Please take me home. And uh that is something that Joseph is able to do, and they take him home and bury him where he wants to be, and they record his committal uh in chapters fifty, ver verses one through thirteen. And then ultimately we get to the conclusion of this. We have Joseph's funeral. We see his children are listed in 50, 22, and 23, and uh then his concern. Listen, he knows that it's not God's plan for them to be there. Chapters 50, 24, and 25. Let's see what that says here. He says, and Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. He says, Hey, this is not where we're staying. This is not where we're one day when you guys move out of Egypt when you're able to, I want you to take my bones with you. When we go back home to the promised land, I want to go with you. He says, please do that And then his cessation, he passes away, Joseph died, verse number 26, being 110 years old. And they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. So he was rested there and then carried away. So this brings us to the end of the beginning. So this is this is the end of the beginning. This is uh we basically covered the book of Genesis uh from January until now. Now we're going to see if we can get through the rest of the Old Testament by the end of the year. We'll see. Some of these books we'll be able to put together and cover much faster, but Genesis is the foundation of it all. It's the beginning of it all. The foundation of the world, the the in introduction of sin into the world, the the curse that fell upon all men, the the the flood, the establishment of the nations, including the nation of Israel, God uh raising up a people, protecting them, providing for them, getting ready for his plan to bring in a messiah and uh Satan of course at each turn bringing in his influences and trying to stop it and change it and God saying, Nope, we're gonna turn that around and use that for good. And uh so we see that take place over and over again And uh we are preparing now at the conclusion of this for God to bring his great nation uh out of bondage, out of Egypt, uh into the promised land into fulfillment of his plan. And so we'll get into Exodus here in the coming weeks and uh see what God has for us there