Last week really kind of just jumped into uh Paul's Deliverance from Peril, chapter number twenty-seven. We did open that. Kind of mention a couple of things, but I'm just going to pick up right there and walk into it. So I'm not positive exactly what notes you got as we began. Uh but that's where we're just going to pick up today, Paul's deliverance from peril in chapter twenty-seven of the book of Acts. We see that God has set the course, others have had a plan. They wanted to disrupt the plan, but God had a plan for Paul to get to Rome and God's gonna fulfill that uh plan. Paul and his band of prisoners are headed to Rome. We see Acts twenty seven and when It was determined that we should sail unto Italy. They delivered Paul, uh other prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus Ban, and entering into a ship We launched meaning uh to sail by the coast of Asia, one of our Xerxes and uh Macedonian and Thessalonica being with us. And the next day we touched at Sidon, and Julius courteously entreated Paul and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh himself. So we see how this uh Centurion was gracious and kind to Paul, gave him liberty, said, Hey, you can go and it's no it's noteworthy where Paul went to refresh himself. Can I tell you that a lot of times people of God are going to the wrong place to get refreshment? Paul goes to some fellow believers, he goes to some friends, some Christians, and he is going there, he gets to refresh himself, and you know it is refreshing to be around other believers. That's one of the blessings about the Marriage Matters Conference, just getting together with other believers and spending some time and enjoying that and being an encouragement to one another. It's not necessarily that, you know, you went to the Marriage Matters Conference because your marriage is in peril and and uh if you don't go you're going to end up uh, you know, on the rocks or your marriage is gonna end. That's not necessarily the case and Pastor Hank said it well. He said the fact of the matter is is most of the time the students that do the extra credit are the A students The people that don't really need to do the extra credit, they're the ones that do it. And that's the thing. A lot of times people that take advantage of something like the Marriage Matters Conference A lot of times really aren't the people that really need it. The people that really need it uh for some reason have something else they got to do that weekend and they can't seem to But the fact of the matter is, is uh it's a blessing and a benefit, and one of it is is just being around other believers. Just being an encouragement to one another, spending time together, and and uh it is such a joy to do that, and that's what the house of God is, our time of fellowship in the Lord's house and to be blessed this way is uh i it is refreshing, it is encouraging to us. And Paul is refreshed as he went And spend some time with some other believers. We mentioned last week that they face some contrary winds in verses four through eight. Even when you're on the right path, it's very possible that you're going to face some contrary winds. And the next day they touched in uh sight on there, but and when we launched first number four, when we launched from thence we sailed under Cyprus because the winds were contrary. They were contrary winds. They were uh stood in opposition. Now they was a physical aspect. Obviously the winds were physically against them, but you know there's also a spiritual aspect that those physical winds were hindering Paul from ultimately getting to where God wanted him to be. And what I'm saying about this is sometimes there are physical things that will hinder you from doing the spiritual thing that you should do. For instance, let's just get real practical. You know, sometimes, and whether it's a fault of your own or maybe your body doesn't allow you to, uh, but you don't get any sleep on Saturday night And you come into church on Sunday morning and your desire is to get from the Word of God. But physically you're so tired, you're sitting there and you're you're just you're drifting off and you're trying to focus, but What I'm saying is coming out like I'm speaking another language. You know, it's like, wait a minute, where was he? And and you can't track because your mind is so tired. When I was driving home yesterday, I was in the middle of a sentence to Mary and I completely forgot what I was saying I mean I was wiped out. I was in the middle of talking to her and my mind just like I'm like w what was what were we talking about? What was I saying? I mean I was wiped out. I was wore out And uh I completely I I couldn't even remember what what I was saying or what we were talking about. It just was gone. Why? Because the body was so physically tired and sometimes Physical things, you have burdens in your life, you got financial troubles, you got other things, they will hinder your ability to do spiritual things. Maybe you would love to go out on visitation or or passing out John and Romans, but you've got to work overtime because your bills are such that you can't you can't miss that. You've got to gotta do that. And so there's a physical thing that's getting in the way of the spiritual things. And sometimes that's the way it is. And Satan will use those to keep you from doing what you should, as he here tried to hinder Paul from getting where he was supposed to be. these contrary winds stood in the way. But you know what? The progress that he was trying to make, we talked about this last week, was slow. It was slow. You know, in verse number seven they were fighting against that wind. And we And when we had sailed slowly many days, and uh scarce were come over against Sidus, we the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete over against Solomon. W they they it was slow going. Sometimes the progress is gonna be it's gonna be slow and certainly there's things that hinder that progress. Paul gives a word of caution to the believers here. I think this is where we left off last week. But in verses 9 through 10, Paul gives them a little bit of caution. Now it's really funny. I didn't tell Pastor Hanks Uh but he preached from this passage of scripture on Thursday night. And uh he opened to twenty-seven and I'm like, oh no, we we're in chapter twenty-seven on Sunday morning And we mentioned it last week and we're gonna be finishing up this week and here he preached a a message and you know, of course we can reference that, but uh th there's a lot in this passage that we can that we can glean but we see here that Paul gives him this caution in verses nine and ten. He says, Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous because the fast was now already passed, this fast that they're speaking of puts it the time of year in in October or so, the time of year when smooth sailing would kind of be over. They they they kinda understood that it was the time of year that storms would arise and and so they want to hinder they want to be careful about launching out at this time of year. It was well known And we see here Paul admonishes them and said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage not only of the lading of the ship, but our lives also. He said, gentlemen, we we really shouldn't go do this. This is not good. Can I tell you something this morning? Paul was speaking from insight. You understand if you if you study the life of Paul, Paul had already been shipwrecked three times. What I'm saying is he had some experience. He wasn't a novice. Paul knew that uh the fact of the matter is is this was a dangerous time to be sailing. And and when he was sharing this with them, he was not ignorant, he was not just scared of getting on the water. He was speaking from some personal experience. He had some insight into the situation and he w he had been shipwrecked three times and he wasn't really looking for He wasn't wanting to try and do it again. So he says, listen, we need to do this. But you know, beyond that, Paul was not just speaking from insight. He was really speaking from inspiration. That is God revealed knowledge. God had come for him. There sometimes when I was taking tests in college, I wanted inspiration I wanted God to reveal knowledge to me, things that I did not know, that I wanted to get these answers on this test and the things that I didn't know. I didn't under you know, I needed him to reveal this to me. But uh God revealed this to Paul God told Paul what was going to happen. And God gave him this measure of direction. You know, sometimes God will give direction to spiritual leaders in your life. And we would do well to listen to them, to heed their advice. These men sometimes, you know, you you they they say, well, I don't know if that's a good idea That's not necessarily what I would do or we probably shouldn't take that step. And it would be wise for us to hear that, realizing that sometimes God gives spiritual wisdom, spiritual insight to others. to be a blessing to us, to help us. But the fact of the matter is is the centurion is careless. Verses eleven and twelve. The centurion apparently was the one calling the shots. He was the one ultimately responsible. And we see here he says, Nevertheless, the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship more than those things which were spoken by Paul. And uh, you know In this human aspect that makes sense. I mean, here you have Paul, who is quite literally a prisoner. He's chained to a guard. And Paul says we shouldn't do this, but here's the captain of the ship, the owner of the ship, and he says, we're gonna be fine. I mean in our logical mind, in our mind with related to, you know how we like to have experts, we value their input and their opinion I mean if we all got on a plane and went to go fly somewhere today and Nathan stands up and says, We better not fly here, we'd better not do this, and the pilot comes out and says, Hey, it's going to be fine, don't worry about it. I mean, who would we listen to? Nathan or the pilot? I mean we probably would listen to the pilot. So before we get too hard on this interior, and I mean it makes kind of logical sense, but we need to have an understanding And realize the lesson that can be learned here is sometimes there's some spiritual insight and some wisdom that God gives, and we need to have discernment to realize that and heed that when it comes. Don't put such a heavy weight on this world's experts. I value expert opinion, I value people that have experience, and certainly we should consider those things. But I think we, especially in this world of uh people ever creas uh ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth, there's people that have no uh They aren't worried about God and God's things at all and the things uh the direction of God, but they have uh you know, for instance in one aspect and I really need to keep on moving here, but one aspect is like our our public education system Where you have experts and they they declare this is what's needed and this is what we should be doing and and whatever but They're they're destroying the educational system of our society. And uh the experts, the ones that, you know, they have all the degrees and all those things Uh and everybody's relying on them because they've got these degrees, but they don't have the practical sense or they don't have the the spiritual sense to know what is truly important. And uh anyways, we see here that Paul has this insight and this inspiration from God, but the centurion is careless and he says, Hey, we want to go ahead and go. Uh the the fact of the matter is, is the i it wasn't going to be comfortable there, we see in verse number twelve, and because the uh haven was not commodious to winter, it wasn't gonna be comfortable, they didn't want to stay there. In the more part advised to depart thence also, if by any means They said, man, if there's any way we can do this, this is not going to be comfortable to we don't want to stay here for winter. Let's let's get on the road. Let's let's get down there. Let's go. We want to uh hi get out of here And uh we see in verse number thirteen, and when the south wind blew softly, supposing they had obtained their purpose, they loosed uh thence and sailed close by Crete. And so this soft wind looked favorable. The circumstances looked good. Can I tell you that there have been many lives destroyed? by favorable circumstances, by soft winds, by the idea or aspect that uh hey when things look good, when it looks comfortable, when it looks awesome, uh this is what we want to do. We need to be careful about that. This uh was not what they were supposed to do. Sometimes if you and I make a decision and go a direction out of ignorance I praise the Lord that He protects us, that many times He saves us. from our own uh fallacies, from our own false steps, from from the direction that we went out of ignorance, but when we know better and we go do that Sometimes God allows us to reap the the results. He doesn't guard us from it or protect us from it because you knew better. And you shouldn't have gone down that road. You shouldn't have done that, regardless of whether it looked favorable or not. You better have more than soft winds and warm weather to make your decision. To go a direction or to make a change. It it it cannot be just based on the fact that, hey, I I don't like it that it's cold here. I remember Brother Wayne Morrow by his own testimony. He came back from Florida and told me on a Sunday afternoon, hey Well we're on vacation in Florida, we bought a house, and we're moving. All right, brother. You know what what can we do to help you? You know, okay. They moved, well, two and a half or three years later they moved back, and when Marrow told me, he says, that was the worst decision I ever made. He said, we should have never gone to Florida. He said, literally, he said, I was just tired of the winters here. He's probably glad he's in heaven right now. I'm not dealing with this winter here. He's certainly uh better off. But uh you know, he was dealing with lung problems and things like that and he thought, well, if I go to Florida it's gonna be much warmer and I won't have to deal with that Uh but he didn't uh w from his own testimony he told me he says the th the summers were miserable. He says we couldn't go out of the house For months we were stuck in the house because it was so hot. You know, you can't breathe in the wintertime. He said we couldn't breathe in the summertime. You know, it was oppressive heat. And uh he said the other problem was he said we moved down there, he said we didn't know anybody All of our family's here. He was a Marylander. I mean his whole life was here. And he says, all of our friends were here. Everybody we knew was here. We went to Florida and there was nobody there, so we were all alone. And he says, boy, that was the dumbest thing I ever did I don't know why I did that. And he was really thrilled and glad to be back to be back for the short time before uh the Lord called him home. But what I'm saying is you got better have more than just soft winds and warm weather to make your decision, to make a move. or to make a big change in your life or to take that step because many times uh Satan's the one opening those doors Satan's the one that making it look promising and saying, Oh, look at this, boy, you could do this and it would be awesome. Uh, but it it doesn't turn out that way. So just be very careful. You're going to find out that it was costly. Verses 14 through 20, we see it cost them a lot Um he says in verse number fourteen, he says, But no not long after there arose against us a temp temptuous wind called Euryclidon, and when the ship was caught and Uh could not bear up unto the wind, we let her drive. Now when I read that I couldn't help but think about the young people have a statement today. They say, let her cook And uh some of the kids are laughing. Uh younger people, not really a kid anymore, but uh younger people they're laughing because they're they they say, well just let her cook. They're saying leave her alone, let her go. Let her do her thing, you know, or let him do her his thing, you know, just stop getting in his way or whatever, just let her cook. Well, that's what they're saying here. They're saying let her drive. The wind was too much, they couldn't try and control it. They're gonna if they were gonna try and keep that ship going any particular direction, it was gonna tear it apart. And so they said Let it go. Just let it go where the wind wants to take it. We've completely lost any progress we had. The wind's gonna carry us where it's gonna carry us, and there's nothing we can do about it. And uh so they just let it drive. They let it go and let the wind take it wherever it was going to go, just hoping it wouldn't fall apart. They did what they could to strengthen the ship in verse number 17. When they had taken up, they used uh helps uh undergirding the ship. So they tried to strengthen the ship. There was a there was a method back then called uh Which they would use rope to strengthen the ship. And you've seen it on some of these old ships where they'll take rope and they'll wrap rope around the whole mast. Rope is around the whole thing. And and it goes all the way up. That rope gives that mass a lot of extra strength where when it gets a lot of pressure on it, it would snap. But because the rope is there, it can't snap. And there's different aspects of the ship that they would they would do that to to keep it strong, especially in in bad wind, you know, adding support uh in different areas and that's what they did first. They said, boy, it's gonna fall apart. Let's let's strengthen the ship. So they worked to try and strengthen the ship, did what they could to try and help that. Uh then they said, well we need to lighten the ship And so they threw a bunch of stuff overboard in verses 18 and 19. And when being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day they lightened the ship. And the third day we cast out our own hands by the tackle of the ship. They said, Listen First day they threw out everything they didn't need. You know, all the useless stuff. The stuff that we have in the closets and in the attic and in the basement the things we didn't you know we don't use anymore uh that we haven't used in a long time, all that useless stuff we collect. They had a bunch of that on the ship. And uh they threw all that overboard Then they got to the place where they said, you know what, we we're gonna have to throw some of the useful stuff. We gotta lighten the ship some more. And they're throwing their tackle, they're throwing their extra ropes, they're throwing their fishing gear, they're throwing everything out trying to lighten the ship. And you know what happens, but sometimes when you make a decision based on convenience, instead of the command of God, you're going to find yourself in a place where it's going to cost you. And it cost them all the things they really needed. They had to chuck all this out of the ship. They lost all of that. This also is a picture. They lost all hope in verse number twenty. And when neither sun nor star in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope That we should be saved was taken away. They lost all hope. You know, many times people have to reach that point in their life before they turn to God. Even the lost. As long as things are going okay, as long as life is pretty smooth, they're fine and they don't need God. But then when something happens, I remember uh how literally it was mind-boggling this country that by its own declaration does not want to be recognized as a Christian nation. D they they they want to be a a socialist nation. They want to uh you know have everything secular, that the very least they want to be a secular nation, not a Christian nation. But do you remember uh in nine eleven? When it's like all of a sudden the whole country, I mean everybody is praying and on the news stations we're gonna stop and have a moment of prayer and and groups of people praying all over the country and there was this time where why? Because when everything was going good, everybody was fine and oh we don't need God But when that turmoil hit our country, it was mind-boggling how quickly the country turned and said, boy, we we need God and uh we need him and and Listen, sometimes God allowed those things to come into our lives, whether that's the lost or the saved, we've got to get to the place where we've lost all hope before we'll stop and turn back and look and look at God again. And ask God, look, we need you to do something. Beloved, let's not be that way. Let's look to God when things are good. Let's praise Him for the fact that we are enjoying His blessing. things are right and that we are in a a time of fruitfulness and prosperity or whatever it is, recognizing him even when it's sunny, not just in the midst of the storm here. We see in verse number 21 Paul's word of chastening. He says, But after long abstinence, Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and he said, Sirs, Ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loose from Crete, and to have gained this harm and this loss. So Paul gives them a word of chastening and he says, boy, you shouldn't have done this. Now, it might not be very good for him, but sometimes it sure is fun to say, I told you so. That's kind of what I don't know. I mean this is obviously under the inspiration of scripture here that God directed Paul. But Paul looked at these guys and he said, You should have listened. I told you we shouldn't be out here. There's one time when I was uh a lot younger, 30 years ago, my brother Daniel and I went skiing in Colorado. And uh there was a lift that had on this on the lift it was said warning, double black, experts only. And uh this is the first day Dan and I have ever skied in a mountain like Colorado. I mean it's a mountain. It's not like the little hills that we had skied before. And Daniel looks at me and he says, Are we experts? I said, sure. I think we're experts. Let's go. So we got on this lift and went up this lift in in Colorado to the top of the mountain. And when we stood at the top of that mountain I was questioning our decision. I'm looking down this thing that we're supposed to go down, and I'm like, oh my goodness, we are in trouble. Anyways, I actually did okay myself But if Daniel was ever motivated to cuss, going down that hill, man, he was cussing mad. Now he wasn't cussing, but he was so mad He was yelling on the side of that mountain. I mean about four or five times he fell and his he body went one way and skis went the other way and he had to climb back up the steep slope to try and grab his ski and I remember one time he grabbed his ski and he threw it down the hill and he's like We got no business being on this mountain you know he's like We shouldn't be up here I said, you asked I mean I was standing there in my skis, that was okay, but yeah, it was way beyond our skill level for sure. We shouldn't have been there. Uh there's no question about that. Uh but uh, you know, sometimes we think It's gonna be okay and uh we need to heed the warning experts only and maybe we shouldn't do it. Paul tried to warn them. Paul said we shouldn't go, but they went anyway. And we see God's word of comfort that he gives through Paul here. This is what uh Pastor Hanks kind of dealt with the other night, but God gives them a promise. God comforts them here in verses 22 through 26. The foolishness that they did was going to cost them. It was going to cost them a lot. They were going to lose the ship. They were going to lose all their possessions, but they weren't going to lose their lives. So Paul says to him, and now I exhort you to be of good cheer, for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you but of the ship. Paul tells him, you're gonna be okay. I want you to know that Paul is comforted because he believes the promise of God. The storm didn't stop. They weren't on shore yet. Nothing had been solved. But Paul stands up with confidence and says, guys, we're going to be alright. Why? Because he believed the promises of God. Look at verse number 25. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer for what does he say? I believe God. Because I believe God that it shall be even as it was told me. Beloved, the promises of God are only going to bring you uh comfort. In measure to how much you believe them. You're going through something in life and and you're so filled with anxiety. You're so filled with concern, so worried about the direction you're headed, and wondering if you're going to make it. And God has given you a promise that should bring you comfort, but it doesn't. Why? Because you don't believe it. Paul stands up with confidence and and he's encouraged and he's strengthened. Why? Because he believes that what God said. There's still, I mean you picture it. They're still in a storm. The waves are still beating this ship. Things are so bad that in just a moment there's some men they're gonna say, hey, we're out of here And they're going to grab that that uh lifeboat and try and throw it overboard and try and get to shore on their own. I mean they're still in the midst of a ship. And Paul says it's going to be okay. The Lord has spoken to me, the Lord has given us a promise And he gives them that comfort. And we see that God protects the whole company. Verses 27 through 37. The storm didn't let up. The desire to survive causes those that I just mentioned in verse number twenty-nine, they desired, fearing lest we should have fallen upon the rocks, they cast forth anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day. Boy they said, Man, if if we could just get a day And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let down the boat into the sea under color as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship. Paul said unto the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, he cannot be saved Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat and let her fall. So they said, hey, these guys were about to escape and they wanted to get out of there. But the soldiers cut off the ropes. They let go of their only way of escape in human standpoints. You know, sometimes we need to be that committed to God. We need to let go of our backup plan. We need to let go of the secondary option and fully commit to what God wants us to do. And just say, okay, Lord, I'm cutting it off. That's no longer an option for me. I'm gonna let that go. We're not gonna we're not gonna hold on to that and kind of uh safety net, as it were. We're gonna follow the Lord fully We know, of course, as we heard on Thursday, only those in the ship would be saved. Paul clearly communicates that to them in verse number 31. Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved. Only those that were there You see, the promises of God are quite often conditional and conditional upon our obedience. God says you would be saved, but only if you abide in the ship. There's a condition there. And many times the promises of God, they're called condition promise verses. And a lot of people like to grab a hold of the promise, but in the same verse they they failed to acknowledge or to uh abide by the condition. The children of Israel, God said, listen, I'll bless you, I'll multiply you, uh, if you obey me. There's the condition. And we we look for the blessing and the multiplication, but don't want to follow the obedience and do what he says there. He said, don't abandon the ship, stay in the ship, and you'll be saved. You know, it's amazing and and this was the heartbeat of Pastor Hank's message, the blessing that other people receive because one person is following God. That's in a church, that's in a home, that's in a business, that's in a community, that's a society. Listen, you think about uh Lot when he was in Sodom The fact of the matter is, is God had said, I will not destroy the city of Sodom. The entire city that God had planned to destroy. He said, I won't destroy it if there's ten righteous there. Just ten righteous would have saved that whole city. And so when there is one following God and honoring God, God's blessing is present in that place, and there are many people that are saved, great hardship. Because of their presence, because of their blessing. And I wonder, are we that person that God is blessing those around us because we're pursuing God and honoring God in this way? We see uh I I mentioned already, but their clear commitment in verse number 32, they cut off the ropes, there was no question, they cut off their second their secondary plan. And Paul lives an examp as an example unto them in verse number uh thirty-five. And when we had thus spoken, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of all of them, and when he had broken it He began to eat. So he encourages them to eat and he says, hey, you know, again, they're in the midst of the storm, but he says it's going to be all right. And he shows his faith, he shows his trust, he says, God's going to take care of us And uh he protects them. Everyone is encouraged and strength strengthened. Then we get to rejoice in the conclusion as we see 37 through 44 that uh they are delivered, that God uh meets them and provides in them safe passage ultimately uh they get there. People are saved. They lost their vessel, but their lives are saved. Uh in the midst of this challenge, they have a lot of ideas about what to do. You'll see in verse number two, they actually 42, sorry, they talked about killing them. And the soldiers counseled was to kill the prisoners lest any of them should swim out and escape. He says, Okay, we gotta jump out of ship, we gotta sail, we gotta go to shore, let's jump out and uh swim and they said, Well let's kill all the prisoners. Because we don't want them to swim to safety. We don't want them to escape. And uh ultimately that would have been against God's plan. God protects him through that idea, and uh they obviously don't kill them God protects Paul verse 43. But the centurion willing to save Paul kept them from their purpose and commanded that they uh which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea and get to land. You notice a portion of this here that God has said that He would save them, but at the same time they had an aspect in which they were supposed to do. We see that they all that they swim to shore. And verse number forty four, and the rest, some on boards, some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass that they escaped all safe to land. What I'm saying is that they had a they had to extend effort. God saved them, yes, but they had to do their part. They had to work. They had to get in the water and get wet. They had to swim to safety. They had to do that in order to see God deliver them this way We see Paul's last detour before Rome in verse number twenty-eight. I mean in chapter number twenty-eight. And uh I feel like there is sufficient here uh to r really kind of dig into this next week. They had endured a lot, but they've got one other detour that they're going to take place here as they are shipwrecked on uh what is now Malta in Melita. But they're shipwrecked there as they open in page number 28. But as it's 510 already, I think what we'll do is we'll pray and dismiss. We'll pick up there with chapter number 28 next week. Lord, we thank you for our time in Sunday school. We pray you would help us uh Lord be with us as we uh go into the morning service. Lord please Give me liberty to preach. Use your word in the lives of your people. Bless the service this morning. And uh give safety to those that are that are coming in for the services today. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.