All right, we are in Acts chapter 20, uh the middle of Acts chapter twenty. There we left off last week uh discussing Paul's desire to go to Jerusalem and hi his you know, purposed in his heart to do that and uh how God uh continually bring people along his path to to caution him and give him uh you know warnings to try and protect him. Um he says in twenty number twice number twenty two, chapter twenty, verse number twenty two he says And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there. He says, Listen, I'm going, I don't know how bad it is, I don't know what's going to happen, I don't know you know, where w maybe I'm gonna be in jail and prison, maybe I'm gonna be beaten, I don't know, but uh I I'm bound. I I have to go. I have to minister to those people there. I've gotta give them the gospel and he's purposing in his heart to to do that and he knows that that's where he wants to go. Um he communicates to them there those truths about how that he was with them and how he He ministered to them. He faithfully shared the word with them. He says, you know that err uh that since the day I came I have strived and worked to give you the gospel and to give you the whole counsel of God Uh but uh he gives them a warning and then he says goodbye to them and and passes off. But we see that very Well known verse in verse number twenty-four, he says, None of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, the ministry which I have received of the Lord. Jesus to testify uh the gospel of the grace of God. He says, Listen, I I've got to go do this. I don't know what's going to befall me, but I'm willing, whatever the uh cross that I must bear, I'm I'm gonna go do it. And so he he goes ahead and continues to go towards that. He has prayer with them. There's some weeping and and they say their goodbyes in verses thirty-six and thirty-eight. And when he had thus spoken he knelt down and he prayed with them, and they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, sorrowing, sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake that they should See his face no more. And they accompanied him into the ship. And he so he heads out to continue on his journey as we're looking at the path that he followed. Now we get into chapter 21. And right away in just the first couple of verses he visits a number of places. He's kind of on the journey. He's passing through uh cross and uh roads and uh terra and Phoenicia and Cyprus and uh Syria and Tyra. Um and in Tyra he again is warned uh not to go to Jerusalem. There there's Continually people come and letting him know, listen, they're gonna they're gonna hurt you when you get there. They're they're not happy. Uh I think it's in verse number four. And finding the disciples we tarried there seven days, who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem. And uh when he had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way. So he visits these places, he's ministering on his way, he's heading towards Jerusalem, but Each group he's getting with is giving him caution, giving him warning, saying, Hey, this is probably not what you ought to do. Uh he continues into Ptolemaeus uh and Caesarea in verse number seven there. uh ministers to those there moves on eight through fourteen. They in chapter eight they stayed with Philip the evangelist. I'm sorry in twenty-one verse eight through fourteen. They stayed with Philip there He says, And the next day when we were at Paul's company departed and came to Caesarea, and we entered into the house of Philip, the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and abode with him. And uh the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy. So he stays here and he makes note of these daughters that are being used, they're they're prophesying. And uh Agabus comes and warns him in ten and eleven. And when we had come unto us, he took Paul's girdle and bound his own hands and feet and said Thus saith the Holy Ghost, so shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. So he took his girdle and he said, Listen, when you get there Th whoever's wearing this girdle is going to be bound. He's going to be imprisoned. You're you're going to be turned over to the Gentiles, and who knows what they're going to do. Listen, I I've heard this is what's going to happen. You you shouldn't go and they're cautioning him again and warning him. And yet he continues on. We see in chapter 21 there, verses 17, all the way to 23, kind of his his trip, his journey, and what takes place in Jerusalem. They get to Jerusalem in verse number seventeen, and James and the brethren there were glad to see him. They were glad to see him. They were looking for him. He says, and when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. They were thrilled. There ought to be a spirit of joy and happiness when we're reunited. Brother Whitaker is going to be coming through here at the end of the month. uh to present his ministry in uh Chicago as he's starting that church plant and I talked to him this week and uh things are going really well. He's actually in in churches every single Sunday, uh between now and the day the church starts, including the Sunday before. I mean they they are booked all the way through until then and God has done some miraculous things which He will uh tell you about. Uh but anyways what I'm saying is when somebody like that that is a you know, missionary that we supported when he was in Belize and then helped him get the church started there in Pocatello and uh he's labored and been faithful. There ought to be some joy when we get back together with him and we see what he's doing and how God is blessing him and hear the report of what's taking place. And that's where the the saints and the brethren they received him gladly. They of course tell them that there's a rumor that you're going to be uh taken. The Jews aren't happy because they believe that you are pulling people away from the law. In verse number 21, and they informed uh they are informed of thee that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses. saying that thou ought they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after their customs. He says, You're turning everybody away from what they grew up. You're turning everybody away from what they once believed And so I'm warning you that this is this is happening, that the Jews are not happy. Um and they encourage him to be proactive, to do something about this, try and dispel the the the rumors, do you know Go out and let people know that that's not what's taking place before it's too late. But it was already too late. There a mob of Jews set upon him in the temple in verse number twenty-seven, and the chief uh captain there saves his life Paul has a moment or two to speak to the people before he's taken. Paul is questioned and beaten before a Roman tribune uh until they inform him that until he informs them that he's a Roman citizen in verse number twenty-four. Uh yeah 2224 there says, the chief captain commanded him to be brought unto the castle, and bid that he should be examined by scourging, that he might know wherefore they cried so against him. As they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman and uncondemned? He says, wait, I'm a Roman a Roman. I'm a Roman citizen. Can you do this? And then they stopped, they paused, they said, Oh. uh we didn't realize uh we're not going to be able to do this and so what they decide to do is they decide to take him before the Sanhedrin. They think, well we can't do anything here but uh your own people can and so they take him before the Sanhedrin, he's brought before them. This is the third time verses twenty three Um verses thirty through twenty-three ten. So they they get up and they go before the Sanhedrin there. Paul is this is he's n this is not new to him. He's been there before. This is the third time he's been before the Sanhedrin and they're not happy with what he's doing. And uh just notice in Verse number thirty, what takes place there. Well let's just pick up in chapter twenty-three, verse number one. And Paul earnestly uh Beholding the council, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. And the high priest and Aeneas commanded them that they stood by him and smite him on the mouth. So the high priest slaps him in the face. Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall That for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law? And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest? Then said Paul, I wish not, brethren, that he was the high priest. For it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people. But when Paul perceived that the one part was Sadducees and the other part was Pharisees He cried out in the council, in the council, men and brethren, I'm a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee, of the hope and the resurrection of the dead. Am I called in question? He realizes who he's with. He's here before the San Sanhedrin, but half of these people are Sadducees, and half of them are Pharisees. And they have a major disagreement. The disagreement is over the resurrection. The Sadducees didn't believe in the resurrection. And so he throws this question out, this statement out in the middle of it. And uh the Pharisees and the Sadducees start going at it. They start debating and getting getting so uh irate and it gets so much between them that the guard has to take Paul out And he is escorted out of there because they began to debate among themselves. The Lord appears unto Paul to encourage him in verse number 11. And the night following the Lord stood by him and said, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome. Jesus comes to him and says, listen, Paul, I know you've been attacked, I know you've been slapped, I know you've been here before the Sanhedrin. People are talking about killing you, but just as you've preached here, the time's going to come when you're going to preach in Rome. And Jesus came to him and encouraged him. Are you thankful for the times when Jesus comes alongside? When Jesus encourages you in your hour of need? When he lifts you and helps you and gives you the hope that you need. I praise God for our compassionate and loving Lord who knows what we need. Paul was at a place where he needed to hear from God. We we look at Paul and all of his strength and And all of his determination to do what's right, and he certainly stands up as a as a soldier of the faith and and we should look at him that way. But uh he was a man just like us. And he dealt with and endured great hardship as well. And there's times when it got to be too much for him. And uh Jesus knew that. And so g Jesus comes to him and encourages him and speaks to him, letting him know he's gonna be okay, that the Lord is still there and the Lord is with him and has him a plan for him to move on to Rome So this concludes the third missionary journey. Now, there isn't one more journey that Paul's going to take. He's going to go to Rome. It's not really a missionary journey, it's more of his trip to Rome, but although he continues just like God said here, you're gonna just like you preach the gospel here, you're gonna preach the gospel there. And you know, Christians If we're living with that kind of a heart, we'll preach the gospel wherever we're at. We'll we'll be sharing the truth and letting the Lord use us no matter the circumstances or no matter where we are, whether we're here or on vacation or traveling across the country for one thing or another, we're going to continue to be used of God to minister because that's the heart of a believer. And that's what Paul had. And so although he takes one more journey and he's used of God mightily, that's not really considered a a missionary journey, but it is his last journey as he heads to Rome and ultimately imprisoned there uh and put on trial in Rome. So we'll just touch on the problems that he faced. We mentioned these as we went through these. Obviously we're going back through the chapters we've already referenced and read, so we're not going to spend a lot of time here, but you remember the mob that took a hold? of Paul's companions there. Uh they were looking for Paul. They couldn't find him, so they just said, Hey, we'll just take you guys. They took his two friends and carried him into a theater. Now uh Josephus and other historians believe that this theater that he was in could hold twenty-five thousand people. That this was like a Coliseum type theater, that this was a a very large assembly. So this mob was not twelve people. Um we don't know exactly how big it was, but they do know that the theater that they were in could hold up to twenty five thousand people. And so it was a great mob, but God comes and warns him, listen, don't go in there Uh and so Paul who's on his way to defend his brethren to stand up for Christ, the you know he's warned, don't go And uh God takes care of his brethren and saves Paul. Uh and that's where I mentioned that last week that there's times in your life that God may call on you to lay your life down. You may God may ask one of us to lay our life down, but not God is not going to ask us to throw our life away. And this is what would have happened for Paul if he'd have gone in there, he would have been killed for no reason without any uh furtherance of the gospel and nothing being accomplished. And so God's not going to just ask you to throw your life away, but he might call on us to lay it down. And so God protects him and saves him from that as he's warned not to enter. The mob ends up being talked down by the town clerk and the references are there, you can read these, but uh he was forced to travel on to Macedonia in chapter twenty verse one. Now the Jews there in chapter twenty verse number three they laid in wait to kill him. They often did. They they often like thought, well we'll catch him You see there's areas where there are lots of people around and Paul was, you know, a lot of people came to listen to him and hear him and so I'm sure the aspect of these Jews that were laying in wait to kill him. They didn't want to kill him out in the public. They didn't want to kill him where there was a lot of people or a lot of witnesses. They were looking for an opportunity, well we'll catch him when he when he leaves town and he's got to go this way and then God would direct him to go another way. uh and and save his life over and over again. He endures many bonds and afflictions continually over and over. Chapter 20, verse number 23 says that. Paul describes how this affected him in chapter twenty and verse number nineteen. We we we know that it He this is not what he was worried about. He says, serving the Lord with all humility of mind and with many tears and temptations which befell me in the lying away to the Jews. He just he was just serving God, even though all these things were befalling him uh continually during these things. Paul ended up being bound and imprisoned in Jerusalem. Paul is lied about, he's falsely accused, he was seized, he was dragged out of the temple, he was beaten, he was publicly arrested and bound. The crowd turns against him, calling for his death in chapter 22, verse number 22. They called for his death. And they gave audience, and they gave him audience unto his words, and then lifted up their voice and said, Away with such a fellow for uh from the earth, for it is not fit that he should live. Can you imagine that people just think, well, just take him off the earth? It's not fit that he should even be alive. That's how people viewed him. And Paul had to endure that as he was continuing to carry forth the truth of the gospel. He was threatened uh with severe scourging there in 22-24. We read that. He was bound, he was tortured, he was slapped across the face. Uh he is again imprisoned. And then forty men commit to kill him in chapter 23, verses 12 through 22. So often and continual was Paul's persecution. That Paul describes it in 2 Corinthians as this. He says, we were pressed out of measure, above strength, in so much that we despaired even of life. It wasn't just that he had a bad day. It wasn't just that he didn't have enough food one day. or that he was ridiculed. But they were pressed so often and so much that he despaired of his own life that they that he would even be living this time next week because of the continual uh attacks and persecution of others. We see uh the portfolio he founded now. These are where we're gonna pick up uh here in the notes that I've given you today. Just go through this quickly and I'm not here to teach through these books, but just to introduce the ideas that are there that Paul was giving to you sharing with them and touching on them for uh he uh wrote first Corinthians, second Corinthians and Romans well on this missionary journey. And uh he first visits Corinth. Uh when he did he was there for eighteen months on his second missionary journey, so now he's on his third missionary journey and he's writing back. So he's writing 1st 2nd Corinthians back to Corinth, which he had visited on his uh previous missionary journey there. It was written around A. D. 55. Uh he wrote it from Ephesus. And to the church of Corinth. He wrote it from Ephesus. That's where he was at. In 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verse number 8, he says, But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. So he kind of communicates to them, hey I'm here at Ephesus. I'm writing to you, but I'm I'm going to stay here until Pentecost because his plan was to go to Jerusalem to try and be back there by Pentecost. That's what he wanted to do. But he was going to tarry there and then head back to Jerusalem. Listen, the city of Corinth was a wicked place. It was a Roman uh part of the Roman Empire. It was a crossroads for travel and commerce of the day, a lot of people coming and going Uh it was the home of the temple of Apaphrodite, the goddess of love, and uh that just promoted the gross immorality of the city. and uh just uh continued to it just that type of thing was prim prominent in society there. And so that is something that as Paul writes back to them, he is addressing and dealing with what God expects and requires of a believer. Some key words is the body. He deals with the body 33 times, wisdom. The key verse of 1 Corinthians is 1 Corinthians 15, verse 3 and 4, he says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I rece also received How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. He was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. The purpose of 1 Corinthians, he's writing to them, was to address the problems in the church. Uh he was going to address the problems. It had been reported back to him. He had heard uh different situations that they were facing, questions that they had, uh you know, problems that had arisen, and so he was writing to them to uh address these problems, to answer the questions that they had of him. Things that are unique to First Corinthians there is that it provides the most thorough defense of the resurrection. It provides the most thorough defense of the resurrection in all the pages of the New Testament. Uh the proof and defense of the resurrection is found most thoroughly in the book of First Corinthians. It provides the clearest and most concise explanation of what the gospel is. The gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ The gospel message is seen throughout all of the New Testament, but an explanation of what that is is seen here in 1 Corinthians. It provides a biblical understanding of the bhima judgment for all believers, that the bhima seat, that judgment that's going to take place for believers. That's found there. uh in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verses 12 through 15. Then I have an outline that I've given you here and I don't need to read through that outline. This outline is just copied from Grimacki's uh New Testament survey book. Uh and it's just so you would have a reference if you were looking for like where does this take place in First Corinthians? You would you would have a quick place to look at it. Uh and that's directly out of that. There's an outline of each one of these I've given you. So 2 Corinthians, the date was AD 56, location in Macedonia. Macedonia is a region. It's quite possible that he was in Philippi, but we don't know 100% that that's where he was at, but he was in Macedonia. That he makes clear. Some key words, all boast, glorying now, and flesh, this flesh, overcoming this flesh. A key verse is uh 517, 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold all things The purpose is to show that Christ, uh the Christian, is God's ambassador with the spiritual and glorious ministry, finding Christ as his comfort and his sufficiency in all the trials that you face. And things that are that are unique to this book is the Ministry of Reconciliation. The Ministry of Reconciliation. Um bringing people back to God. It is the most personal book of all Paul's epistles He reveals human weakness, spiritual strength, tender affections, uh gives stern rebukes, wounded feelings. and a great zeal for the welfare of others. This these feelings, this emotion comes through in in this book in a very unique way. Uh 2 Corinthians carefully examines the character and the tactics of false teachers. So it addresses that. All right, getting into the book of Romans now. Romans is a powerful book. Sha Sean is not here. Sean asked me about uh when we were going to teach on the book of Romans. And I said, well I'll be giving a highlight of it when we get to that point in the New Testament survey here, but not really teaching through it. I said Romans is a big book. Uh doctrinally there's a lot there. And uh it's certainly very, very powerful and a good book, but it is one that takes a little bit to uh of study and work to understand. Grimacki says that Romans must be regarded as the constitution of biblical Christianity. He calls it the constitution of biblical Christianity, really laying that out there. Uh Luther called Romans the masterpiece of the New Testament. The masterpiece of the New Testament. It's a powerful book and deals with many things that as believers we need to understand. The location that he wrote this from was Corinth. And he wrote to all the saints that are at Rome. The churches at Rome were very multicultural, consisting of mostly Gentiles, but very multicultural. Uh obviously churches of Rome would would be mostly Gentiles, but there was a lot because it was a crossroads, because Rome was such a big place They had a very multicultural church. That's one thing that I've always enjoyed about Hunt Valley Baptist Church is that we're very multicultural, that uh we live in a area in uh a city that is multicultural and that lends itself and opens the door for that to be able to take place in the house of God. And that's how it's going to be when we're in heaven. Uh God loves every race and nationality and group and and uh you know there there is no differences. And uh we need to be comfortable around all of them because they're all uh God's creation and uh he loves us all of them. So we need to find comfort in that and that's what the church at Rome was. It was a very multicultural the city of Rome was the center of the Roman Empire with a population of over one million at that time but some estimated as much as four million. Now by today's standards that you know, Mexico City's got thirty million or or over now. Uh so that one million is not that big. But if you think about having a million people in one place without today's modern conveniences without electric, without pumps to pump water or sewage, without s you know, waste management systems. I mean you think about what our streets would be like in a few months if there wasn't people picking up trash I mean you just think about okay, so here there are a million people together in this city and they did have systems in place that I don't we don't know exactly what they were, but obviously I'm just saying it was a different time and for a million plus people to be in one location in one city. That was a very, very large city. Um Paul was preparing uh They were in Rome to take a offering for Jerusalem, if you remember that. Uh it was not to a congregation, but to all the saints. It's to all those saints. He was writing to all the saints in Rome. Uh i there were many different smaller Bible studies, smaller groups in Rome. In Romans chapter 1 and verse number 87 he says, To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God. So it's not like Corinthians where he was writing to the church of Corinth. He was writing to that church and dealing with that church and the issues of that church. This Paul was writing to all the saints. If you call yourself a Christian and you're in Rome, here's what I want you to do. And he greets many different uh groups of people, as we'll see here in just a moment. But some key words is the law. Sin, faith, righteousness, righteousness used 33 times, flesh and death. And a key verse, Romans 1, 16 and 17. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, that is written, the just shall live by faith. So Paul uh dealing with this here, the gospel of Christ. The purpose is to establish the faith of the Roman believer. To establish the faith of the Roman believer. In Romans chapter 1, verse 11, he says, For I long to see you that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift. to the end that ye may be established. That really is a great goal for anybody working with other people. to try and establish them in the faith. Not just introduce them to Christ, but be willing to work with them long enough to help them get established where they have their own walk with God, where they're pursuing knowledge of God and the beginning to grow in God and get them to a place where they're established in their faith. And that's what Paul wants to do for the believers there. He establishes their faith through in-depth understanding of the gospel and all of its aspects. Really giving when somebody gets saved, when they put their faith and trust in Christ, they they have the faith and they know Jesus died and they trust in that and that alone, but that is just the beginning There's so much about that transaction that they don't understand yet. What does that mean that I got saved? That my sins are forgiven. They don't understand the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. How we are not righteous because of what we do, but We're made righteous because Jesus righteousness is imputed unto us. We they don't understand so many aspects of that, just that one transaction, let alone the spiritual life Grimacki highlights this in a very thorough way when he says in his exposition Paul deals With the greatest doctrinal words that evangelical Christian faith, such as the gospel Resurrection, salvation, belief, faith, righteousness, wrath, judgment, repentance, sin, law, guilt Justification, redemption, propitiation, grace, imputation, peace, reconciliation, Atonement, death, sanctification, adoption, glorification, hope, election, foreknowledge, predestination, and purpose Obviously I've given you there a huge list, but there's a lot of things that if you have been in church for any length of time Those terms have meaning to you. You have an understanding of what they what what it is talking about. You have been established in your faith. You've learned about these things, and that's what Paul is doing. He's teaching through all of these doctrines. Doctrine is teaching of the church, of Christ, and what he wanted us to do and what all of this means in such a powerful book, his desire to prevent them from being influenced by Judaism. Um and to promote peace between the Jews and the Gentile believers. They're all believers. They should be one in Christ. Brother John said he walked in this morning and he thought, man, I thought for a second we were joining a United Methodist Church. And uh I said, no, our theme for this year, united in Christ. That's our theme, united in Christ. And uh uh so you know that's what we ought to be, united. United in Christ, and that's what Paul is trying to teach them. Listen, you're you're Jew or you're Roman or you're Gentile, but you should be united in Christ. That's who and what we have in common And he wants to prepare the believers in Rome for a future visit that he's going to come. So he's doing this. Now things that are unique to Rome, I'm sorry, to Romans, first of all is the Romans Road. God's simple plan of salvation. There's nowhere else in the uh Bible that you have such a clear, systematic, direct approach to the gospel. Uh the Romans Road, God's simple plan of salvation laid out for us there. Then uh here's the focus on righteousness of God, focus on the righteousness of God, not focus on our own righteousness, but understanding that righteousness comes from God. Romans chapter 3, verses 21. He says, But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. That the righteousness of God. That's the righteousness that we're looking for and that we long for. The proliferation of small groups of believers was present. there. All through the book of Romans, you'll see uh if you want to write down a couple of references, Romans 16 verses 3. uh through five. He says, Greet Acrylla and Priscilla, uh my helpers in Christ Jesus, who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom Not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. Likewise greet the church that is in their house. And so several places through the book of Romans you'll see him greeting the churches that were in people's houses, that they were meeting in somebody's home. When we started the church when my parents started the church in El Paso, Texas, uh we started the church in our home It we were in the garage. Our one year anniversary is when we broke ground to build our first building and uh move out of the garage, move out of the house, uh and find a place that we could hold everybody. But this is where these churches were meeting. Um these ho house churches, it's probably very much because or due to the strong persecution under Claudius Claudius was persecuting the churches and possibly they had to move from one place to the next. They had to stay in smaller groups. They had to be mobile. uh they had to stay hit, otherwise they were gonna be imprisoned, otherwise they were going to be uh they wanted to wipe Christianity out. And uh so especially in in this Roman uh city, it was necessary for them to find a way to continue to follow the Lord uh without drawing too much attention. Um Paul quotes the Old Testament sixty times. Sixty times. I have an outline for you uh there as well for you to read. Uh Jensen books breaks down the book of Romans into three sections. You don't have this, but he breaks it down in chapters one through three tell the need of salvation. If you think about chapter one of Romans and what it's talking about. uh what god what how how God deals with the the reprobate mind and these things that the need for salvation is made very very evident and then uh chapters four through eight is the way of salvation. is the way of salvation. And then chapters twelve through sixteen is the result of salvation. the result of salvation. So he breaks it down into those three areas, but I've given you a full outline there out of uh Henry Tessman's book, uh Introduction to the New Testament, page two twenty seven, and noted that for you there. I just want to as we close here uh just say Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. That text verse uh for 1 Corinthians. Um I read this week somebody said, If you believe change is required for salvation, you believe in works salvation. Okay, well What we've got to be careful of is that uh he says if ye be in Christ, ye are a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold all things are become new. Uh it's very clear that God expects works are not necessary for salvation. That work was a hundred percent done by Jesus Christ But God is very clear that uh we are to glorify God in our bodies, that uh we do that by letting your light so shine before me and that they may see your good works And glorify God. So there is something that is supposed to take place. Old things are supposed to pass away. All things are supposed to become new. There should be change when somebody comes to Christ. There should be and and that progression of change is different for everybody, but uh be careful uh uh about this there's there's a real strong modern movement that uh listen we're saved by grace it's Jesus Christ and it doesn't matter what you do You can be saved and still live however you want to live. God loves you and He will accept you just like you are. Yes But he loves you too much to leave you that way. So God wants to for us to grow, to change, to be conformed into his image. I mean how hard is that to believe or understand? That we are to become like Christ. Is Christ going to the bars? Is Christ hitting the dance clubs? Is Christ engaging in some of this worldly enjoyment, entertainment? I don't think so. We want to be like Christ, and that's what our desire will be when we get saved Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and we pray that you would uh help us, Lord, to not just read the word, but to hear the word. for our lives and to desire truly to be conformed into the image of your Son, to live and to act and to be like Jesus. And Lord, not for our own benefit or glory, but that we might glorify you and that we might be used of you to draw men unto you. Lord will thank you, we ask you to go with this as we go into the morning service in Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you, you're just missing