A group of Jews and a group of pagans had uh got into a riot and they uh stirred up a great uh problem in the community and things got bad, well uh Felix decides, listen, we're gonna deal with this. And he comes in with a very strong hand, and Felix crushes this riot uh with really uh a great excessive force. Uh he was very brutal, very violent in the way in which he did that, and this creates an outrage among the people and they the the You know, there's always kind of this balance of power between the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin and the the local the Jewish people who held power. and the Roman government who is trying to influence control and maintain order in the area and so on, well, the Jewish leaders call for Felix removal. They appeal to the government and say, Listen, Felix way overbearing. Felix did this, he you know, hurt all these people, killed these people. We want him removed. And uh ultimately they they do remove him. So Felix loses his position to Festus. We see that in uh verses one through four, where chapter number twenty five. Now when Festus was come unto the province after three days, he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem, then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him against Paul and besought him and desired favor against him that he would send for him to Jerusalem, lying wait in the way to kill him So these Jewish people had uh I mean you see it had only been he'd only been there three days Boy, they certainly gotta burn their saddle, don't they? They certainly got something they wanna they're like, you know what, here here asbestos is here, he's been here three days. He doesn't even know what's going on yet And they go to him and say, look, Paul's in the jail. We want you to send him to Jerusalem so we can take care of him, you know, and uh we want to uh deal with this matter And uh Fest is like, uh not so sure about that, but you see the Jews had no intention of allowing Paul to ever actually make it. They were lying in wait to kill him. They were planning to undo him. He says that there the Jews informed him against Paul and besought him and desired favor against him that he would send him uh sent for him to Jerusalem, lying wait in the way to kill him. Verse number three there. They were planning to kill him. But Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would depart shortly thither. So he was in Jerusalem there, got to meet with the Jewish leaders and They said, Hey, would you sin, have Paul come down here, and on the way they were planning to kill him? But he says, Nope, Paul's gonna stay there I'll talk to Paul. We're gonna get this figured out when I make when I get back to Caesarea. We'll just see how that goes. Uh and uh so they were personally ready to uh they were ready to kill him, but Festus says, I I'll I'll hear the matter personally. Paul is slandered once again. The Jews are allowed to make these false accusations against him, but we see the Bible even clearly says that they couldn't prove it. Uh verse number five Let them thence Let them therefore, said he, which is among you are able, go down with me and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him. He says, Hey, if you can make the journey, why don't you come to Caesarea? You can stand and accuse him, you know, we can do this in verse number six. And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea, and the next day, sitting in the judgment seat, commanded that Paul be brought And when he was come, the Jews which were come down from Jerusalem stood round about and laid many a grievous complaint against Paul. Which they could not prove. So they had lots of things to say. They were very upset at Paul, but Very clearly they couldn't prove anything. They really had nothing that would stick. They were throwing out all kinds of accusations, but there was nothing there that could be used really against Paul. Paul understands that Festus really is more interested in popularity than in principle. He was truly a politician. He lived uh wanted to please the Jews if he could. He didn't really wasn't really worried about what was right or wrong. He was just trying to find a way to get through this and to come out on top. Verse number eight and nine. Well he answered for himself, neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar have I offended anything at all. Paul says, Listen. Everything they've said, they they've got no I've offended in no way. I have I've done nothing. But Festus Willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem and there be judged of these things before me? So they had no Who he had already heard the arguments, Festus had already heard all the arguments, they already knew everything and he he knew there was nothing wrong there, but he says, Hey Paul Will you would you be willing to go down to Jerusalem? Let's take care of this matter down there, uh knowing that that's what the Jews wanted. So he was just trying to please the Jews, just trying to make them happy And he says, you know, well let's go down there and we'll take care of it down there. Of course the Jews were planning to kill him when he was on his way, and uh Paul, of course Appeals to Caesar here. Verse number 11 and 12. It says, For if I be an offender and have committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die. He says, if I've done something wrong, then then kill me. He says, but if there be none of these things whereof these accusers of me, they accuse me. No man may deliver me unto them, I appeal unto Caesar. Then when Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? And unto Caesar thou shalt go So Festus uh verses thirteen through twenty-one, Festus kind of uh declares here the situation to Agrippa. So Agrippa's going to come on the scene here. Festus trying to make himself look good. Agrippa comes to visit and he's he says hey I've got this problem. You see, he had really quite literally been given a political time bomb. Felix had just been removed. because of this problem in the the that that arose in the Jewish community with these pagans and the the uh fight that was there and He he knew that this is really kind of a balancing act, trying to figure out how to handle this. And now the Jews are all up in arms and they're accusing Paul but Paul's a Roman citizen and has some rights and so he's just trying to figure out how to do this and he thinks, oh hey, Agrippa, my friend Here's the situation. I took the office and uh well I showed up here in Paul's in jail, something that was already here. This is due to Felix. Felix started this mess. And now that reminds me of our our court case when uh uh we were in court with the county and They the county lawyer was handed our court case and the county lawyer told them, uh, listen, I'm not a Ralupa law lawyer. You need to hire somebody to handle this. And they said, No, you're the county lawyer, you're gonna do it I mean that's kinda like hiring a divorce lawyer to handle your murder case. You know, I mean they they're not the same thing. It's not the same law at all And the county lawyer was very ill prepared. A couple times in court the judge actually got mad and said, Next time you come into my court, you be ready to to deal with this. Like he was just a fish out of water. And so ultimately Baltimore County uh paid in I uh I think it was what it was one point two or one point seven million dollars retainer to hire a firm to fight our case So Baltimore County paid $1. 7 million to hire a firm to fight our case. When those lawyers picked up the case, they said, this is a mess. Ultimately we ended up settling because they said this is unwinnable. They they they once they looked through the case they said this is unwinnable. And uh this is a situation that Uh Festus is in here. He's in an unwinnable battle and he says, Man, I've got such a big mess. And he says, Agrippa, what do you think? And he starts to talk to Agrippa and explain to Agrippa the situation here that he was handed by Felix. Uh Agrippa agrees to hear the matter as he explains it all to them. So we jump down to verse number 22. Just for the sake of time, we won't read all those, but we see in verse number 22. Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I will also hear the uh man myself. Tomorrow, said he, thou shalt hear him. He says, I I'll hear him, I'll hear the case. Why don't you bring Paul, let me hear what Paul has to say. Now Agrippa the First was Herod the Great, who killed the babies in Jerusalem. His son, Herod Antipas, had John the Baptist beheaded He comes from a line of very brutal people. His grandson, Herod Agrippa, had James, the apostle, killed and tried to assassinate Peter. Then the Herod here in our text, Agrippa II, uh was seventeen when his own father was struck dead for blaspheming the Holy Spirit. So he comes from a line of of very strong opposition to Christianity. But Agrippa says, I'll hear the matter. And so he comes in verse number three with twenty-three with much pomp and circumstance. They gather to hear Paul's matter here. Verse number twenty three. Then Agrippa said unto Festus I will also hear the man myself. Tomorrow, said he, thou shalt hear him. And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice with him, great pomp and was entered into the palace of hearing place of hearing, when the chief captains and the principal men of the city, and Festus Commandment Paul, was brought forth So he Paul's brought in unto him. We're going to hear this matter. We're going to sit down. Lots of pomp and circumstance. This big to-do was made. And you see here Paul brought in before Agrippa. This broken down prisoner. He's been in jail for a while. He's got nobody but himself to represent him. And he's standing before this what would be in the world's eyes a great man. Paul's standing there, he's not cocky, but he's also not cowering as some might figure a man would. Paul stands and articulates and defends himself very clearly before him. It's amazing to think about how the tables have turned. For today, the prisoner is remembered, the prisoner is talked about, and here the king is forgotten. The prisoner in this passage is in heaven, and the king in this passage is in hell. You know, people name their children Paul. And they uh named their dog Caesar. You know, that's that's the difference when you follow God and do what God wants you to do He says, humble yourself and I will lift you up. That change that takes place. Festus knew that he was innocent. And and desired to have just one thing that he could charge him with. He he wanted to, you know, is this is there something we can do here? Is there anything they they describe this case? We see in Festus, verse number 24, and Festus said, King Agrippa, And all men which are here present with us, ye see this man about whom all the multitude of the Jews have dealt with me Both at Jerusalem and also here, crying that he ought not to live any longer. But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, And that he himself hath appealed unto Augustus, I have determined to send him, of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my Lord. Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and especially before thee, O King Agrippa, that after examination I might have somewhat to write, for it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not withal to signify the crimes laid against him. He says that we're going to send him to Rome to stand trial, and I can't even write down on a piece of paper what he's being charged with. Can you give me anything? He says, Agrippa, come on, you heard the whole case. You got anything I can put down here so I don't look like an idiot, sending him all the way to Rome, and I have nothing to charge him with I have nothing that sticks. You've heard all the Jews that complaints. You've heard all the problems that they have, but we've got to send him to Rome. And what what are we going to do, Agrippa? He said, boy, I wish I could just get one. Can we find one thing? They couldn't find it. But ultimately we know that God is leading. Providence is directing each of these players here. Providence is directing it. God's will is being done. This is what God wants as we move into chapter number 26. You see, it had been over two years Since that night, you remember when Paul was in prison and he was discouraged and the path that he was on, he he he just was so low that he thought this is it. And you remember God and his mercy and his grace, Jesus appears unto him and encourages him. And God will come to you in your low hour. God will give you the strength that you need. as he did for Paul. But you remember on that that night, I think it's chapter 23, verse number 11, where he says, hey Paul, just like you have testified of me here, you will testify or preach of me in Rome. And God told them there. Now it's been over two years. Two years have transpired. So God said you're going to go to Rome, but he didn't know when. Didn't know how he was going to get there He appeals unto Caesar, and now this is taking place. He is being sent to Rome. We see Then Agrippa, verse number one of chapter 26, then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself Then Paul stretched forth his hand and answered for himself, I think myself happy, King Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee, touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews Especially because I know thee to be an expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews. Wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. My manner of life, from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews. Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify that after the most straightest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee. He comes on the scene here and we see that Paul is very courteous. He speaks only after he's been given permission to speak. He speaks respectfully He recognizes and acknowledges Agrippa's position and Agrippa's uh grasp of the situation, his knowledge of the circumstances. Paul is respecting this man. And then Paul explains, verses through four through twelve, Paul describes his own condition. He says, Hey, if there were Jews that were honest, they would come before you and they would tell you. That I was a Pharisee among Pharisees. That I stood with the strictest sect of Pharisees. That I stand with the Word of God, with the pages of Scripture, with the Old Testament prophets. He says, there's nobody that could deny that. He believed these promises. And we see in verse number six here, he says, and now I stand and I am judged. For the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers. You see, the problem is he preached the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus. That Jesus rose from the dead, that he was the Messiah. The Jews didn't like that. And he says, but I'm being judged because I believe what God said in the Old Testament? I'm being put on trial because I believe that there was going to be a Messiah, and just as God said there would be a Messiah, there was a Messiah that God sent a child born of a virgin That he lived a sinless life, that he died, that he was buried, and he rose again. All I'm doing is saying that this is what God said, this is what happened, and now I'm being judged for that. I'm being held accountable for that He looks at him directly and he asks Agrippa, look at verse number 8. He says, Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you that God should raise the dead? He says, Agrippa, even with you, do you think it's something that's impossible? That God could raise the dead? I mean, are we going to say that God can't do that? Why is it a problem that I would say God can raise the dead and that God has risen the dead here? Verse number nine, I verily thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. He says, I was of the same boat as you. There was time when I did everything I could contrary to Jesus. I even, he begins to describe it. He says, I attacked the Jews. I put many of them in prison. I mean the the Christians I put them in prison. I stopped, I mean I was fervently standing against this, but something happened to me, Agrippa. He said something happened, something changed in my life. And Paul describes his conversion. Verses 13 through 18. He describes how he was on the road to Damascus and he saw the light. You know, Jesus is the light of the world. And Jesus is that light that comes and shines in a dark place. And there are men all over this world that need the light of Jesus, and they're lost and undone. They don't even know how lost they are. But if we would point them to the light, they would see the light and they could say that on, you know, February 1st, 2026 I was introduced to the light of the world. I met Jesus and Jesus came and changed my life. This is what Paul begins to give his testimony. He says, boy, I stood against the the Christians. I attacked the Christians. I put them in jail. I did I stood with the hardest of them. But then I came to realize the truth of the Old Testament lined it lined up with the truth of what Christ said. And this is the Messiah And Jesus changed me from the inside out. I wonder how powerful our churches would be if we would simply believe what God said. And do in obedience to what God said. We'll see in verse number 19. He says, Whereupon, O King Agrippa, so he just gave him his testimony, he just explained how his life changed. And that he came to believe in Christ, he says, Whereupon, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision. Now the vision he's talking about there is when God told him to go to get up. You know he was blinded on the road to Damascus and he says, I want you to get up, get up. I want you to go to Damascus, and I've got a man there prepared for you that he's going to tell you what to do. And uh he says, I I I obeyed the vision. I did exactly what I was told to do. And uh boy, if we would just obey God, do what God says. We could like the New Testament believers we could turn this world upside down. He said, I I believe division. Paul here. We see that He said be and and and I bec he's explained all this and he says and it's because of this that I'm to be killed. In verse number twenty and twenty-one he says, But show first unto them of Damascus and at Jerusalem and throughout all the coast of Judea And then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God and do works meet for repentance He says, I obeyed the vision. I did what God told me to do, to go first to Damascus and then to Jerusalem and then through all the coast of Judea. He says, I I've just been doing what God told me to do. He told me to tell people about the resurrection and that they should repent. And then in verse number 21, it says, For this cause, the Jews caught me in the temple and went about to kill me. This is why they want to kill me. They want to kill me? Because I'm preaching Jesus. Died, buried, and rose again. Boy, they didn't they didn't like that. But God protected him. Verse number 22 Look what he says, verse number 22. He says, having therefore obtained help from God, aren't you glad that we can have help from God? In our lives, in the situations that we face, whatever they might be, that when you're on the path with God, there's help from God. Whatever other people might come against you, other people might be ready to kill you, other people might be ready to kill you, but he says, Hey, the Jews were blind and wait to kill me over and over again, but having obtained help from God, Paul knew it wasn't him It wasn't his conniving ability. It wasn't his smarts. It wasn't it. He just said, boy, God just protected me. Having obtained help from God, God had protected me. He says, I continued unto this day. Witnessing both to the small and great, saying none of these things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come. He says, I haven't said anything that the prophets and the Moses didn't say would come. That there would be a Messiah and that this was the Messiah. I I'm simply saying that it happened. This is what they said would happen and it happened. And God has given me strength to do so. We see that his testimony is challenged in verse number 24. Festus knows that Paul is a learned man. And his only conclusion is that he says, Man, you must have lost your mind. He says in verse number 24, and as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul! Thou art beside thyself. Much learning doth make thee mad. He said, Paul, you have learned so much you're stupid. He said, I can't believe that you you believe this. This doesn't make any sense. Why why would you follow this? And Paul's only explanation or Festus' only explanation for Paul and his belief is that he's mad He reminds Thestus that he was given the liberty to speak and to address Agrippa. And he does so. That's just kind of jumped in and trying to steer the situation a little bit. I think maybe he felt that Paul's arguments were landing home. That Agrippa was probably starting to look favorable on this situation. And so Festus, the only thing he could think is Boy, this guy's an idiot. He's lost his brain. Paul, you can you know so much you don't know anything at all. I mean he jumps in, tries to guide it a little bit, and Paul says, wait a minute I've been brought here to speak to Agrippa. I I'm speaking to Agrippa. He calls the attention back to Agrippa here in verse number 26, for the king knoweth of these things before whom Also I speak freely, for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him. For this thing was not done in a corner. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. Verse number 28, the most powerful of statements here. King Agrippa says, Then Agrippa said unto Paul, almost. Thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Paul, having appealed to Agrippa, the conviction is powerful The truth of the spoken word has reached down into his heart and has begun to work on him. The Holy Spirit has begun to draw him He he's ready to believe, he's ready to embrace this truth. Everything in him says this is true, this is right Festus tries to derail the situation. That's what Satan will do. He'll throw a monkey wrench in the middle of that presentation. You you can talk to somebody about Football, basketball, about the weather, about all these other things. You start talking about Jesus Christ and what happens? There's a big traffic jam and all of a sudden people are honking and All this distraction comes up right away when you just you've been standing there talking for twenty minutes and it's been as quiet as the day is long, and then all of a sudden now there's all this racket Something comes up. Somebody will come up and say, hey, just I mean somebody will come and interrupt the that's what happened. Satan sends somebody in. Jesus was drawing him You can imagine Agrippa thinking, man, he starts to evaluate in his mind, what's going to happen? What's Rome gonna think if I believe this man? What are they gonna think? What are the Jews gonna do? If I embrace this and believe what Paul is saying, why do men worry so much about what other people think? We are so very consumed with it Agrippa replies with the theme of the damned. Almost. Almost, thou persuadest me. It's almost. Almost, you know, doesn't get you there. It doesn't matter how close you were to the salvation if you didn't make the decision to believe. If you didn't, it's not that you've heard about Christ so many times that you feel like, well, I should be saved. I've been in church a long time. You have to make the decision to believe You may be right there with Agrippa, and boy, I almost believed. I almost made the decision, but never really made the decision. And you have to personally make the decision to believe and trust Christ. And Agrippa did not. You can see it almost like a switch. Just like almost immediately we see Paul declaring his desire here, he says, and Paul said, I would to God that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day were both almost And altogether. You see, boy, I wish everybody here was almost, but not just almost. I hope I wish they were all together, like completely. Convinced that they were as I am except for these bonds. It's a boy I wish everybody here, Agrippa, you and every single person that could hear my voice, I wish every one of you were. It's I am Except for the bonds. I think Paul maybe even been looking at those bonds and realizing for himself that although he was bound maybe wrist and feet He understood that in all actuality he was free. And everyone else there was bound in the chains of sin. Unable to be freed. Didn't even realize how bound they were. He says, Man, I wish every one of you could be as I am except for these bonds. That you could know Jesus Christ and the freedom that comes from believing in him. And the salvation that's freely offered, I can imagine Paul being there with a broken heart, realizing these men were at this moment rejecting the shed blood of Jesus Christ. And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernesan, and they sat with him. And when they were gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doth nothing worthy of death or of bonds. Then said Agriffa unto Festus, This man might have been set at liberty if he had not appealed unto Caesar. Agrippa hears the whole case, and in the end he says, boy, I can think of nothing to I got nothing for you. He's done nothing wrong. We might be able to just let him go free, but he already appealed to Caesar, so we've got to let him go to Caesar. But you understand ultimately they could have made the decision to let him go But God was leading and Paul had to get to Rome. So they said, Well, he's got to go to Rome. We're gonna we're gonna like a normal politician, we're gonna kick this to the next guy. And we're gonna let them decide what's gonna happen to this man. Oh, we wash our hands of this matter. And so they send him on. Paul's hands are clean himself here because he presents and clearly gives him the truth. They make their decision in verses 30 and 31 there, and then they set his destination. In verse number 32, they say, hey, he's going to go to Rome. There's nothing else we can do. He's on his way. Because they knew, well ultimately they might not have known, but God knew that this is where he needed to be. Two years ago Paul had been told that he would go, and now it was time. So we see Paul's deliverance from peril in verse number or chapter number 27. We enter chapter 27. God has set the course. They're on their way. And when it was determined that we should sail unto Italy, they delivered Paul and certain of the prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus' fan. And so uh Paul is delivered from peril in this chapter, and we see that they're ready to go. They're delivered unto uh This Julius, the centurion of Augustus band, and this Julius had favor on Paul, was nice to Paul. They they knew that God was going to send Paul to Rome. Paul and his band of prisoners headed down to Rome. And uh Julius for some reason decides to give Paul opportunity to refresh himself in verse number three. And the next day we touched at Sidon, and Julius courteously entreated Paul and gave him liberty to go into his friends and to refresh himself He says, yeah, we're docked here. We're gonna let off some cargo. We're gonna get some cargo, gonna get some food for the rest of the trip. You can go into the city, you can go meet your friends. Get a shower, get some food, refresh yourself, uh, you know, be back here when it's ready to go. He he had given some him him some liberty to go do that. And uh they're getting ready to go and they're gonna face some contrary winds in four through eight. They're gonna face some contrary winds. You know, even when you're on the right path, it's possible you're gonna face some contrary winds. Paul knows these this is God wants him to go to Rome. And there's so much teaching that could take place here in this chapter. Paul's ready to go to Rome. But they're there ready to face and when we had launched from thence we sailed under Cyprus because the winds were contrary. There was contrary winds, they're going to face these. The contrary winds may be because Satan is standing in the way, Satan trying to impede your progress. Or it may be because God is providing an opportunity for you to witness or to reach somebody else with the gospel. Oftentimes battles that we face bring us into contact with the lost and are opportunities for us to be a witness and God would have them come to Christ and that would open the door of opportunity for that. But we see that progress for him is very slow. It's where he's supposed to go, but it's slow in verse number seven. And when he had sailed slowly many days, they say sailed. They're they're trying to make prog progress, but they're against contrary winds. It's quite an amazing feat how they can uh set a ship to sail almost into the wind. They have to counterattack and kind of almost like switchbacks up a hill. They gotta sail the wrong direction a little bit and then sail back the other direction a little bit, but they're they're making progress but just kind of very slowly moving forward because the contrary winds they're not behind them, they're against them And so they're slowly making progress where they want to go, but it's not going fast. It's been quite a journey for Paul. But uh we're gonna find out and see what God does, some miraculous things. in protecting Paul on this trip and uh learn some truths in the coming week here as we look at Paul's journey to Rome and then ultimately uh the what God does with Paul there in Rome in writing letters to the churches and and helping to further the cause of Christ. Let's close there and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in Sunday school. We pray, Lord, that uh you would teach us through these things. It would not just be information that we understand what's going on in Paul's life, but But realize the truths that are there, that you're a present help in time of need, that your will is being accomplished. And Lord, we just need to submit and obey and follow. And sometimes that means contrary wind. Sometimes that means the enemy is gonna rise up and cause a problem. But Lord ultimately That we know that we're in your will and we can rejoice and know that what you want to accomplish here on earth is being done as it is in heaven. And what a victory that is to be able to be a part of it. Lord, I pray that you'd bless this morning's service. Give people safety as they come in and they're part of the church today, and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, you're dismissed