Chapter fifteen number fifteen there, the Council of Jerusalem, where they determined that circumcision was not necessary for salvation and should. Should be not be put upon the Gentiles. Paul prepares for his second missionary journey. A little bit of a disagreement over that and ultimately uh they decide to go separate ways and Barnabas takes John Mark and they head to Cyprus, remembering that Cyprus uh there is the whole Hometown of Barnabas, kind of going back towards, you know, again, wanting to reach his people. And I think it's a natural ambition, desire of anybody that uh has come to Christ and has seen the life transform. Power of the gospel that you want people you love and care about to be reached. You want them to know the truth. And that's where Barnabas is driven and says, hey, I want to at least stop in in Cyprus. And and try and be a witness to those people that I know and love. And so they head that direction. And we see that Paul chooses Silas and uh they head out and they're ultimately Commissioned by the church and sent out. Heading to uh the area of Syria. Remember Antioch, the Antioch where they were launched from was Syria. So there's right here kind of a transition where they return from the first journey and they end up going to Jerusalem to report back. They have that Jerusalem council. They're in that area and they head up uh the up the map a little ways to the area of Jerusalem Syria to Antioch, where their home church is, where they're going to be sent out, and they go forth. We see this uh in the concluding verses of chapter number 15. Um Verse number thirty-nine and the contention was so sharp between them that they departed asunder. That's a strong word just trying to describe the fact that they went different directions. So he went back to go through some of the towns that he was on his first missionary journey. We see that as we pick up in verse number six sixteen as we get into the path that he followed on this trip, we see that they came to Derby and to Lystra. And behold a certain disciple was there named Timotheus. The son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed, but his father was a Greek. Give us the map there. Uh so Jerusalem down here in the bottom, they're they're down here, the Jerusalem Council. They travel up to Antioch. They're there at their home church. That's where they launch out. And they decide to go ahead and head over to the area of Derba and Lystri, that Listra. So he's going back to these places where uh sometimes that People were happy, sometimes they weren't so happy, but he heads to there and he begins ministering and touching base with the churches that were established and begins to teach them about what God would have them to do. But in this They're heading and they meet up with Timothy. Now we know Timothy was Paul's son in the faith. And we see that in Timothy chapter number one. You don't have to turn there, but let me read it to you. But they tell us a few things about Timothy, and Timothy of course uh hold Holds a strong place in the New Testament and in the foundation of the churches here, so it's notable the things that we see about him. First of all, we know of course that he was a new convert. He was one of Paul's converts Here he's very young in the faith. He's already getting involved. Not only is he young in the faith, but he is young as a person. What we do know is ten years from now, Paul is going to be writing to Timothy, and he tells Timothy, Hey, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believer. And it's ten years from now that he says, Don't let people despise how young you are. So we don't know exactly how you can do this. So he's pretty young here, you know, certain probably teen a teenage of some some level here, and uh he is go Out and Paul addressing him and encouraging him and discipling him, bringing him along. And we also learn that he kind of had a challenging childhood. His mom was a Jewish and his father was Greek. Uh we of course know by God's plan and design the Jewish people, God's people, the children of Israel, were not supposed to inter Mary. They were not supposed to marry the people of the land. She should not have married a Greek. Him growing up to be unequally yoked was not God's plan or design. But in the middle of this, we do know that his mother and his grandmother So they the Timothy tells us that later on that he he was a student of the Word of God as he grew up. His mom continually pointed him towards the Lord and towards the Word of God, and because of that he had a great testimony, verse number two, which was well reported of by the brethren. that were at Lystra in Iconium. So he introduces us to Timothy and he says he was well reported of. He said, listen, the people that knew him, they said, man, this is a godly young man. This is a young man who's got a good head on his shoulders. He's headed the right direction. He he has a purpose in his life and he is in pursuit of God and he had a testimony of being faithful to the Lord. And uh Praise God for those young men, young ladies who are start out and are on the right path and they have a good testimony. Amen. We we ought to desire to have a good testimony and do all we can to encourage the younger generation to uh don't follow the way of the world and go out and sow your wild oats and live like the I praise the Lord that you can come back. But there's a lot of things, first John 1 9 1 John 1:9 doesn't give you the years you lost. It doesn't give you that back. It doesn't give you back the damage to your testimony or the scars that you carry in your Your body because of the path that you chose for a while. And uh just stay faithful right from the beginning. It's exciting to see that in the life of Timothy here. The churches in the area of Galatia. Can you give us that map again? Uh we just want to see that. Uh the area of Galatia, you see this, you can't I don't know if you can read it there, but this area here is Galatia. These are the churches of Galatia when he writes the book of Galatians, which we're going to see at the end of these notes today, uh, that he's writing to these churches in here. Now he decides that what he wants to do is go up to Asia. This is Asia over here. Uh he wants to go to Asia Minor and he wants to go into that area and minister, but we know that God has another plan for him. He's gonna go much further than he originally Originally thought. He thought, Oh, I'm I've got to hit these churches right in this area. We're going to establish a church here or there. He might have had a set plan, but good the Holy Spirit sent them much further than they had planned to go. And they travel on to Troaz. So we see, beginning in verse number six here, now when they had gone through uh Phrygia and the region of Galatia, Okay, that forbidden of the Holy Ghost is that basically they wanted to stay right there and God's saying, No, you're not staying here. The Spirit was saying, You've got I've got something you need to need to do. You need to go on further than you were planning. You can't aren't aren't just going to be able to stay right here. And sometimes the Holy Spirit works That way and pushes somebody a little further than they were initially planning to go, and they go all the way up to Troas. After they were come to Mysia and Assaid to go unto Bithynia. But the spirit suffered them not, and they, passing Mysia, came down to Troaz. So they went all the way to Troaz, and there is where we see that vision, the Macedonian vision. I believe that God still works like Like this today, when there is somebody that desires to know the truth, when there's somebody that's looking for the truth of the gospel that wants to know God, and they just they're praying, they're not even sure how Maybe even half of the world away, to say, You're gonna go tell that person. You're going to go, you're gonna be a missionary, you're gonna prepare, and you're gonna reach them. And God sends them, and that we we know from the The idea of missions may be across the world, but can I tell you it also could be right here in our town? That there may be somebody right here in Hunt Valley that's asking, would somebody show me the truth? And God would love to send you to that person. And maybe he would have your paths crossed at a gas station or a grocery store or the doctor's office where you are able to Give them a gospel gospel tract yesterday no, I'm sorry, Friday morning, uh the boys and I went and we we picked up some cabinets uh for the church office over here that that out of a house that was tearing them out. We went and picked those up to put in the church office and uh you know, we got all done and I I went in and uh gave the couple that we got the I gave they're right over here in Westminster. So I gave them a gospel tract on the pastor of the church and the cabinets we're picking up here are gonna go in the church and they're gonna see good use and they were excited about those things. But who knows what I got those cabinets, but God may have wanted them to get the gospel. And we've got to remember to seize those opportunities. Now yesterday afternoon Brother Glover and I were up in Lancaster and we were looking at a Skidsteer for the church and uh I had given my last gospel tract to the people in the morning uh the day before and I was there standing there with this guy to to looking at this track, tractor for the church and I I'm like I got no tracks with me. I I had no gospel track and the Holy Spirit says you may have came all the way up here and maybe you don't get that skid steer but you should have given him the Gospels for that man and uh who knows what God would have done for this man. He had three nice sharp little boys there uh that were so they were standing back there there saying bye it, bye But man, I just felt you know smitten by the Holy Spirit that I didn't have a track with me and no way to uh give him the gospel like that. We need to be ready Because God is sending us forth, just like this Macedonian call. Somebody was looking and God saying, Hey, Paul, you're going to go up here, you're going to meet this need. Troaz, uh, it was a seaport town uh that's connected Asia to Greece. Can we see the map again there? We'll see where Troaz is at the top of that uh map. They went up to that space. Uh there's a lot of different map series Gotta cycle through. But they're they're traveling from here all the way up to Troaz, right on the edge. It's a Seaport town. It was a large town, a lot of traffic, and they're right there, but they're gonna head over to Greece. Here's Math Macedonia right here. And so their plan is to head over to Greece to be able to minister in this region to fulfill that Macedonian call. Um and they they begin to see that Because God is leading them that direction. God is sending the gospel westward. Now we see that Luke joins the team there in verse number six Chapter 16, verse number 10. He says, and after he had seen a vision immediately, what's that next word? Immediately in verse number 10. 16, verse number 10. We endeavored to go to Macedonia. Now, who is the author of the book of Acts? Who wrote it? Obviously, we know God, but who penned it? I'm sorry. Luke. Okay, so here is where we see that the terminology uh changes from they, if you'll see reads earlier, that Luke is describing They went, and now the terminology changes to we. He says we, and so right here is believed that Luke joined the team here for a period of time and traveled with them to Macedonia. Macedonia and began to help them in the work. Uh by that little word there, Luke including himself in this group that is going over to Macedonia. So Luke joins the team there. Now traveling through Samalthracia and Napulos, they come to Philippi. Now Philippi is a chief city of Macedonia, verse number twelve, and from thence to Philippi, which is a chief city of that part of Macedonia, a colony and And we were in that city abiding abiding certain days. So this chief city here. four hundred years earlier had uh helped Greece establish their presence in that region. And so all these years that name has stuck because of Philip of Macedonia so now it's called called Philippi. And uh they see several great victories as they in this area. We see first of all that Lydia is saved. Verses 13 through fifteen. And on the Sabbath uh we went out into the city by a riverside where prayed was wont to be made, where prayers were wont to be made, and we sat down and spake unto the woman which uh resorted thither, and a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, uh, us. So they present and give her the gospel. She's excited about it. She calls them to come to her house. She and her household. Verse number fifteen. And when she was baptized So they ministered to her. Lydia is saved, then we see that a demon possessed girl is saved, verses sixteen through eighteen. This woman who is given to divinations, and uh that she had the ability to define or to predict things and people were using her for gain. We see that there in verse number sixteen, which brought her masters much gain By Susane, by divination, by determining the future, by answering people's questions. Uh listen, Satan has power. And Satan puts that power on display to try Try and win people or uh uh keep people from following the gospel, from following Jesus Christ. And so this woman here, we see verse number seventeen that they follow Now is that a true statement? The way of salvation, right? They are servants of the Most High God. And you're saying, well, what's wrong with this? Why is that bad? Because Satan was using this To corrupt the gospel. Here's a person who is well known and established in that area for sousain, for divination For demonic power, and now she's traveling along with them and pretending to be part of the group. Pretending to Kind of be with them. Here, listen to this man. He's the one who has power like I have. And discrediting the gospel, putting herself with that Can I tell you there's a lot of that going on today? There's a lot of attack on the true and and uh right gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in churches that are joining together with the world and the flesh and the devil To say, oh hey, we're all the same. Here, this woman who is given to divination and sousain uh was standing up with Paul and saying, boy, look, we're all the same. Look look at what he's doing. Boy, he uh he's a wonderful guy. Boy, isn't he nice? And you'll see that People who don't know the Lord at all standing up with somebody and saying, Boy, listen to him. He he knows the truth. But listen, Paul says that we're not going to have that. And we see that he verse number eighteen, and this she did many days. But Paul being grieved turned and said unto the Spirit, I command And when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they caught Paul and Silas and drew They said, Hey, you guys come with us. We're going to take you. They were not happy that their means of gain was gone. So they took them before the magistrates. And uh we see verses twenty five through thirty-six, that great and familiar story. We're not going to read all that, but uh the the Philippian jailer gets saved. So because these guys lost their game, they attack them before the magistrates. The magistrates say, okay, we're gonna throw these guys in jail. They throw them in jail Well the jailer is charged to keep them, to keep them locked up, and then of course God sends an earthquake and they're freed, and the Philippian jailer was ready to kill himself, knowing that that was his end Anyway, and yet they said, Hey, do thyself no harm. We're we're we're we're all still here. And uh he says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And the Philippine jailer is saved and his family is saved. So God God does a great work here in Philippi, God seeing many people follow the Lord. Then they travel on through Amphalus and Aplonia, and they come Come unto Thessalonica in chapter 17 and verse number one we see that uh that when they had passed through and the Paul And Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them three Sabbath. So he's preaching unto them the gospel, he's ministering unto them. These three cities that they traveled through, they're they're about thirty miles apart. Uh was believed to be about uh uh three days journey to get through that and I know this map is uh very small we're right up here in the top here uh they're traveling across here and these There's three cities right here together. They come to Thessalonica. Uh they get right there and they're ministering again right on the edge of the coast. Uh but God is doing great work. With them as they're traveling. The area of Thessalonica was a large city, around 70,000 people, believed to be. And uh, you know, you'll see Paul Continually stopping in these larger metropolises. And I believe that's because Paul wanted to get to the places that would be most effective. In spreading the gospel that would be able to impact the most people, that would have the capacity and means for the gospel when it was planted there in Thessalonica, the likelihood of it growing and going out further was way beyond him stopping in a small village with two hundred He's in a town of seventy thousand, an area of lots of commerce where ships would come and go and people would engage and the gospel could be a little bit more than a little Spread abroad. And uh so you'll see him continually stopping in these larger cities. Not that he didn't minister along the way in the smaller towns, but stopping to really s build a church in these They ministered there three weeks in Thessalonica in the home of a man named Jason. And uh it It is here we see that they were given the reputation of having turned the world upside down, chapter seventeen and verse number six. And when they found them not, they drew Jason, a certain brethren, unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also. Now when they found him not They they again the leaders were mad and they went to find Paul and Silas, but they couldn't find Paul and Silas, but they were s they were staying in Jason's house and they're like, Well we can't They take Jason before the magistrates and say, This is the guy that they're staying with. This is one of their friends. We don't know where they're at, but let's just beat him because we can't find the guys we want to beat. They said we're gonna take Jason and they said the he's a friend of these guys that have turned the world upside down. I think we could say that they were actively turning it right side up. Amen. That's the what The gospel does is it it changes men from the inside out and changes uh our thinking from upside down to right side up. Uh because man in an We see that in this town many Greeks uh and chief women uh believed uh leaders in the community. Uh Paul and Silas escape by night, God giving them wisdom, allowing them to escape by night. They continue on to Berea. We know that the Berea Koreans are commended uh for their pursuit of the scriptures, for their knowledge of the word of God, for the desire to uh search the scriptures daily in seventeen eleven. These were more noble than those of Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. This should be the The passion, the desire of the church, of of of each of us to search the scriptures, to decide and to see what God wants us to do and to know the Word of God and not just uh let the pastor expound it, but are you studying it? As we look through it this even the New Testament survey, are you taking it a little bit further? Are you doing any reading on your own? Are you trying to Gain a whole lot more in your own study like that than you will just listening to me. But boy you'll gain a lot if you would be like the Bereans and and search and study the scripture on your own and and try and get an understanding of that. It will mean a lot more to you and it'll go a lot further. These Bereans had a uh ready mind and they wanted to know the scripture. We see of course that many, many people believed on Christ there. Again, Paul moves to uh Athens by a Himself to Timothy and Silas remained there in Verea for a while. He gets to Athens and he's burdened over the idolatry that is present there. In Athens. Um historians said, one historian I read said this, that uh there was as many as thirty thousand uh gods in And they said it literally was easier to find a god in Athens than to find a man because they believed that that so many things they attributed uh to God. And of course that's that's nothing compared to like the Hindus uh you know who believe in infinite number of gods and uh you know you you have even that taken much further today, but this city was given to idolatry and and he was very burdened about it. We see in verse number sixteen now While Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry. It was wholly given to idolatry. He saw it on every hand and he says, Man, this is this is a bad, rough situation, and these these uh men have no hope outside of Jesus Christ. He debates with two groups of people here the Epicureans and the Stoics, uh, as he gets down verse number 17, there he disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews and with devout persons and the market daily. With them that met with him. And certain philosophers of the Epicureans and of the Stoics encountered him, and some said, What will this babbler say? So they looked at him and said, Boy, he's just a babbler. Boy, he he talks a lot. Uh but they wanted to debate with him. They enjoyed that. It's part of Greek philosophy and Greek uh stoicism as they they did desired they liked the exposition of knowledge and gaining whatever they could. And so the Epicureans were a group of people that sought pleasure above all else. This was their desire. Pleasure was of utmost importance to them. And enjoying life. Literally eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you die. And that was their desire. Desire and it's sad but by and large in society today that we've reached the place where really life is all about thank God it's Friday. It's all about just being able to do the next thing that you enjoy, the next thing that you find fun, and everything else you endure until you just it's all about the pursuit of pleasure. That's what not life is. You do have times there's great things that you get to enjoy, and that's wonderful. We ought to have a heart of gratitude and thankfulness for those times. But listen, life's not all about just getting to enjoy There ought to be something there beyond that, and we ought to live for something else. The Stoics believe Believed in not showing any emotion at all. They were stoic. That's what they believed. In in just they believed that you should live on a higher plane, that you should be above all of that. You shouldn't have to Have any emotions, life shouldn't impact you, you shouldn't be very discouraged, you shouldn't be very happy, you should exist on a higher plane, and so they strove for that stoicism through all of life, not letting The people of Athens were consumed, we see, with what was new. Anything new is of interest to them. Strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear some new thing That was their pursuit, to tell or to hear some new thing. It was all about the next new thing. That was their pursuit. You know, that is the opposite of contentment. That is the opposite of being satisfied with what God has given you, but to be in pursuit of the next new thing. To try and and just It's all about what you can experience new. How can you do something new or see something you haven't seen before? Hear something you haven't heard before in pursuit of the next new thing. This is what they desired. And Paul preaches to them in 1723 on Mars Hill there his message concerning the unknown God. For I have passed by and beheld your devotion. I found an altar which is the inscription to the unknown God, whom therefore ye ignorantly worship him, declare I unto you. He says, Hey, you guys are worshiping Worshiping so many gods, you've got tombs to the gods you don't even know who it is. You're just like, oh well, this is the uh God we didn't know yet. This is to the unknown God. And he says, you know what, let me introduce you to the a God you don't know. No. And he begins to preach unto them the gospel and to tell them about the God of heaven, the creator of the universe, and he gives them some history, tells them about who he is and where he came from. From he preaches them them to preaches to them here on Mars Hill uh about this unknown God. He gives them sound doctrine concerning these things. You know, any Group of people, any church, th anybody who promotes idolatry, promotes bowing to worshiping following any type of idol, they have to deny so much of this book to do that. Because over and over again we see that God does not want us worshiping false idols. God does not want us worshiping and bowing down to graven images. Any group that promotes that denies the scripture. on many, many levels, and should be a very telltale sign for any of their followers that they're not following the book. So we see here That uh their response was very mixed, just as it is today, in chapter 17, verse number 32. Some mocked And when they had heard the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. And others said, We will hear thee again on this matter Some put put it off. Some said, well, there's some truth there to what you're saying, and I believe that, but I'm not ready to accept it right now There's been many times I've shared the gospel and they were with me the whole time. And I've said, Would you like to trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior right now? And they're like, No. Wait a minute. Did you understand everything that I said? Do you know that if you died right now in your sin that you would end up in a place called hell, that you would go to hell? Do you re Realize that Jesus came and died for you and uh he gave his life so that you could go to heaven. Does does all the scripture that we read, does that all make sense? And they're like, Yeah, I I understand all that Well the Bible says now is the day of salvation. That you know, do you boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Don't put it off. You don't know that you might die tonight You don't want that to happen, and they're like, well, I'm just not ready. So that's the same here and even today. You're going to have some who mock, you're going to have some who deliver. And you'll have some who believe. We see in verse number thirty-four. How be it? Certain men clave unto him and believed. They believed. So our Duty and responsibility is just to give the gospel, to reach the lost, and their response is what they will answer to God for. We're not responsible for that. We are discouraged by it, we're disappointed when men who see the truth and understand it but don't respond to it When some mock and laugh and want to make fun of it, but there are some who believe. And those are the ones that we're striving to reach. So we see in chapter 18 and verse 13. Number one that Paul moves on to Corinth. And after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. So we see his journey. on to Corinth and he found a certain Jews there named Aquila and Priscilla. Let's see the map here. Uh now these traveled down here all through the area of Macedonia and Greece. He's come down through Athens. He moved across here to Corinth, uh ready to minister in that in that great city, uh to the Corinthians there, and establishing a church, obviously. Uh as far as God is ministering there. We see he meets immediately Aquila and Priscilla, who become great followers of Christ. They become great supporters of Christ. And they encourage him over and over again. Do you know that God will send people to you in your life that would be great sources of encouragement for you? They will be a strengthening for you. They'll be the person that will give encourage you just to keep going on. To don't give up, to don't quit. And uh this is what Aquila and Priscilla did here for Paul. That God brought them into his ministry at the right time and they become a source of strength. They come become an encouragement unto him and help him greatly. will bring people to you at the right time to be an encouragement to you. And uh we need to remember to thank God for those people that God brings into our life. Obviously we know that Corinth was a wicked city. It was a Roman city. Uh you guys know enough about history to know that Rome was a wicked place. Rome with the Version that was there in in the the capital, but do you know that Rome by reputation looked at Corinth as A wicked place. As bad as things were in Rome, when you read the historians, Rome believes Corinth to be bad. That's the condition of the city that uh they were ministering to here. And so we see some of that come to come out as men that come to Christ We all come with our own baggage. We all come with our own heartaches and burdens, but also the life of sin that has followed us. And so we see that coming out some in some of the letter when we get to the book of Corinth Corinthians that gets sent back to the church there and how God ministers to them. But uh Timothy and Silas join him in Corinth. We see that in verse number five and when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, so they had stayed there in Macedonia for a while, they came down, they joined him, joined up with him and began to minister there. Um many, many were baptized and followed the Lord, and God promises him great supernatural work and much fruit here in verse number ten. We see For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee, for I have much people in this city. I know the city's rough, I know things are bad, but listen, there's many people here that I want to reach. Many people that are going to be saved, and you just keep ministering, I'll protect you, I'll watch over you, but you preach the gospel and God giving him confidence to continue They stay in Corinth for about a year and a half, and verse number eleven there, and he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. And uh so then they move on from there. Uh during this time is when he writes back to Thessalonica. We're going to see that in just a moment. But this during During his time here, he takes a moment to write a letter to Thessalonica, the first and second Thessalonians. Aquila and Priscilla go with him to Ephesus in uh eighteen verse number nineteen we see and they came to Ephesus and left them there, but he himself entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. So We have to read verse 18 to see that Aquila and Priscilla are with them, and they move on to Ephesus. Let's see that they at Ephesus they desired that he would stay there, that he would minister. They called, they said, Hey, would you stay here? And he says, No, I've got to go on. But uh I I I gotta go to Jerusalem. Now some people say that he messed up here, that his desire was to go to Jerusalem, that wasn't what God wanted him to do. He should have stayed there and ministered. I this is just conjecture. It's people's beliefs on it because Uh he wanted to be in Jerusalem, maybe felt that that was the most effective use of his time, but there was uh the great uh feast that was going to take place in Jerusalem and he wanted to be back there for that. And so he doesn't not stay, he he goes on. He travels back through Caesarea in verses eighteen through twenty-two. At eighteen twenty two. Now it's notable here, look at chapter eighteen and verse number twenty. We see, and when he had landed in Caesarea and gone up, and he saluted the church, he went down to Antioch. So now he's all the way back home, right? But look at verse number 23. And after he had spent some time there, he departed and went all over the country of Galatia. So right here, we have no break. And we go from the second missionary journey to the third. Between verse 22 and 23 there. The third missionary journey starts. You know, you may want to note that in your Bible. Just put a mark there. The third journey starts. Or something, so you you have that you can see that this is now his third missionary journey. But uh we are at the end here, so we're gonna talk about some problems that he faced and the uh portfolio that he found. We'll look at that next week and get into the books that he wrote during this missionary journey. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and the time in Sunday school. I pray, Lord, that you would use the Word of God this morning, that you would encourage your people, that you would challenge us uh with the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, with the word of God that speaks to our hearts, it's quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword. We pray, Lord, that it would uh