And as I I think of when I first came to help out Hunt Valley Baptist Church was I was a youth pastor at Odington Baptist Church And they were getting ready to have this week of meetings, and for I think it was like a month or six weeks beforehand, they were having churches from all over come and and go out and tell the community that there were going to be this week of special meetings. And so I grabbed a whole bunch of teens from Odington Baptist Church and we came up and and on a Saturday, we spent our Saturday going out and canvassing and And I didn't really know what was going to uh become of that. I just knew God was doing something. And then we we went to uh uh uh start our deputation and reached out and Pastor uh David Betrell said, hey, hey, why don't you you come on out? You can be a part of our very first mission conference. And it was, to be honest, my second mission. It was my second deputation meeting. And I and I showed up, I really didn't know what I was doing, and I realized The 10-minute uh slide presentation he told me to have went like twenty-two minutes, and y'all supported us anyway And I appreciate that. And through that partnership, you supported us. You were actually the first church to take us on for support outside of Odens and Baptist. And that was in 2005. And in 2006, we arrived in the field in Thailand, and through the partnership, we saw a solid New Testament local church being established in the city of Siracha, Thailand. And that church is still going strong. It is planting a second work with Brother Mike Lehman, a the missionary over there in another area called Cha'am Thailand. There's a growing Bible institute that had its first round of graduates this past year. There were 20 people registered for classes when we were just there. We were able to go for that graduation back in August. And there are now 20 students enrolled in that Bible institute. And your church has supported missions in such a way Then I'm sure this is just one of hundreds of examples that will continue. Churches you don't even know are being established because of the work of Hunt Valley Baptist Church are being established And that that number of one point three million dollars of of missions is really just the tip of the iceberg because Si Raja Baptist Church supports missionaries. They support missionaries in uh Siamriap as well. Not just the Shrocks, but a different family in Cambodia. They support missionaries uh to the ACA up in Burma and and Myanmar. And that's all because Hunt Valley Baptist Church had a vision for missions. I want you to turn your Bibles with me to Colossians chapter 4. I'm not going to read the verses our brother read, but we're going to begin reading at verse number 7. I don't want to actually stand for the reading of God's Word. I promise I won't be very long, although it might seem like there's a lot to what I'm going to, I got seven points, but it will be short. In verse number 7 of Colossians chapter 4, it says, All my state shall Tychus declare unto you Who is a beloved brother and a faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate and comfort your hearts. With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you, they shall make known unto you all things which are done here. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, touching whom ye receive commandments, if he come unto you, receive him. And Jesus, which is called justice, who are of the circumcision, these only are my fellow workers unto the kingdom of God Which have been a comfort unto me. Epiphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you always, laboring fervently for you in prayers That ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. For I bear him record that he hath a great zeal for you and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Eropolis. Luke, the beloved physician and Demas, greets you. Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea and Nymphus and the church which is in his house And when this epistle is read among you, cause it to be read also in the church of the Laodiceans. And that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. And say unto Archipus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it. The salutation by the hand of me, Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen. Father, we come before you. We thank you again for this church and to have an opportunity to celebrate your hand upon. Your bride. And Lord Father God, I pray that you would help this church here, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, to not only look back and be excited about 20 years, but you would continue to give them a vision. Continue to give them a heart to see your kingdom expand, the word of God preached all over the world, that Hunt Valley would be turned upside down. Because of the faithfulness of this church. Father, we thank you again for your goodness in Jesus' name. Amen. Go ahead and be seated. I love the way the Apostle Paul writes his epistles, and a theme that is not uncommon is actually in every one of the epistles to the churches is when Paul gets ready to conclude a letter, he always gives this little greeting, this little salutation, or this little see you later. And in all of those, especially here in Colossians, with only a four-chapter book, he spends quite a portion Doing this. And I love this particular one because it it kind of draws out some things for us. We see the people that have invested in the church and colossae being mentioned These people who are praying, these people who are considering, these people who are thinking about the church in Colossae. But it's also the people that have been ministered to by the hands of the church in Colossae. There's also the fellow brethren churches that are in the area that are partnering with the church. And this is very important for us to understand. It's that although your church has been ministered to and your church has ministered to others, there is still an encouragement and a great work to continue to be done. And Paul concludes this way, but he begins his epistle by giving them and setting for them goals to continue in. Because a church that doesn't have goals is going to be a church that doesn't accomplish anything. And your church has been blessed to have men. Who desire to see the boundaries that don't exist, to let God take them and push them further than they thought the church could ever reach with preaching the word of God and feeding the flock and building disciples, building strong families, a church has been stirred here because your pastor and the pastor before him had a vision to build. They have not kept that vision to themselves, but they have deliberately encouraged this church to have a passion for souls. For serving the Lord and for sending missionaries all over the world. And it is with that mindset of vision That I believe God would have me encourage you this evening. There's a famous, famous American author who said: if you aim at nothing, you will hit it. And another author said, Show me your friends, and I'll show you your future. Essentially, what these authors are saying is if you don't have any goals, you'll never achieve anything. And you'll become Whoever you let influence you. So I want to ask you a question. As you look up at these banners and you watch these video presentations And you see the vision that your pastor and the leadership of Hunt Valley Baptist Church has laid out for you with the new property. over here and getting that up and running and and and having a a church established and and and thriving over on the property that God has blessed you with And missions giving being increased. Let me ask you a question. Have you jumped on board with the vision of your church? Have you sold out for God? Because Paul says this To them at the end. He says, Listen, I appreciate all of you. We are laboring with you. I am a bondman for you. I have come to you. I have preached. We've sent men. They're preaching all over the world People are on fire. People have a vision. He says, church, do you still have that vision? And we see the Apostle Paul's desire for this church that he's riding to to strive together to see the God-given vision to be fulfilled in this church. And as he addresses them, he challenges them with multiple goals. I'm going to cut it down to just seven. The first of these goals is found in Colossians 1, verses 10 through 12. He encourages them to walk worthy. of the Lord. Challenging them to have spiritual growth, holiness, and to have spiritual goals for their life. He says this, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. We live in a world today that does not please God. They walk in the name of someone they call Jesus, but it's a sissified, teenage-longing Jesus that loves people In a way that God never intended for his love to be perverted. We are called to walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, bearing fruit in every good work. And increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, and under all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. giving thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. Folks, here's your spiritual goal. Are you walking worthy? And God has been good to you. And God has blessed you. God has prospered you. And Paul says, listen, church and Colossae, you are being blessed. You are being prospered. Are you walking worthy of it? And so we need to have a spiritual goal to walk worthy. The second spiritual goal is found in Colossians 1 and verse number 16. The Apostle Paul is laying out a foundation here, and he's drawing attention to the power and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the authority is so powerful, we're going to read 15 and 16. Who is the image of the invisible God? Let me just stop right there. The image of the invisible God. Imagine the authority and majesty God. He says Jesus Christ is the invisible image. He is the image of God. He says the firstborn of every creature, for by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible, invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Here's your second goal. Be submitted to God because of the authority that he wields. So we have a tendency to forget. Because we have grace and we have mercy and God is long-suffering with us, we forget the authority of his judgment. We forget the authority of his power and his might. And if we're going to walk worthy of him, we also need to be submitted unto him. That means we follow him. He's not our genie. He's not our get out of jail free card. I'm submitted unto him I follow him and his will. I let him lead me. And this church for 20 years has allowed God to lead them from a storefront to this building to purchase property to now and get ready to build on that property 1. 3 million in missions, giving out. Not because you said, I'm going to do what I want to do, but because you said, God, I will follow you. And if you want God's continued blessing, you need to be submitted to God. Spiritual goal number three. Remember the redemptive power of the gospel and stay faithful to it. Colossians chapter 1, verses 21 through 23 And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. and the body of his flesh, through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight If ye continue in the faith grounded and select and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard, and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven. Wherefore I, Paul and made a minister. He says, remember, you were without hope. You were without Christ. You were alienated. But he saved you. He reconciled you through his work on the cross. It's only through Jesus Christ. Amen When we get to verse number 23 and we see that word if, some folks want to say, well, is that meaning you can lose your salvation? No, he's talking to a church, and he says, don't move away from the gospel. The gospel got you into salvation. Don't start doing what we see in modern churches today and turn it into entertainment and turn it into a process, turn it into works. It's by Salvation by grace through faith, and it will always be salvation by grace through faith. And so he says This is what got you here. Folks, let me tell you, as your church continues to grow, as you do more for God, it's not going to be the building program. It's not going to be the other blessings that you see happening that got you here. It was the redemptive power of the gospel that got you here. Spiritual goal number four have a part in the preaching of the gospel Colossians chapter 1, verse number 28. Paul says, Whom we preach speaking of Christ. Warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. The Apostle Paul uses that term we It's not just your pastor, the assistants, the deacons. You have a part in the evangelism of your church. And you accomplish that in several different ways. You accomplish that by being faithful to your outreach program Showing up. Going out into your community. I know people don't like to knock doors, but knocking doors still works. Street evangelism, people mock it, it still works, folks. Our church went down to Annapolis and And we had several of our guys out there preaching. And some young man in his twenties, he's now up in college, and he heard a ruckus going on, and he thought there was a fight, but no, it was just one of our guys preaching. And he comes down and he hears it. He talks to the young man for a while, and the next Sunday he doesn't show up. Two Sundays later, I'm preaching, and this man raises his hand for salvation and comes forward at the end, and someone takes them out, and they come and they're like, that's the guy who we reach by just preaching down in Annapolis. You need to have a part evangelism through your outreach program. Grab the tracks, hand them out. Don't don't go to Walmart to buy milk. Go to preach the gospel and buy milk at the same time. Be participating in your missions program. Give to missions. Go on the missions trips. Encourage the missionaries. Have them over for a meal. Interact with them and encourage them. but have a part in preaching the gospel. Spiritual goal number five. Grow in the faith and knowledge of Christ. Turn with me to Colossians two, verses six and seven. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Verse 7: Rooted and built up In him, established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving, rooted and built up You are not called to stay as you are. You know, I appreciated Pastor Vetrell letting you know I was in that video. I forgot I had a hairline. I forgot my hair had color. It's been white for some time. But you know what, the truth of the matter is as I've matured, I'm going to call it mature, I'm not going to call it girl. As I've matured, you know what? I've actually watched your church mature. I have watched this church grow It didn't stay with the same handful of people that I remembered when I first showed up to that mission conference. Souls have been saved. People have been discipled. The Baptistry waters have been moving. But you know what, folks? You personally can't stay where you are spiritually. You have to grow. How do you do that? He tells us: you need to abound in the things of God. Be in church. Have your time in the Word of God. And make sure you make prayer a priority. Spiritual goal. Number six. Seek and set your affections on spiritual things. Colossians 3. Verses 1 through 4: If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affections on the things above, not on the things of earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then we then then ye also appear, or shall ye also appear with him in glory. There are some words that stand out. This is the three kind of main thoughts that the Apostle Paul gives. in this aspect. The first are the things that have been confirmed and complete already. He says, you are dead. You are risen with Christ and you are hid with Christ. Those are complete. Those are done Already, if you put your faith in him, he you are dead, and you are no longer the person you were before. You are dead with him, you are risen with him to a new life And then you are hid with him secure in Christ. And he says, because you've received that, seek those things which are above. And set your affection on those things. We are often encouraged to be successful financially. We're encouraged to be successful intellectually and to push further for higher academic goals. But I want you to see what Paul is saying to this church. You'll never be a greater success than if you seek after spiritual things If you seek after the things of God, and then not just seek after them, but set your affections on them. Because the Bible tells us where what we love, what we treasure, that's where your heart's going to be. And if you treasure God By seeking after him, that's where your heart's going to be. It's what your affections are set on. And that's when God's blessings come into your life. So spiritual bowl number six was set your set seek and set your affections on the things of God. And spiritual bowl number seven Make glorifying God your purpose for everything. In Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 17. And whatsoever ye do in word Or indeed, to all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Do you remember that quote we threw out? Show me your friends and I'll show you your future. If we try to make this world what we are Establishing as the important aspect of our life. And we are doing things in order to receive from the world you will look like the world. If you are trying to be successful in the world, and when we say world, we understand we're talking about the invisible kingdom that is under the authority of Satan. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. But what I have found is Most Christians today have been deluded into thinking that this world is worth living for. He says, whatsoever you do in word and deed to all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. Now listen to me, if we make These goals that the Apostle Paul sets before the church in Colossae, if we make them our goals, this church will know no bounds. Because you've got God's hand upon you. And what you've done in the first 20 years will continue into the next 20 years. But make sure we're setting these spiritual goals ahead of us. Because there are going to be people who stand against the goals. It was happening in this church. In Colossians chapter 2 and verse number 8, the Apostle Paul wrote this morning. To these believers that were appearing to grow and to prosper in the name of Christ, he said, Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the tradition of men after the ruminants of the world and not after Christ. He makes this statement because they allowed different groups of people to influence them, the Judaizers, the mystics, and the intellectuals. And unfortunately, some of the believers had been pulled into false teachings and moved away from the truth of the gospel. And the apostle Paul says, listen, church, remember these goals. Let them unfold in your life. Set them as important in priority. And you'll see God's blessings come in. So for 20 years you've been faithful. For 20 years you have worked hard to follow the vision established by the leadership, and you've walked in that And so let me just encourage you one more time: walk worthy. Be submitted to God as your authority. Remember the redemptive power of the gospel and stay faithful to it Have a part in preaching the gospel with your church. Grow in the faith and knowledge of Christ in your church. Seek and set your affections on spiritual things and make glorifying God the purpose of everything you do. The Apostle Paul at the end, verses 7 through 18, is encouraging a bunch of believers saying, Listen, you've invested in us, we've invested in you, you've got churches around you, serve together. Glorify God together. Work hard together and be successful in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ together by being obedient to Him. So let me just ask you, church, do you have spiritual goals? Do you have spiritual vision? And if you say, Pastor, Pastor John, I'm I'm you know what? Be honest with you, I've kind of let that slip a little bit. What better day to get excited about missions and things of God again than your 20th anniversary? Remember evangelism and missions Get on board with your church. Father, we come before you. We thank you so much for your goodness. And Lord God, I just pray that you would move and work and The lives of the folks here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, that you would stir them to be submitted and surrendered unto you in all things. And Father, that you would help them to influence their community for the gospel. That you would help this church to grow, to be strong, to continue in missions, to continue in evangelism, to continue in giving, to continue Serving and striving together for the furtherance of the gospel, and we'll honor and glorify you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.