Alrighty we are in uh Acts chapter 18 and uh picking up this morning here with Paul's third missionary journey. uh really basically between I mentioned this at the close of our last time we had Sunday school, which was some weeks ago because uh the fact that we had uh s a snow day because uh we Sunday school got canceled because of the snow and then of course having the Christmas uh days there and then me being out of town so it's been some weeks since we were together. But you're in Acts chapter eighteen and uh basically between verses twenty-two and twenty-three we have the transition into the third missionary journey. Uh Paul was not going to let any grass grow under his feet. He was on a mission. He was determined to reach the world for Jesus Christ. He was out uh seeing men in every town and village and uh province that he went to Uh he he was desirous to see them come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and he continued to push forward even in the face of great adversity. He traveled over 12,000 miles on his missionary journeys. That's 12,000 miles in a time uh when you were, by and large, traveling on foot. Uh you know, maybe you get a uh a donkey or a horse, but uh by and large probably a lot of this would be traveling on foot And uh twelve thousand miles is a is a lot of land to to cover. He was under attack continually. He was sick to the point of death often. He was run out of one city after another. And yet still he pressed on. I think that uh the majority of us, including myself, would have got discouraged. We would have said, Why am I doing this? And they don't really want the truth anyway. They keep running me out of every city I go to uh man this is a futile endeavor and he would you know just got discouraged and gave up. But Paul didn't. He continued to press on and continued to try and reach the world with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ uh him crucified, risen, uh, and ascended up into heaven, sitting on the right hand of the throne of God, and that uh message preaching to them that men might turn to Jesus as their Lord and Savior Between verses twenty-two and twenty-three, there's fifteen hundred miles that are covered. This is not a small trip. There's a lot of land covered there. He says And when he had landed at Caesarea and gone up and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch. And after he had spent some time there, he departed and went over all the country of Galatia and Pergia in order to strengthen all the disciples. So we see this transition. He came, he Saluted the churches. He checked in. He said, you know, hey guys, just seeing how you doing, and went on to the next one. And he saluted all the churches. He traveled through that region. and that area. And so we're going to talk this morning, first of all, about the path he followed, following the same outline we have with our other missionary journeys. We see first of all he is there in Asia Minor in verse number 23 Uh he launches out to Asia Meyer that he might encourage the saints. That's his desire there. He says that he might strengthen all the disciples. He wanted to strengthen them He went to be an encouragement. Let me tell you that you are an encouragement when you show up. You are an encouragement when you get around others. When people see your faithfulness, when people see your uh desire to please the Lord and want to honor God. that encourages others and uh inspires them to do the same. That hey there is something here and this is worth doing and and uh by Paul traveling through and checking in with these saints that he had reached, he encourages them. and strengthens them for the battles that they were facing. Passing through many of the former areas of ministry that he was uh a part of, he went through Galatia, Derby, Iconium, Lystra, Antioch, uh Pergia. uh which is a more general title for that region, for that area, that region uh there was a uh Asia Minor and also over into Greece, and he's traveling through here just trying to uh encourage them to continue in the faith. Now, Paul always is doing the work of an evangelist. That is, he's always presenting the gospel. Everywhere he goes, he's trying to reach people with the truth of Jesus Christ. But we see here in the later days of his ministry that there is a lot of time here also invested in trying to encourage and disciple the saints that he had already reached. And is just something to think about or consider, and that is that like a missionary that goes to the foreign field or a pastor uh or a church that begins We are always involved in the work of evangelism. That is the mission of the church. We're to continue to reach a lost. But the Great Commission doesn't stop with getting them saved. We're supposed to baptize them and teach them all that Jesus Christ taught. So there is discipleship involved in that as well. Well you understand that uh that Effort of discipleship takes considerably longer than the decision of salvation. And so what I'm saying is that you'll see here in Paul's ministry A big tr transfer, a big change from in the beginning where he was very much evangelistic and spent all of his time just preaching to the lost. That now we see him checking in with these churches. We see him going and encouraging the saints. We see him discipling them and helping to solve some problems That's what many of the books of the New Testament that Paul wrote are about, him encouraging the church and helping them to solve issues that they were facing. trying to teach them what Jesus Christ wanted them to learn. So there's discipleship and training and encouragement and time invested. in uh this ministry. Now you're again you're continually you're still endeavoring to reach the lost, but we do see and notice that a large part of his ministry now, because he's reached so many people that he has the responsibility to disciple them and to teach them and so he's spending this time traveling to these churches and encouraging them. And we you know, ought to realize that that's the way it is, uh that that's what happened. And that's what should happen. Uh we should not just be winning people to Christ and leaving them as babes in Christ for the rest of their life. Because you're a babe in Christ not based on how long you've been saved, but by how much you've grown. And sometimes there are people that have been saved ten, fifteen, twenty years, and they're still a babe in Christ. Why? Because they have not grown. In knowledge of the Word of God, in their relationship with God. And they're still very young, very uh early in their maturity spiritually And so our goal as a church is to try and help bring them along. That's what the whole discipleship program is about, where we endeavor to disciple and establish and train one another in the things of God that we might come along. So this was his mission. Um Apollos, we see Apollos in verse number twenty-five. comes to Ephesus in eighteen twenty five. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in the Spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. And he began to speak boldly in the synagogues, whom, when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him into them and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. So we see here another very clear example of discipleship. Here this man, Apollos, was very fervent, very sincere, desired to reach people. But the only thing he knew about any of it was the baptism of John. So he was sharing the baptism of John without even really telling people about Jesus Christ. And so Aquila and Pillar Priscilla see this and they say, wait a minute, there are some more things that you need to learn. There are some more things that you need to understand. His fervency was right. His sincerity was good. Yet he didn't know all that he needed to know to be an effective tool, an effective minister for Jesus Christ. Paul hasn't come there yet, but Paul's on his way. Um and uh Paulus having been pointed to Christ by John the Baptist. That's found in Matthew chapter number three. You don't have to turn there, but I'm just going to turn back and read this. Matthew chapter 3, verse 2 and 3. We see where Paulus comes to Christ. He says, And saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, for this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, and saying, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. make his path straight. So Apollos here learning of John the Baptist, knowing uh of his ministry and desirous to Preach that to people. That's what he was communicating continually. And uh he was f fervent in his pursuit of God, fervent in his pursuit of truth. That's described for us there in verse 25 that we read that he just uh desired to do that, but lacked some of the knowledge that he really needed. Now he was a man that was eloquent. and energetic. This is a rare combination. You tend to have one or the other with most men. Uh that is, those men who are very scholarly tend not to be very eloquent. And yet you have men who are true propeteers. They are very eloquent, but they tend to be a little less scholarly. That's just how it is. But this man had both in in is described there as it as it as the uh The one who was so fervent and desirous to preach in verse number 25, this man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught diligently the things of the Lord Uh he he spoke boldly in the synagogues. And so this was a gift that he had. But in the face of this, uh he needed to learn something. So we see that Paul, who hasn't arrived there yet, but Paul talks about Apollos, you remember, in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse number 6, he says, I have planted. What is it? Apollos watered. I have planted Apollos watered. In this work of the ministry, in this reaching of the lost, he acknowledges and says, hey, Apollos was part of this. There are many people that I spoke to that I maybe ministered to but didn't come to Christ, but Apollos was able to come through and he watered as well and spent some time, but God gave the increase. And Aquila and Priscilla instruct him in the way of the Lord there in verse number 26 that we read. This really is the duty of every believer to find and instruct others in the way of God. As we learn and as we grow, we should desire to share and to help and to teach others in the way of God. It's notable here that Aquila and Priscilla took time to teach him. You know it takes time. It takes effort to disciple. It takes time with people. You've got to spend that time, not just the time teaching, but time getting to know them, time learning where they're at, so that you can effectively help them to get to the next level. And uh a true ministry of discipleship takes a lot of time. And Aquila and Priscilla uh they demonstrate this by inviting him to their house and spending time with them. And they used the wisdom that they had received of Paul to do this. Now, this man was a smart man. He was already very knowledgeable. He was very eloquent, but he understood that he didn't know everything. This is just a small lesson here that we ought to uh take to heart, and that is we ought to remember, as smart as you might be, you don't know everything. that there are still some things to learn. This man Apollos, although he was very knowledgeable, although he was very fervent, he was also very teachable. And Aquila and Priscilla were able to take him aside and instruct him and teach him. Matthew Henry said, those who know much should covet to know more. Be desirous to learn. Continue to be teachable. Don't ever reach the point where we feel like we know it all. There's nothing anybody else is going to teach us. And I know on the surface nobody would actually say that. But do we live that way? Do we practice that? Are we less ready to hear uh what people are saying because we feel like, oh well we we already know that. Uh how many of you have heard kids they they they they start to learn some things and then when you start to tell them something they'll say, I know They don't even know what you're gonna say yet, right? They don't they don't even know what you're gonna say and they're like I know I did that with my kids several times when we were growing up and I would say okay go ahead then And they don't even know the they don't even know what they're supposed to go ahead and do because they don't they don't know. And and and so then it's a teachable moment you can say you don't know. Right? Admit it. You don't know. Okay, now let me teach you. And show them. And I think sometimes that's kids, it's very easy to see. But we also need to be teachable as we get older as well. His limitation uh was knowledge, and we all have that limitation. But I wonder how willing are we to admit it and are we willing to spend some time to learn to overcome that limitation Now he used what he learned and was mightily used of God to reach the Jews in Corinth. We see that in verse number 28. He he took to heart what he learned. And we see it in verse number 28, for he mightily convinced the Jews and that publicly showed by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ. So now we see this transition where before he preached John the Baptist But he learned from Aquila and Priscilla, and now he is preaching Christ, and he's used mightily to reach many, many Jews, uh, with the knowledge that he learned. Until we see that. In chapter 19, we see him continuing on his journey, the path that he followed here. He goes to Ephesus. This is the entirety of the chapter, verses one through forty-one. Paul is compelled to help the new believers there. We see that. And it came to pass that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper coast, came to Ephesus. And finding certain disciples, he said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism. Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him That is, on Christ Jesus. When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus So again, they were learning of the baptism of John, maybe by Apollos here, having heard and just learned about John's baptism, and they wanted to be a follower. of Christ and so this was the extent of their knowledge. That's all that they had been shared with them. And they were fervent in it, but again needed some instruction. And Paul stops to help them. He's compelled to help them. He spends some time with them. Uh just because someone is a discipler or a learner does not mean that they are actually saved as a true follower of Jesus Christ. They may have yet to learn what salvation is, or to know what's required of that. They may have gone to a church that for many years nobody ever preached unto them salvation. They did not know what Christ retired required and their desire to follow God. And I believe there are people like this all over the world who are sincere in their pursuit of God. But have not learned who Jesus Christ is and why he died, and that that is their means of salvation, and haven't yet come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ We can't take for granted just because somebody came to church or because they have a Bible that they know Jesus as their Lord and Savior. These were actively pursuing and following Christ, but Paul says, Wait, what were you baptized unto? They were preaching this baptism, and he says, What were you baptized unto? And he says unto them, Have you received the Holy Ghost? And they said, Wait. Uh we don't have any knowledge of this. We've never even heard that there is a Holy Ghost. What w what are you talking about? Matthew Henry said Ignorance of the Holy Ghost is as inconsistent with a sinner's profession of Christ as ignorance of Christ is. He says he he in d in talking about this passage here, he does not believe that these men were yet saved They were desirous, but they didn't know Jesus Christ. And he says, ignorance of the Holy Ghost, because the Spirit comes in to the repentant soul at the moment of salvation. And he says, You Ignorance of the Holy Ghost is as inconsistent with salvation as ignorance of Christ is. You can't get saved without knowing who Christ is and putting your faith and trust in him. That is the foundation of it. And he says, Well ignorance of the Holy Ghost is is just the same. Now, it's noteworthy to just to point out here that many people that like to talk about the baptism of the Holy Ghost, you'll hear terms like that, or or a second blessing. Uh i if you are out or you're listening to uh somebody, this tends to be those that lean towards Pentecostalism that believe in speaking in tongues and these other things. But they talk about the baptism of the Holy Ghost. There's a second blessing. I want you to know that we do not believe that. Jesus the Holy Ghost is a person. You have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. Three and one, one and three, all t all together, and you when at salvation you don't just get the arm. You don't just get his leg. You know, you get the Holy Ghost, you get the Spirit, and uh the difference is is how much of the Spirit has you It's how submitted you are to him, how yielded you are to him. Yes, you can through obedience and and quiet submission to the Holy Spirit. be greater empowered and strengthened to do mighty things through the Spirit of God, but that is not through a mystical or magical second blessing that comes at some point. But what I'm saying is they like to use this passage because he says to them, Have you yet received the Holy Ghost? And people will ask you that, oh, you got saved, but did you receive the Holy Ghost yet? Oh, that comes later. It doesn't. It comes at the moment of salvation, just so you're aware of that and don't let somebody teach you falsely with regards to that. Romans 8, verse number 9 says, if a man have not the Spirit of Christ He is none of his. So Romans 8:9 says, if a man has not the spirit, if you don't have the spirit, you're not saved. Because at salvation, you get the spirit. So if you if you're saved, you have the spirit. And you say, well, I'm not speaking in tongues, and I I'm not, you know, all all full of that I see these other people doing these things and whatever that they're claiming that that's the spirit that does that. Uh I want you to know that's all false teaching Don't don't be swayed by that. You have the spirit. How submitted are you to the spirit Paul asked them there in verse number three what they were baptized unto. They answered there, of course, the same as Apollos. That's all that Apollos knew before he was taught and instructed by Aquila and Priscilla. And uh they didn't yet know about the finished work of Christ, even though they were fervent. These men desired to believe on Christ, but did not yet know the gospel, and until Aquila and Priscilla had instructed Apollos and showed them their need for repentance and belief on Christ. Paul goes on to teach in the synagogue for three months. Chapter 19 and verse number eight there we see And he went into the synagogue and he spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. So for three months he continued in the synagogue, teaching and preaching there, uh seeing God do a work Paul ministers in Ephesus for a total of three years. And you see that in chapter 20 in verse number 31. He continues there for three years. He is both instructing them and a living example for them. In 1 Corinthians 11, verse number 1, he tells us to be followers of me, even as I also am of Christ. He says, be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ. I wonder, Christian, if we could tell people, just follow me. Just do what I do, and you will be a successful follower of Christ You will be a powerful Christian. You will be, I mean, Paul says, hey, just follow me as I follow Christ Certainly I think there's some aspect of that. You could say that if I cease to follow Christ, don't follow me anymore. Only follow me as long as I'm following Christ. But just as I read that on his face, look at it and say, I wonder, could I just tell people, just do as I do, and you'll be okay. Well that's pretty hard. Are we growing to that point? Are we ready to have that example? You say, well, that's the Apostle Paul, but it is something we could and should shoot for. That people might follow us to certainly at least find Christ. and be what Christ wants them to be. He confronts Skeba, a chief priest who wanted to exercise power, verses 13 through 20. This chief priest wanted to have the power of Christ, but yet didn't even know Christ. We see in verse number 13 there he says Then certain of the Vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits, the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, We enjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth. So what he's saying here, he's like, listen, we we command you in the name of Jesus, the Jesus who Paul is talking about. You see, they don't have a personal relationship with Jesus. They don't know Jesus. They said, by the we've seen Paul do this And so we want to do it. And they don't even know who Jesus is yet. And so they're desirous to cast him out. He he goes on and he says, and there was seven sons of one Skeva, a Jew and a chief priest, which did so. So this Skeva and his seven sons were out trying to cast out demons, wanting to have the power of God, but didn't even know God. They just saw Paul do it. They recognized the power he had and they desired it. But look what the evil spirit says unto them. Verse number 15. And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know. And Paul I know, but who are ye? See, they didn't they didn't know Jesus. They were just trying to use the power that God had given Paul and cast these demons out. And the demon itself looked at him and said, We know who Jesus is, we know who Paul is, but we don't know you. Who who are you? What what power do you have over us? Obviously, none. We see that they attempt this. But they fail miserably and they fall prey unto the evil spirit. Verse number sixteen, and the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them and overcame them and prevailed against them So that they fled out of the house naked and wounded. This this evil uh spirit jumps on them, attacks this man and his seven sons. And they they run out of the house having been beaten and losing their clothing and they're they're running scared because they didn't have the power of God to do the work of God And God used this to turn many to him in verse number 17. And this was known to all the Jews and the Greeks also dwelling in Ephesus. And fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. So there many people understood this, that this is not something that just anybody and everybody could do. You needed to know Jesus Christ. The power was in Jesus Christ, not in the words you were saying, not in the you know the this particular formula that you produce, no, it's knowing Jesus Christ was the difference. And people saw this, they learned of it, and they were turned to Christ because of it. When men are faced with the truth, we see that change is bound to happen. We see that in verse number 18, and many that believed came and confessed and Showed their deeds, many of them also, which used curious arts, brought their books together and burned them before all men. And they continued the price of them and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver. So these men brought their curious arts, they brought their books on on demons and and the black arts. They brought these things and they burned them. You know, this is a normal thing when you come to Christ You should desire to take those old things and get rid of them. It seems like in today's society, by and large, people want to come to Christ Or they want to pretend or act like they've come to Christ, but there is no change in their life. They have not stopped watching the filth that they were watching on television. They haven't given up the the books that they have in their home that are wrong that are that are wicked. They haven't made any change in the music that they listen to or the places that they go or the activities that they're involved in. Beloved, that's not salvation. When you come to Christ, there's something in your heart that desires to build a separation between what you once knew And what you know of God. And so you'll see people that come to Christ and all of a sudden They desire to be in church and they want to grow and you'll see them start coming faithfully and they get come more and more and they're growing in the Lord and then they start to hear about things. And they're like, whoa, I shouldn't be a part of that. And and they make these changes. I remember uh my dad leading herb Chinese to the Lord. Herb and his wife Chinese, I was there in the house that day. I was just a little kid and dad was witnessing to them and they were Germans and uh out in the desert of El Paso, Texas and this German uh man, you know, they they bowed their head and they trusted Christ and Herb Chinese after we prayed and and You know, we're standing there by the door and we're about on our way out the door. And already the Holy Spirit was convicting Herb Trinese because he looked at my dad. I'm standing there in the hallway of their house. I can still picture it in my mind's eye. And Herb Trinese looks at my dad and he says Uh listen, preacher, we got saved, and we may we may come to church, but we're German, and Germans drink alcohol. And I just want you to know that we we're not a drunk, but we drink, and we drink with every meal. And my dad looked at him and said, Listen, Herb, you just do what God wants you to do. And I'll be thrilled. I'll be don't don't worry about me. You just do what God wants you to do. Well I can tell you it wasn't two weeks later Herb Chinese came down to my dad after following the service. He came down and talked to him in the middle aisle there. And tears running down his face and her trying to look at my dad. He says, Preacher, I gotta give up that stinking alcohol. We gotta quit that drinking that stuff. That doesn't make Jesus happy Listen, that's what happens in the heart of somebody that comes to Jesus Christ. They have some old things in their life and all of a sudden they say, You know what That's not what I want. I want Jesus and I want to be close to Jesus. And anything that's going to hinder that or get in the way of that, I want to get rid of it. And we see these people that came to Christ They took all them old books and all that filthy stuff and all that Satan worship and all of that and they threw it into the fire. It was believed to be Around the value of around $30,000, which by today's standards, if you take inflation, you're talking millions of dollars worth of goods that they took and threw away Because what they wanted was Jesus. They weren't trying to hold on to their old life. That's what salvation does for somebody when they come to Christ. They desire to get rid of that. We see Paul confronting the defenders of Diana in verses 24 through 41. Obviously, we aren't going to read all of that, but Demetrius was afraid of losing his income, beginning in verse number 24. We see for a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen. They made these shrines and they sold them, and man, they made good money. When he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, ye know that this craft which ye have are wealth Moreover, ye see and hear that not only in Ephesus, but almost through all of Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying that they be no gods which are made with hands. So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at naught, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised. And her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshipeth. All Asia and the world, he says, boy Diana is going to fall by the wayside. Our livelihood is going to be gone. Everybody is giving up their idols. He was not happy about it. I read some weeks ago, uh actually the week that I was studying for this lesson, I read about a lady who had been bowing down to and worshiping an idol that she had in her house. That she believed to be a representation of Buddha. However, somebody a little more worldly visiting her home Asked her why she had on her altar there Shrek She had been bowing down to and worshipping Shrek as a god. uh uh in ignorance in all sincerity uh but beloved it was an idol made with hands and whether it's shaped like shrek or shreaped like judah or shaped like uh Mary It's still an idol. And there is no power in that idol that is shaped with hands. And we worship God and God alone. So Demetrius and this group, this mob of people, were very upset and they chose to oppose Paul. Paul is saved by some kind friends who convinced him, don't go into the theater. They've gathered there and they're ready to kill you. Again, Matthew Henry said, God may call upon you to lay down your life. But he was not going to ask you to throw it away. He may call you to lay down your life, but he's not going to ask you to throw it away. And so what he was saying is that basically God saved Paul from going into there, that would have accomplished nothing but his death. And God's not going to ask you to throw your life away, to be foolish in that regard. Until God brought some friends by that said, hey, don't go in there. And it's you who they want. And so again, this happens to Paul over and over again that God saves him, that he might continue to minister uh around the world. And Paul described the challenges that he faced in Ephesus in 1 Corinthians 15, 32. He says, as having fought with the beast at Ephesus. That's how he described it in 1 Corinthians 15 32. He says, I fought with the beast at Ephesus. That great mob, that challenge, the struggles that were there, uh was certainly something that that Paul dealt with. We see him move on to Macedonia and Greece in chapter 20, verses 1 through 5. He spent three months making his way through that region, preaching the gospel. The Jews laid in wait for him at the port. And twenty in verse number three. Uh and again God saves his life and sends him over land. They were waiting for him at the port, ready to kill him, saying, Hey, we're here, we're gonna get him. This is where Paul's getting on the ship. But God comes to him and says, Hey go another way. And Paul goes over land for a while and uh God saves his life there. During this time it's likely that Paul wrote his letter to the Romans. We're not going to uh get to that right now, but This is when Paul does that. Most of the group uh boarded a ship and traveled to Troaz, but Paul, of course, having been saved and directed by God to go another way, uh travels over land. We see that in verse number five. We are in Uh I think it's chapter twenty, verse number five. What does he say here? He said, These going before uh tarry for us at Troaz. So those that got in the boat They travelled on to Troaz and waited for him, and we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came unto Troaz in five days where we abroad where we abode seven So they continue there for a while, Paul gets there and reaches them. It really could have been possibly, of course, during this time that Paul wrote the Book of Romans, but in the book of Romans, Paul describes maybe even the challenges that he's facing here. When he says, yea, all things work together for good. All the things that he was enduring, the the struggles, the challenges he was being faced with, the burdens he was facing, the attacks on his life, and he writes, hey God has a plan. All things work together for good. And we we learn of that. So they're there at Troaz, beginning in verse number six through twelve. Paul preaches on the first day of the week. Uh he's preaching and uh he goes late into the evening. Uh we see that Paul preaching here in verse number six. And when they sailed away, let's see, verse number seven, on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow. and continuing his speech until midnight. He's preaching until midnight, and those of you that know your Bible know what happens what happens here. And there were many lights in the upper chamber where they were gathered together. And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eudychus. being fallen into a deep sleep. And as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep and fell down from the third loft and was taken up dead. So Eudychus there falls asleep in the window. Now, I know that this happens sometime, and listen, if on occasion you're forced to listen to a long-winded snooze bag And maybe you maybe you fall asleep. I understand that. I mean that that happens And sometimes I I may get long winded. I don't think I'm typically a long winded preacher. I tend to say what I'm gonna say and get done. Uh but I know that happens, but here's the here's the thing. Sometimes it's not because the preacher was long-winded. It's because you haven't put any preparation in to being ready for church. You have not prepared yourself. You didn't go to bed on Saturday night. They used to say when I was a kid, Saturday night Saturday night live makes for Sunday morning dead. Okay, people that are staying up and watching that trash are not ready to be in the house of the Lord on Sunday. And you're gonna you're gonna end up falling asleep. Why? Because you haven't prepared to be ministered to. You haven't thought, well, you know what, uh if you were forced to take a big test You had to you knew you were gonna be in a class or something like that somewhere that that was m that meant something to you. You would tell your family, you know what, tomorrow morning I've got to be in this class, I gotta I gotta do this, uh I'm gonna I gotta go to bed because I need my strength, I need to be ready for this tomorrow. Uh why is it we s put so little importance on church? And we're willing to stay up till midnight or one or two in the morning on Saturday night, and it's no wonder you're falling asleep in church on Sunday. It's not the preacher's fault. Are you ready? Now, Eudicus here, the Bible's very clear. Paul went long. He was preaching all the way into the night, and Eutychus falls asleep in a window and falls down to his desk. Now, Paul In his uh ability given to him by God, Paul raises him from the dead in verse number 10. And Paul went down and fell on him and embraced him. And said, Trouble not yourselves, for his life is in him. When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and eaten, and talked, and long while even until break day, and he so he departed. So Paul went down and raised him from the dead and then went right on teaching. He's like, Don't worry, he's a he's gonna be alright. See, he's eating some food and he just went right on teaching. What Paul was saying is listen His physical life is not near as important as your spiritual life. Let's spend some time. Let's let's look at your spiritual life. He was trying to instruct them. You know, it By today's standard, if anybody involved in today's healing ministries uh would have been there and accomplished that You know they would have paused and said, get the cameras out. We need to shoot some shorts for uh for promotions. We need to we need to produce some flyers to get out to let people know about this We're going to launch a new ministry. It's called the Embracing Ministry. We're going to have you know, Paul embraced him, so we're going to have an embracing ministry. And what you can see if you're embraced by this individual. I mean, they would have done all this promotion. Paul raises him from the dead and just goes right on teaching. That wasn't as important. Why? Because God is the one that did that. It wasn't Paul. It was God by his grace decided to do this. And Paul continues to instruct and to teach them concerning their spiritual life. Then they go to uh Athos in chapter 20, verses 13 through 14. Uh they stop there to pick up Paul who had traveled uh by foot almost 20 miles. And Paul found himself, like the Lord, often in places where there were so many people and ministering so often that he needed a short break to recharge. You know, it's a good thing to find some quiet space and uh to recharge. To just get alone a little bit And Paul desired to do this, just to get alone, spend a little bit of time. We see Christ doing that often when there's people everywhere, they pressed him on every side, and so Christ looked for and longed for a time, a place to just get away. and to be quiet for a little bit. And we see this happen to Paul there. Luke once again has joined the group as seen by the use of the word us in verse number 14. in uh chapter twenty verse number fourteen and when he met us at Esos we took him in and came to uh my lady So again, under stating there that Luke was with him, because Luke is the author, so he includes himself in this group. He travels through several locations on his way to Jerusalem, verses 14 through 16. Those locations are listed there. And uh then he gets to Miletus in verse number 17. Paul instructs them that he desires to go to Jerusalem. This is what he wants to do. We see in verse chapter 20, verse number 17. And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church, and when they were come to him he said unto him, Ye know from the first day that I came to Asia, after what manner I have been with you in all seasons, serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears and temptations befell me by the lying and weight of the Jews, and that how I spake, how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, and have showed you and have taught you publicly, and from house to house testifying both to the Jew and to the Greek, and to repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And now behold, I go bound in the Spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me He was on his way to Jerusalem. He was burdened for Jerusalem. He desired to go to Jerusalem. He says, listen, I've been here. I've done everything I can to try and help you. I've instructed you. I've taught you. I've I've labored and I've ministered among you for all this time and Now it's time, the Spirit constraining me. I gotta go to Jerusalem. And they try and convince him not to go. They said, Don't don't go. They're lying in wait there. They're gonna kill you there. And he says, I don't know what's going to befall me in Jerusalem. I'm not sure what's going to happen there, but I'm gonna go. Is it? I'm sorry, I haven't even been watching the clock. I just happen to see all these uh people out here in the foyer. And uh Uh I was really planning to get to the end of this section of the notes, which is why I kept teaching. Nobody's gusting it, wave at me or nothing. It's it's eight eighteen. Uh Yeah, like like oh well, how much longer are we gonna go? I didn't even pay attention there. See that's what happens when I'm gone for a week and I I'm not uh in the r role of things. I apologize, uh I have gone long. All these people in the foyer are standing out there waiting. Uh see what you guys missed. See if anybody's out there listening, they're they're probably all fellowshipping, but uh let's pray and what we just missed. Lord we love you. We thank you for this time in Sunday school. I pray that you'd be with us Uh as we move into the morning service, I pray that uh Lord you would be honored and glorified and you would draw us into your presence and teach us through this service this morning uh as we look and remember what you've done for us in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're just missed.