I think really pages at least one thirty five through one thirty nine uh available to you. And so So you can grab those so that you have them because we are going to try and get through this this morning. There is a lot of notes there, but we're going to move pretty quick. uh as we're just dealing with the very last chapter here of the book of Acts. We see that this is Paul's last doer doer detour. Sorry, I can't talk. Uh his last detour before he ultimately reaches Rome, which we know is God's plan and where God is wanting to get to him. This last detour is that he is shipwrecked on uh Maleti, which is now called Malta. We know that he is shipwrecked there in beginning of verse number one. And when they were escaped, they knew that they uh that the island was called Malita and the barbarous people showed us no little kindness, for they kindled a fire and received us every one because of the uh present rain and because of the cold. So they were shipwrecked It was cold, it was raining, uh obviously things were bad, and yet these people showed them uh great kindness. That kind of is a reverse way of saying it, no little kindness. He's saying they were very kind. And uh then in the same verse we see that they called him barbarians, this barbarous people. The reason that they referred to them as barbarians is because the Greeks referred to anybody who didn't speak Greek. as barbarians. It was just uh you were either Greek and you understood and spoke Greek or you were a barbarian. That was the terminology which was understood And so you would know that these people uh by and large would have been Gentile, that or they did not speak Greek. And so uh Paul is acknowledging that by just referencing them in accordance with uh a normal uh terminology of the day. Uh but they didn't speak Greek, but they spoke kindness. Amen? That's an amazing thing when you go on missions trips, uh sometimes you you're with other people and you don't speak their language. But it's amazing how they're able to show kindness. And you can show kindness unto them. And you don't necessarily can't communicate on a level of personal communication But that kindness is very evident in the gestures that they make and their desire to try and be a blessing to you. And uh it's certainly a joy uh to be able to fellowship With other believers all around the world who although they may not speak your language, they certainly know the love of Christ and they show that So Paul is involved in acts of service here, and he is bitten by a snake in verse number three. And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, they came a viper out of the heat and fastened on his hand This viper bites him. Uh you know, Paul was just as tired as everybody else. Paul was just as uh he had just been through the shipwreck like everybody else He was just as wet, just as cold, just as hungry. But what you see here is Paul involved in service. Right away they get back, and Paul's not thinking, well, I'm the Apostle Paul. I'm the you know most important prisoner here. Uh you know, no, Paul immediately you see him serving the people. He goes and he starts getting wood and bringing this together to help feed the fire And uh in his act of service, in his act of kindness, he is bitten. You know, sometimes when you are serving the Lord, you're going to be attacked. There's gonna be vipers, there's gonna be snakes that uh come out of the grass and know that it is the enemy Satan who's sending those Those attacks come and many times for us in the form of criticism. They might come in the form of gossip. They might come in the form of jealousy. They might come in the form of discouragement uh or or doubt in the work that you're doing is making a difference. But you know that those are all attacks of Satan that he's bringing on you and trying to keep you from fulfilling the service that God would have you do. And Paul is bitten by this uh viper, and we see that the group that was present, first of all, they determine him to be guilty. In verse number four he says, And when the barbarians saw that the venomous beast hung on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live. He says, Boy, it's obvious this man should have died in the water. God was judging him And uh he made it safe to shore, but God said, No, no, no, that's not gonna happen. You know, he's gonna it the the the viper's gonna bite him. And and you know a lot of times That will happen. You remember the story of Job? Boy, Job's friends knew exactly why Job was in this great turmoil and great trial, right? Boy, they knew he was guilty for sure. And uh it's amazing how everybody else knows why you're going through something. But you don't know. You know, they they they want to interject their opinion as to why you're happening to bear some burden or whatever and uh I'm I try and be very careful, obviously I see it in the scripture, but very careful about interjecting my opinion or thoughts on somebody else's situation. Because the truth of the matter is is we don't know. Only God knows And God is the one that's in control, and God can direct and lead an individual or speak to their spirit as to why they're in that or what lesson they're supposed to learn or what he's trying to grow them or build them through that or whatever, but let's leave it in the hands of God. We see this group of people, they first determine him to be guilty, and then they determine him to be a god They they decide here in verse number five, and he shook off the beast into the fire and felt no harm, howbeit they looked when he should have swollen. or fallen down dead suddenly, but after they had looked a great while and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds and said he was a God. You know, uh a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways And the fact of the matter is, is this world, this society, does not have a sure foundation. We are privileged, beloved, to have an unchanging God. I am God and I change not. His word is forever settled in heaven, the word of God. And this this source of a foundation, this source of God who does not change, becomes a mooring point. a point in which the Christian can be stable and sound and unchanging, but this world doesn't have that. And so they they are tossed to and fro. They they they their life does not have that solid foundation and so you'll see them change and uh be you know they they they love you one week and then they hate you the next And they don't have that consistency. They literally are double-minded in a lot of things. Why? Because they don't have the sure foundation of Jesus Christ. They determine him to be guilty and then they determine him to be God. But Paul is able to reach many of them with the truth of the gospel because of the miracle of what God did through him. C. S. Lewis said that pagans are just pre-Christians. Pagans are just pre-Christians. They're just people that have not either had the opportunity or have not taken the advantage of the opportunity to believe on Jesus Christ yet. They just haven't trusted the Lord. So they're just pre-Christians. And Paul looks at these that were his accusers that ultimately said, Oh, he's he's not guilty. Boy, he's a God. Look how he shook that off. And Paul takes that opportunity to witness to them, to minister to them, to see many of them come to the saving knowledge of Christ to preach to them in verses seven through ten. And they were there several months. God gives him the gift of healing, allows him to minister and heal many of them. Let's see here I just didn't necessarily want to read all this, but let's just begin here in verse number seven. In the same quarters were p possessions of the chief man of the island whose name was Publius. who received us and lodged us three days courteously. And it came to pass here, let me just throw this out. You see this right here, they're shipwrecked on the island, but the chief of the island comes in and grabs Paul and those that were with him and puts him up, takes care of him. Here's what I want to say. When you're serving God and doing what God wants you to do, yes, you're going to have some burdens. Yes, you're going to have some trials. We've read about this. Paul was shipwrecked. He was bitten in his service. But a lot of times people focus on that. We also see here in this passage that the chief of the island brings Paul in and says, hey, come on to my house. Let me take care of you. Let me put you up. Let me feed you. And we see that God blesses him, and when you're serving God, God will bless you and do things for you that you would not have any other opportunity to do. There would be no other way that it would happen. And you get to you get to experience the blessings and the goodness of God as well. And what you choose to focus on is what you're going to grab a hold of. We're supposed to count our blessings, name them one by one. Amen? Count our blessings. And and we are blessed of God. We see Paul blessing Paul. We see God blessing Paul over and over again. But uh many people choose to focus on the shipwreck or focus on the snake fight, but we also see God providing for him, God meeting his needs and blessing him With verse number nine, so when this was done, others also which had diseases in the island came and were healed. So many people were healed. God using this gift of healing to minister. This was a gift that was available in the uh this time period, um, who also honored us with many honors, and when we departed they laid us with such things as were necessary. So they gave them things they needed for their trip. And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria. So they they were there three months and then finally it was time to travel again and so they begin to travel They they travel a number of other places obviously on their journey to Rome. We get down to verse number sixteen. He says, and when we came to Rome, so now they have reached Rome. This was ultimately the goal, the plan. God was going to bring them to Rome. Beloved, it's been three years since Acts 23 when God told Paul that he was going to preach in Rome. There was three years there of of learning, of being taught, of growing, of God using him in many different a aspects, uh three many challenges that Paul had to endure ultimately to get to Rome where God wanted him Paul preaches the gospel. He preaches the hope of Israel. The hope of Israel, I think that's in verse number 20. He says, For this cause, therefore, have I called for you. to see you and to speak with you because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain. He's bound here with because he was preaching the hope of Israel. That hope of Israel is Jesus Christ. And because he was preaching that, he says, For this cause I'm bound. It is for this cause that I've been imprisoned, for this cause that I'm here now under house arrest. And he shares that with them and tells them uh about the hope of Israel for sure. They had heard of his struggle, they had heard of Christianity, they thought it was just a mere little little sect, they hadn't really come to understand it, but they wanted to understand more. We see verse number twenty-two. But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest. For as concerning this sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken against He said, boy, everywhere we've heard many people upset about this. You you're preaching Jesus and this this group that you you know ultimately is called Christians you know, th this group that you profess uh Jesus Christ that he rose again, uh tell us more about this. They they desired to know more, and there was an open door for him to preach the gospel to them. He preaches Christ crucified, risen again, but note that he uses the law and the prophets to do it. These people would need to hear the law and the prophets. This is what they understood. This is the the knowledge that they had. Uh one of the amazing things about Brother Sasser who goes to Israel and uh w works with the Jews and preaches to the Jews. You see he is a dapt and gifted at using the the Old Testament and being able to take the law and the prophets and witness to the Jewish people because that's what they look to. That's what they understand. And yes, Jesus is all through that, but many of them have not seen it. And so he's able to take that and show it to them. And that's what Paul does here in verse number twenty-three. He says, And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into his lodging, so many people were coming to hear him To whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses. and out of the prophets from morning till evening. Man, he is a captive audience, and yet uh he's captive himself, but he's given a captive audience. Many people come. to w him where he's at. Uh I don't know how news got spread or what happened, but every day he is uh expounding the scriptures. He is preaching the law and the prophets to those that would come and gather. Many, many people responded, believed. Some people reject Some people departed. The people respond the same way today. Some will believe, some are gonna say not now, and some are gonna say no. But we still got to tell, amen. We still got to preach the gospel. We still got to let people know about our Savior Jesus Christ. And they personally are responsible for how they respond to the message of the gospel. We see that God promotes the gospel, verses 28 through 31. There has been a steady march of the gospel westward. As Paul fulfills God's plan. It is God's plan to carry the gospel ultimately to the Gentiles. And God preaches this, God teaches them this. He says. I'm trying to just see where I should pick up to I'm just gonna start here and uh Verse number twenty-six, saying, Go unto this people and say, Hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see, and not perceive. For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing. So he's describing the Jewish people there. They they're dull of hearing, they don't want to listen, and their eyes ha have they closed, lest they should see with their eyes and Hear with their ears and understand with their hearts, and should be converted, and I should heal them. Be it known, therefore, unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles And that they will hear it. He says, You guys were hard of hearing. You guys were hard of heart. You guys didn't want to open your eyes. It was first sent to you, but you rejected it, and so God has sent it on. He's making a declaration here at the close of the book of Acts. That he has fulfilled God's call and plan for his life. He's taken the gospel westward and opened the door of salvation unto the Gentiles and declaring that it's been sent to them, and this is what he's doing. And when he had said these words, the Jews departed and had great reasoning among themselves, and Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came unto him, preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence no man forbidding him. It's amazing, beloved, they could uh lock Paul up, but they couldn't shut him up. He continued to preach and many people came to him. there through the closing uh part of this chapter and on. And we don't know the the full extent of what was accomplished there, but we know that for two years he ministered to all that would come, all that would gather before him. The goal of God, the Father, was fulfilled. The gospel was carried to the Gentiles. This is the end of the beginning. the church age. We've seen how the church was established, how God brought through the ministry of Paul the foundation and the beginning of many, many churches, and the gospel was carried westward. And the churches began and God's work was being done all throughout the world. Paul's experiences teach us many things about God and his providential leading in our lives. What we need to remember is that sometimes when things appear to be chaotic, they really are crafted by God. to prepare the way or to prepare us for the next step. Sometimes we are at wit's end and God is saying, just trust me. I know you're shipwrecked. I know you've been bitten by a viper. I I understand, but I have a plan. I'm working out ultimately what I want to achieve or what would be desirous to be accomplished in and through your life. And if we would trust him and follow him, we could see God do great things for us as well. Well in Rome, well in captivity there, Paul writes four epistles. We have what are known as the prison epistles. This is the notes that I've given you uh this morning that we're gonna go through quickly now But Paul under house arrest, as he's awaiting his hearing or the opportunity to answer his appeal to Caesar who was the terrible, uh brutal Nero that's who he was waiting to stand before. Uh but He's waiting and while he's waiting, God is using him in a mighty way, and he gets out his pen and under the inspiration of uh the Holy Spirit he pins and writes for us these four prison epistles Now we're going to go through these quickly, but we see first of all the Ephesians. All of these are written between 60 and 62. Uh but E61 was Ephesians. It was written in 61. Location obviously was Rome. Some of the key words that are found, these are just words that repeat themselves over and over, are found in the book and they're instrumental in the overall message, but the word in is eighty-one times, spirit, fifteen times, love, fourteen times, grace. Grace is found there in twelve verses. But uh you know that ties right into what is the theme verse, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace Are you saved through faith? And that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. That that is the uh key verse, the theme verse for the book of Ephesians, tied into that Very key word, grace that's found there. The purpose of his writing here for the book of Ephesians is to instruct believers regarding their wealth. in Jesus Christ. Teaching that we're not wealthy uh a man's life consisteth not of the abundance of the things that he has. That our wealth is not tied up in or found in the fact that we drive a a you know, a Range Rover or a Mercedes or whatever. Our our wealth is not found in the size of a house we have, but in Jesus Christ. And beloved, when we reach the end of our days, you'll look back on your life and you'll realize very much that the things that you inquired of in this world don't really matter that much. They don't mean a whole lot. When you're looking at eternity, you begin to r acknowledge and realize how important that life is, the eternal life, and what comes next. And we're not to be living for today, but for tomorrow. watching the eastern sky and our wealth is tied up in Jesus Christ. He writes these are just things this is these are not all inclusive list. There are other things that Paul mentions in these books that kind of could be stated as a reason or a purpose. I I've just given you a few of them here, but we see secondly he writes to encourage the believers in their walk with Christ. Well we all need to be encouraged in our walk. The walk gets weary sometimes. The walk gets tiresome sometimes. Uh the boys and I Went skiing uh on Tuesday and Wednesday this week and was a lot of fun. I got to spend some time with Timothy and and Caleb and uh it was it was great. On Tuesday We were skiing and they they shut the lifts down at four o'clock. And we were on the top of the mountain and we uh skied to the bottom of the mountain and we were supposed to end up at the car However, we were on the wrong side of the mountain. Somehow we got turned around And we went the wrong way. Well, I don't think that's that big a deal. We just ride the lift back up. Uh no. The lifts are closed. Them yardbirds didn't even say have a good day. They got on their snowmobile and drove away and left us on the backside of the mountain. We had our skis and all of course you if you've ever been in snow boots, you know ski boots, you know how hard they are to walk in. Forty-five minute walk uphill to get to a point where we could ski the rest of the way downhill to get to the the where our car was We've been walking for a long time and Timothy had the map, the GPS map, he's looking at it, and I said, You're sure we're going the right way? And he says, Yeah He said, we gone about ten percent. I said ten percent What we've been walking forever by this point. It probably was fifteen minutes, but I can tell you I was dying. I mean I'm I carry my skis, Tim offered, he's like, You want me to carry your skis? I said, No, they're my skis. I'll c I'll carry 'em, I'm okay and you know. He offered two or three times as we were hiking, but man, I'll tell you what, that walk was brutal. Up uphill in snow boots. Forty-five minutes to cross to get to a point where we can ski down. You know, sometimes the Christian life gets hard. What was that? It gets it gets brutal. It gets uh hard to do And we need to be encouraged in your Christian walk. Can I tell you that's why you come to church? The Word of God encourages you, but not just that, beloved, the fellowship that you get with God's people. Encourages you. How many of you, boy, just sometimes being out in the world all week just beats you up You just you're out there and you're dealing with the world and the flesh and the devil and it just gets hard and you're like, man, this is brutal. I can't imagine going week after week after week and not spending some time with God's family. being encouraged in the in the Lord and strengthened by your brothers and sisters and you you find out that somebody else is dealing with a struggle as well or somebody else is battling as well and yet they're being faithful and you're encouraged. You know what I can I can keep on because God's strength is sufficient. And uh this is what Paul encourages them there in their walk. He teaches to edify the believers in their victorious Christian living. Boy, we ought to be victors. Amen. Things unique to the book, first of all, is the exposition of grace that he he expounds on grace and what it is and what it means to us as believers, the grace of God, and certainly There's no end of what could be said about the grace of God. The revelation of the work of the Spirit, the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, that that cannot be understated uh or overstated. The the work of the Spirit of God. The Spirit is necessary. Beloved, the Spirit, according to this book, there's many things. The Spirit is holy. He has wisdom. He reveals truth. He can be grieved. He seals us unto the day of redemption. He is our earnest. That is our down payment for our inheritance. It is through him that believers have access to the Father, that we pray in the Spirit. The local church is built by the Spirit. Believers are strengthened by the Spirit. Believers are filled by the Spirit. have the ability to pray in the Spirit and the Word of God is known as the Sword of the Spirit. These are things that are talked about in this book about the Spirit of God and So it's unique to this book, these truths that are shared with us here. The similarities with Colossians are unique, obviously, between this and Colossians, but they're called the Twin Epistles Ephesians and Colossians, the twin epistles, there's two, there's many statements that are exactly the same or really, really close to the same between these two books. And so they're called the twin epistles. The mysteries of the gospel are shared with us, uh, unique to this book, and the gifts that are to the gifts to the church are unique here. I've given you an outline there. You can peruse that on your own. That's just copied from Jensen's survey of the New Testament. The outlines that we look at in each of these is just taken from a different uh commentary or a book on the New Testament. So you can look at that, just want you to have it. We're going to get to Philippians now. Philippians, the the church at Philippi was founded by Paul on his second missionary journey. Uh Philippi was a cheap chief city uh there, the Macedonian region. Uh it had obviously a Roman Roman colony. And uh you see that come through in the writing. But this was written circa sixty-one, sixty-two AD from Rome, obviously, and the key words were Christ. Christ is mentioned thirty-six times, a real focus on Christ and who he is. And what he means to us with is twenty-three times joy, rejoicing, or rejoice, the admonition, the encouragement to be rejoicing. And uh the key verse is Philippians two five, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Uh very powerful admonition for us as believers to have the mind of Christ. And we've taught on that uh so we won't belabor it here, but the purpose was to communicate Paul's thanksgiving to the church that helped him both financially and physically. You remember that they sent apaphroditus and he thanks them. He says, Boy, you you've you've sent me some gifts and I appreciate that It it it's helped me. And then he says, And you've sent Epaphroditus to to minister unto my soul and and I thank you for that. And so he expresses Gratitude. And can I encourage you, beloved, we ought to be expressing gratitude. We've reached a real problem in our heart and life when we no longer want to, or we can no longer find reason to be thankful. There are so many reasons to be thankful, and it's not that we no longer have reasons, it's that our focus is wrong, and uh we need to ask the Lord to help us to see again. His grace and his goodness in our lives so we can be motivated to be thankful. And we see that often in Paul's life, uh, his expression of gratitude and thankfulness. To teach the Christians that life is not on built or about the outward circumstances, but uh inward with our relationship with Christ To discourage complaining. Chapter 2 verse 14. He writes, to discourage complaining. Boy, that's a good uh good thing to be discouraged in, right? We we need to be reminded not to be complaining because it is human nature to complain, to to find fault in in express uh our discomfort or whatever it is, uh just complaining. It doesn't change anything, but uh we we do it a lot. Uh to inform them about Timothy's coming visit. He says, Hey Timothy's coming, want you to know he's on his way, uh, and to update the church on the condition of apaphroditus. Say, you know, hey, you sent aphroditis and here's where he's at and this is what he's doing. and just reporting back to them and to warn the church against the deceitful tactics of the doctrine of Judaizers. So he he instructs them some. Again Not a conclusive list of the purposes that are found, but these are some that are listed. Things unique to the book, the believer's relationship to the gospel. This relationship to the gospel is described extensively in this book. Uh we have fellowship with the gospel, chapter one, verse five. We our confirmation of the gospel, we are involved in the furtherance of the gospel, we're to defend the gospel, we're to live in the gospel, we have the faith of the gospel. We uh spread the gospel. All of these things are described in in this th this believer's relationship to the gospel of Jesus Christ really taught. in this passage here or these these verses in the book of Philippians and so it's unique to this book. The personal nature of the book It's a very personal book. Uh actually in over sixty verses the pronoun I, me, or my are used. It's a very personal book. The relationship he has with him is very close. And so he quite often refers in a very personal way, I d I or my uh or me, uh that's unique to this book. And the explanation of Christ's deity found in chapter 2, verses 1 through 11, is unique to this book as well. So we see an outline there, and we're going to Go ahead and uh push through these next two so that we can conclude these notes today. Uh the book of Colossians. Uh Colossae was a less prominent city in the region, but still uh very notable city. uh not as big as Laodicea or uh Hyapopolis or you know other cities in the area but was notable uh city for its commerce. It was known for black wool that was available due to the sheep the sheep the sheep that were up in the mountains in the region there that they would harvest black wool from and this something that the area was known very well for. But uh he writes a letter unto the church that was established there in sixty sixty one Some key words are Christ or Him in referring to Christ. Thirty-seven verses it's found in. The word all All things are key in this 28 verses, the word love, six verses. Key verse is Colossians 2, verses 2, 12 through 15. He says in these verses, buried with him in baptism. Wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God who hath raised him from the dead And you, being dead in your sins, and uncircumcision of your flesh, he hath quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us which was contrary to us, and took out of the way, nailing it to his cross And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly triumphing over them in it. The victory and the triumph of God described for us here. The purpose of the book was to respond to the heresy that was present there. He obviously many times this is key in the books that Paul was writing. He was dealing with a specific problem uh specific heresy that had come up uh to further the spiritual development of the Colossian believers. To further the spiritual development of the Colossian believers. You know you've got to get in the book to grow. Uh we've got to grow in the knowledge uh of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And the only way you grow in knowledge of Him is to spend time with Him, to get in the book. And this is what Paul is doing to develop them, uh to set forth the sovereign headship of Jesus Christ, that God is in control. uh of our of us, the Christian, but also he describes and talks about how God is the head and in control of the church and that God is the head of the church. And so he d declares that unto them to warn against the moral doctrine errors To exhort them to a life of holiness. To exhort them to a life of holiness. Very important aspect of the Christian life, and Paul clearly describes that for us in 3 verses 1 through 4. 6. Things unique to this book, Colossians warns against unguided human intellect. uh the idea of you know ever coming uh you know ever growing in knowledge but never coming to the knowledge of the truth that you know learning, learning, learning, but unguided human intellect. If you take a uh thief and you educate him You have an educated thief. You you you've got to change the heart. You you've got to uh do something with the sin nature And it's only Jesus Christ that does that. And that's what he's talking about here. Well Ephesians emphasizes oneness in Christ. Colossians emphasizes completeness in Christ. Uh where we are complete in Christ. There's an outline for you. And Philemon, very short book here, but uh we know some key words. Uh the ver the word I. In in Christ is three times and receive three times. Our key verse is Philemon 1, verse number 16. I thought about uh tackling the book of Philemon because it's so short uh on Thursday nights, just doing a verse-by-verse study of that. Uh we will at some point. I want to do them all at some point, but uh Philemon one verse number sixteen. N not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord. This is the key verse explaining that there. The purpose was to commend Philemon and his house for their ministry to the saints and to encourage a proper response from Philemon regarding his former slave Onesimus. And you know the story of Philemon there and the slave Onesimus. Things that are unique to the book, the human illustration of imputation. using i Onisimus and what happened there. So having it on a on a human level uh and then the instruction regarding human slavery uh is unique to this book And then here is an outline for that book. Now we we ran through that, but I wanted to be able to finish this up so we could move into the next chapter. Uh we've got a few weeks before missions conference. I don't know if we'll be able to finish the New Testament survey. Depends on how bogged down we get into some of the concluding books that are available to review. Uh but uh we are coming to the end, it won't be too long, uh and we thank the Lord for what we can learn in this. Let me uh close in prayer we'll be dismissed. Lord we love you. We thank you for the time in Sunday school this morning. I know we pushed through very quickly today and uh covered a lot of material. Uh but Lord I pray that uh your word would minister to our hearts and Or that we would be gaining an understanding of what these books are and what they're for and how they can help us as believers. I know there's some here been saved many, many years, and these things are not new to them. Uh but there are others who are just starting out, and this is just foundational knowledge for them, and I pray that we would all gain from it. Lord, we know that the Word of God does not return voids. I pray you'd use this in our lives. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. You're dismissed