This morning and uh the book of Acts, it uh takes a big turn here as we move from uh the focus being on that of Peter and Philip's ministry to Paul. Really, the balance of the book deals with Paul's ministry and his missionary journeys, and that transition takes place here. But also we move from the heart of what's taking place being in Jerusalem to now being in Antioch, because that's where Paul's missionary journey heads out from, and we see they pick up in Antioch opposed into Jerusalem. uh correctly as Antioch is the sending church for Paul's missionary journey. Uh listen, this first trip lasted about two years. Took about two years for him to do this somewhere around 47, 48. You know, depending upon when it started and stopped beginning in forty nine or right right in that area there, but uh right around right at two years, uh he was traveling. And so we're going to look at these three missionary journeys, and we are going to follow the same outline with each journey. We see the path he followed, the problems he faced. and the portfolio he founded, uh, which we're going to look at each of those things for each of the missionary journeys as we go through. So We have put together uh a chart to show you the path he followed, uh, and so we're gonna try and see how that goes this morning with being able to track this as we move through it with the notes and with the maps. So we'll see how that goes. But we're going to try and do that. So we see first of all here that Antioch was a home base for Paul and Barnabas, just beginning right here in verse number one, but verses one through three. We see now there was In the church that was at Antioch, certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas and Simeon, that was called Niger, and Lucius the Cyrene, and manim which had been brought up with Herod the Tetriarch and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So we see several things even in these first three verses here. First of all, it's noteworthy that Paul and Barnabas were busy serving. They were laboring for the Lord in the church where they were at. They were actively serving. They were there. They were prophets and teachers and being involved in the ministry. Verse number two starts, as they ministered to the Lord. We see them ministering and serving there. We ought to be busy serving God where we're at. Wherever you're at, whatever capacity or ability that you have, you ought to be be busy serving God, doing something for the Lord. And I have free shape just recently. We've had several come and say, hey, we want to get involved. We want to participate. And we want to want to help or be be involved in the work. And we ought to all be involved sometimes, and through the years, been doing this a lot of years. There have been people who have talked about, well, you know, I'm going to get called into the mission field, or I'm going to go serve in here, or one day I'm going to lead this ministry. They're talking about gonna go lead a ministry, but they they can't show up for work party. They're gonna lead a ministry, but they they can't be here faithfully, just be in church you know, uh throughout throughout the week, every week. And and and we ought to be involved. We see Paul here serving, working, doing what he can, whatever his ability is They're being used of God and where they're at. And it's from service to service that God calls. God calls people, and you've heard the saying, you want to get something done, find a busy man. Find somebody that already has more to do than he can get done, but he's a busy man and he'll he'll get it done. You find the guy that has all the time in the world and he'll never have time to get it done It's just he's oh I can't get to it. I can't get to it. I can't get to it. Why? Because that is a character problem, uh, not a time problem. And so that's that's just a fact. I can tell that went over like a like a screen door on a submarine. Uh but th that's the fact of the matter is. So listen, God calls him to a new work in verse number two. God calls people from serving as they ministered there. We see their ministry involved sacrifice. We see that they were willing to fast. Verse number three. And when they had fasted and prayed, Uh listen, they were willing to fast. They were willing to uh really give of themselves and to sacrifice and to serve, and we ought to be so in where we're at. And we see the church sends them out in verse number three, but notice who it is that called them. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed unto Cecilia, but it is the Holy Spirit Verse number two, and as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. The Holy Spirit called them. Listen, God is the one that does the calling. God is the one that burdens the heart of an individual and puts that desire in there and calls them. And where God calls, he enables. for somebody to go and to do a particular work, to maybe go to the mission field or to serve in a capacity. God burdens their heart. The Holy Spirit is the one that calls. It's not mom and dad, it's not the pastor, it's not the church. But we see over and over again in the book of Acts that the church confirms the call. Okay, here's how that works. If somebody in the church comes and says, I believe God has called me to the mission field, the response from the church should be Yeah, I can see that. Well, that makes sense. I'm surprised it took so long. I mean, I have seen his heart, I've seen his ministry, I've seen his desire, I've seen his faithfulness And and the church kind of looks at that and says, Oh, that makes sense. I could certainly see that happening. Instead of the church wondering, like, what He's gonna be a missionary? She's gonna go to the foreign field and do this. Uh Uh the church should not be wondering like how in the world there ought to be a confirmation from the church because the testimony in the life of the individual has been very evident that the hand of God was upon them and the hand of God was moving them. And they should be able to step back and they would say, hey, yeah, I could see that. That's for sure, man. Look at what God's doing. We're excited about it, and we're going to send them out. So we see they begin in Antioch there and then they move down So they being sent forth, verse number four, so they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed unto Cilicia. Now they departed from there. Can we see the first level of the map here? So we have here Paul's first missionary journey and uh we just bought the rights to be able to use this uh and then modified it so we could do it as a journey. Uh but uh so we didn't design this map exactly. But we see Antioch here. This is where they began. And they they travel, they leave Antioch, they're being sent out, and they traveled to the airport. Basically, that's where we would go today. But for them, they traveled to the port of Seleucia. That's the departing place. That's the place where you're gonna get on a ship and go where you want to go. That's the main center for uh commerce and and uh that's the port where uh you know everybody all the boats are and if they're gonna travel and go somewhere that's the place you want to go. So we see them head down to Sicily and from uh Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. So they they head down to Cyprus. Now Cyprus is an island, it's about 150 miles from east to west. And covers about 3,500 square miles. So the island there of Cyprus, it covers about 3,500 square miles, but 150 miles is a much longer than it is wide. And uh they land there. Paul and Barnabas is going. We see that John Mark is tagging along with them. And they they arrive uh and they begin to view this, but I want to note that Barnabas had a special interest in this. Because it was his hometown. Cyprus was where he was from. And uh he had that burden to if we're going to go minister somewhere, why don't we stop by my hometown? Why don't we stop the place that I grew up? Let's Minister to them, boy, they certainly need to hear the gospel. We should be burdened for those that are closest to us, the people that we know. Yes, it's a magnificent thing to be called and to go to a foreign country and try and reach them with the gospel, but what about our own neighbors? What about the person that lives right down the street? What about the person that you dealt with this week, that you had interactions with or comments with? I mean what what about that person? Uh we ought to be concerned and burdened about them. We see the motivation here for them to go here. So they dock. In Salimus, and they preach the word of God there in the synagogues, verse number five. So we see they dock on one end of the island there, if you can put pull that uh map up for me again. We see they travel off. They go across the water here, they and here, uh land on this end of the island. And they begin to work their way across to Faithful's. They walk across, they minister to people across the island Now there's these two centers on this island, two big points of interest and contact as they ministered through the island, and we noted several things. uh the capital uh of the island was where they docked. That's the center of commerce in the in the island. That's the place where everybody all the ports came in and all the goods came in and the sales. This was a center for commerce. That's where they began, but they worked their way across the island. uh to Pephos and that is the center of government. That's where the capital of the uh island was. The the ruling powers were there They began to minister in that area. We see several things as they do this. First of all, for the first time, in verse number nine, we see that Saul is called Paul. This is the first time in the story here thus far. Uh we see his name. Then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost. Set his eyes on him. Now he set his eyes on uh uh Lamus, the sorcerer who was creating problems for them. The sorcerer who stood against them didn't want them to minister in that area. But per Paul performs his first miracle in verse number eleven. And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. So God allows him to perform a miracle, gives him the power, and uh puts blindness upon this sorcerer. This one who used his power to amaze and and to awe people, God allowed Paul to make him blind, to show God's strength over this sorcerer, to show God's power over him And God used that greatly for the people in that area to see the power of God that they might hear the message of God. One person that was in the region there, the governor, Sergius Paulus. believed in verse number twelve. He saw that this darkness fell on him and that he had to be led away in verse number twelve. Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed. being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord. So Sergius Paulus, the leader, the governor of this island, the governor of this Roman uh Town, city here, the o over Cyprus as a whole, believes on the Lord. And then they depart from there and they travel to Perga. Verse number thirteen. Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia, and John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. So they they head over to Perga, they traveled uh via boat about 185 miles. We see they leave the island here and then they travel via boat here. That that is Uh what did I say? 135 miles. So it's about a hundred and eighty five mile trip uh via boat to uh get to the island. When they when they get there, John Mark departs for Jerusalem. Uh we're not gonna take a long time here, but you guys know the story here with with John Mark there was some type of a uh uh a disagreement maybe about the direction they were going, maybe about the the purpose of their ministry, you know, maybe about the method of the ministry. Who knows exactly what type of disagreement rose up there between John, Mark, and Paul But something happened there, uh, that there was a disagreement and they chose to hey, listen, we need to John Mark says, I need to go and Maybe go back to Antioch, maybe go back to I need to serve uh somewhere else. Both of these men were good men and God used them both greatly. And later in Paul's ministry, uh God reun reunites them and they serve the Lord together. Paul talks about how he is profitable for me. Um so it's just something to note that sometimes that happens, sometimes there is a uh uh you know a disagreement or a you know methodology or whatever it's not necessarily sin. It's not something uh bad like that but Hey, let's choose to uh let's you work on what you're gonna work on, I'm gonna work on what I'm gonna work on, and we're gonna go our our separate ways to see God. And God, you know, I've seen it over and over and over again through the many years I've been in the ministry And uh, you know, sometimes people want to say, well, that guy, boy, he he moved away and uh his life is over. He's it it's gonna be a mess. And then you see him ten years from now and he's still serving God. He's still being faithful, doing what God wants him to do, and he's serving the Lord in another capacity somewhere. And uh listen, we need to r leave room for God to be God and and let's worry about ourselves. Amen But we see that happen here with two great men, John, Mark, and Paul. Then they move on to Antioch and Pisidia. This is Antioch, a different Antioch. Let's look at the map again. They travel up to Antioch and Pisidia. This is all the way up here at the top of the map. So it's not the Antioch they launched from here. They uh they they left this area in Syria, Antioch and Syria, but in Pisidia, that Antioch area up there. They travel up there and begin to minister in that city. We see that uh as they do that Paul preaches his first message in uh beginning in verse number fourteen there. Chapter 13 and verse number 14, he says, But when they departed from Perga, then they came to Antioch and Pisidia, and went on to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down, and after The reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue, sent unto them saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye have any word of exhortation for the people Say on. So they were invited to preach. And notice the sixteen, Paul. Paul stood up and beckoned with his hands, and he said, Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience. So he calls them to attention. He says, Listen Now I want you to hear what I have to say. This is important. And he begins to preach, and in a similar fashion to that of Stephen, he gives them a history lesson. It's very possible that this being Paul's first message, although he was trained at the seat of Gameleo, although he had great wisdom and knowledge, he understood a lot of things. He's attempting here his first public address, his first message of sorts that's written down for us at least, and it follows a very similar pattern to the sermon that he heard Stephen preach. He reiterates the history of Israel and the hand of God and what God did with them and he challenges the people with those words. You know, there's nothing new under the sun. Uh you know, I preached for somebody uh up in PA here about a month and a half ago or something And uh I may preach the message here s someday, you know, I don't know. But uh they they gave me the topic. They said, we want you to preach uh on um I don't remember how they how they titled it, but basically the idea of how we are are given the righteousness of Christ, that that righteousness is given to us. And I was laying in bed and I was thinking about it and I'm like, man, that was the greatest exchange ever done in the history of the world. of man when we received Christ's righteousness. And so I I was I I wrote that down, the greatest exchange. That's going to be my title. You know, I'm like a month away from being from from And I I'm like, man, that is awesome. That's the great exchange. That's that's what happened. That's what we were given. God took our sin and gave us his righteousness. What an exchange is that And then when I began studying, I saw that there are literally thousands of messages out there titled The Great Exchange. One included by Joyce Myers. And I thought, oh Lord, I can't use this now. I can't call it this. Uh George Myers preached a great exchange. I can't I can't preach that. Now I still use the title, but what I'm saying is that, you know, you I I thought man I had this revelation. I had this great idea. Nobody'd ever experienced this before And uh then I found it's been preached on a thousand times, you know. And uh that's the thing, there's nothing new under the sun. Uh it is the word of God, and we're preaching and expounding uh God's Word. And uh Each person we come into contact with, each message we hear, each devotional we read, all of those things shape our mind and And put things in there that prepare us and get us ready when somebody comes to us and says, hey, do you have an answer for this? Then we draw from all that that we have learned. And the book of Acts there says, you cannot help but speak the things which thou hast uh seen and heard. That's the things that you put in, that's what's going to come out. And so Paul here, what comes out is what he heard Stephen preach. So we see him do that And many Gentiles believed in verse number 48 there. Many Gentiles believed. We're not going to read the whole of the message. It goes all the way down to verse number 48 where we see And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed. They they they believed on God, and we praise the Lord for that. They departed and traveled to Iconium in uh Chapter 14, as we move into chapter 14 through chapter 14, we see the balance of their of their path here, but they move to Iconium, verses 1 through 6. So they they travel down, they're up here, they kind of m make their way down over here, and uh we're gonna see they got Lystra and Derby to get to in a minute, but uh they travel to Iconium, they begin to minister there. And I want you to note at here this first outline let me see where we are at here. I want you to change in your notes there. There was great joy upon their arrival. I I miss Put that in there. It's actually verse number 52. It's 1352. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Ghost. So we see them ministering even with the problems. Verse 51, see they shook off the dust off their feet against them, and they came unto Iconium. So they went on to Iconium. We see the great joy they had, even in spite of trouble, that joy that was in their heart. So it was not joy upon their arrival, it's joy that was in their heart in serving God. So that's kind of a lo it's a typo there. I miswrote that. And the verse should be instead of 14. 1, it should be 1352. And then we see that the Jews and the Greeks believed in verse number four chapter 14. And they came to pass in Iconium. that there were both together unto the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake a great multitude both of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed. So a great uh multitude believed there among them. And so God was using them, ministering to so many people, and we praise the Lord for that. But God gave them power to do signs and wonders in verse number two. three. But the unbelieving Jews I'm just going to continue reading here too, verse number two. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and made their minds evil affected against the brethren. Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which gave testimony unto the words of his grace and granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands. So God empowering them to do the work and God gives them the ability to perform signs and wonders, to be able to do miracles that allows people to see the power of God and that they might believe on God. This was a time of the signs where people, God used this especially for the Jewish people, to try and draw them, to try and get them to believe on him when they were rejecting Christ So Paul God gave them the signs and Paul was able to be used of that. However, uh it leads to Some other concerns here when they get to Lystra. They depart from the city here just in time because persecution arises again. They move on to Lystra in verses seven through twenty-five, where Paul heals A lame man, chapter 14, beginning in verse number 8 here. And there sat a certain man in Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a crippled from his mother's womb, who never had walked The same heard Paul speak, who steadfastly beheld him and perceived that he had faith to be healed, and said with a loud voice, Stand up on thy feet And he leaped and walked. And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying, in the speech of Lyconia, the gods are come down to us in the likeness of men. And they called Barnabas Jupiter and Paul Mercury because he was the chief speaker. So we see that they suppose Barnabas to be Jupiter and They supposed Paul to be Mercury. They wanted to make these men like they were gods because God had given them power. And note the heart that Paul and Barnabas have in the midst of this. We see they're brokenhearted about this, verse number 15, and saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God which made heaven and earth and sea and all things that are therein. Boy, in verse number 14 we see their broken heart, which when the apostle Barnabas and Paul heard of, they rent their clothes. and ran in among the people crying out, don't no, we're not anything special. We're just men like you, but we've been given a message and we're preaching to you that we're the message of God that you would put your faith and trust in Him, not us. We're just men. They certainly did not want any recognition or praise that they were trying to point people to Christ. So the team travels on to Derby in verse number uh chapter 14, verse number 20. Albeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up and came into the city, and the next day he departed with Barnabas. to Derby. So they headed down to Derby, and when they had preached the gospel to that city and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antioch. So we see here they're in this region. If we could have that map, this is going to bring their their journey to a close. But they've come down to Derby. This is the last stop, but they're there, and they decide, you know what? Uh we need to run back and kind of touch base in Lako Lystra and Iconium and Antioch and we need to kind of do a double take here on our trip uh from the people we've seen saved and just check in with them and make sure that they're being discipled and make sure that they're growing and and that there's actually people there leading these people and that there's they're on the right path and so they determine to kind of make a couple of rounds and they go back through that. area again, despite the persecution that was present. In each of these places there was persecution that they faced. Many times they were run out of town. And so I don't know if they kind of snuck back in town, if they met with the uh leaders or the people that had been saved and said, Hey, we're we're stopping in for a visit and they came in and uh the cover of night. I don't know what their methodology was, but they went back into these places Where there was certainly a chance of them uh being persecuted and yea even stoned. But their goal is seen in 1422, they desired to encourage them and they desired to establish leaders among them. So we see confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith. He said, just continue. And that we must, through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. They went back and said, hey, we know there's persecution. We know there's hardship. You need to continue. Don't fall by the wayside. Don't get discouraged. And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with them, fasting and commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. So they also established some leaders. Let's get somebody that's a leader that's that's uh strong that's growing and you're gonna you're gonna kind help and encourage the rest. And and so they established and helped get some leaders set up So that the churches that were moving in these areas begin b could begin to grow and uh work in a successful way. So then they returned back home to Antioch of Syria, and we see in verses 27 that they rehearsed all that God had done with them. They rehearsed all that God had done. And this is where we get the pattern of missions where we just had the Smiths come back. and they reported to us what they had done over the last four years. This type of uh mission work is not just something we came up with ourselves and thought it would be good for them to come back and tell us what they're doing. No, the pattern was established here in the book of Acts. We see that they went out and then they made their way back home. In verse number twenty-seven, and when they were come and gathered to the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles. And there they abode a long time with the disciples. So they came back home, and there at their home they began to minister, they began to serve, they continued to work while they were home. But they also rehearsed and reported back on what God had done through that last missionary journey. And so we today follow the same pattern. Typically uh a term, a missions term is going to be somewhere around four to five years. A missionary goes out. Serves for four or five years and then tries to get back to his churches to report. Sometimes it works, sometimes they can't do that. You know, for them to be gone, I mean I was telling Brother Smith when he was here just a week a week ago, I said, man, I can't imagine leaving the church for five or six months. I mean, can you imagine if I said, hey, next week I'm I'm out. I'm gonna be gone for six months. You guys stay faithful. Keep going. And I'm sure you would As it's not you know, but I just can't imagine not being here and serving and working in the church, but that's what missions work is, is they gotta get back, they gotta report, they gotta check in with the churches and and uh see what God is doing. And God uses that both in the ministry out there to help those that are on the field start to step up. And many times that first term is the first time that the nationals that are there step up into positions of leadership and begin to take the helm and really do what needs to be done and it forces them to grow, but it also helps the churches back home for us to keep a vision and a burden for what's happening on the field so that we can effectively pray and realize our support is accomplishing something something and what we're doing as a church is important. And so it's an effective way that God has established there. So we want to note some of the problems that he faced. Now this is back in the chapters that we've already covered here, but the sorcerer, Bar Jesus Stood against the gospel in chapter 13, verse number 8. This sorcerer came up and wanted to stop them, and this is the sorcerer that uh Paul performed his first miracle. What was what was his first miracle? Do you remember what did he do to him? He caused him some of you said it I think blind. He went blind. Yeah. So he that was Paul's first miracle. John Mark ends up leaving in chapter 13, 13. We saw that. And that impacts and hits any ministry. It hits anybody when one of the labor force leaves, when there is a problem or some contention of any kind. That's a that's a struggle. It's a burden. It's a heartache and they they face that as they're out there. It can be discouraging and sometimes causes people to quit and to leave because of those hardships. Uh the Jews stirred up opposition the and expelled them out of Antioch of Sydia. And uh boy, they often were kicked out of the cities that they were ministering in, but the Jews were uh in opposition to them and and ran them out of the city. The unbelieving Jews stirred up opposition in Iconium, chapter 14, verse number two. We see they they just Again, the Jewish people that were there. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and made their minds evil affected against the brethren. So they just went and sowed discord and caused problems. And these people that didn't want to believe just stood against what God was doing. And there's always going to be opposition. And uh this opposition there rose up against them, they set a plan to stone them in Iconium. They they were planning to. And when there was an assault made, both of the Gentiles and also of the Jews, with the rulers, uh to use them despitefully and to stone them. So they were planning to listen, we're going to stone these guys. But news made their way to Paul and Barnabas and they kind of snuck out of town. However, the Jews that sought to stone them in Iconium caught up with them in Lystra. Chapter 14, verse number 19. They finally caught up with them, and note what they do to them here. And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, whose persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead. So they stoned Paul. They stoned him. They drug him outside the city and left him for dead. They they thought he's done for. He's gone. Now God raised him up, and there is some debate whether he was actually dead. Oh, we know is what the scripture says that those that stoned him, he was in bad enough way, they believed him to be dead. And he may have been, God may have raised him up because God wasn't done with him yet. He may have not been completely dead, he may have been unconscious or in some type of a coma, a coma or something like that, but ultimately we We know that God, the great physician, heals him, raises him up again, and he continues to minister. Not only that, as we saw on his journey, that he goes back into these towns where the people had already stoned him to death. They didn't just call him names. They didn't just say, Boy, we don't like you. They didn't just stand in opposition and create some prob problems where he was trying to minister. They literally stoned him. To death. And he got up and went back into those towns and continued to minister and let God use him. That really is commitment. and should be inspirational to all of us. They stoned him and left him for dead. Upon his arrival home they face another great dispute arises, and that's chapter fifteen. All of chapter fifteen is the first council of Jerusalem. And uh this is not part of their journeys, but chapter fifteen kind of gets inserted here uh because of the issue of all of these Gentiles getting saved. And if you remember when we taught through the book of Galatians that the issue in the book of Galatians was regarding circumcision. and whether or not these Gentiles that had gotten saved should get circumcised. I mean, hey We're glad that they can come to the faith. We're glad that they can get saved. We're glad that they know the God Jehovah. But now it's time for them to follow the law. Like we Jews do, we follow the law. And so they were trying to impose upon them the laws that they had established uh even of their own making, the laws that were given to them specifically, and so there was a great council raised up in chapter fifteen here about whether the Gentiles should have to be circumcised or not. Is that part of them believing? And so we see several things. First of all, Peter gives his testimony there beginning in verse number 7. He says, And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up and said unto them, Men, brethren, Ye know how that a good while ago God made a choice among us that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel and believe. So he reminds them back, like you remember when we did when we talked about this where God put it in my heart and We're supposed to carry the message to the Gentiles, and he goes on and gives his testimony. Then Paul in verse number twelve gives his testimony. Then all of the multitude kept silent and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them. So we see Paul's testimony, and then we see James James' testimony begins in chapter number, I mean verse number 13. And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me. And he reiterates some things, and then he says, okay, we've heard some testimony, we've done some talking. Now it's noteworthy here that James, who is the pastor of the Church of Jerusalem, stands up and says, okay, we've been given some advice. We've considered these men. We appreciate their input. Here's what we're going to do. And he kind of gives them direction. He says, this is what we're going to do. This is what God would have us do here. And so he gives them that direction. He uh the the gospel had obviously been sent to the Gentiles, and he says in verse number 19, we're not going to bother them. With this. And wherefore, my sentence is, he says, okay, here's what we're going to do: that we trouble not them Which from among the Gentiles are turned to God. So we're not going to trouble them with this. This is not something that is necessary for them, he says, but that we write unto them that they abstain from pollutants of idols. And from fornication and from things strangled and from blood, for Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him being read in the synagogues every Sabbath day Then pleased it the apostles and the elders. So they came to a consensus, an agreement, that they did not need to trouble them. This was not something that was required. for salvation that these Gentiles actually get circumcised. This continues to be an issue. And this region that Paul went to on this missionary journey is the region of Galatia. And when on this journey you'll see there that uh My mind just went blank. What's the uh the portfolio he founded? Okay, our last point here. The w what books did he write on this journey? He didn't write any books, but in a few years on another missionary journey He's going to write back to this region of Galatia and write a message unto the churches there of Galatia regarding this issue that got raised here at the uh council in Jerusalem in chapter number 15. and really deal with it to try and get them to understand what God's plan and God's will is for them. So That brings us to conclusion here, Paul's first missionary journey. Next week we will get into uh the second missionary journey and of course in that one we've got some books we've got to cover. I'm not sure how we're gonna dig into all those and everything in one week. We'll see how I'm gonna tackle that. But uh let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed.