Well we do have a new page of notes. Uh I'm not a hundred percent sure because I don't not the one that does it, but typically they get the notes online there with the sermon. So if you uh are on sermon audio It's possible that the notes are there that you could uh review or print out or whatever so you could follow along. If not, you can get them next week. Uh this is page 128 to uh 131. Don't know that we'll get through all that, but uh we that's what we've got to be looking at today. uh this year upon Paul's arrival in Jerusalem, uh his reception was far from pleasant uh the Jews were very upset. They were lying in wait for him. They were hostile as can be. Uh it's possible that this is one of the lowest points in Paul's life. The only reason I say that is because uh of the fact that we see Jesus comes to him and encourages him and strengthens him. This is where we finished up last week as we were teaching through. We were showing this that Paul's third missionary journey kind of comes to a conclusion here. He gets back to Jerusalem, but uh ultimately where he wanted to get to, and then his reception is uh less than favorable for sure. Uh I'm going to say his missionaries, third missionary journey came to a concl conclusion when he was taken into uh custody by the Roman guard. Now there were there, we talked about this last week, but there were forty men who had committed to have th they wanted to see Paul dead. They actually said we're not gonna eat or drink until Paul is dead. Now what's amazing is those guys are gonna wither away they're gonna end up dying because if they don't if they keep their word they they will be dead before Paul. Uh because God is going to protect Paul. You'll see that in just a moment in a mira in a miraculous way for sure. But the chief captain, he knows that uh something's gotta be done. He sees the spirit, he sees the the mob uh amassing itself uh against Paul and he wants to do something, so he th he's like, Man, I gotta I gotta do something here for Paul And uh so although some have called this section here in the book of Acts Paul's fourth missionary journey, uh I don't really see it that way. He was taken to Rome. Uh uh in in chains. I mean he was a prisoner. And so I don't look at it as a missionary journey, uh although it is notable that Paul was a missionary no matter where he was. Even though he was carried to Rome as a prisoner, he was still doing the work of a missionary. He was still witnessing to the lost. He was still preaching to his captors. He was chained to somebody and he had a captive audience. He would he would give them the gospel. He would tell them about the resurrection. And you'll see that over and over again. So he was still a missionary, even though that was not what he was doing. Uh it was not necessarily on a journey. And uh so some have called this, you know, Paul's prison sentence or time in prison. Uh I just titled it Paul's Journey to Rome. And uh so that's what we're gonna be looking at, Paul's journey to Rome and ultimately what happens there, and the notes that I've given you today uh it doesn't conclude that. It just gets us a good way down the way and and we'll see uh how far we get as we continue along. But first of all I want you to see Paul is divinely protected. We are in the middle of chapter number twenty-three. We finished up last week uh there in chapter twenty-three getting to verse number twenty-two but this morning we're picking up in chapter twenty-three verse number twenty-three where we see that Paul was divinely protected. He says, and he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea. And horsemen threescore and ten, and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night So we see that God has divinely protected him. The chief captain calls 470 men to protect Paul. They have been called to stand in defense of Paul. You know what's amazing? This is God's uh witness protection program. Uh God d you know, got nothing is going to happen to you except God allows it. Paul was here and these men had committed to kill him, and God said, Nope, I'm not done with Paul yet. We're going to have a pagan king get 470 men that are going to stand in defense of Paul. Not only do they have to defend him, but that he says, what you're going to do is you're going to deliver Paul to Felix. Make sure that he gets there safe. And these men are recruited ultimately by God, but God uses a pagan king to guard and protect Paul, and just kind of plugging that again, that God is protecting you That God will watch over you and care for you. And uh, you know, this world and those that would do you harm, ultimately God is going to care for you. Now You you want to exercise some wisdom, I don't know that I would necessarily go in some of the neighborhoods in Washington D C in the middle of the night. I mean that might not be the wisest thing, right? You might want to uh exercise some wisdom about your activities, but ultimately if you inadvertently Get there, God will protect you. For instance, uh, we had a visiting pastor a couple of years ago that came and after a Thursday night service, he was just in town for a couple days, and he says Hey, I want to run to D. C. with my family on Thursday night after church. He said, I want to see it, you know, or just check it out. And and uh so they drive down there, they're in D. C. they're running around, they're they're having a good time And they called me at twelve thirty at night and they said my car broke down in DC. The problem is is they had gotten on the interstate to come home The car started acting up. And so they took the first exit to get off the interstate, pulled on a side street, and the car stopped running. So there they were on a side street. But do you know what God did? Within like two minutes, an officer pulls up. And he sees these guys that obviously don't belong in that neighborhood. He's like, what are you doing? They said, well my car broke down. He says you couldn't have broke down in a worse place. He said you should not be here at this time of night And that officer said, I'm I'm not leaving until you get help, until you get out of here. And that officer stayed with them until the tow truck came to get the car And until I showed up, I came with the church van and went up there and picked 'em up so that they could get out. But what I'm saying is that God said, Oh, here here's a guy that's uh He needs some help. And he sends him a police officer right away. And that's that's how God will protect you. And that's what God did here uh for for Paul in the midst of this challenge. He was divinely protected They carry a letter to uh and Paul all the way to Felix. We're just going to jump down to verse number 33. He says, when they came to Caesarea, and delivered the epistle to the governor. It was a good sized letter. It was an epistle. They had he had written a whole explanation of what took place here. He presented Paul and Osso before him. And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what province he was. And when he understood that he was of Sicily, I will hear thee, said he Uh when thine accusers are also come, and he commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall. So he's put into Herod's judgment hall, put into a kind of a uh uh holding cell, a prison. for for now, um not like we would think about prisons, but he's put into this holding area where he's kept and uh waiting until he can get all of the information, right? So then we see that Paul is diligently prosecuted. Boy, they wanted him. They were going to do everything they could do to to get Paul and try and uh trap him and and ultimately they wanted to see him kill. And so the charges are brought, verses 1 through 9, we're in chapter number 24 now. The high priest and a group of elders falsely accuse Paul. They have to falsely accuse him because there is nothing he's done uh that they could charge him with that was true. We see That after five days Ananias, the high priest, descended with the elders, and with certain orator named Tertilius. who informed the governor against Paul. Now this orator uh would be like a lawyer. They they brought in the big guns They brought in somebody who was gifted with his tongue. It's noted there in the fact that he was an orator. They didn't just have anybody get up and say, boy, Paul did this and did this and did this. No, this orator was brought in to stand and be uh uh you know basically the prosecuting attorney against Paul to try and convince the judge. Uh and you know If you know anything about our legal system, you know that the right lawyer makes a big difference. The right lawyer can can uh get a criminal off or get an innocent person put into jail. Uh it and that's what they did. They're like, hey, let's bring in the best. You know, they went out and hired the big guns. They brought him in. And it's n it's amazing. Listen to how this orator begins, how he communicates there with Felix. He says, and when he was called forth, uh Tertillus began accusing him, saying, okay, so he's gonna accuse Paul, but Notice what he says here. He says, seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness. Now he's talking to Felix, right? So he says, seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness. And that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providences. We accept it always and in all places, most notable few most noble Felix. with all thankfulness. So he gets up and he says, Boy Felix, you're such an amazing guy. We appreciate all that you have done. to our community and for the good of the men around here. He basically is waxing eloquent there, opening up his speech. He hasn't even got to nailing Paul yet, but he's kind of greasing the wheels here, you know. He's kind of getting good favor with Felix. He says in verse number four, There, notwithstanding, that I be no further tedious unto thee I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of the clemacy of a few words. He said, Would you give me but just a moment Would you allow me to say, I mean you can you can hear the crowd or the audience like just get to it already you know like would you stop it? He's just waxing eloquent, he's just buttering the wheels, and he's getting ready to accuse Paul, we see here in verse number five, for we have found this man a pestilent fellow. And a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes who also hath gone about to profane the temple, whom we took and would have judged according to our law. But the chief captain, Licisius, came upon us and with great violence took him away out of our hands. Commanding his accusers to come unto thee by examining of who thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things whereof we accuse him So he he lays it on thick. We see here he accuses Paul of treason. He accuses him of being a pestilence, of being a ringleader, of troublemakers in the society. He's just laying it on. He accuses him of desecrating the temple, uh of destroying that temple of of b being uh ungodly in this nature. He's kinda giving just kinda pulling out all the guns, doing a shotgun thing, you know, just seeing just let's just throw it all out there and see what sticks. Well, they allow Paul to defend himself. So not only are the charges brought in verses 1 through 9, but we see in verses 10 through 13 that clarification is given in his defense. Paul gets to speak. The problem is for them, is that Paul himself is an orator. Paul himself is a gifted man and uh has the skill to be able to defend himself. Now it wouldn't be the wisest thing for normal men to defend themselves. I know if I was in court it wouldn't be the wisest thing for me to defend myself. Uh I need a lawyer. I need somebody else to handle that. I really appreciated when we were in the court cases and going to these court battles that Gus stood in the place for uh the church and a lot of times had to take the stand and had to uh uh articulate the church's position on things and I was like, Go get him, Gus You know. Uh awesome. Thank you very much. I mean, I'm praying for you, you know. Uh and and Pastor Gus would go and he would take the stand and he would articulate our position or state the facts and then they would cross examine him and And sometimes try and trip him up on on his words and and uh that would not be good for me to do 'cause I don't keep all that stuff in my head very well. And I can't, but you know Paul can handle it And Paul takes his defense and he begins to speak here stating clearly what had happened. He begins by explaining the fact that listen I only been in town twelve days. What could have happened in twelve days, right? So he says there in verse number ten, then Paul, after the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answer. For as much as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself. So he he he's right up there with this other guy. He can he can lay it on too and Paul's like listen I know that you are a judge that has ruled in our stead, who has stood in this position, you understand what's going on here. And let me express myself, he says. He says, because that thou mayest understand That there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship, and there neither found me And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogue. Nor in the city, neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. But this I confess unto thee So now he says that here's I'm going to tell you the truth of the matter. He says, these guys have all lied. There's nobody here that there's nobody to stand and witness against me. He said, but I'm going to confess this to you. He says that after the way, which they call heresy, So worship I. So he says, Oh, see what they said about heresy, I I worship this way. But notice what he says. This is amazing and powerful. He says So worship I, the God of my fathers, believing all the things which were written in the law and in the prophets. Do you see his defense there? You know the Jews believe in the law. The Jews believe the prophets. There's no question in their mind that the law and the prophets are right And so Paul says, hey, I am just standing up and saying, I believe what the law and the prophets said concerning the resurrection of the dead. He takes it back to the Old Testament and he says, I am guilty of believing the law. I'm guilty of believing the prophets. There's I I I confess this to you, I believe what the Old Testament says about the resurrection of the dead. And the problem is the Jews, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, they wanted to deny the resurrection. Right? But the law and the prophets was very clear. And so he puts it back to there. He says in verse number 15, he says, and have hope toward God, which they themselves see Allow that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. What an amazing thing. He he carries it back to them and uses what they would stand on. And basically says the problem is they're not standing there. They're not believing what God said. He says, yep, I stand guilty of that. That's this is true. But not guilty of treason, not guilty of sedition, not a ringleader. I haven't uh stirred up anybody. There's for sure no evidence of that He tells him there's not sufficient evidence to convict him of these false accusations, but indeed he is guilty of standing with the law and the prophets. So then we see that the conscience is disgust. The conscience is discussed, and this is ultimately what it boils down to. You see, all men should live with a conscience void of offense. He says here, very powerful verse, and herein do I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense. towards God and towards man. So he says, ultimately, I'm telling you the truth And whether anybody believes this or not, I stand here with a conscience void of offense. There's nothing in my mind, nothing in my heart that I'm trying to hide. I have a conscience that's completely clear, and that conscience is a clearer of offense, not just before men who might accuse me, but ultimately before God who knows everything about me. I'm not cowering in fear or trying to hide my my uh sin or plain the hypocrite here. Uh I have a conscience void of offense. This is the way that Paul strove to live. Look back in chapter twenty-three and verse number one. He says, And Paul earnestly, beholding the counsel, said, Men and brethren, I have lived. In all good conscience before God until this day. I have lived in all good conscience. And what a way to live! With a conscience void of offense before God and man. This is something you really have to work at. You know, I read about a little boy Completely made up story, I'm sure, by the name of Johnny and his sister Susie. But Johnny uh got a new slingshot for Christmas. And uh boy he was having the most fun with that. He would go out in the woods and and he pick up rocks and he'd try and shoot those, but try as he might Days and days of working with this slingshot, and he had yet to hit a target that he was aiming at He was so frustrated with this. He just you know, it didn't matter what he was aiming or how close he was or whatever, he was always missing whatever he was aiming at. And he really didn't know if he was ever going to get the hang of it. But he's carrying his slingshot one day through the backyard of his grandma's house. And there was his grandma's prize duck. So he just for on a whim, because the Bible says foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. But he thought, I never hit anything anyway. So he picks up a rock, puts it in a slingshot. And shoots towards the duck. And wouldn't you know it for the first time in his life? He hits the duck and the duck falls over dead. Oh no, he said it. He was so afraid he went, he grabbed the duck and he took it out behind the wood pile. And he made it look like a piece of wood fell off and hit him. So he he hid the duck there. And then when he stood up from the wood pile, he saw Susie standing on the back porch and she saw it all Well they were at supper. Grandma says, Susie, it's time to do the dishes. Why don't you stand up and do the dishes? And Susie says, Oh Uh Johnny was just telling me how much he wanted to do the dishes today. She leans over and says, remember the duck. And Johnny says, yeah, I'll do the dishes. So they do the he he helps do the dishes. The next afternoon, just after lunch, uh grandpa says, boy, it's a beautiful day and I don't have anything planned. I think then I'm gonna take the kids and go down to the to the river and do some fishing. And grandma says, oh, that's fine. You can take Johnny, but I need Susie to stay here and help me clean the house. We've got to get this done before dinner. And Susie says, Johnny just told me that he wants to clean the house. Remember the duck. So Johnny said, okay, I'll clean he he cleaned the house. This went on for three or four days, and finally he was just a broken man And he went before to grandma and he says, Grandma, I've got to tell you the truth. I I was playing with my slingshot and I didn't think I could do it, but I ch I I aimed and I actually hit your duck and I killed it And she said, Johnny, I know. I was standing in the kitchen window and I saw you do it. She said, I forgave you. I was just wondering how long you're going to let your sister keep you a slave. And you see that's what a conscience that's offended does. It keeps you a slave. A slave to that lie, a slave to that deception? Until you get to the place where you live with a conscience void of offense, as Paul strove to live, you don't know freedom. You're bound by it. You're held by it. Paul lived with a conscience void of offense. I want you to know that he exercised himself to do so. He says, and herein do I exercise myself. You know, beloved, it takes work. It takes discipline. It takes effort to live with a conscience void of offense. You have to not just be honest in your dealings and your activities, but sometimes when you mess up, you've got to own those I killed your duck. You gotta own up to it. That that's hard. But you you do so, and then your conscience can be clear. Not just before man, but before God, who knows it all anyway. He saw it all anyway. And when you come to him, he forgives you Philippians 1:10 says, that I may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. Just exercise yourself, work to have a conscience clear. You know, I I shot a video last night for the Marriage Matters Conference, and the video I shot uh was on our communication And I closed it with the statement, I said, you know, since I've got to spend the rest of my life with my wife, uh, it would be smart for me To be careful what I say so that I don't have to apologize every other week I mean it makes life a lot easier if I just don't say it, right? But if you do i if you have a habit of saying saying if you come and you own up to it and you apologize for it You you're gonna get tired of that. You're gonna say, you know what, better, I just need to control it. I just need to be careful what I say. I need to be careful how I say it. And and here's the thing, if you'll live with a conscience void of offense, it takes some exercise, but you get better at it. And uh you have to apologize less and you can begin to live that way with the blessing and the honor of God. We see that confidence is supported by the facts. You know, when you're in the right, you can be confident. When you are standing on the truth, you can stand with confidence. We see verses 17 to 21 declaring the facts to us. He asks them, where are the witnesses? He says, Now after many years I come to bring alms to my nation and offerings. So he's talking about getting back to Jerusalem. He says, I've been gone a long time and I'm bringing these gifts. I'm bringing offerings to Jerusalem. Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude. He's like, We didn't have a huge crowd in there. I wasn't stirring up anybody, he says, nor with tumult. Who ought to have been here before thee and object if they had aught against me? He says, Hey They found me in the temple. I didn't have a big crowd. I wasn't stirring up any problems. And he says, by the way, if that did happen, where are my accusers? Where are the ones, if there was a problem, how come they're not here? How come they're not before you now to declare their case or to charge me publicly? Or else, verse number 20, or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil doing in me, well I stood before the council, except it be for this one voice. There's just the one guy that they paid to stand there and accuse Paul, uh, that I cried standing among them, touching the resurrection of the dead. I am called into question by you this day. He said, except for this one guy who says that I have standing on the resurrection of the dead, which I own to, I told you I did. He says, that's the only thing. That's all that has I've been charged of, that is true. And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge, um that means complete knowledge. Of that way, he deferred them and said, When Lysias, the chief captain, shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter. So he says, Okay, I don't know what to do. Uh basically he he was between a rock and a hard place or just didn't want to take a stand, but here the Jews were angry and he didn't want to make them angrier, but Paul was innocent. And he didn't know what to do. Paul was a Roman citizen and he couldn't falsely charge him, so he's kinda like, you know what? I'm just gonna wait. And so ultimately we see here that Paul's punishment is deliberately postponed. So he just puts it off. He says, We're just gonna wait. We're gonna wait. Uh we'll let uh the chief captain come down and explain the matter to me from his standpoint. We'll see what happened and then we'll go from there. So conviction is held off till Felix can get more information, verse number twenty-two that we read. Now this we'll see ends up being two years. Just look down in verse number twenty-seven. But after two years, he'd been there for two years now. That's how long they put it off. That's government efficiency for you Uh that's basically what happens. Um nobody wants to make a decision in government because nobody wants to be responsible for it. This is what Felix, he's like, I don't want to make this decision. He says no, you know, nobody w they want it examined by every department. Legal has to look at it from six ways from Sunday, and everybody has to sign off before anybody can say okay. And that's how government works. And it hasn't gotten any better from that time until now. Uh basically they don't want the responsibility of taking the leadership and having made the decision So he puts it off. Um this is a two year delay in his plans. Let me ask you, how do you handle delay? And your life. How do you handle the the you've got this plan or you want to accomplish this goal and then it gets delayed. It gets delayed again. It gets delayed again. And and delay can be one of the hardest things to deal with, to put up with. And uh here Paul is delayed not just you know, inconveniently, but he's kept in a a holding pattern here, kept in uh a prison Um until they fin finish this matter. They're just like, Oh well it's you're in limbo. You know, I I think it's like forty eight hours or something that that the police have when they arrest you that they have to literally charge you with a crime or you have to be released. And I could be wrong, might be seventy-two, I don't know, but uh I think it was forty-eight. But basically they they can't just hold you indefinitely Well apparently that wasn't the situation here. They had nothing to charge Paul with, but he didn't want to decide, and so instead of deciding, he says, Well tell you what, we'll just keep him in jail for right now They kept him there for two years. Felix knows that he's innocent, but doesn't want to make a decision, so he gives Paul a lot of liberty, we see that he gives him a lot of liberty. And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul and to let him have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintances to minister or come unto him. So he said, okay, uh essentially he's under house arrest. They've put him into this home, the centurion is guarding him, supposed to keep him, he can have guests, they can come and see him Uh, you know, he has essentially by today's standards he has an ankle bracelet on. Okay? That's what he's wearing. He can't he can't go beyond the boundaries of this confines But if somebody wants to come and see him, he can. He can minister to people. Uh, you know, don't stop them from doing that. He has he has a lot of liberty, uh, but not just freedom. And uh so they they just held him under this circumstances. Now, confronted with the truth, Felix once again procrastinates, puts off his decision, but Paul takes the opportunity to preach to Felix and to his wife. We see verses 24 and 25 that his wife Drusilla comes. He says here And after certain days when Felix came with his wife, so he he he's been in this house arrest for a while. He's had some guests, he's had some people come and go, and just on a whim, I don't know if they're out for a walk or what But Felix comes by with Drisilla, which was a Jewess. He sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. He said, you know, I've watched Paul now for months. He's innocent of all these charges. Yet I see his spirit. I see how he's ministering to people that he has the opportunity to talk to. He's getting wind a little bit of of the truth that he's preaching. And he he says, boy, I I I would like to sit down and talk to him. I want to know a little bit more about this. So he calls for him and says, Hey, tell me about your faith. Your faith in Christ. And as he reasoned with him, notice that he preaches to him here. Paul preaches, he says, and he reasoned to him of righteousness, of temperance, And judgment to come. Felix trembled. Paul is preaching to him with such power of the Spirit of God, it causes Felix to tremble. Paul is being very direct with him. You know, Felix was not a godly man. Drusilla was but a teenager and his third wife in a bad relationship. Paul's being very direct and deals with him about temperance. You know, I don't know where we got the idea that preaching was supposed to be stay general. And that the preacher was not supposed to deal directly with the sin at hand. All through the scripture you see that. The sin at hand here is this king is living how he wants to live with no regard for the future. And Paul says there's a judgment day coming and you have a problem with temperance. With self-control, which is evident by the woman that's standing next to you. This is pretty direct. And uh we see it causes Felix to tremble. He trembles. Uh go thy way for this time when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee. Let me read for you what Wearsby says about this, Drusilla. His wife Drusilla was a Jewish and perhaps kept him informed of the activities among her own people. And as a Roman official, he would carefully investigate these things. He saw the light here, but he preferred to remain in darkness. He trembled, he understood the truth, but instead he decides to remain. He says, hey, go your way, and when such a time comes that I have need of thee, I will call of thee again He preaches righteousness, he preaches temperance, and Felix, like so many others, he delays his decision for Christ. Can I tell you, beloved, that conviction without conversion hardens the heart? Conviction without conversion hardens the heart. When people are under the very obvious Move of the Spirit of God. Here Felix is trembling with the knowledge of the truth that he's been faced with And yet he is able to resist the Spirit of God just enough that he says, you know what? I'm not saying no. I'm just saying I'm going to wait. So for now, Paul, I want you to just go back to your house to rest. And if I can't sleep tonight, I'll call you. It's like the guy that was under conviction for not paying his taxes. Let's say he owed ten thousand dollars in taxes and he hadn't paid him. The Holy Spirit was convicting him about it. So he wrote a letter to the IRS and included a check for $1,000. And he says, I'm a Christian and I've been under conviction for not paying my taxes He says, I owe you ten thousand, so here's a check for a thousand. If I still can't sleep tonight, I'll send you the rest. You know, it's it's kinda like I want to try and do the bare minimum. I want to resist, but What that does, it hardens the heart. And I've seen it many, many times, even in this auditorium where people have come and we've prayed and earnestly sought God that they would trust Christ. And they resist. You can see them under conviction in the service. They resist Christ in the service and they walk out. What they've done is they put a little bit of barrier up. And it is it is almost a magnitude of times harder to reach them the next time because they've already been able to resist. They've already put up that wall, they've already hardened their heart. Almost like you'd say got a callus over their heart now. And so for the God and the Holy Spirit to really reach them is even much, much more difficult. He delays, he puts it off. Beloved, delay and procrastination have been the enemy of grace and greatness since the beginning of time. Delay in procrastination, just putting it off. Somebody named Norberto Quillia, which I have no idea who that is. But he said, tomorrow is the friend of the lazy and the refuge of the incompetent. Tomorrow is the friend of the lazy and the refuge of the incompetent. Basically, he's saying People have all these great intentions of one day doing something. One day I'm going to get serious for God. One day I'm going to, one of these years I'm going to read the whole of the Bible. One of these years I'm going to spend this much time in prayer. One of these days I'm going to, hey, tomorrow is the friend of the lazy and the incompetent. Don't put off to tomorrow what you should do today. We've all been there. We are all guilty of that. But especially in spiritual matters. Especially in spiritual matters. We need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit and we need to respond. That's why we have an invitation here at our church. We give the opportunity for when God is speaking, when God is I feel like one of the greatest travesties Would be to get up and preach the word of God with the Spirit of God moving in the heart of men and then just say, okay, go home. See you later. The invitation is the opportunity for those whom God has moved to make a decision. Don't put off to tomorrow. Make that decision for Christ and do what God wants you to do today. We see lastly, and we're gonna close here for Sunday school, that Felix was hopeful of gain. This really ultimately what he wanted was benefit out of this. He was kind of holding Paul and just thinking, well maybe I'll get some money out of this. We see in verse number twenty-six, and he hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him, whereof he sent for him and uh oftener and communed with him. He would bring him in and say, Paul, you got any money? Paul, you got your friends bringing you any cash? What's it worth to you to get out of jail? So there was no other reason to keep him. He was a a a typical politician, right? Crooked as the day is long. And uh he was just looking for gain. And he thought, well, if I'm gonna let you go, what what am I gonna get out of it How about being honest? How about doing what's right? That's what you get out of it. But oh no, Felix wanted something more out of that, that's why he was hanging hanging on And uh we'll continue to see in the coming uh weeks here uh what happens with Paul as he's being ultimately taken uh by force. uh to Rome. Of course at his bequest, uh we'll see he he appeals to Caesar, so he goes uh he says, I wanna I want to talk to the man. Uh but we'll we'll see that in the coming weeks. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for today and for the time in Sunday school. I pray, Lord, that you would uh Go with us as we go into the morning service. Be with the church family. Keep everyone safe, Lord, and bless this morning service with your power and speak to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Thank you so much. You're dismissed