Lord, and that you've had a change in your behavior, and uh especially this season of the year, uh, which is so much fun as we consider Christ's birth. Well, uh we want to get right into the notes this morning. We are looking at the portfolio he founded, concluding uh the topic of Paul's second missionary journey. Uh he has uh traveled and reached the point uh uh in you know the conclusion of his mission here We we've talked already about the path he followed and we went through all of that. We talked about uh the problems that he faced, some of the things that he endured while he was traveling and uh all of that. But On this mis second missionary journey, as he comes to a conclusion here, we see that he is writing, uh, he wrote a few books as we close this up. The first is the book of Galatians. So you should have that again the middle of page 109, the book of Galatians. The location of the writing here was Antioch. He's writing from Antioch some key words that he gives us here in this book. Things there's there's just They jump off the pages. There's many of them. Obviously I've listed them for you there and written it out. Christ, which appears thirty-six times, law, which is twenty-five times, faith, which 20, flesh 16, spirit, 16. So these are kind of key words that deal with the main topic, the main purpose of the book of Galatians. Now we taught through the book of Galatians on Thursday night some time ago, but uh so we're not going to go verse by verse through Galatians or any of the Pauline epistles. We're going to just kind of capture the main idea, the reason that Paul wrote it, who he wrote it to. And uh so as we go through the Pauline epistles, all of those books that Paul wrote to the churches. We're just going to kind of give you a brief synopsis of it like we're giving you here today. And so you'll have an understanding of that and you'll have it with you in your notes. as we're going through the New Testament uh survey. I was trying to figure out how and where to fit in all of the epistles, uh, you know, how deep to get into each one of those. And I think we'll just address it like this, just kind of touch, give you the overriding fit thought and theme of it, and then continue on uh, you know, as This was written to the churches by Paul. We see here Galatians. Galatians has been called the Magna Carta of Christian Liberty. It has also been called the Christians' Declaration of Independence. There's several thoughts that are powerful that are that are brought out through this. This is Paul's first letter, likely written. at the time of the Jerusalem Council or at the conclusion of that, as they bring that to a conclusion, to a close, the date there I've given you somewhere around 48, 49 A. D. And uh so the some key verses uh that we want to just briefly look at. We're gonna look at several uh of the verses in text here Uh we're not going to read all these, but in Galatians chapter one, looking in verse number four, he says, Who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and our Father. Uh in two sixteen we see that he says, knowing that A man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. Again The the reason these are key verses is because of the fact that the purpose that he wrote the book. He wrote the book to address the problem of Judaism that was trying to add the law to salvation. And uh if you remember back in the book of Acts in chapter fifteen, I believe it is, in verse number one, he says, and a certain man which came down from Judea, taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. So that's Acts 15. 1. And that's what they were that's what they began to teach in this region. They began to kind of go back through and and uh talk to those whom Paul had reached with the gospel of Jesus Christ who had gotten saved and they said, Okay, great, we're glad that you're saved, but now you have to follow and adopt and go along with all of the law. Jewish practices and so the we of course know that the Jerusalem Council was held to debate and to talk about that and they came to the conclusion that that was not required and should not be required, and they aren't going to burden the Gentiles with uh things that were not necessary. And so th Paul addresses that to the Galatian churches, and he he deals with it directly. And we'll see this clearly in Galatians chapter 1, looking at verse number 6. He says, Galatians 3, sorry, Galatians 1 and verse number 6, he says, I marvel that ye are are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto another gospel, which is not another, but there is some that troubleth you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you, then that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach another gospel unto you other than that we have received, let him be accursed. And so he addresses this and says, listen, they they're perverting, they're changing the gospel, the gospel that brought you to Christ, the gospel that you believed in, why would you then allow them to convince you or to change or to add to the gospel that Jesus Christ had already saved your soul and freed you from And so there's several things that are unique to the book of Galatians. First off is the instruction to the believers on Christian liberty. on Christian liberty. This is kind of uniquely addressed in this book, the liberty that we have in Christ. And in chapter 5 and verse number 1, the Bible says Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage Again, dealing with the main thought, the main topic being addressed in the book of Galatians, that you don't have to live by the law in order to be saved. He says, no, we have liberty in Christ. This liberty frees you from that. Why would you go back to the bondage that was under the law? And so in chapter 5 and verse number 13, he addresses this And takes it one step further, which a lot of people today need to read, not just verse number one, but they need to read verse number thirteen when they're going to address the topic of liberty. Because he says, For brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. So that's the problem today, by and large. People want to use liberty. They say, well, we're not under the law And today, if you preach any kind of standards, any kind of separation, any kind of spiritual holiness, and imply that God expects Christians to live a certain way, you're labeled a legalist. And you were said that you were you are adding to salvation, you're requiring of me, uh like they did in the book of Galatians, they were requiring them to do this or do that or whatever. But there are no requirements. We can do what we want. After all, we're under liberty. But what they're doing is that they are using liberty as an occasion to the flesh And that's not what it is supposed to be. It is that we have been freed from the law that we don't have to follow those uh you know, laws that were given to the Jewish people in that special covenant relationship they had with God, we don't have to follow those for salvation. But beloved God certainly has a standard with which He expects us as Christians to live And we're not to use liberty as an occasion to the flesh to just live and do whatever we want to do, have that excuse to live how we would like to. He also explains the falling from grace in chapter 5 and verse number 4. He says, Christ has become of no effect. Something happened there guys, we just jumped in volume like a lot. Do we know what happened? It was very distracting to me when that happens. Um so Christ has become of no effect. What were we reading? Chapter 5 and verse number 4. Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law You are fallen from grace. So he addresses this, and fallen from grace is not dealing with the fact or trying to say that you can lose your salvation, that you Fallen from the grace of God. But what he's saying is that when you go back to the law, what you're doing is you're falling from God's standard of salvation by grace. Back to man's standard of salvation by works. That's what he's saying. You've gone back to that which God freed you from. And so he he addresses that for them. It's unique to this book that that is explained, this idea of falling from grace. Then in the midst of this uh strong teaching on the liberty we have, he's careful also to explain the power and the work of the Spirit of God in the Christian's life. And this is key to us living in a pleasing way unto the Lord is not that we have liberty to just do whatever we want, we have liberty to live in inside of what God would require of us. Liberty, you know, just like you have liberty and freedoms in America. You have the liberty as long as you're willing to live and and function inside the laws of a land. You have un unheard of liberty as far as in a in a country, uh in in much of the world, a liberty that people have never known. The freedom we have to travel, the freedom of speech we have, the freedom of these things, but that is to function inside the laws of the land. If you uh go out and begin speeding everywhere and you rack up a bunch of speeding tickets, ultimately you're going to lose your liberty to drive. Because you're not living inside of what has been established and expected. And so the idea here with the Spirit of God working in the believer's life is the Spirit guides us. It teaches us and helps us to know that we're living in accordance with and pleasing to our Lord and Savior. There's several things that he teaches us here. First, that The Holy Spirit is received by faith. In chapter 3 and verse number 2, we see this. He says, This only would I learn of you. Receive ye the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? He poses that question. How is it that you came In contact with the Spirit of God. How is it that you experienced this? Was it by following the law? No. It was by faith. That's how the Spirit came unto you The Spirit begins his work in us. Verse number three. Are ye so foolish, having begun in the Spirit? Are you made perfect by the flesh? He says, the Spirit of God that's guiding you, the Spirit that you received by faith, and having begun this Christian walk through the power of the Holy Spirit, are you all of a sudden going to live your life and be successful as a Christian now disregarding the spirit and just live by the law, try and follow this established standard. No, that's not how it happens It's the Spirit that does it. The Spirit ministers to us in verse number five. He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, that Spirit worketh in us. It's ministering to us. The Spirit has been promised in verse number 14 that the blessings of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive them. The promise of the Spirit through faith. The promise of the Spirit of God given to us through faith. He indwells us In chapter 4 and verse number 6, the Spirit indwells us, and because ye are sons of God, hath sent forth the Spirit of His Son in Into your hearts, crying Abba Father. The Spirit is indwelling the believer. The Spirit leads the believer. 5. 18 The Spirit helps us to overcome the flesh. These verses are kind of all 18 through 24. Deal with the Spirit and the work that the Spirit does in our lives, helping us to bear fruit. 5-5, Spirit gives patience and he gives assurance in 6. 8. Now I've written down there for you that this list was taken directly from the World Bible Handbook. page five forty six. Uh I didn't create that. I just pulled it right out of uh you know there's survival resources that have already put these things together so there's no reason for me to try and reinvent the wheel but we want to to see the power and work that that does. And so that's listed there for you. Another thing that's unique to this is that it's the only letter written to a group of churches. The churches of Galatia, that region, that area. The other letters that Paul wrote were written specifically to like the Church of Corinth. It was written to them. Yet Galatians was written to this region and they were encouraged to take the letter and to spread it around, to carry it from church to church, to let all of the people of that region know what Paul was was. was admonishing them or encouraging them in. So I've given you here a basic outline of the book. We're not going to read through all this or try and gain it. This was just pulled directly from uh Grimacki's New Testament survey book, which is a New Testament survey that I took in college, was from that textbook uh many years ago, and so that outline is just pulled from there. I just wanted you to have it so you'd have it in your You could reference it or look at it uh at your convenience when you have it with your stuff here. But we see just the main points there that his biographical argument, his theological argument, and his practical argument. And so he just he's dealing with the truth of what God is trying to get across to them and he argues in different veins. Then we see the second letter, first and second Thessalonians that he's written. uh here on his second missionary journey. 1 Thessalonians written in A. D. 5152 location was Corinth. And he's really still on his second missionary journey. Uh you remember he's traveled through the region, had the Macedonian call, went up there, ended up leaving Timothy and Silas there to minister, traveled on down to Corinth by himself and begins to minister there and to work. And he is doing that while he is there. Timothy brings back a report. Let me look back at Acts chapter 18. where they're at, I think verse number five, where Timothy joins back up with them. Silas and Timothy come. Verse number 18, verse number five. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia Paul was pressed in the spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. So Timothy and Silas come back and they begin to give him a report of what was taking place up there. They kind of go through some details, they begin explaining some things, and Paul stops and writes back to the church of Thessalonica some main truths. And we see here some key words. Lord is twenty-two times, brethren is sixteen, and gospel is six. There's there's others, but these are the key words of that area. And uh we see that uh the key verses 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. And I need to get there. I'm still in Galatians. So first Thessalonians chapter one verse nine and ten he says for they themselves show of us what manner of entering into in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and the true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus Which delivered us from the wrath to come. Now this is important as we as we go through this. You'll see here he's telling them, listen, you you've turned to God, you've turned away from idols, and you've decided to wait. For the Son's return. Wait for when Jesus, the one who raised from the dead and ascended up into heaven, wait till he comes back. So the people of Thessalonica were looking for and longing for the soon return of Christ. They believed that Christ was going to return in their lifetime. We should all look for Christ's return. We certainly are closer today than we've ever been. Every day we get closer to it. And the signs of the times are everywhere, and uh in this day and age in which we live, certainly. The Lord's return can't be that far off. It's got to be right around the corner and we should be looking for that return For the return of our Lord and Savior. They were looking for it. They were waiting for it. And that is key, as we'll see as we go through this. He addresses this right up front. So the purpose of the book was to commend them for their exemplary living under persecution. For their exemplary living under persecution. In verses one through ten. Let's just read the uh I'm trying to think here. We don't need to read all of this. Look at verse number six. And ye became followers of us, as the Lord having received the word in much affliction. with joy of the Holy Ghost. They followed along. They were enduring much affliction. They were enduring persecution and continually went through that. And so Paul addresses that and he's commending them and he's saying, hey, you guys have been faithful, you've been waiting for the return of Christ, you've been enduring, even in the face of great and abundant. persecution. Now things that are unique to 1 Thessalonians here is the strong contrast between believers and unbelievers. In uh chapter four in verse number five he addresses this. There's several different ways in which he contrasts this, but he says, not in the lust of con concuents. That's not right. Jacob, how do you say that? Concupiscope. Concupiscence, thank you. Even as the Gentiles which uh know not God. Even as the Gentiles which know not God. So he gives us that example, that comparison there. uh between how a Christian is supposed to act and how a lost person or somebody that doesn't know God acts. And then uh in we know 413, that's a very familiar verse, so let's look at 5. 5. We'll see 413 in just a moment again. in 5. 5. Ye are the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. So again that contrast drawn. between the two, like the difference between light and dark. Now in four thirteen, we know we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. So the contrast there, those that have hope, because we know Christ And those that have no hope, because they don't know Christ, because they don't know what's coming, they don't know what's going to happen when the Lord returns, and so they have no hope. They have nothing to look for in that regard. So Paul gives us that contrast here. Paul reminds them that praise, the praise of men, is empty, and one really should only be considering or worrying about what God thinks. Or the praise that God would be willing to give. That's what should be our main concern in chapter 2, in verse number 4. He says, but as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts He said, listen, we're not communicating this message because we're trying to make men happy. We're communicating it because we're trying to make God happy. We are preaching and bringing you the truth because our main concern is that we please God, that God is happy with what we are doing. Then he's in chapter 3 and verse number 13. He says, to the end he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. which with all his saints. He said, hey, when the Lord comes, he's going to be the one we need to be worried about. We need to be less worried about what man thinks and more concerned and worried about what God thinks Paul teaches them that we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. In 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18, we just spoke about that. You see, the idea is that they were looking for If you read the context and all of this together, we don't have time to read and study the whole book, but they were looking for the return of the Lord. And they had an expectation that the Lord was going to come in their lifetime. But they were enduring great persecution, and some of them were dying. And so now they're having a conflict of their faith because on one hand they expected that the Lord was going to return in their lifetime. But the Lord hadn't come back yet, and some of the people that they expected to be there were dying and not the Lord hadn't returned yet. And so they're saying, wait a minute. What's going on? Because we expected the soon return of our Lord and He's not here. So what are we supposed to do? So Paul addresses that for them. He says, wait a minute, you need to understand And he gives us these verses here about how we don't sorrow uh as those that have no hope. How we are going to be caught up together with them in the clouds, that that those that have died in Christ uh you know are going to raise first. And we which are alive are going to be caught up together with him. That day's coming. So don't fret, don't fear. If somebody's passed on before you, you're going to see them again. One day the Lord's going to return, and when he does, this is what's going to happen. So he was addressing their concern regarding this And helping them to understand what the Lord was going to do. And of course we know that all of this was in and through uh the Holy Spirit. This is not Paul's thoughts, these are God's thoughts, and he was teaching these young believers and all of us God's plan for the end of days and we would know and be able to have and I can't imagine This obviously is a main source of strength and encouragement to believers for over 2,000 years Knowing that the day is going to come when the dead in Christ are going to rise first and that we will see them again. And then when we get to heaven, We will be seen, we will be known, and people will know us. And we will be reunited with those who have gone on before, that new Christ as their Lord and Savior, and we are encouraged by that for sure. Paul teaches them that. I've given you here another outline, which again just came from uh Ramaki's book on the New Testament, page 280. And we have 2 Thessalonians. In 2 Thessalonians, we have A. D. 52 is Roughly when it was written. Depending upon who you're reading, these dates may move a little bit one way or the other, uh, depending upon where they start missionary journeys and stop and whatever, but it's Roughly in that region. Location it was written was from Corinth, some key words is Lord nineteen times and faith four times, revealed four times, uh coming three times. The key verse of 2 Thessalonians is chapter 2, verses 1 and 2. So these key verses kind of give you a picture of what the theme of the book is about, what direction that Paul's going as he's addressing this and he's encouraging them. 2 Thessalonians 2 verses 1 and 2. He says, Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our gathering together unto him. that ye be not soon shaken in mind or troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter, as from us, as that day of Christ is at hand. He said the day which the Lord is going to return, it's at hand. It's right around the corner. Don't be shaken. Don't let your faith be moved Don't be too overwhelmed. God is still in control. The day that the Lord's going to return is right around the corner. The purpose is to commend the believers here. for their uh faith, their love, their patience in the face of great afflictions. We see that again in uh chapter one, verses three through eight. He says, we are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly. And that the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth. So that we ourselves glory in you, in the churches of God, for your patience and faith. in your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure. And you can read on, he goes on. This is, he says, In the midst of all that you endure, you're still exercising love towards one another, you're still living and functioning inside the realm of faith, and this is commendable and chand uh It's chant should be challenging to us to do the same. We don't know persecution like the early church knew. We don't know persecution like many uh Christians in other countries are experiencing even today. even now. And uh we should stand and be faithful. I think w maybe the lack of persecution has caused us to be very weak Christians. and not willing to stand, even in the face of things that really are quite foolish, that we get so concerned about or been out of shape about. Um nobody has beaten you. You know, nobody threw you in prison. Nobody burned your home, stole all your possessions because you're a Christian. Nobody killed one of your loved ones. But somebody forgot to say hello. You know, somebody uh didn't pat you on the back or recognize your contributions or whatever. I'm just saying we're very soft by and large today and maybe it's because of the lack of persecution. that we have become so soft and we allow even the smallest things to bother us way too much. Paul clears up a misunderstanding in this purpose of writing this book. He clears up a misunderstanding regarding the second coming of Christ, again addressing this idea. They were looking for the second coming. They were saying, hey, wait, we expect him to come in our lifetime. So Paul deals with this, he addresses this, and he he he lays out three things that must occur before The day of the Lord. In the scripture, several times you'll hear that phrase, the day of the Lord, and that's referring to the second coming of Christ. And he gives us in verses three And verse number seven, he gives us three things that have to happen. First of all, chapter two, verse number three. He says, let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first. So he says, listen, the day of the Lord, the Lord's return It's not going to happen unless you're going to start to see these signs. You're going to see a great falling away. So that's going to be a sign of the times. You're going to see a great falling away. And then that man of sin be revealed the son of perdition. So we know that that's referring to the Antichrist He says, listen, there's going to be a great falling away. There's also going to be a revealing, a revelation, or an exposing of the Antichrist. And those of you that are older have lived through times and seasons where people said, this person's the Antichrist and that person's the Antichrist, and they came and went off the scene and they are no more. And we we don't know exactly, but you know sometimes you look and you think boy this fits this person fits that or that person fits that Ultimately I think there will be no question when it when it happens and the Antichrist truly is revealed. Uh the power that he has, he describes this in these verses, the power and the signs that he's able to do Uh but the Antichrist is going to be revealed. So he's addressing this. He's saying, guys, listen, the second coming of Christ is not going to happen until there's a great falling away. until the Antichrist is revealed. And the third thing is that the restrainer is taken out of the way or taken out in verse number seven. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse number 7. He says, For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he whom now letteth will let. Until he be taken out of the way. So there's a couple different beliefs with regards to who is the great restrainer. Some believe it's the church. Uh the church stands uh as a hedge against sin. The church stands as a as kind of a barrier, as a as a block, as a restrainer towards the wickedness that would just permeate the world and so the church stands that hedge and when the church is taken out then that opens the floodgates. And it may fit that. But the other belief is that it's the Holy Spirit. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty. And it is the Spirit of God that in his realm functions as a restrainer and keeps us from sin, guides us in the path and truth of right, and stands in the way of the move of Satan And uh with regards to him stopping and the not that he is his ministry and his work has changed at this point And so those three things need to happen. Paul is dealing with that for the church, just trying to give them some encouragement, saying, listen, you haven't missed it. Sometimes people joke about, man, I came to church, you know, like we have time change or something, and they show up and nobody's here and they're like, oh, I thought I missed the rapture. Everybody was gone but me You know, and it's different. They're joking of course, but uh you know, Paul was saying, you haven't missed the rapture, you haven't missed the second coming. Uh here's some things that are necessary that are gonna take place before the second coming. So He deals with that. And things unique to the book here, let's see, oh the third thing, purpose or reason for writing is to correct some wrong thinking concerning laziness. and busybodies. Now in this passage of Scripture here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, verses 6 through 12, he is dealing with and he is uh reminding the church of how they came and how they labored and that they were laboring and yes some people may have fed them some meals but they didn't just eat and do nothing. They didn't just you know, sponge off the church for a little while. Uh that's what Paul says, and you can read those verses. But I think if we look uh here, let's start in verse number 10. Uh he says Chapter 3 and verse number 10. He says, For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat. He says, So we told you this and we were there. That you you should work if you're going to eat. In verse number 11, he says, For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies. So he addresses that. He says, hey, there's some that are there, they're very disorderly. They're creating a lot of disruption. And you know, part of the reason is a lot of times is because they have too much time on their hands. Because they're not working. Because they have all the time in the world to get involved in everybody else's business. I think some of the problems we have in our country today are by and large because we really are very prosperous. And we have all the time in the world to get our nose in everybody else's business. I mean it's amazing how sometimes I wonder like how in the world can these neighbors Even know what's going on in some other neighborhood, let alone have time to be bothered with it To have to try and go stand on a street corner and you know stop a developer from building or whatever else it is. You know why? It's because they're so blessed and so prosperous. that they they don't have to. You know, there was a time when you had to get out of bed at four in the morning to go out and milk the cows and begin to work the garden and and worked all day until night in order just to live You were working from sunup to sundown. You didn't have any time to be worrying about what your neighbor was doing. And nowadays, boy, we're so blessed we got we can be busybodies now. We can get into everybody else's business, but Paul, part of the reason for writing this to them is like, listen, you need to stop doing that. You need to just get busy. I mean you shouldn't even be eating if you aren't working. Uh so he addresses that for them. Things that are unique to the book, we've mentioned this already, but the description of the Antichrist, uh 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 3 through 10, he describes there in those verses the Antichrist and what he's like and the power that he's going to have and the display of the signs and wonders that he's going to be able to do. So he addresses that then. Then I've given you here an outline of the book, again just taken from uh Bible study, uh J. Swidwell Baxter's book on the uh Exploring the Bible, page 220 So this just an outline copied right from there. Uh so you can look at that and read those things as you'd see fit. So this is the books that he wrote on his second missionary journey. Now next Sunday we'll get into Paul's third missionary journey and uh I'm sure we will not address all the books that he wrote next week but we'll get into a few of those uh and get into them a little bit And uh then we're getting really close to Christmas. We obviously are not going to finish the New Testament this year, uh, because we still have several key books, the book of Romans, the book of Revelation, you know, there's several things we gotta deal with uh that are gonna take a little bit more time. But we'll just move in the next year and finish when we finish. So all right, let's close in prayer. We'll be dismissed. Lord, we love you. We thank you for the time in Sunday school here. Thank you for uh Lord Paul's impact on the early church. and how he still teaches us today. And uh Lord, we thank you for his willingness to submit and to follow you. And I pray, Lord, we would follow that example. And be willing to just live our life in accordance with the Word of God and with your will, being led by the Spirit of God, which is a gift to us. Lord, He's not just the Comforter But he guides us into all truth. And I pray, Lord, that we would yield our lives to him and allow him to uh Lord change us, Lord, day by day. And we'll praise you for it. Be with the morning service, Lord, all those that gather in church today. Jesus' name, Amen. Thank you so much. You're dismissed.