This morning is going to be a little bit different. I just kind of want to talk to you about missions. The title of the message is Pay the Price. Pay the Price for Missions. As a church, we're very missions-minded. So turn your Bibles to Matthew twenty-eight. Matthew twenty-eight, we're going to look here at this great commission. Our theme for Missions Conference is His Commission is Our Command. And that's the idea that God has commanded us to Go, go ye therefore, and teach all nations. This is the Great Commission we find here and other places. Uh they say that it's found five times in the New Testament. Different forms, uh the great commission to go and to reach the world with this message of the gospel. But look first of all, if you would, back up one verse to verse number eighteen. He says here, and Jesus came and he spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Jesus declared himself to have all power. How many of you would agree with the Bible and you believe in your heart that we serve an all-powerful God? Say amen. Amen. We serve an all-powerful God, omniscient, omnipresent, all-powerful God. He has all power. And such, if we believe that Then wouldn't it stand to reason that the God that has all power, who created the universe, who created you and I And hopefully by God's grace you're saved and you're on your way to heaven here today, and you know Jesus is your Lord and Savior, uh, and He saved your soul. Wouldn't it stand to reason that an all-powerful God would have in his authority the right to command us. Would you agree with that? He has that's a lot weaker Amen. I'll tell you that. Oh God's all powerful was Amen. God has a right to command us. It's like, yeah, I guess you're right. Maybe. He has all power, even the right to demand of us. He has created us. Then he's gone beyond that beyond that. We're twice bought. Created by God and then saved by the sacrifice of his son. Twice bought. And then he says, Go ye. Go ye therefore. God tells us to go. Our job is to go and to preach the message of God's love and his saving grace to the world. To tell the world about Jesus. To tell the world that he saves souls and he forgives sin. That's what we're supposed to be doing Whether we go to those nearest to our neighbors and to all nations, we're to be going. We start with those closest, obviously. They're the people we know. They're the closest to us. We go to them and tell them of Jesus' saving grace. And then we go to our neighbors. We go to those further out. The Bible calls it Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria in the uttermost. That's how the Bible puts it. We're to go to all nations. And tell them about Jesus' love. And once somebody s recognizes the fact that they're a sinner and they come to a cross and they yield and surrender to God and say, Okay, Lord, I realize I need to trust you and you alone. And they trust you alone. Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. I'm glad that we're all level at the foot of the cross. And Jesus forgives us all the same. Once they do that, then the Bible says we're supposed to baptize them. They're supposed to be learn how the Bible talks about baptism and there's no saving grace in that water. There is no merit bestowed upon you for getting into this water that merits you a position or a place in heaven. The baptismal waters is just a picture Of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's somebody that's saved that says, Hey, my old life, what I used to believe, what I used to think, how I used to try and get to heaven, or whatever I did, my old life is gone. Buried and raised to walk in newness of life. New life in Jesus Christ is just a picture, just like this ring is not what makes me married. This ring is just a picture of the fact that I am. If I take this off, am I still married? Oh man. No. Mary in here? No. She oh she's back there. Uh oh. So, either way, I'm still married. You know what? If you never get baptized, if you trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior, you're still on your way to heaven. Amen. That's just a step of obedience. The Bible says we're supposed to teach them to get baptized. And then we're supposed to teach them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. We're supposed to teach them that they're supposed to love God supremely. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind. And then they're supposed to love the neighbor as themselves. And in these two is all the commandments. So we're supposed to teach them to obey God. Right? That's what the Christians are supposed to do. That's what we're supposed to be doing as a church. And that's what we do as far as sending missionaries around the world to do that, to go to places that we cannot go to. Let me ask you, in this passage of Scripture, what is the promise that's given to us as we go? Lo, I am with you always. Do you understand the Word of God many times has promises that we like to grab a hold of? And hallelujah, the promises, and I encourage you to grab a hold of the promise. But we cannot forget The precept that goes with it. See, many times God has a precept, something that you must do, and then the promise comes after He says, Go. And as you go, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the earth. We need to understand that an all-powerful God, he has the power. He could do whatever, he could reach the world however he wants. The Bible tells us he could have the rocks cry out. He could have the thunder of the of the lightning, the lightning strikes, and the thunder in the sky declare in a booming voice, God is here. Heed the voice of God today. I mean, he could do it anyway. But you know what? He chooses. By his infinite wisdom, by his design. He has a plan that he's set forth, that he's given to us here in his great commission, which is our command. You know, I in my mind, I think a great big booming voice out of the sky would work a lot better. I mean, I just think if people heard that they'd be like, wow, yeah, I guess they need to do something, uh opposed to me. I don't know exactly why, but I don't have to know why, and I don't have to understand why, because he's an all-powerful God, and this is what he said. So this is what we're supposed to be doing. He could do it however he wants, but his plan is to use men. So I want to give you three simple points this morning that God needs, three things God needs to reach the world. This is our missions conference. Are you willing to pay the price to reach the world? Go ye! I think that includes all of us. Everybody here. The command is given to us as believers, to the church, to individuals, go ye therefore. So three things that God needs to reach the world. First of all, God needs men. God needs men. We say it in our message in our our vision statement in the video we watch every Sunday morning, and it's my outline this morning. We give our money, material, and manpower to see the world ministered unto. Now I hope that's not just a video. I hope that's not just a statement that sounds good because it's alliterated. I hope it's a heartbeat of our church. The church is the people. What is it that we are vested in? First of all, God needs men. To go reach the world. He needs manpower to do it. You know, it's his plan. It's his design. He could do however he wants to, but his plan is that we would go and preach the gospel. That we would go and tell others about Jesus, that we would talk to those people that we know about the hope that is in us We have that hope and we are to be sharing that. We are to be going to those nearest. We are to be going to our neighbors. And we are to be going to all nations. You say, Pastor Caleb, how could I go to all nations? Look at all these nations here. You got uh Israel. and the nation of Maryland and uh then y you got uh Trinidad and Iowa and Cambodia and the prison ministry. That's not Cambodia, that's Mongolia. This is Cambodia, Egypt, and somebody help me, what is this? Belize. Uh y you got Madagascar. Then what's the next one? Thailand. That's Thailand? Yeah. Oh man. Alright, then uh next is Estonia, uh Australia, Zambia. Korea, Fuji Islands, Philippines, China, India, Mexico, Myanmar. Almost all of 'em. You say, how can I possibly go to all those places? You can't go to all of them. But there are some men who God calls to go to these places. God needs men that are willing to surrender. God needs men and women, people, individuals that say, I'm willing to go. I'm willing to go, Lord. Here am I, Lord. Send me. Matthew 9, 37 and 38 says, Then saith he unto his disciples, a harvest truly is plentious, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of harvests that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. I think if we got real burdened about God sending some laborers, If we got real burdened about God sending some uh people out to these different nations, some people out to Baltimore I think the Holy Spirit of God might come down and poke some of the men in this room, some of the ladies in this room, and say, You can go I do need some laborers in the field, and I choose you. I choose you to go, and God may call somebody from our church, and I look forward to the day. When a young man, a young lady, or an old man or an old lady, and wherever you want to draw the line between the young and old doesn't matter to me, but I'm just saying I look forward to the day when somebody surrenders and say, I believe God wants me to go To whatever field, to whatever place God's called me to give up some things here in this world, to not be so consumed with this life and look for the next life, and I'm willing to go To reach people with the gospel. God needs men to do it. It doesn't just happen. We've got the internet today, and boy, we could set up a worldwide email campaign and email everybody in the world. And you know what? That that would be great to get the message of the gospel out, but that's not God's method. That's not God's plan. God's plan is that men would go and share the gospel with other men. That's God's plan. I've seen God bring the right man for the right job at the right time, time and time and time again. You think of the Ethiopian eunuch, how he was sitting reading Isaiah, the prophet. Contemplating, but he he needed somebody to show him what he was reading. But God knew and God sent an evangelist. Somebody that was willing to go. God touched the heart of the evangelist Philip and said, You need to go. There's a man here that needs the truth. And he said, okay, and he went and he opened the scriptures. He said, Do you understand what you're reading? He says, How can I except somebody show me? There have been people all over the world that are looking for the truth. They want to know God. They desire to know God, but they need a man. They need a woman. They need somebody that was willing to go to show them the truth. Over and over again I've seen God provide men to do things for the Lord and for the Lord's work. At just the right time. I think of uh Brother Will Hyde, who came to our church for just a short amount of time. God brought him here just shortly, just a couple of months before we moved and got into this building. And then a couple of months after we got into this building, I mean the the highlight the highlight of the church, the the church is going awesome. I mean it's just booming. I mean things are happening like crazy. The excitement in the air is palpable. I mean it's amazing. And Brother Will Hide says, hey, I think uh God's going to move us to another church. And we were certainly disappointed to see him go. He's a great guy. He's a good friend. I still talk to him occasionally. Um and anything I need I could call him up and he would come and help. But do you know what? God brought him to our church. You know why? Because Brother Wilhide is a certified welder. And in our four-year, this building that we hadn't even bought yet when he was brought to our church. He we haven't even bought this building yet, but we bought this building in the foyer there. There's a steel post right in the middle of the foyer. There used to be a big block wall there And we had to take that block wall out and we needed to get some steel beams in order to support the second floor and the roof and everything else above that. And we were in the middle of drawing plans for it This is back when the county well anyways, we were in the middle of drawing plow plants and Brother Wilhide As a certified welder said, no problem. We needed a certified welder to come in and certify that the steel was the right capacity and all that and to do all the welding. I think God brought him to our church just for that. I mean he was a blessing. His wife Bonnie, I mean, she almost adopted our children. I mean she was she was you know, love working in the nursery and playing with the kids and you know they were a blessing while they were here and God God moved them down the road but God brought them just for that. God needs men, God needs women to say, Lord, whatever you need of me. You need to take me here for a little bit? To do this, I'm willing to do it. You need to use me for this for a little while, Lord? I'm willing. I'm willing to pay the price, Lord. I'll do what you want me to do because listen, my life is yours. I'll just follow you. I'll just serve you. Just do whatever you want me to do, Lord. It's by God's design and God's looking for a few good men, a few good women that are ready to go. We need converted men. Men that are saved, men that know that know the story of Jesus, men that know how to tell people about God, men that can share the truth. We need consecrated men, men that aren't full of the devil, men that aren't full of the world, men that are sold out for God, ladies that are sold out for God, they're Consecrated, yielded to God in their life to do whatever God wants them to do. They said, Here am I, Lord, send me consecrated men. We need some compassionate men So men that have compassion for the lost, that see the need, their eye affects their heart, and when they look on the fields that are white unto harvest. Their heart breaks for the world that's lost and on their way to a devil's hell. And they're burdened about seeing the world reached with the gospel. Oh, we need some compassionate men. We need some courageous men. Some men with some courage. I'll tell you what, this world doesn't like it. This world doesn't like the truth of the gospel. This world doesn't like the message of Jesus Christ. We need some courageous men. Some men that are willing to stand for righteousness and truth in an adverse situation, an adverse world. Other missionaries are looking for men to go with them. They want men to go with them. Apostle Paul said, For we are laboring together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. The Apostle Paul said, We're laboring together. The Apostle Paul always seemed like had somebody with him, somebody going and serving with him, somebody helping him. I believe in team missions. I believe in a missionary helping another missionary to get the thing off the ground and to have somebody to work with. You know, uh two people can do the work of three or four people? I mean one person by himself, but you give him one more person, and man, production skyrockets. Getting some team missions, some team work. There's some missionaries out here, they've all asked when they come through, they're like, hey, would you pray about going to India I'll tell you what, Brother Brian could use some help in India. He could use some help in India. You know, uh would you pray about going to Mexico? Thirty plus million people in Mexico City. We need some help. We need we need the missionaries calling for help all the time. Will you come over and help us? And do you know that God uniquely prepares men and women to go do what he calls them to do? The field that they're called to, the place that they're surrendering to, the ministry that they're going to do, whatever it is. God prepares and equips them. These families go. And I love how our church has a unity of heart in how we support our missionaries. Listen, there's other churches that do it different. We here as as a as a church have purposed to try and support a A few less missionaries for more money. We want to make greater impact and really help the missionaries that we're supporting. We want to build a relationship with our missionaries Now listen, there's other churches that do it other ways. And I know of a church I heard this week that uh the pastor went to the church and the first year that he was there, they took on 28 missionaries. The second year he was there, they took on 25 missionaries. The third year he was there, they took on 23 missionaries. Right now they support over 400 missionaries. Hey, I'm glad that they can do it. But I I know they're not supporting four hundred missionaries at three hundred dollars a month. I know that. And there's nothing wrong with doing it that way. Actually it's kinda it's exciting. I mean you think about it. I mean having all those missionaries come through and you know having ten missionary families for missions conference and they come in and and you know you take them all on for support And and it's an exciting way to do it. But we as a church have purposed that we want to be more vested in our missionaries. If we had 400 missionaries, do you think I could name 400 flags? Not on your life Uh do you think I that that we would even be able to know? Do you think you could even have an idea of who your missionaries were? So our our church listen uh other churches can do it however they want and I I I'm thrilled that they have a missions program and that's that's how they choose to do it and it's different. Maybe they do it adopt a missionary or two or three. Maybe they just kind of focus on the few. But we want to try and have a relationship with our missionaries. And so we want to support less. and support them for more money. That's how we do it. So we try and just take on a couple of missionaries a year and we really try and help them get to the field in a big way. And I'm excited that we're committed to that But you know if we're going to do that, it also takes money. It takes money to support missionaries. It takes money to reach the world. Now listen, my father is rich in houses and lands. He holds the wealth of the world in his hands, of rubies and diamonds, of silver and gold, his coffers are full, his riches are untold. God doesn't need your money. But you know what? By God's design, by God's plan to reach the world with the gospel, it takes money. And by God's plan we give to make it happen. Now God could could dump a million dollars on every person that surrendered to go. But that's not his plan Because he wants us, because where your treasure is, there is your heart also. He wants us to show where our heart is. Wants us to show what it is that we're committed to. You know, you could just take a little graph. A lot of credit cards will do it for you. Kind of show you where your money's going. You might say, man, I love food way too much. You might look at you like to look at that graph and say, Whoa, I'm putting a little too much money in this category. Uh it's good to evaluate once in a while where your money's going. And uh see what it is that you love. God's plan for reaching the world with the message of His love and saving grace is through missions. You know how many of you guys love that verse, Philippians four nineteen? Guys know what? My God shall supply all your needs. Oh, hallelujah. We love that verse. We could just preach on that for a while. Amen. Just let her go, preacher. God's going to supply it all. I mean, all is all. A-L-L, all your needs. Hallelujah. God's going to bring open the windows of heaven and whatever your needs are, he's going to meet them. Amen. Well, he's going to provide them. But Can we put that verse in context? Can we do that? Yeah, we like that verse. Why don't you turn there to Philippians chapter 4? Let's just look at that. Philippians chapter four. We're gonna back up to verse number ten. Philippians chapter four verse number ten he says you got Galatians, Ephesians, first and second Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. Alright, Chipans chapter 4, verse number 10. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again. Wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be a base and I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things Through Christ which strengtheneth me. You see, we're going to read on in just a second here, but the Apostle Paul, he was saying to this Macedonian church, he says, Hey, you guys have been good to me. You guys have given to me. You guys have sacrificed for me. Out of your need, you've sacrificed for me. Out of your want, you've sacrificed for me. Paul had learned that whatever state he was to be content. He could live with nothing. He says, I've learned how to be a base and how to be abound. He could do it. You know what? Most of our missionaries are living on just enough. They're just most of them are under-supported But what I'm saying is they aren't out there getting rich. They're not building their 401ks and starting their retirement programs. They're just doing what God's called them to do. They're out there living on just enough. Just barely making it most of the time. Brother Pratt had to come off the field because the inc the change the change in the exchange rate of money has lost him about 25% of his support. And last year, the Indian government taxed his bank account 23%. They put it on as fees, foreign service charges Foreign exchange rate charge. At the end of the year he looked at it and the the government just deducts it straight from his bank account. They just take it right out. He looked at it, it was 23%. You know, they're not out there getting they've learned how to be abase. They've learned how to live on nothing. They're not out there getting rich, but they're just doing what God's called them to do. He says here to the church, he says, Ye have done well. Ye have done well. Verse number fourteen. He says, notwithstanding ye have done well. You know, we want to hear that phrase when we get to heaven, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. You want to hear that phrase? Right here, he says, you've done well. Support missions. Give to missions. Ye have done well to do this. Ye have done well. And we're going to hear a well done. We are supporting and actively participating in reaching the world. with the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, You've communicated with my affliction. That word communicate is to cooperate, to be a partaker of. That's what we want. We want to know what's going on in our missionaries' lives. That's why I have Brother uh Taylor get up and give us uh uh update on a missionary every Sunday so we can learn a little bit about them. It can keep us in front oh Brother Hoffmeister, he's going to what field? Trinidad. And Trinidad is what flag? Do you guys know? It's over here, yeah. Trinidad. And we want to learn, oh, that's Brother Hofmeister in Trinidad. When we see Trinidad, we we know. I I was outdoor knocking this last week and not not yesterday, a week ago, knocked on somebody's door, and uh the lady was from Trinidad I could tell she was from one of the islands. I mean I didn't know where exactly, but I said I could tell you're from that region what where you're from, she's the Trinidad. I said, Oh, I've been to Trinidad She's like, Where? I said, I don't know. I can't remember. It wasn't yesterday, I'm sorry. It was a while ago, but You know, we want to know what's going on in our missionaries. We want to be a partaker, a participator in what's going on in their life. He said to them, nobody else did but you did. You supported me. You were a partaker. The church at Philippi, you see, you understand what they recognize is that Paul was called to go reach people with the gospel. How many of you know that Paul was a chant maker? Paul Paul could make tents. He was probably pretty good at it. He could make a lot of money making tents. And at such time as he needed to, he could make a tent and sell it and get some money. But what the church realized is that, hey If Paul is called to reach people and God has given him an amazing ability, I mean his understanding and his ability to see speak to both Greek, to the Jew, and to the Gentile. I mean his knowledge of the scriptures, wow, he needs to be doing what he's called to do. He needs to be out there giving the gospel. He's good at it. He's God's given him an ability to do that. And we don't want him messing around with tent making. We want him to be given the gospel. So let's give him some money so he can give the gospel. Does that make sense? What if I had a guy that could make widgets? And he could make widgets so effective efficiently that every hour he spent making a widget for me, I made $500. And he didn't want anything for it. What's a widget? A widget is anything. A widget is is a gadget. It's whatever, a widget. So this guy could make widgets for me and he did let's say he didn't want anything for it Every hour he spent making widgets, I'd get $500. But man, his job kept getting in the way. He could only work a couple hours a day making widgets because he had to work eight hours a day. And then he had to take care of his grass and mow his lawn and you know take care of the things around the house. You know every one of us we'd be thinking, okay, listen, what's your salary? You make $400 a day, I'll bump it up to $500 a day. Why don't you make widgets all day for me? I'll pay you $500 a day. So he does not have to get distracted with the job, right? Hey, I'll hire the neighbor kid to take care of your lawn. Don't worry about it. You're gonna make widgets for twelve hours a day. You're gonna make widgets, man, because you're I mean you're making me money and he doesn't want oh I'll be glad to do it for you I'll do it anytime I'm free, but I gotta go work a job first. That's the thing, is God calls these men and equips them to go to the foreign fields, and God's given them an ability to reach people with the gospel. We don't want them to be distracted with having to go work a job first. Many of them have great skills. This missionary here going to Burma could be a doctor. He could he could go make lots of money. But he said, God called me to go to the mission field. I'm gonna go reach people with the gospel. And you know what? If he doesn't have to get distracted by earning some money, he can go and give all of his life, all of his effort, all of his energy into reaching people. And we divide that up between on average it's around thirty to fifty churches that support a missionary to get a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a to the field. A missionary on deputation will have to go to anywhere from 200 to 300 churches to try and get 30 to 50 of them to support them to raise enough money to get to the the field and typically a missionary tries to range ra raise between two hundred I'm sorry two thousand to five thousand dollars a month depending upon the field that they're going to and then needs there. Now you understand that's not just for them. They have to get a church building with that money. They have to print materials to pass out with that money. They have to set up a sign with money and buy chairs and hymnals with that money. You see, you're like, well, that's not bad, $2,000 a month. Are you living on that? That's not bad, five thousand dollars a month. I mean I could live on that. Could you run a church on that? And yeah, it depends on what field you're on. There's some fields that are very expensive to live. But I'm saying is that they they're using that money as wisely as they can. In context here, let's read down. He says verse number 14, notwithstanding ye have well done. That ye did communicate with my affliction. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. He says, You guys did this for me. He says, For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again unto my necessity. He's saying you didn't send it just once, you sent it again. He says, Not because I desired a gift, but I desire fruit that it may abound to your account. Listen. Do you understand when you give to missions that's that is fruit abounded to your account? You see, the missionaries aren't looking for that. Paul wasn't looking for, hey, send me, send me, send me, send me. He was doing what God had called him to do, and the money made it eight, so he was able to do that. And all of that is abounded to their account He's out there making widgets, and the prophet from the widgets is going back home. The missionary is out there winning souls, and and that is added to our account. As we support them. That's what he desired, that this fruit would abound to their account. He says, I am full, having received of Paphroditus the things which ye were sent with you. An odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. It pleases God. It pleases God when you give to missions. And then we have that verse. But my God shall supply your all your need according to his riches and glory. Hey. So in context, This verse that we love to hold on to is directly tied to giving to missions. Correct. Is it there? Brother Greg's the only one that saw it. It's directly tied to giving to worldwide missions, to reaching the world, to obeying the Great Commission. The church recognized Paul's ability and said they wanted to help him do it. Hey. So we give to missions and we use what's called faith promise missions giving. Now I know that faith promise missions giving In that way is not found in the Word of God. You're not going to find that. Where do you see faith, promise, missions giving? Now I find it all through the scriptures. I can give you a lot of different examples, but let's just break that down. How many of you believe that uh we should have faith? Without faith it's impossible to please him. How many believe that we should make promises? Psalm says, bow a vow unto God. We are to make him promises unto God. God expects us to acknowledge what he desires us to do and say, Lord, I'm going to do that. I'm going to promise you. I'm going to do it. We've got a promise. And then, how many of you believe missions is biblical? Go ye therefore in all the world. Missions is biblical. How many believe giving is biblical? Giving is biblical. So faith, promise, missions, giving is biblical. We need to be doing it. We need to be giving. Let me give you a couple principles about giving. God will give through you what he will not give to you. You see, you give out of what you have, and God replaces it. God's looking for a funnel, not a cup. If we had a funnel here and I dumped water in there, as long as the bottom's not plugged, I can keep putting more in. God will give through you what he won't give to you. What we like to do is say, oh, thank you, Lord, and we plug the bottom of the funnel. But your capacity is only that much and some of you feel like, man, I've got pockets with holes in it, right? You feel like, man, is where where's all that money going? And and it it's just running over the sides. Your capacity is only this much. God will give through you what he won't give to you. And it's amazing to see how he said, Brother Taylor got him and said, you can't outgive God. It's amazing to see when you understand giving. It's more blessed to give than to receive. And when you when you give and you see God give And you give and you see God give and you think, man, I I I I'm gonna give you that and you give this and God just keeps giving back to you. You need to pray about what to give. We handed these out a little over a week ago, uh first of the month. And most of you should have these in your Bible. If you don't, grab one on the way out. This is the Faith Promise Missions Commitment card. You need to pray about what God wants you to give. There's no pressure. Listen, I I don't feel bad about talking about this because none of this money is for Hunt Valley Baptist Church. This is to reach the world. Now I feel real bad a lot of times talking about the needs of the church or money that we need in and bring in that. I know you don't think it makes that I feel bad talking about it, but I do. I hate it. But this is to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And there's no pressure here. You just need to pray. What does God want you to do? And you know what? If you're not praying, you're playing. It's just playing. And if you're not praying and you put something down on here, it probably won't last. It probably won't last a year because you need to pray and know this is what God told me to give. Some of you do you good if for nothing else, just to hear from God. Just to hear God give you that peace in your heart and to know this is what God wants me to do. Now it's not an audible voice out of heaven. You just kind of say, okay, Lord, what do you want me to give? You know, God, could I give fifty bucks a week? And God's going to touch your heart and say, that's not enough. You know you could get 50 bucks a week. That would be easy. And you'd be like, Lord, I felt good with 50 bucks a week. And he says, you know you can do that. What what could you do? This is by faith. What can you do? And you say, Lord, would you could I give a hundred bucks a week? God says you could do that. You just pray about it and let the peace of God reign in your heart. God will give you a peace about what you're supposed to put on this card. I've got kids that don't even have a job that give a substantial amount of money. to this. They don't even they don't even work. What do they do? They use their money they give for their birthday. You say use their birthday money to give to God? Oh, poor kids I don't think so. Because God gives them little side jobs. And some of you crazy people give them twenty bucks for an hour's worth of work. Like, you guys stop that. I said, these kids don't I mean, I'm not gonna say they're not worth it, but I'm saying they don't need to earn that until they're older. They're gonna go to their first job and they're gonna be like what, seven dollars an hour? I don't work for that. You do now, buddy But that's just God's blessing. That's just God's blessing. As they honor God and put God first, God brings in and and provides for them And I mean they're spoiled. Because God's been so good. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Listen, we ought to want to do more Whatever it is, we ought to want to do more. Wherever we're at, whatever we're doing, you say, well, I'm not doing anything. You ought to want to do more. Whatever you're doing right now, you ought to want to do more. There's that old song by in by when I look on his face Beautiful face, thorn shadowed face, by and by, when I look on his face. I wish I had given him more, more, so much more more of my life. Than I er gave before by and by, when I look on his face, How wish I had given it I can guarantee you when you get to heaven, what you'll be the most glad about is what you did for God. What you did for eternity. Lastly, God needs material to reach the world. God uses material. It takes materials to do the work of the ministry. Listen, you understand that I'm going to back up just one second because this just came to me. You understand that um You're here right now because somebody else gave. I don't mean just here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, oh we could go down the list of people That have gave us so we could be here. But I'm talking about wherever you got saved, wherever you came to know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, whatever ministry you came from, every present work of God is there because somebody else sacrificed. Right. Somebody else gave. We want to give so the work of God continue to reach more people. God uses material, I'm going to give you this and I'll be done. Whatever materials. It takes a lot of materials to do the work. of God and materials come in a lot of different ways. I think of Brother Boots, who we just went down there to do that drywall for him and how God provided that drywall at one-third the cost of what it would normally be. God provided the materials. Sometimes you not might not have the money to do the job, but God provides the materials to do the job. I think about in Kansas one time we were pouring a driveway uh I think it was 150 feet wide, 450 feet long. The bill was twenty-five thousand dollars. And when we completed pouring that, we walked up to the guy that did all the work and we handed him the check for $25,000 and he turned around and handed it back and said, here, put that back in the church. God provides. He provides the materials in lots of different ways. It takes printed material. You gotta have gospel tracts to give out, you gotta have John and Romans to give out, you gotta have uh materials to to disciple people. Our prison ministry spends uh untold amounts of money just getting materials to the missionaries. I'm to to the missionaries and then to the inmates where they can do discipleship. It takes discipleship materials to reach the world. Somebody has to produce those. Somebody has to get those out there. The missionaries produce them themselves or they have to purchase them. Something. It takes materials to reach the world. So God might use us to provide some manpower. Maybe there's some men here God would call. God's certainly going to use us to provide some money to send some missionaries to the foreign nation. field and maybe God would use us to provide some materials, some way to to help in that regard. And we support a pr a printing ministry that presents got prints gospel tracts and other material for people. But listen, that's God's plan. And that's what missions is. And I hope you're praying that God would do a great work this week and that you would follow and do what God's will is with regards to missions here. Because I know by and by we'll wish we had given him more.