1 Chronicles chapter 21, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1. Second Kings 1 and 2 Chronicles. Did I help you or confuse you? Get in the front of the Bible and just start turning until you see that Chronicles. You'll get there. 1 Chronicles chapter number 21. The title of this morning's message is Pay the Price. Pay the Price. That's our theme for the year. We're going to read our text. I may comment a little bit as we walk through this, but then uh uh get into the thought for this morning On pay the price. Ask God to bless. Let me start with a word of prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you for this church and those that you've gathered here this morning, this hour, to hear this message. I pray, Lord, that you would spur in our hearts a desire, a conviction to be willing, to pay the price, to do what's necessary to see the cause of Christ move forward. Lord, would be we Would be we would we, Lord, individually be willing to give of ourselves as we state in our mission statement that we give our money, material, and manpower, we invest what's necessary that we can bring people to Jesus That we could help Christians on their walk, and Lord, I pray as a church as we embark upon this year with the vision of being willing to pay the price to do what's necessary that individually in our lives if you challenge us and stir us to a thing that we would be willing to do it. Lord, I pray that you would speak to hearts this morning. Help me, Lord, to get out of the way and allow you to work in Jesus' name. Amen. First Chronicles chapter number twenty-one. We're going to be re begin reading in verse number eighteen and read down through verse number thirty. This is not the entirety of the story, but we'll read this to you, and then I'll lay some of the groundwork that leads to the 1 Chronicles 21, verse number 18. Then the angel of the Lord commanded Gads to say to David that David should go up. and set up an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebisite. And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the Lord. And Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat. And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David And he went out of the threshing floor, and he bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. Then David said to Hornan, Grant me The place of this threshing floor, that I may build an altar thereunto the Lord. Thou shalt grant it me for the full price, that the plague may be stayed from the people. And Ornan said unto David, Take it thee And let my Lord the King do that which is good in his eyes. Lo, I give thee the oxen also for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meat offering. I give it all. You know, Ornan here, this is not the focus of the message, but Ornan here, his spirit, uh it comes through as you think about here i the king, King David Came to Ordin. You think about the way that he approached the king. And for you and I, if we were going to apply this to ourselves, and I'm not planning to spend much time here, but you understand that the king began to approach. And you see, when the king approached, Ordan came out to him and he bowed himself to the king. When the king of kings calls your name, when the king begins to approach, when you look down the driveway of your life. And you see the king coming to you, we ought to go to him and bow ourselves to him and say, Yes, Lord, whatever you want. He approached the king with a spirit of submission and whatever, and the king asked of him the threshing floor. That's all that he asked for. He said, Give me this, the threshing floor, that I may build an altar unto the Lord. And Ornan said, I give you the threshing floor, and I give you the threshing instruments, and I give you the wheat for the sacrifice. He said, I give it all. We ought to have a spirit of being willing to give it all to the King. Amen? Whatever God asks, and even above and beyond, I think in the New Testament, it's called second mile Christianity. If a man compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Jesus Christ calls on us sometimes to do something. And we say, okay, Lord, I'll do it. He says, I want you to take one step and we say, okay, I'll do it. He says, take another step. You say, okay, I'll do it. Whatever God calls, whatever God asks of us, we ought to be willing to give it all That's not the focus of our message this morning. I want to look at David's response in light of our theme for this year. Look with me if you would in verse number 24. And King David said to Ornan, Nay, but I will verily buy it for the full price. For I will not take that which is thine for the Lord, nor offer burnt offering without cost. So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight, and David built an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and called upon the Lord. And he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offerings. And the Lord commanded the angel. And he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof. At that time when David saw that the Lord had answered him in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite Then he sacrificed there. For the tabernacle of the Lord which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offerings which at that season in the high place of Gibeon But David could not go before to inquire of God, for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of the Lord. I want to give you some background, lay a little foundation for you, if I could, about what's taking place here. You see, David, this is a little bit later in his life. He had achieved some measure of victory as a king. He had achieved some measure of stability in his kingdom. They had won a lot of battles. David asked in the early parts of this chapter here, he says he wanted to number the people. Now, numbering the people in and of itself was not a sin. For God many times looks at the numbers. I mean, he asks Gideon, he says, Hey, how many do you have with you? He said, That's okay, that's too many. So getting a number is not necessarily the sin. The sin comes in the motivation. For getting a number. It's believed by people a lot smarter than I that the motivation here for David counting the people was almost a measure of his independence from God. Could I count how many people I have? I understand that God in the past had given me victory, and it didn't matter how many people I had. I mean, if you read the passage of scripture, his guide, his man said, Hey, don't do that. Don't number the people. Aren't all the people that you have a gift from God? Every single one of them, aren't they all a gift from God? And do you understand, Christian, everything that we have is a gift from God? All that we have in this life, all that we hold dear, all that we hold precious From the very breath we breathe to the 401k that we have over that you're watching go down right now. All of it belongs to God. It's all God's. It's all on a loan from him. He says, David, don't number the people. They're all from God anyway. And David wanted what he wanted. And it's almost as if he was kind of saying, I want to know what kind of battles I can win on my own. I want to know what my ability is without God. God obviously took offense at this. He was very upset. He tr he wanted to Judge David. Look in verse number seven. He says And God was displeased with this thing. Therefore he smote Israel. David realized what he did was wrong in verse number eight. He says, And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly. You know what? That's how we're supposed to respond. None of us are without sin, none of us are without fault. We all have times where we where we sin. But we're supposed to respond like David said, God, I've sinned. I've sinned greatly against thee. Verse number eight he says Because I have done this thing, but now I beseech thee, do away with the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very foolishly. He says, I shouldn't have done this. God, would you please forgive me? Do away with the iniquity of this sin. God says, okay. I'll do away with this, but David, you're going to be judged for this sin. You're going to be judged in in since you considered your people as your strength instead of your God. I hope you're applying some of this to yourself. Because he said, you considered your strength in your people instead of your God. He says, I'm going to judge you, David. You got one of three choices. For judgment. He says you can take three years of famine in the land. David said, What's choice number two? He says you can take three months of affliction from an army outside, from an outside army. David said, what's behind door number three? Door number three says, God said, David, you could take three days of judgment from God. Now you understand David chose three days of judgment from God. Not because those three days was the shortest amount of time. David understands that God is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's the creator of the universe. And he understands that God has in his ability To create more damage or to do more hurt than a famine would do in three years, God could do more damage in three days He understands that he is talking to the most powerful person, the most powerful God in the world. He is God of everything, the creator of the universe. And he has the ability to in three days do far greater damage than an outside foe could possibly do. But what he understands is that although he is all powerful, he's also a God of mercy. He understands that he's a God of mercy and he says, I don't want to be subject to an unthinking and unthoughtful uh famine. He says, I don't want to be subject to the attack of a vicious outside foe that has no mercy for us. He says, God, I'll put myself in your hands and I'll plead for your mercy. And he puts himself in the hands of God. And seventy thousand people die at the hand of the sword of this angel. As you read the story, the angel is standing in judgment. His sword is drawn. He is up over the city of Jerusalem, that great capital city. About to reap judgment on Jerusalem. And David cries out. He says, I did it, God. It was me. Would you please spare the people? The angel tells him to go to buy a threshing floor of Ornan the prophet and build an altar. David goes and he asks for that threshing floor, and Ordan offers it to him. He says, Take it. He says, take it all. I give it all to thee. And he had a spirit that all Christians should have. David could have just taken it as a king. David could have come in and says, I'm your king, this is mine David could have taken it as a gift. As Ordan said, hey, here it is. Let me give it to you. Let me be a blessing to you. Here, take it. But David wouldn't take it as a gift either. He said, no, I'm gonna pay the full price. I'm gonna pay you what it's worth because I will not worship. I will not Serve and worship God of that which cost me nothing. Can I ask Ask you, are you willing to give it all? As we think about the idea of paying a price, are you willing to pay whatever price is necessary? There was a hen and a pig in a farmyard. The hen and the pig were talking about the need down at the local church. You see, there were people in the church who were hungry. They were, you know, going hungry. There's children that needed to be fed. And after a little bit of time, the hen said, I've got an idea. He says, I know these people down at the church, they like bacon and eggs. Why don't we provide them some bacon and eggs and feed the hungry? The pig, after a minute or two of contemplating, said, Hen, there's only one problem with that. For you it's just a contribution. For me, it's total commitment. We got too many Hin Christians. They don't mind the contribution, but they're not ready to give total commitment. Not ready to really pay the price. If we as a church this coming year, 2019, the fifteenth anniversary of our church If we're going to see a victorious day on Anniversary Sunday on April 28th this year, if we're going to see Souls saved, if we're going to see the pews filled, if we're going to see the baptismal waters stirred, if we're going to see the excitement of God doing something in our midst It's not going to happen because we decided to. It's not going to happen because we thought it was okay. And it's not going to happen because we're willing to make a little contribution. It's going to happen because God people say, I'm willing to pay the price I'm willing to be committed, to do it all. Whatever's necessary. Not just one service a week here or there. Not just one chapter here or there. Not just one smile on Sunday morning. Not just whatever your limitation might be. Some people, some Christians feel they've done their Christian duty because they put a fish sticker on their car. I'm a witness because I have my fish I think God is calling for a little more. God wants your all. Right. He wants your all. He wants every dream that you have. How many of the dreams that you have, young people? How many of the dreams that you have for your life and what you want to do and where you want to be and what you want to accomplish? How many of your dreams include God? How many of your dreams include God's desire for you and God's will for you and what He would have you accomplish? How many of your dreams, ma'am and sir, include God? What about your vision, every dream, every ambition, every goal, and every desire of our heart? God desires it all. Are you willing to give it all? If we are going to see great moving of the Spirit of God, we've got to be willing to give it all. Be willing to pay the price Dwight Eisenhower said, There are no victories at bargain prices. We all love a deal. We're excited about getting that tile for free, amen. That's great. God's providing, but you know, there's no victories. In the Christian life at bargain prices, we've got to be willing to pay the price. We've got to understand the idea, the lesson of payment. The lesson of payment that God is teaching us here. Worshiping God will cost something. It's going to cost. We talked about it in Sunday school this morning. And if you're not willing to pay the cost, Jesus says you cannot be my disciple. We've got Christians that desire to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. They desire to carry the name, the badge, they want to have the fish sticker on the car. They want to be called a Christian. But they're not willing to be a disciple to come after Jesus Christ. You know what? I didn't get to get into it in Sunday school, but this is rich. The three levels of following you first have come in You can come in. Anybody can come. God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The first level of following Jesus Christ is becoming his son by accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior Anybody can come in. But then he says, come too. He says, if you're not willing to come to. He says, you got to come too. You got to give up. Uh your love compared to Jesus Christ of your family, of your mate, of your children, of your father and your mother, ought to appear like hate because you love God so much. There's a sacrifice, there's a pain That's got to be paid. But the last one is what's so amazing. He says, come after. Come after. And I love how Jesus put that there. The level of service, he says, come after. He's saying, follow me. You know, Jesus is not asking us to go anywhere he hasn't gone. He said, Come after me, come after me and be my disciple. I picked up my cross And I carried my cross to the top of Golgotha. I set it up and I hung there for you. Would you come after me? I call you to pick up your cross He says you got to be willing to give up father and mother. Didn't Jesus do that? He gave up his father and his home in heaven and came down to earth to die for you and I He gave up his earthly mother here on earth. He said, Mom, he gave it. Don't you know that I've got to be about my father's business? Man, isn't that good? As Christians, we gotta come after Jesus Christ and be willing to follow him. Any can come in. Everybody's welcome to come in. Great multitudes will come in, the Bible says. But those that want to be a disciple, they're going to come to Christ as a disciple, they've got to be willing to pay the price. Those that are going to come after Christ. And following his steps, got to be willing to pay as he did. David came to Ordan with a request for the threshing floor, not because he wanted some grain, not because he wanted something processed. But why? Because he wanted to meet with God. He wanted to meet with God. You know, it's about time God's people stopped coming to church to See somebody. It's about time we stop coming to church because we want to catch up with so-and-so, and I gotta talk about this and I gotta talk about that It's about time we stop coming to church for these extra external things and the many other benefits the church give us. But we ought to come to church because we desire and long to meet with God We come into God's house, why? With the motivation that we would for a few minutes be able to shut out the world, put away the distractions, and look heavenward and say, Lord, speak to me. With a desire to meet with God, and he said, I want to meet with God, and I'm not going to do it at bargain prices. I'm willing to pay the price to see God do great things. Anything that you want to do in this life to be a success at was gonna cost you. Doesn't matter what it is. Anything that you want to be a success at is going to take effort. It's going to take sacrifice. It's going to take commitment. There's some people that get up and practice hours and hours every day to be able to throw a piece of leather through a little round hoop And we feel we're sacrificing for God because we read our chapter. Are we willing to pay the price? We want great things from God. But we want it without any personal sacrifice. We want it without any personal commitment We want to be able to call on God in our hour of need without ever talking to Him when the sun's shining. Lord help us. You know, everything that's of value costs money. Mary and I went on this cruise. And it was a great time. Those of you that have been cruising before, uh, Mary and I went to this uh what they call it, is a shopping It's like an explanation of how to shop in Casumel, Mexico, and the Gran Cayman's, like where to go in the stores, and they told us all about this stuff And uh they told us with these certificates that we give you, you go into these stores and they will give you a free necklace. They'll give you a free bracelet. They'll give you free pendants. So Mary and Miss Sandy went to all the places and got all the free stuff. These places were places where they said, Hey listen, with this coupon you can save two thousand dollars on a watch. Save two thousand dollars on a watch? That's a car, not a watch. Two thousand dollars on a uh I doesn't matter to me. There's no way I'm getting that watch. These stores, but you know what Do you know why they give you that free stuff? To get you into the store to try and get you to spend the money on the watch, right? But they give you that little trinket Brother Glow and I were talking. It was like somebody's neck's gonna be green. That cheap trinkets, those cheap things, you know, there there's not a lot of value there, is there? No, they give that away free to try and motivate you to spend some money to get that which is worth something. Anything of value cost. We want to have power with God without any time in prayer. But as a Christian, we need to be willing to pray. We need to be willing to fast. Last week I called on the church family To commit to fasting on a regular basis from now until the time that our court case is done. We need God to work to see this thing through. This has gone on long enough and I wish I could tell you what what what is happening and and why and and why it's taken this long and I I don't have all the details and I'm assuming that everybody here knows that we have a piece of property out on Shawan Road and we would like to build a church there and we bought that property having every expectation That we would be able to build there. We went through all the paperwork. We talked to all the powers that be. Everybody said this is possible. You just have to go through this process and get the approval. We went through it and we got the approval. The approval was given to us, granted And we said, Amen, here we go. That approval was overturned, an appeal was written. We went back into court for another 18 months or two years, and at the end of that two years, we lost. Now we're currently in a in a lawsuit against Baltimore County, where we would hopefully get the right to be able to build on the property that we purchased This lawsuit has cost the church an astronomical amount of funds. We as a church have literally been held hostage for five years. Six years. Unable to do what God has led us to do. We need to see God do something. But how burdened are we about it? How how how important is it to us? I'm telling you that God convicted my heart and says, you want to see me do something, how come you're not praying for it? You want to see this come through, you want to see this closed, how come you're not fasting? This kind cometh not but by prayer and fasting Now we've taught lessons on fasting and how to fast and and different types of fast and and if you want that that's available. You can get the C D or it might be online. Uh you can listen to the message or you can ask me if you want some questions about fasting. But listen Listen, there's something about fasting and putting the flesh down, spending some time in prayer saying, I'm willing to pay the price to get a hold of God, to see God settle this thing for the church. I I want to see God do something and we as a church I want to ha call again. Would you be willing to fast? One day a week. Would you be willing to fast one one meal a week? Would you be willing I don't know where you are and maybe you've got some diabetic concerns and you can't go so long or whatever. You you you could say I'll I'll be willing to fast for this long Want this consistently between now and the time, I don't know how long it's gonna be. Could be three or four weeks, it could be six, seven months. We're gonna we're gonna fast and pray as a church until God settles this thing. Amen. I want to see God do something, but if we w how serious are we? Are we willing to pay the price Where are the young people that are willing to say whatever, God. Whatever you want. Whatever you want, Lord. It's not about me, it's not about my ambitions. It's not about my goals God, whatever you want me to do. Whatever you want me. You see, there's a lesson of payment here that to be what God wants us to be is going to cost something. Where are the Christians? Where are the young people that say, Lord, I'll do whatever you want me to do? Money is not the most important thing to me, God. I don't have to have the highest paying job. A popularity is not the most important thing to me, God. I don't need the accolades of men or the recognition of the crowd But I want to be what you want me to be, God. Most important thing to me, God, is that I'm pleasing to you and that there's a smile on your face at the end of the day Lord, what do you want me to do? And listen, young person, if you get to that point you have no idea what God will do with you. God may lift you up and he will give you Desires of your heart, you say, Boy, I would love to be a doctor. God may give you that, but you can do it with the blessing and the provision of God on your side instead of going away from God and doing what you want to do. And living, running from God all your days, you can just yield to him and say, Lord, whatever you want, that's what I want. I'm willing to pay the price, Lord. We can't wait till we feel good to pay the price. We can't wait till the bank account looks good to pay the price. We can't wait till the sun is shining to pay the price because there's always going to be a cloudy day. The bank's always going to have a deficit and we're always going to feel a little bit worse than we did. We're never quite there. There's people who've been talking about what they're gonna do for a long time. Boy when I when when when I finally get my house and get stable and we're settled, then I'm gonna oh the kids they take so much of our time, we're so full, the kids schedule running here and to and fro and everything. When the kids get out of the house, then we're going to boy, work's just taking a lot of my time right now. I'm just putting in the extra time at work. And so whenever I retire, I'm going to You know that it's gonna cost you something either way? It's gonna cost you something either way. You see, we don't think about that. You can either choose to pay the cost of discipleship, or you will pay the cost of disappointing God. You can make the choice to pay the price of discipleship, or you will pay the cost of disappointing God. There is no middle ground. Starting with your salvation, we can accept the penalty that was paid, the payment that was made for us by Jesus Christ. Or we could decide to pay it ourselves and spend it an eternity in a place called hell paying for our sin. But Jesus paid it for us. We can choose to accept his payment. We can choose to follow Christ. You know, David had the choice. He could have not numbered the people. Joab told him, don't do this. Don't number the people. But he wanted it. And he paid for his sin. Achan. You remember that? Achan stole the bacon? He went on and and took took the first fruits that belonged to God. Decided he was gonna gonna do what he wanted to do and he had to pay the price. You see, we're gonna pay the price either way. It's going to cost you. With every self-serving, self-satisfying sin, you sit down across the table from the devil and you negotiate your payment plan. For the privilege of enjoying that sin. Just like I was going to buy a car if I was going to sit down and I talk to the guy, here's what I've got, here's how much I can pay a month, this is what it's going to take for me to enjoy driving that car. And he says, okay, is it worth $500 a month to you? And a lot of you crazy people said yes. And you sat down and you're driving a car and you're paying that, that payment To drive a car and pay in whatever that payment is. Well you understand when we follow after our own desires, when we go our own way, when we fill our fulfill our own lust We've sat down across the table from the devil, and the devil said, here's what it's going to cost for you to enjoy that sin for a little while. And we've said, okay, I'm willing to pay it. Come on now. Isn't that the truth? We gladly and wholeheartedly go towards that sin, knowing full well it's not what we need. Knowing full well it's not what we should do, knowing full well it's gonna cost us in the end. A man sits at the computer and looks at the pornography and it destroys his relationship He understands as he looks at that vile and wicked ungodly stuff that it's hurting his relationship with the love of his life The woman who he said he would die for, that he's planning to live with for all of his days, but he gladly trades the relationship with his wife to look at that. He's negotiated the payment for his sin. A lot of parents have sat down across the table and they've negotiated with the devil the cost of their children. For the enjoyment of this world, instead of being in God's house, they go to a ball game. And they say, okay. It's worth it to me to play this game or to watch a game. And the devil says, okay, all it's going to cost is your kids going to hell. And parents gladly sign them off. Say Pastor, that's straight. I'm trying to help you. We're paying the cost, either way, friend. We're paying a cost. You can choose to pay the price to follow your Heavenly Father, your Savior, the Creator of the universe, who has your best interest at heart and wants to see you the most satisfied and fulfilled that you can possibly be. Or you can choose to pay the price that Satan offers And go your own way. But you're gonna pay the cost either way. There is a cost. My plea to you is is are you willing to pay the price? To follow God? Why is it so we're we're so willing to pay the price to follow the devil? Why is it so we're so willing to To sacrifice God's power, God's blessing, God's provision on our lives, to follow after ourselves. But not willing to pay the price for God. So I asked you this morning, are you willing to pay the price? Are you willing to pay the price? David said, I'm gonna worship God, but I'm not gonna do it of that which costs me nothing. I know there's a price for following God. And what's most important is honoring Him, pleasing Him. And I'm going to pay it. Christian, are you willing to pay it this morning? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? You know, when we don't reach our potential It's always a payment issue. When we don't reach our potential as a Christian, it's always a payment issue. What we're willing to pay or not. We decide. God calls us to go out and knock a few doors and we we could do that. But we say, no, I'm not willing to pay that. We could be here for prayer meeting on Sunday afternoons and pray. And we say, oh no, I'm not willing to give up that 20 minutes of now I'm not willing to give up that twenty minutes working in a yard to spend time in prayer with God's people. We can't have it both ways, Christian. As a church, I want us to be willing to pay the price. Because I want I'm burdened to see God do great things. So I ask you this morning that you would join with me in a commitment to our Savior. Just say we're willing to pay the price.