We have just heard a song, and I had Pastor Gus give you the story behind the song. I'm going to speak this morning on peace on earth. I really want to take that song and maybe the turmoil that was in Longfellow's heart and Maybe you feel that way. Maybe for yourself you are trying, struggling to balance this theme of Christmas and The message of Christ, peace on earth, goodwill toward men, and balancing that with the turmoil that's in your own life, or the struggle that you're seeing, or even the way in which our country is Being torn apart. You may look and say, people say peace, but I don't see any peace, and you may find it hard to hold hope in your heart. That's the struggle that Longfellow had. We're reminded in our text this morning. In Luke chapter number two, if you would turn in your Bible there to Luke chapter number two, we will be looking again next Sunday morning at Luke 2, reading the Christmas story together with all of the kids as we do on Christmas Sunday. We're going to look at the message of Christ's birth, and really the message of Christ as a whole is one of peace. If there's ever a time or a season where people put their petty differences aside and at least try and have a major feast, it's Christmas time. There are sometimes families that don't talk to each other at all throughout the year, but will, for a few days at Christmas, put aside their differences and gather together once again. Really, because of the message of Christ. Luke chapter 2, verse number 10 through 14 summarizes this message for us. He tells us here, and the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swallowing clothes lain In a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace. Goodwill towards men. Longfellow sat in his study And heard the bells singing this theme. But in his heart there was turmoil In his heart, it was literally overcome with the grief of the loss of his wife. And then now his son, quite possibly his life is destroyed, being paralyzed for the remainder of its days. And he sat there wondering at it all. And saying the theme of that song does not line up with the struggle I have in my heart. He said, There is no peace on earth, for hate is strong, and it mocks that song of peace on earth. Goodwill to men. But dearly beloved, I want you to understand this morning that the author of this poem lays out in the beginning verses Not a declaration of truth, but an explanation of what he felt in his heart And we've all been there, have we not? Where we were at a point of discouragement, at a time of trial, facing a heartache But as the heart of faith always will, he sat listening to the bells And as his ears and mind heard the message of the song, which indeed was the message of Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit came in and healed his heart. And before the bells stopped chiming, he had settled in his heart and mind the message Then pealed the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep, for wrong shall fail, and right shall prevail. With peace on earth, goodwill to men. Beloved, the heart of faith is not without trial. The heart of faith might not be without discouragement. But the heart of faith turns back to God and sees God yet still on the throne, yet still victorious, yet still able to bring peace. To our heart. And at this Christmas season, I pray that God would bring peace to your heart. Peace on earth. This is a season and a time of hope and peace. Men look for peace in many places. This world, everyone longs to know peace. They long for it From nations that spend an exorbitant amount of their national income on what they call peacekeeping. To the individual heart that longs to know peace for one day. There are those that would give just about anything to be able to lay their head down on the pillow just one night and have peace in their hearts. For the inner struggle and the turmoil and the battle that's raging in their heart and mind to just be quiet for a day, if they could just know peace. Well, Jesus Christ is the giver of peace, the bringer of peace, the sustainer of peace. And that, my friend, is the message of Christmas. Not only the announcement of his arrival, really From the very first prophecy of his coming, the message was of peace. Then there on the day of his birth, and not only that, just before his ascension He had risen from the dead. He had the opportunity to meet the disciples He had one chance to talk to the disciples before he ascended. He I mean I I think of this as kind of like some last words. Just wasn't maybe the very last time, but he he he he knew he didn't have long to talk to them He knew he didn't have just years left to train them or to continue to give them things. He just had a little window, and here the disciples sat and wrapped attention to their master who had just risen from the dead. And he could have said anything to them. But what did he say? If you want to see it, you could turn there in John chapter 20. In John chapter 20, verses 19 through 21, Jesus says to them, Then the same day at evening. Being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews. You see, Christians can know fear too. And that's the opposite of peace. It's not the heart that God wants us to have. But sometimes we find ourselves there. The disciples were hiding for fear of the Jews, and there he stood in the midst, and he saith unto them, peace be unto you. And when he had so said, he showed unto them his hand and his sides. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord Then said Jesus to them again, peace be unto you, as my Father has sent me, even so send I you. The entire message is that Christ brings and gives peace. This world longs for it. Men look to have it. Let me tell you today that Christ can give it. Oh, the source of our peace this morning is not the wickedness of this world. Don't let Satan lie to you and tell you that fulfillment of the fleshly desires And satisfaction of the heart would provide or give you even one moment of peace. Oh, he promised it to Jesus there trying to tempt him. Give him the whole world if he would just bow. Jesus knew that wasn't a source of peace. This world does not have peace to offer you. All that it has to offer you is more heartache and more turmoil. God said in Isaiah chapter 40, verse 22, he said, There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked. Fulfilling all your heart's desires and living a life of sin will not bring you any peace. I read this last week of Delante West. Those of you that follow basketball may remember him. He had a hard childhood. Rough life. Sixteen years of age. He found himself one evening in the hospital and he was contemplating killing himself By his own testimony, he said, That night I was going to kill myself. Instead of killing himself, he said, he gave his heart and life to Christ that night. And he made a promise to Christ. He said, if you get me through this night and allow me to play pro ball, I'll honor you with my life and glorify you with all that I do. Made it through that night. We won't talk about his high school and college career, but I want you to know in 2004 he was the 24th pick of the NBA. But he did anything but honor God. His life was marked by turmoil. He would get in fights with fans and refs and coaches and even his own teammates He was tossed from team to team for a number of years at one point making over $16 million a year In 2012, playing for the Dallas Dallas Maverick, Mark Cuban had had all he could take. And he kicked Delante West off the team. He fell off the grid. Nobody knew where he was. But last year in 2020. Through social media posts, they found out that for years now Delante West had been living on the street. Pictures were posted of him Sleeping on cardboard, pair of jeans, no shirt. Yelling and screaming and fighting with anybody that would get close enough to listen to them Went from having sixteen million dollars a year to sleeping on cardboard on the street. That's what the wickedness of this world will bring you. Fulfilling those desires. He had the opportunity to know and experience the peace that God wants him to have. But instead, he chose this world. Rejected that and knows no peace. Christian carnality won't bring you peace. I don't know if there's anything more miserable than a Christian who's not following God. Living for self. Living carnally. We know the Bible says to be carnally minded is to be at enmity with God. That is to make God an enemy of yourself. Certainly won't know peace if we live that way. Why would a Christian give up the peace that's available to him for a walk on the wild side? Why? Peace, my friend, is given to us freely through Jesus Christ. It's not provided through carnal living, it's not attained through Fulfilling this world's lust and desires and living in the life of wickedness. That doesn't provide or bring peace. But peace is given to us freely through Jesus Christ. There's another very familiar verse that's read oftentimes at Christmas. It's over there in Isaiah. The majority of you here could probably quote it. For unto us a child is born. Unto us the son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of peace. Well, I'll tell you what, we could uh we could spend time and talk about each of these descriptions. We could ponder each one of these and walk down through them and each one of them be a message of themselves, a declaration of who God is. But the one we want to look at today is the fact that he is the Prince of Peace. He is the Prince of Peace, beloved. There's a story of a man who bought a large farm. And uh he went to take possession of his property and he pulled down the driveway, and he's driving up to his new home First time on the property there for himself. He's excited about it. And he sees a neighbor walking over from an adjacent property, and he thought, oh great, I get to meet one of my neighbors That's exciting. He's probably coming to welcome me to the neighborhood and and bring me a banana pie or something. Banana no not banana pie, banana bread. Yeah I like banana bread, by the way. It's Christmas and all that. No, I just can't. Bring me banana bread. So he gets out of his car and he walks over to meet his new neighbor Only his neighbor was not happy. First thing out of his neighbor's mouth, he looked at him and said, Sir, you have just bought yourself a lawsuit. This the new owner was like, what? He said, this fence is not the boundary line of your property. This fence is ten feet onto my property. And I'm going to sue you. The new owner said, sir, how about I give you the ten feet? And we have Peace. The neighbor was taken back. He was ready for a fight, for a battle. But you see the new owner was willing to pay the price to have peace. What I want you to understand Is Jesus Christ was willing to pay the price so we could have peace. You see, for us to truly appreciate this, is we need to be reminded of the fact That we were born Separated, alienated from God. The Bible tells us in John 3:36: He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. So, beloved, what we need to understand this morning is that before Christ We were alienated from God. We didn't have a relationship with Him. And the wrath of God abided on us. Beloved, you can't declare yourself to be Switzerland in this thing. You can't decide I'm neutral. I don't have a stand on this. No, you see, you were born in your trespasses and sin. When each of us were born, we were born with that wrath of God abiding on us. That's where we are. But Christ was willing to pay our debt. He was willing to take upon him the wrath of God so that you and I wouldn't have to. So that we could be restored to God and have peace with God. That's what Christ did for us. He paid the price. Ephesians 2, 1 through 5 says, and you hath ye quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin. Now dead, obviously you guys aren't dead right now. What does he mean dead? Well, the Bible talks about two deaths. Every one of us is born dead. That is without eternal life. That is without the spirit that connects to God. We are dead, condemned to an eternity in a place called hell, which was created for the devils and angels But because of sin, that's where we are. In our trespasses in sin. That's the trespass. To cross the boundary, to go across the line that God had established. Not only that, he says in verse number two, wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince and the power of the air. He said, not only were you born dead in your trespasses and sin, but there was a time in your life where you followed after the prince and the power of the air. The arch enemy of God Himself. You served Him. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. He says, you followed after that spirit, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past. In the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of our flesh and of the mind, and we're by nature the children of wrath. By nature. We were born with the wrath of God on us. Well that's not good news. But listen, beloved, I love verse number four how it starts. Verse number four starts, but God. But God. You were dead in your trespasses and sinned, but God. You had no hope, you had no possibility of peace in your heart, but God. You were lost and undone and on your way to a sinner's hell. But God. But God loves you so much that He sent His Son to die for you. But God, he says here, but God. Who is rich in mercy, for his great love, wherein he loved us, even when we were dead in sin, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace are you saved. Even while you were in sin, but God commended his love toward us, and that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us Beloved, what I'm trying to get you to understand is the possibility of peace. Do you long for peace? The possibility of peace is available to you today because of what Jesus Christ did. This world longs for peace, but they don't have peace because they have yet to follow Jesus Christ. In verse number 13 and 14 of Ephesians 2 he says, But now in Christ Jesus, ye who are sometimes uh far were far off. And we're made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace. The blood of Christ brings us nigh to God. He brings us peace. What Christ did is took our punishment, beloved, so we could know and have peace. Peace is found in a relationship. With Jesus Christ. Romans 5, verse 22 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through Jesus Christ our Lord. You have peace with God through Jesus Christ. You see, beloved, it's not just knowing about God. It's not just paying homage to God, you know, once a week or once a month or whatever your conscience seems to feel is sufficient, paying God some homage and showing up for church. It's not just going and lighting some candles. Lighting some candles now and and doing some type of religious activity. That is not the peace that God provides. Oh, that settles your heart for just a few minutes? Maybe a day. But it doesn't provide that lasting peace that's promised. Because that peace comes through a relationship with Christ, knowing God personally. Have you put your faith and trust in Christ today? Do you have that peace? The source of the peace is Jesus Christ. That's what Christmas is all about. That's why He came, to bring peace to the heart of men. I hope this morning you can say I have and know that peace beyond a shadow of a doubt. There is no question. Then let me assure you today the scope of our peace is a perfect peace. Isaiah 26, verse number 3, he says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. It's a perfect peace that God provides I know sometimes heartache comes. I know sometimes trial comes. I know sometimes we're faced with something That the devil would want to use to steal and take away the peace that God puts into your heart. And Christians, sometimes we're guilty of allowing Satan to rob us of that peace. But like Longfellow sat there at his desk and listened to the songs of Christmas and the message of Jesus Christ He was assured of the fact that God was still on the throne and that Jesus still reigned and that evil was going to fail and righteousness was going to win because God is still God We need to be reminded of that today. That's a perfect peace that He gives to us to put into our hearts. It's available to you and to I Where peace is had by a relationship, it is maintained, beloved, through resting. He says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. That word stayed literally means to lean on. To rest on. Christian, are you leaning on God? I looked through the auditorium this morning and I know There are those here who are carrying unimaginable burdens. Heartache. It seems as though it would rip your very soul out. God wants to give you a message of peace this morning and let you know that He is still in control. He is still on the throne. And He still loves you. You know, you can only rest on somebody that you trust. I went down to help my brother Daniel this last week for a couple days, and It was actually in Georgia, where we were. It was quite a drive. It was 13 hours down and 15 hours back. Thanks to DC traffic. Uh Timothy has just about got his license. He's got a final test he's got to take. Tim and I went and uh you know that Tim can drive But there is no way I'm going to sleep. Well Tim's driving He did help do some driving, but that didn't give me any rest because there is I the fact of the matter is I just don't trust him yet He doesn't have the experience. He doesn't have the time behind the wheel, and nothing makes up for that. So although he is a pretty good driver and he's passed everything that he's taken and done well in his His driver's head said, teacher said he was very comfortable with him. Go ahead and go wherever you want to go. I still wasn't going to go to sleep with him behind the wheel. You see, what I'm saying is I couldn't rest. Because that trust wasn't there. Are you trusting God today? Can you find rest in Him? Can I assure you that He is trustworthy? Are you fretting over something or wrestling or battling with something in your heart and mind? Could I encourage you to find rest in Jesus Christ? Not only does he bring us a perfect peace, but it's a peace, beloved, that passeth all understanding. Philippians 4 7 says, And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts in mind through Christ. Jesus. Boy beloved, in the midst of tragedy, God is there and He can bring you a peace that you just can't explain. You just can't express it. There are not words to describe the peace that God has filled your soul with. I read of an elderly Christian man who is battling tongue cancer This man loved to sing. He sang specials in church and sang in the choir and was often heard singing wherever he went. This was such a well-known characteristic of him that his own doctor, when he told him, Sir, this cancer needs to be removed. And I must tell you, you will never sing again. He looked at the doctor and he replied. And now you tell me I can never sing again? Well, I have one song that will be my last. It will be a song of gratitude and praise to God. There in the doctor's presence, that man sang softly the words of Isaac Watts hymn. I'll praise my Maker while I have breath. And when my voice is lost in death, praise shall implore my noble power, my days of praise. Shall ne'er be past, while life and thought and being last God had given him a peace in the face of such a hard thing that he could sing one last song before cancer took his tongue It's a peace that passeth understanding, Christian. That's the peace that Jesus Christ brings. It's available to you and I. If we could find a way to rest in him. The question I have for you today is, do you have the peace of God in your heart If you're here today and you have not made peace with God, you need to do so today. Before it's eternally too late It's not a matter, again, it's not a matter of knowing about God. It's not a matter of being in church and performing some religious ceremony. It's a relationship with God that is attained through putting your faith and trust in Christ and Him alone. Christian, can I ask you, have you allowed the devil to steal the peace of God from your heart? This season, which is full of songs of peace and hope, maybe in your heart you were kind of like Longfellow and thinking, I don't feel it. I don't I don't I don't even feel like singing. Maybe you're reminded this morning that God is still on the throne. And you You can trust him. You can rest in him. Maybe something in your life has just overwhelmed you. Maybe it's become too much. Well, rest in Christ. I heard the bells on Christmas Day, their old, familiar carols play, The wild and sweet the words repeat Of peace on earth, goodwill to men. And in despair I bowed my head. There is no peace on earth, I said, for hate is strong and mocks a song of peace on earth, good will toward men. Then pealed the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep. The wrong shall fail, the right prevail. With peace honors, goodwill to men.