Turn your Bibles to the book of Judges, if you would. The book of Judges, chapter number six. Uh this thought really just kind of grew and developed uh and I struggled with it. I knew I was supposed to be preaching on this, and I struggled with it. uh through the day today and literally the the Lord really just put it together in in the last few hours uh after I mean I literally spent all day today from nine o'clock this morning until 530, uh studying and preparing for this message. That's all I did today. And uh I just pray that God uses it, that uh he stirs our hearts and challenges us. from the Word of God. And I I believe that God directed in the preparation of it. And uh I want to see him use it in our life. In Judges chapter number six, if you've gotten there, we're going to look at a few verses Starting at verse number eleven, we'll read down to verse number sixteen and this is a familiar story. We're jumping in here into uh The story of Gideon, and just before he goes into battle and wins a great victory for God, but kind of when God calls Gideon to do a task. So he says, and there came an angel of the Lord. And sat under an oak, which is at Orpha, it pertained unto Joash the Azbarite, and his son Gideon, threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon said unto him, O my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? And where be all his miracles, and which our fathers told us of saying, Did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us and delivered us unto the hand of the Midianites. And the Lord looked upon him and said, Go in this thy might. And thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have I not? Have not I sent thee? And he said unto him, O my Lord, Wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house. And the Lord said unto him, Surely I will be with thee. And thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man. How many of you know that A goldfish will grow proportionally to the size container it's in. Uh so goldfish you stick them in a little container, they're gonna stay that small so they have room to swim around and they uh they just live that they kind of maximize the area that they have, right? Uh I didn't uh know how big goldfish got, so I looked it up uh this afternoon and I noticed that the largest recorded goldfish actually in the Guinness For Book Book of Records. So it was proven, measured, and all that, was nine pounds, and it was 18 inches long, a little over 18 inches long. And that's the largest recorded goldfish. But goldfish kind of continue to grow. They continue to uh maximize their potential. In the environment that they're in, we do see that kind of in all of nature. How things will grow to their potential. A few years ago we planted eleven trees And we planted four trees behind the back of the sheds back there for one of our neighbors to kind of put up a a blind for him to so the back of the shed would be covered. And then we planted a few trees right outside the office entrance over here. one of them right next to the other pine tree and then the other three in kind of a spot or four whatever it was there where uh we were blocking just to kind of make that match along there between here and the house. And then we planted two Down by Bobby's house. And those two that are out in the open that are by Bobby's house are probably twice the size. Now one of them got blown over this last uh year But the second one is still there and it's twice the size of all the others. But these others are gr growing right next to each other, and they're growing with other trees growing over the top of them. So they have to fight for sunlight and fight for space and and all of that. And the ones behind the shed, they died. They didn't they didn't cook they didn't take off. They didn't get enough sunlight altogether. It's kind of like the area and the capacity that the trees can can grow, they will. They'll fill whatever area they have. You know, a walnut will fill two capacity the shelatin The walnut doesn't have any control over the size or the dimension of the shell. But whatever shell that it's in, it's going to grow to its capacity. It's going to fill that shell. And beloved, tonight what I want to try and encourage you or exhort you to do is you might not have any control over yourself. You might not have any control over your brain power, the ability, you know, your cognitive ability uh you know your ability to remember things, your ability to memorize, or your ability to do something like that. You might not have any control over your particular talents. Like God gave you some talents and And some things you can do, some things you can't. Those things you might not have control over. But what we can do is each one of us ought to be living up to the potential that we have in the shell that God gave us. Whatever shell that God has given us, whatever area of expertise we do have, there ought to be something inside of us that motivates us, that pushes us to try and at least reach our potential In that capacity. Jacob teaches in in school, and one of the greatest challenges for a teacher is to try and motivate kids to just live up to their potential. You're like, you know, you could do this if you would just apply yourself a little bit. If you would just think, if you would engage your brain for a minute, you could get a hold of this. And man, it's exciting for a teacher when a teacher gets a student that desires that and is striving to fulfill their potential and you got some they're C students and they could be A students and it just frustrates you as a teacher that you can't get them to get any drive or any ambition Well, I wonder what God thinks about you and I when God has given us much more potential than we are fulfilling for Him. He's given us the capacity to do so much more, and yet we're not doing One of the truly amazing things about our God is that God sees our potential, not our problems. God looks at you and he looks at me and he sees what he would like to do with us. We as individuals tend to be discouraged over yesterday's failures. We tend to allow the problems of yesterday and the shortcomings of yesterday dictate today. We feel like, oh, I I failed yesterday or I tried to do this once before and I didn't make it, so I'm not going to try today. Like I didn't do it yesterday. I'm not going to do it today. But you don't have to like yesterday's failures dictates tomorrow's You can be successful tomorrow. God has given you the capacity He wants you to fulfill Many times we look and we see somebody else that seems to be accomplishing something amazing. From our perspective, we look at them and we think, wow, look at what they're doing. Whether it is they're doing this for God or they're they're successful in a in a area of business or they're they're proficient at a particular task and we look at that and we say, Wow, I wish that I could do that. I wish that I had that. Ability. Beloved, we Here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, use a phrase quite often. And it's not, God is not as concerned with where you're at. as he is with where you're going. I was dealing with somebody just recently who's Discussing with me talking about the turmoil in their life, the struggle, the burden, the problems that they're living with. And that phrase came right to my mind. I said, listen, every one of us has found ourselves in a place where we look at and say, how did I get here? What in the world? This is not what I envisioned. This is not what I had planned. But we're there. So now we have to determine from where we are the direction that we're going to go. What are we going to do with the ability and the capacity that God has given us? God sees your future potential And quite frankly, Jesus is the right hand of the Father praying that you and I will fulfill it. The question I'm asking you tonight is, are you perfecting your potential? Are you utilizing and doing everything that you can do inside of the scope and the realm that God has for you to do If we're going to perfect our potential, there's some things that we need to do that I see in this story here of Gideon. First of all, I want you to realize we need to acknowledge God's presence. It's an acknowledging of God's presence. We see here in Judges chapter number six, and the angel of the Lord came to him. Sat down with Gideon. Verse number 12, he says, And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him, The Lord is with thee. The Lord is with thee. Now, this is our Thursday night crowd. I don't think I need to take time to deal with and dive into the fact that the way you get the Lord is by trusting him as your Savior and having him come to dwell in you and fulfill your heart and mind with his presence, the Holy Spirit. That's where you get God, but as Christians, sometimes we forget that God is with us. We cannot accomplish anything outside of God. Without faith, it's impossible to please Him. I won't spend time tonight dealing with that, but there are times, Christians, where we are in a dark place. We are dealing with a struggle. We're dealing with a challenge. There's some burden that's entered our life. And we look and we think, where's God? Even Gideon asked that question. He said, God is the angel came and said, The Lord is with you. And Gideon said, If the Lord be with us, Why then hath all this befallen us? You know, I have my phone here. One of the most useful features of the phone. is the light. I mean every one of us have used that light, going into the garage or walking outside, or I mean that is so handy Now how many of you are like me and you used it, but then you walked back in the house and forgot and stuck in your pocket Yeah, the light's still shining, right? See here's the thing. The light's still on. You can't see it. Circumstances in our life sometimes get us to a place where we can't see God because of the darkness that we're dealing with, because of the tragedy that we're facing. But I want you to know the light's still shining. God is still there. He is still with you. He has not forgotten you. I gotta turn this off or I will forget. My battery will be dead. Amen. That God is presence is still there Even though you look up and sometimes you might wonder, man, where is God in this mess? God hasn't forgotten you You've got to realize if you're going to fulfill and accomplish all that God wants you to in your life, you've got to know that God is still there. Too many Christians, and really the world alike, often want to say, Why would a loving God let this happen to me? Gideon said that. He said, Oh my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then has all this befallen us? He's saying, God, if you were here, if you were with us like you say you're with us, why are we going through this? Here's the thing, Christian. Now there's different reasons that God brings things into your life, and I don't have time to get into them tonight, but the number one reason is because of sin, and Gideon was accusing God of not loving him. Gideon was saying, God, we wouldn't be going through this if you were actually paying attention to us. But I want you to understand, Gideon was pointing the finger opposite direction of what he should have been. Look at verse number one. What does he say there in verse number one? Judges chapter 6, verse number 1. He says, And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Midian. You see, they had fallen into sin. They were not doing what they were supposed to do. And so God allowed them. God didn't forget them. God didn't leave them. God hasn't neglected them at all. But they were living in sin and doing wrong many times out in this world. This world wants to say, Oh, why it's crimin c uh crime so bad. If God was here it wouldn't be like this. No, the problem is is man is selfish. Man man wants to get gain without actually doing Man worthy tries to go and steal something, and so the problems we're dealing with with regards to crime is not because God's forgotten us, it's because man's living in sin And that's what we need to remember. Gideon had forgotten it. God was still there. Gideon wanted to know where God was. Many times the accuser will point his finger somewhere else And accuse someone else of the very sin for which they refuse to accuse themselves Many times the person is dealing with guilt, many times the person is dealing with a problem in their life, they'll look at somebody else or they'll look at this situation and they'll say, you know, you aren't doing this when really the problem is in their own heart That's what happens. We've got to know and be assured that we have the presence of God We must be sure that there's nothing between us and the Savior. If you're going to fulfill your potential for God, you've got to realize that. Then you need to accept God's plan. Judges chapter six, there, verse number fourteen, he says, and the Lord looked upon him And said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites. Have I not sent thee? Now, again, here's another whole field of study, an area that I'm not going to take any time to go into tonight, but you know God has a general will for all of us. There's a general will that we're supposed to be doing, how we're supposed to be living. God wants us to be, you know, saved and sanctified and soul-winning and serving and you know there's a general will that God has for all of us that applies to every born-again Bible believer but there's also a specific will there's a plan that God has for you You've got to accept that plan. God told Gideon, hey, you're going to go and you're going to save Israelites. What? Wait, Lord. No, no, no. That's not me. You must be confused. Here's what I want you to understand, beloved, is God knows your capacity He created you. You are uniquely made, fearfully and wonderfully made. And God has a plan for you. You have been uniquely positioned to fulfill and do whatever that plan is that God has. Not just the general will, but the specific will that God wants for you. And God's prepared you for that, and He's brought you to this place in your life, and He said, Here's what I want you to do. David wanted to build the temple. It's a good thing, but God said, No, no, no, that's not for you to do. That's for Solomon to do. So David couldn't build the temple. Sometimes we get distracted and invest time and energy and effort in things that maybe was not God's plan for us to do. We aren't fulfilling our potential because we're doing something that we weren't prepared to do. We could be far more successful if we're just fulfilling what God's plan is and embrace that Verse number 15, he said unto him, O my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is poor in this, and I am the least of my father's house. You see, Gideon had a lot of doubt. And I'll tell you what, any of you, God comes to you and says, This is what I want you to do, you're the first thing is like, mm-hmm Lord, uh that's not me. Uh that's not for me. I can't do that. Uh do you know who you're talking to, Lord? Uh just like Moses, you know, Lord, I can't I can't talk. Why would you have me be a representative? I can't even speak, Lord. But the Lord knows your capacity He knows what he's looking for when he's calling you and asking you to fulfill a particular job. God saw his potential. Here is Gideon talking about how small he is, and God calls him a mighty man of valor. The lights are flickering. Warning. If you suffer from epilepsy, keep your eyes closed. Can we adjust that so we don't be too distracting? The angel of the Lord appeared unto him and said unto him The Lord is with thee, thou mighty man of valor. Gideon looked at himself and listen, we're not supposed to be all full of ourselves and puffed up and really think that we're all that in a bag of chips. That's not what we're supposed to be doing. But We have a we know who we are and we know what we are. Sometimes God might come and call us and we'll be Lord, I can't do that. I don't have that strength. We don't look at ourselves as this great Christian, this skill-filled and and you know massive uh spiritual giant that could accomplish something for God and God calls getting a mighty man of valor. You see, God sees your potential. He sees what you can be, what you could be if you just trusted God and were willing to follow and do what God wanted you to do. Make it part of your personal walk where you're praying and asking God to lead you into his perfect will and to maximize your potential for him and for his glory. You're going to know God's perfect will for your life. You've got to be very familiar with His voice. You've got to be ready to listen. Let Him lead you. In your personal time, you know John 10, 27, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Do you hear God's voice? Do you hear the Lord speaking to you, talking to you, instructing you Are you listening for his voice? Do you get anything out of your Bible reading? Or is it your mind is so full of the world, so full of things down here that You can't hear God. Sometimes God will use a fellow Christian, a brother in Christ, maybe even your wife. To come and help you, give you some wisdom, to give you a warning, to point you in the right direction, to admonish or encourage you. And God's trying to talk to you, but you're not hearing that either I wonder, does God speak to you in the church services? Does the word of God, as it's preached, reach into your heart and touch you, challenge you? Christian, I would be very worried if God never touched my heart. God never stirred me. We got to be careful just throwing it on the preacher. Oh, the you know, if the pastor could preach a decent message, now I know. Most of them aren't. I I get one or two home runs a year and the rest you got the rest you gotta live with. But it's not about that. It's about being prayed up and ready and listening to God. It's God's word. And I strive and try and labor to do to do my best and and I praise God for your your all patience with me. But I know if you're hungry when you sit down, just about anything tastes good So Gideon, like you and I, he wanted some confirmation. He said unto him, If now I found verse number 17, he said, Now, if I find grace in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou talkest with me. He wanted a sign. He wanted to know: is this real? You might doubt your ability. You might even doubt God's ability, not his ability as God, but maybe his ability to use you to do it. You might think, I know God could do it, just not with me. You might doubt, but you've got to know God's presence. You've got to be willing to accept His plan for you. And you've got to adopt God's peace. In verses 22 and 23, he has an exchange there with the angel, and the angel gives him confirmation. We're going to skip those verses, but in verse 22 and 23 he says, And when Gideon perceived That he was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said, Alas, O Lord God, for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face, And the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee. Fear not, thou shalt not die. Now at first Gideon was fearful, he was afraid, he thought I've seen a theopany. I've seen a manifestation of God in the flesh and according to the Old Testament. You know, they wanted to see God and God said, no, if if you saw me you would die. You you couldn't even handle the glory. And and so uh Gideon thought Oh no, I've seen God face to face. Now what? And he had fear, but the angel replied to him and said, Hey, fear not. Thou shalt not die. And he says, peace be unto thee. What I want you to understand is you can have peace in your heart, even when you're getting outside your comfort zone. When you're living up to your potential, you have got to adopt God's peace and realize that He's the one that led you that way. He's the one that showed you this is what He wanted you to do. And you move forward for Him, accomplishing His will, and you do that with peace in your heart, knowing that he's in control. God brings peace wherever he goes. It's in him and through him that we find peace, even in this world. You know all this world has to offer? And most of it, you could say all of it basically just leads to more turmoil, more stress, more problems. More burdens. But everywhere God is, there's peace. God got when Jesus came as a babe in a manger, there was peace. Peace. Peace be unto you. Jesus was on the sea. Peace be still. Wherever God's presence is, there's peace. You can let that peace of God reign in your heart, even though you're living outside your comfort zone and maybe accomplishing something for Him that is Maybe a little bit harder than what you think is your ability or your able to do, you can do it with God's power and with his peace in your heart. Remember, these people are under siege from the Midianites. They've got great turmoil. And they looked at Gideon and said, Hey Be at peace. Have peace. Because God is with you. If you're going to maintain that kind of peace in your life, you've got to annihilate man's problem. We've got to get rid of the problem. He says in verse number 25 and 26, he says, and it came to pass the same night. But the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock, of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath And cut down the grove that is by it, and build an altar unto the Lord thy God upon the top of this rock. And in the ordered place, and take the second bullock, and offer burnt sacrifice with the wood of the grove which thou shalt cut down. He says, hey You've got to deal with this problem. There's something here that needs to be taken care of. God was giving Gideon a test One writer said this, God wanted him first to deliver his family before he would allow him to deliver the nation. Because it was in his father's house, this altar to Baal, this grove to Astrath, it was in their home, it was there part of their lives And first, he had to tear down those high places in his own life. You see, they needed to fix that problem, not just the fruit of the problem. If you ask any one of the Israelites, And I hope your mind's engaged here, Christian. If you asked any one of the Israelites, what is the problem, they would all say the Midianites are a problem, right? The Midianites, Midianites, they're afflicting us. They've been doing this for seven years. The Midianites are our problem. But that was not the problem. The problem is that they had forsaken God. They had worshipped Baal, and God put them into bondage to the Midianites, affliction by the Midianites for seven years because of their sin. But again, that's the way we look at things. Many times we don't want to deal with the problem, we want to deal with the fruit We could chase some rabbit trails here with financial things. You know, many times we we don't want to deal with the problem, which is our our discontented heart or the problem of not being able to control our spending or the problem of not being able to keep any level of accountability or honesty in how we handle our finances. But no, we want to deal with the fruit. And the fruit is that I don't have money to pay my bill this week. I just need some money to pay this. We get people in here all ask Miss Amy. They're always calling and talking to Miss Amy. I'm so glad she deals with them. Uh nonstop. Oh I can't pay my rent. Oh I can't get gas in my car. Oh I can't do this. That's just fruit. There's a bigger problem. We tell people if they want some help to come to a church service and we'll talk to them. We didn't just turn them away. We say, hey, if you're willing to come and be in a church service, we'll we'll see how we can help you Most of them don't even bother. That's not what they want. They don't want help with the problem. They just want their this thing fixed. And I imagine even the Israelites were asking God, Lord, would you take care of the Midianites? Lord, would you fix this problem? Lord, the Midianites have been afflicting us for so long. But that wasn't the problem. They had something they had to deal with first. He had to tear down the altar, cut down the groves. Christian, there was no room for a half-hearted approach. Gideon could have said, Well, that's in Dad's house. I'll just let Dad have that in his house. No, no. God said you gotta cut it down. You gotta tear it out. You're gonna use the wood that you've cut down, you're gonna use that to start the fire. We're going to get rid of this completely. And sometimes it may take some radical steps, and you've got some things that you need to cut out of your life if you're going to actually fulfill God's potential for you. There might be some things that you've got in your life you just got to cut out. They might not even be sin. The Bible describes them as waste But God has something he wants you to fulfill. He has something he wants you to do for him. And there's some things that you need to cut out There's certainly an affinity for video games today. Vide game by itself is not sin. But if you've got an addiction to video games and it's keeping you from spending time with your family or uh with your with your mate or it's keeping you from being at work when you're supposed to be at work or you're staying up too late and you're not getting up getting up in the morning on time to have your devotions or walk with God, maybe that's something you need to cut out. Maybe you're addicted to entertainment. Just consuming entertainment all the time, all the time, all the time. And And and it's keeping you from being able to communicate with God or for God to be able to get a hold of your heart. But maybe you need to just cut that out. Just cut it out of your life. Burn it up. Get rid of it It might take some drastic measures. Some people are addicted to the wrong thing. I know my mom's dad. had the capacity to work for NASA. He literally could have been a rocket scientist. But he couldn't stay sober. So instead he worked on lawnmowers in his garage. And sadly, there are many Christians that could be rocket scientists for God. But instead, they're just working on lawnmowers in their garage. Because they're unwilling to let go of whatever it is that's keeping them fulfilling the potential for God. Lastly, we need to apply God's program. We're gonna move into Judges chapter seven. Here's where we get to see the victory. You guys know the story. Well, stay close, we're going to jump back and forth. But Judges chapter 7, and the Lord said unto Gideon, by the three hundred men that lapped, will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand. Let all the other people go, every man unto his place. And he sent all the other men home. And I'm not going to go through the story. You guys know the story. All the men had slowly got chosen to send home, sent home, sent home, and here's getting with 300 men. And God had a plan for how they were going to defeat the Midianites. The plan didn't make a lot of sense to the average man, but God had a plan of how he was going to do that. And Gideon had to apply God's program, had to do What God wanted him to do. You know, when you begin to do what God wants you to do, there's going to be some people that don't like it. There's going to be some people that'll rise up in opposition. If you look back at chapter 6 and verse 28 through 30, you see he had cut down those groves. He had torn down that altar. They were worshiping God again. They were doing right. And what did these men of the city do? And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the grove was cut down, and was by it. And the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built. And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, hath done this thing Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son that he may die. Because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the grove that was by it. You see, Gideon started to do what God wanted to do, and men rose up. Anytime you kick the bees' nests, that's gonna happen. The bees are gonna come out. When you start taking a stand for God, when you start doing God's implementing God's program, when you start doing what God wants you to do, people aren't going to like it. You start actually being a witness, you start carrying a track and talking to somebody out in public. There's going to be somebody that doesn't like it. Oh, that's you're not supposed to talk about religion. Why? Somebody's not going to like it. You're going to have, you're going to receive some opposition. Beloved, too many are willing to go to the top for God as long as it's easy. They're not willing to fight the battles to get there. Zig Ziggler tells of visit visiting the Washington Monument many, many years ago, obviously. But he said he was there with his party and over the loudspeaker came in the announce announcement that To the guests, we're sorry, but there's a two-hour delay to ride the elevator to the top of the monument. However, there is no line at the stairwell. You're welcome to walk up. There's people that were willing to stand around in the foyer for two hours and wait for a ride That wouldn't walk the steps. That's how we approach a lot of life. Many people are, oh, I want to do something great for God. If he'll do it. If God will do it for me, I would like to be there. If God will do it, I'll be happy to take some credit. If God would do something, yeah, I want to be part of it. Listen, it's all with God's power. But God says you've got to get in the battle. You gotta go and implement the program what I've given you to do He says, get in there. The night came. You get down there. The Lord of hosts goes before you. I've delivered them into your hand. God didn't say, hey, I I God could have just took them all out. He didn't need Gideon to do anything. God could have just said, okay, Midianites, I'm done with you. See ya. But God said, getting you, I'm using you to bring deliverance. But in order to do that, you've got to have some faith. You gotta get your 300 men and run down the side of the mountain like an idiot with a bucket and a trumpet and a light. It doesn't make sense, but if you have faith, God will do it. A miraculous thing that will be recorded in the pages of Scripture and God's people will be using for inspiration. Until Jesus comes again. Gideon didn't know all that. He just knew that he had a job to do that God gave him to do, and he said, Okay, Lord. Someone said our potential is God's gift to us, but what we do with our potential is our gift to God. Are you perfecting your potential tonight? Are you living up to the potential that God has given you, the maximizing the shell that God's given you? And I know we don't necessarily have control over our talents. our abilities and boy some say, oh I would love to play the piano, but that's not an ability I have. But are you doing what you can do with the potential that you do have? Are you implementing or applying God's program in your life? If we're gonna do that, it's gonna take sacrifice. It's gonna be hard. It's gonna take work You and I are going to accomplish all that God wants for us and our potential. We've got to be willing to sacrifice, willing to give for us, great effort. More than just money. Time. Sacrifice some time for God to do what God wants us to do. Time and study, time and witness, time and service. It's amazing Let's just go back to money because money's an easy illustration, but it's amazing how much we will spend on things we want without even thinking about it. You know the average vacation for a family of four according to online right now is forty three hundred dollars. For a family of four to go to Disney World right now, the average cost is sixty three hundred dollars. An individual that makes sixty thousand a year will spend ten percent of his income on one week without any thought. About it. But when God says you should give ten percent of your income for an entire year to God's house or God's work We were like ten percent? What? Man, I can't do that. I mean you know how much money we spend on our hobbies. On the things that are fun that we like. But when God calls us to sacrifice for missions, say, ah, I don't know, Lord. I can buy a fifty thousand dollar vehicle and not think about it. But I'm not sure if I can You see, if we're going to reach our potential for God, we've got to be willing to sacrifice for Him. Gideon said, Yeah, I'll jump into battle. I'll run down the hill. I'll do what's necessary. Are you willing to sacrifice for God? We shouldn't begrudge our opportunities to serve Him. It shouldn't be a sacrifice to serve God, but a privilege to serve God. It's sad, but some feel that it's they're doing God a favor if they show up for church. I think that's partly because we've coddled people so much. Because we, you know, pat people on the back and try and encourage them. And I know it comes from the right place. We're trying to encourage people to, you know, hey, good to see you. Glad you made it to church today. Oh, such a good job. You got out of bed and came to God's house today. How about you just tell them if you're if you're not in church you're living in sin and you need to confess it as sin? Get right with God. You don't want to do that every week. You're gonna you're gonna you're gonna fix that problem. But we can't talk to people like that. But is that the truth? God said, forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together, as the matter of some is. If God's house, if the doors were open, were to be in God's house. To neglect and not do what God wants us to do, him that knoweth to do good and doeth not, to him it is sin. It's a good thing to be in church, isn't it? But we can't get that straightforward with people. Because everybody wears their feelings on their sleeves today and They're going to get offended and run away from God. We need to be willing to sacrifice for God if we're going to meet and reach our potential for Him. Too many of us approach our service for God like I used to approach my service for my wife. Some of you might remember this. kind of told on myself some years ago and after I after I did it I got under conviction. You know, you're preaching at yourself up here too. You'll remember this story, I think, but you know, Mary used to ask me stuff like, hey, while you're out, could you stop at the store and pick me up some milk? And I think if you're going to promise something, you ought to do it, right? So I wouldn't promise that I was going to do it. I would say something like, I'll tell you what, hon. I will, I would love to do that for you if I happen to be driving by the store and I'm in the right lane. And it's convenient for me to get in. And I remember well I'm right there because if I pass it, I forgot, you know, then uh maybe I I won't. You're like, you told your wife that? You're supposed to love her. She's supposed to be the greatest person in the world to you, and you told your wife that you would do it if it was convenient and you remembered and You know, it was, you know. Yeah, we're supposed to love God. And many times we approach our service for God that way. Oh yeah, I would love to do that for you, Lord. If it's convenient and I don't have to walk out of my way and I don't have to do anything extra and you know I'm going that direction anyway, yeah, Lord, I'll do that for you. Lord help us We've forgotten, beloved, that success as a cr as a Christian depends on performance, not potential. We might have great potential for God. But success as a Christian does not is not based on the potential that God sees in us. It's based on what we're doing with that potential. Are you living up to and fulfilling God's potential in your life? You see, beloved, at one point, at some point, you and I are going to either experience the fullness of our potential or the failure of our doubt. We're going to get to experience as Christians the fullness of our potential in and through God, and we ourselves will be shocked of what God can do with us. And we'll look on with excitement or we'll look back and regret not living up to the potential that God has for us.