We don't want to needlessly uh aggravate or irritate, but at the same time we need to teach the whole counsel of God, and we as a church need to realize there's people that were willing to die for the beliefs that we're talking about. And it should not be just to take it or leave it or or that was good for them. Uh, but if that's what the Bible teaches, then we should stand on it. Amen. So we are trying to give these characteristics, these matters of great importance. It is our intention to teach the doctrine, the importance and the implementation of the doctrine. We talk about the development as we show how this came into place to the best of our ability, as in the staff and I, as we study and we talk about these topics with each other, and we're we are all reading different books. and studying, trying in preparing in preparation for this, sharing things that we come across for each of these topics, but to show how this came into being, why is this a defining characteristic, what happened in history? that brought it to this place, and then we want to touch on the differences between us and some of the other mainline denominations. So today we're going to consider the matter of the perpetuity of the church. The perpetuity of the church. That there is a church and always has been God's church. uh available uh to all mankind at some point down through history, although at different times it was under a different name, although at different times it was not called Baptist. At different times in history, you might have found it to be a different group altogether, but there's always been a group. There's always been a group of people that believed what the Bible taught and stood for what the Bible taught. And maybe not everything that we understand the Bible to teach today, but their desire was the same as our desire, and that is to the best of their ability to line up with the Word of God. To be what the Bible says and to do what the Bible says, not what a organization taught, not what became tradition. But to stand with the Word of God, that being the sole authority for faith and practice. So we want to talk about this idea that there has always been a church. And in Matthew chapter 16, verse number 18, we have the greatest promise with regards to this. And the Bible says, And I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. A promise from God that on this rock he was going to build his church. And that the gates of hell were not going to prevail against it. Now I know that the group I'm speaking to here, you understand that uh he is not talking about building the church on Peter. He says, on this rock I will build the church, not on Peter. He didn't say on thee or on thou. He says on this rock. And the two words used there for Peter And for rock are different words. Thou art Peter, which means Petros, which means small stone. Thou art a small stone, and upon this rock, which is Tetra, is a large or massive rock He was not referring to Peter as he said, On this rock, I will build my church. The Jews would have recognized that God was a symbol of the rock. In Deuteronomy 32, verse number 4, the Bible says, He is the rock. The Jews would have recognized that we're talking about God and that He is the rock. that the church will be built upon in Psalms chapter 18 verse number 2. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer. The Jews would have recognized and realized that he was talking about Jesus, not Peter. In Psalms 18, verse number 31, he says, For who is God save the Lord? Or who is a rock? Save our God. So who is the rock? It's Jesus Christ, and he was going to build the church on Jesus. not on Peter, which is a confusion that many have faced. Jesus is the foundation, the foundational rock upon which the church will be built. The prophets predicted it in Isaiah 28. 16. Jesus affirmed it in Matthew 21, 42, and the apostles preached it. In Acts 4, 10 through 12, that Jesus was the rock. The church was going to be built upon him. We have here the formation of the church. Now, many years ago, I know Ann Landers is no longer, but uh many years ago, uh how many of you know who Ann Landers is? Okay. Well, Ann Landers published a article one day entitled, If You're a Baptist, you have John Smith to thank for the tenets of your faith. Now, John Smith uh was a good guy. John Smith recorded and wrote down some things from history, not this John Smith that we know we're talking about. John John Smyth uh from many, many years ago. And I'm sorry I don't have the article or the dates in in front of me. But he wrote down many things and and a lot of people from Baptist history would look back to him with regards to Baptist uh ideas and thoughts and say, hey, these were recorded as Baptist beliefs at this time. And they might look back to him as having written them down. But uh the fact of the matter is is a tenant, what is the tenant? The tenant of our faith. According to New Webster's dictionary of the English language, the word tenant means an opinion, a principle, a dogma, or a doctrine believed or maintained as true. Well, if that's the definition of a tenant, then the tenets of our faith did not start with John Smith. They started with Jesus Christ. They started back with Jesus Christ and with his prophet, John the Baptist. Now John, John the Baptist, he preached about the deity of Christ in John 1. 29. He preached about the preexistence of Jesus in John 1. 15. He warned of the necessary need for repentance in Matthew 3, 1 and 2. He preached about the sovereignty of God in Matthew 3, verse 9. He preached about the Holy Spirit in Matthew 3. 11 and the need for the confession of sin in Matthew 3. 6. He preached the idea of refusing to baptize an unbeliever in Matthew 3, 7 and 8. He was baptized by immersion, not by sprinkling, by Jesus Himself, and not for the remission of sins, but as a picture of the preeminence of Jesus Christ. As a picture of the remission of sins, he preached about the absolute certainty of the coming judgment in Matthew 3:12 He preached about individual responsibility, about clean living, and about Christian conduct in Luke chapter 3. He preached about the substitutionary atonement in John chapter 1, verse number 25. He preached about the total depravity of man and the helplessness of man in John 3. 27. He preached about walking with God in John 1, verse 33, about witnessing to the loss in John 5, 33 and 35. The tenets of our faith started way back then, with John the Baptist, with Jesus Christ. When Jesus started the church and began to build it. Any true Baptist has held to many of these tenets through the ages So this new group of believers in the New Testament, and they're getting these ideas being taught to them and showed them for the very first time. They're getting the truth shared with them from John the Baptist and then Jesus and then the disciples and then the early church and what did that mean for them? What did the future look like for them? I mean, here they were getting the truth of this church which Jesus Christ gave himself for And they've bought into it, they believe it, they believe in this man Jesus, but then Jesus gets crucified. He gets hung on a cross, but hey, praise the Lord, he raises from the dead three days later, and he he ascends up to the right hand of the Father. Now they've got a church, but what does it mean? Where do they go from here? What's going to happen? I mean, I know Jesus said he would send a comforter, but but you see, Jesus gave him some promises. And he said that he would build his church, and the gates of hell weren't going to prevail against it. So if that is true, then let me ask you. Would it make sense that for 300 years there was no church Would it make sense that uh you don't see the Baptist name and actual Baptist name for for 1700 years or something like that? Would it make sense that there was no true church for 1700 years? No. Obviously, we believe what Jesus said to his followers in the promise that he gave them that the gates of hell were not going to prevail against the church. That means that there had to be a church. Right? In every age. The promise he gave them that the gates of hell would not prevail against the church means there had to be a church. We know that God did not lie. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 in verse number 13. 1 Corinthians 12 and verse number 13. I'm going to give you a couple more thoughts for this doctrine of the perpetuity of the church that uh The church has always been. First of all, we have the promise that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. That in itself should be enough for us to believe that there always was a church We might not have been able to look down through history and see it, although we can get a pretty good picture with what we know, but we might not have a full picture, but we can we can trust. Because we know got what God said. So in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse number 13, the Lord says this. For by one spirit are we all baptized into what's the next word? One body. Whether we be Jew or Gentile, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. We've been baptized into one body. Not many bodies, not a lot of different bodies, but you're baptized into one body. That is the Lord's church And it has not been uh you know in in existence and then not in existence What did all those people do for 300 years that were baptized, that followed the Lord, that believed, that had faith, that wanted to follow the Bible? Did they just. . . Not get baptized into the body? Or did they not have a church to go to? Or would the other be true that they had a church? It might not have had Baptists on the front, but they were baptized into the body of Christ. Would you agree? Then turn to Ephesians chapter 2. In Ephesians chapter number two, another proof for biblical principle that teaches the perpetuity of the church here in Ephesians chapter number two, verse number 19 Through the end of the chapter, he says, Now therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth into an holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are builded together With this last phrase here is where it's very very important. He says, for an habitation of God through the Spirit This description here of a church built together, fit, formed, and fashioned as a place for the habitation of God, where God would come and dwell Where God, where two or three are gathered together, there I am in the midst of them. So for two or three hundred, four hundred, five hundred years, how many every years you want to draw the line there between when you you want to say you see the church and you don't. uh where was the habitation of God? I think there's always been a church, even though we might not be able to point to it, there's always been a church. That God recognized and supported. Another proof is one you're familiar with, but in Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go ye therefore into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and teaching him to deserve all things whatsoever. commanded you and what's the last phrase? And lo, I am with you always. So Jesus has always been with us. So he has always had a church. This is the doctrine of the perpetuity of the church. We believe this to be so, that there's always been a church. So how did this development. Although we wouldn't necessarily uh well we know that it's not necessarily been called Baptist through the ages. But there's been people down through the ages who have held to the biblical principles of the Word of God, which hopefully as a church we do. So the remnant of churches that can be found down through the list, the ages of time, there's a list of different names of people that are believed to uh hold to the tenets of the faith that we would teach There is on the in the entryway there a timeline, a historical timeline that I set out there for you to peruse and look at when we get done. which shows the the top across their throughout history different groups of people that would fit into uh the Baptist faith or or would follow the Word of God in interpreting these principles as we would see them. The list of names is it goes on. There's the Dantists uh Catharae, the Pauligians, the Anabaptists, the Preto-Brussians, the Ar uh Arnaldists the Albiginians, the Waldensian Waldensians. A lot of times these names were the name of their leader But they weren't necessarily following that man. It's just when history, when they look back, this is the person that took the step towards the Word of God and said, this is what what we want to believe, and they might have been named or called after that particular person. or they become a descriptive name like the Anabaptist. The Anabaptist Anna means again, and Baptist is baptism, and they they were baptized again because the Anabaptists didn't recognize infant baptism. And uh when we get into that in the following weeks, you're really going to see how that became a very divisive and uh line through history that cost many, many, many people their lives. Some of these groups at different times were more prominent than others, but they overlapped. They weren't necessarily like, okay, the Baptists, they stopped, and the Anabaptists And then the Anabaptists stopped and then the Waldinsians stopped. No, they were in different parts of the world and sometimes they were, you know, coherently or together and then other times, you know, maybe they were all persecuted and died out and And this group continued on. So they overlap and so on, but they were present at different times. A few facts to remember with regards to these is that uh there's been a heritage of New Testament believers and New Testament churches that has been through all of history. It has continued through all of history. As false doctrine found its way into the church, and it started all the way back in the New Testament when the Apostle Paul preached against the false doctrine and the heresies that were coming into the church. And as a group continued to pursue and follow after this false doctrine, there would be a group of people that said, hey, that's not what the Bible says. The Bible doesn't teach that. And they would separate themselves from those that were going against the Word of God. And they would say, hey, we're going to follow the Word of God. And the other group began to follow tradition or the rudiments of men and went after those things. And there is a group that followed the Word of God down through history. Through generations, those who held to biblical beliefs have used many different names as we've listed. Although not all of them persecuted through the years were loyal in all respects to the New Testament teachings Although you might look at some of their names and you say, oh, well, I want to know more about the Waldensians, and you start to research them and you find out they had some belief or something that you say, well, that doesn't line up with the Bible. Well you understand a couple of things. First of all, many of them had little to know scriptures. Because they were coming out of the Dark Ages or were living in the Dark Ages, and although they might have had a few passages of the Old Testament, or they might have had a few passages of the New Testament, it was very unlikely that any of them had a whole copy of the Word of God, like we have the privilege of having today. So they were in many cases doing very, very well in light of the scripture that they had. And their desire was to follow the scripture and that most of all. And they became recognized for it and they received persecution for it. The Roman Catholic Church called true New Testament churches heretics. Now, down through history, as you see the word heretic, want you to understand that that word heretic can mean somebody that's believing and following the word of God. And it also can mean somebody that has gone heretical and gone completely against the Word of God. So you gotta know what it's talking about and who they're talking about because They were branded as heretics by the Roman Catholic Church, and many of them killed and died and persecuted because of their beliefs. And all they wanted to do was what the Bible said. So they were given that branding, that name of heretic, even though they were trying to follow the the Lord and the Word of God most of all. What we know about these groups is largely from their persecutors It's not even themselves saying, Hey, this is what we believe, this is who we are. It's not even themselves like propping themselves up and saying, Hey, we're following the Bible. most of what we know they they were many times running for their lives. They were many times enduring great persecution. They were they were living on the run or in in very poor conditions and they weren't sitting down and writing books. They weren't giving us their history. Many times what we know about them was written by their persecutors, by the ones that didn't like them And they would say this group heretic believes this, stands against the church, you know, they're writing this history, and that's what we can go back and look at and see what they were believing. So just some principles to understand about that. The Baptists as a denomination, the Baptist first appeared in Switzerland around 1523. They were persecuted by Zwingle, the Romanist. Now note that this, 1523, note that this is before the Reformation. The Baptists were on the scene. And persecuted. If you look at the map down there, um you will see that right above the Roman Catholic Church, around 1500 There's a caption there that says, a declaration was put out that the Anabaptists should be killed by drowning. This was the declaration that was put out that the Anabaptists, since they wanted to get wet again, that's how they should be killed. And that was before The Reformation. Again, we are not Protestants. We didn't come out of that. The Baptist, as a belief, we have been around much longer than that. Some Baptists who believed that the church started with Christ. Let me give you a little bit of historical information now. Some Baptists who believe that we started, the church started with Jesus Christ in 1894. Edward T. Hiscox wrote in New Dictionary for Baptist Churches, and in his book, which uh for over a hundred years was the standard among Baptists, on page 492, Mr. Hiscox wrote this Baptists have a history of which they need not be ashamed, a history of noble names and noble deeds, extending back through many of age. in which the present generation may glory. From the days of John the Baptist until now, a great army of these witnesses for the truth and martyrs for its sake have illuminated and honored the march of Christianity through history. The age since Christ have have had no purer, no nobler lives, no braver men or no more faithful witnesses for the gospel of Christ than these glorious martyrs and for its sake, those who have been honored. to be called our fathers in the face. In the faith. Mr. Hiccock's a well known historian, C. H. Version, said this. We believe that Baptists are the original Christians. We did not commence our existence at the Reformation. We were reformers long before Luther or Calvin were ever born. We never came from the Church of Rome, for we were never in it. But we have an unbroken line up to the apostles themselves. We have always existed from the very days of Christ and our principles, sometimes veiled, sometimes forgotten, like a river which may travel under the ground for a while or a season, have always had honest and holy adherence Persecuted alike by Romans and Protestants from almost every sect, yet there has never existed a government holding Baptist principles which persecuted others Nor, I believe, any body of Baptists ever held it to be right to put the uh the conscience of others under their control. We have ever been ready to suffer as our martillologies will prove, but we are not ready to accept any help from the state. to prostitute the purity of the Bride of Christ to any alliance with government, and we will never make the church, although the queen, The deposit over the conscience of men, Charles Hedenspurgeon, 1861. Now I know that was a lot, but that was a mouthful right there. A lot of doctrine, a lot of teaching, talking about how that that the Baptist, any government that ever held Baptist truths, never put its people under the subjection, their conscience under subjection of them. Which you'll see church history that happens a lot. J. M. Carroll, Carroll. J. M. Carroll wrote The Trail of Blood. It's been printed continuously since 1931. Millions and millions of copies have been sold. He says this. The history of the Baptist Church from the time of Christ, their founder, is to the present day. Now, you say, well, those are all Baptist historians, people that are Baptists, of course they believe that there's Baptists, right? But what about some that aren't Baptists? Well, there's a Catholic historian, they agree. In 1565, Stellanius Huenus, a Catholic cardinal, a theologian, and a presidential council of Trent, wrote this Okay? There shall be no fray the more certain or true than that is of the Anabaptist. Seeing there be no mowak, not know what a Moach is, but seeing there be no Moach, or have been before time, for ye space of these thousands and two hundred years. Who have been more cruelly punished, or that have been more stoutly, steadfastly, and cheerfully taken their punishment Ye have offered themselves and their own according to death. He says, were it not. That the Baptists have been grievously tormented and cut off with a knife during the past 1200 years, they would swarm in greater numbers than all the reformers together. That was a Catholic historian. He said, if you had if we hadn't cut off the Baptist with a knife, if we haven't killed them, and many of them cheerfully received this punishment. They would be greater numbers than all the reformers put together. A Lutheran historian, John Lorenz von Mosium, he said, before the rise of Luther and Calvin, There lay secreted in almost all the countries of Europe persons who adhere tenaciously to the principles of the modern Dutch Baptist So again, historians from other walks of life teaching this, and I have others, like Sir I Sir Isaac Newton said, the Baptists are the only body of known Christians never to have symbolized with Rome. Sir Isaac Newton said that. So we're talking about historical figures that are recognized that aren't even Baptist, but they saw in history that the Baptist faith was there. So what is the difference? Well, the difference is very clear. As we look at our faith, the tenets of our faith that go all the way back to John the Baptist, We don't have a start date except for with Christ and the church that he started. And other faiths, as you'll see on the timeline that's out there in the foyer. They have a recognized, established, and put-down start date. That's recognized in all history, even on their website, you can go to their website and they'll say when did our church start? And it started with this person on this day. It's recognizable. And they go back to that. Roman Catholic Church was organized in 313 A. D. This is 220 years too late. The Greek Catholic Church separated from the Roman Catholic Church in 869 A. D. This is 836 years too late. The Lutherans were started by Martin Luther in Germany in 1530. This is 1,500 years too late. The Lutherans were the first group to leave the Catholic Church, but they ended up becoming the Church of Germany. The Presbyterians were started by John Calvin in 1535. This is 1,505 years too late. They became the Church of Scotland. The Episcopalians were started by King Henry VIII. In 1540. This is 1510 years too late. The Congregationalists were organized by Robert Brown in England in 1583. The Methodists were started by John Wesley in England in 1729. The Holiness Sect came out of the Methodist Church in 1885. Christian scientists were founded by Mary Baker Eddy in America in 1866. The Jehovah's Witness was started by Russell in America in 1884, and we could go on. You get the idea. The list is out there. You can see them. And historians through the ages have looked at Baptist history and they understood that the tenets of these faiths go back to the Word of God, to Jesus Christ and the New Testament. You have a church, a heritage that goes back a long way. You can be thankful for it, but also don't take it for granted. Be willing to stand for it because many have died and given their lives. To hold on to the tenets of these faith that we get to enjoy and we get to freely partake of. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm going to close us in prayer, and then we will be dismissed. This evening. Lord, we love you and thank you for the opportunity to gather together in your house. We thank you, God, for the privilege of holding up our brothers and sisters in prayer. Lord, what a joy it is to spend a few minutes praying together. Lifting up these requests to you, we pray God you'll be with every request that was mentioned, that you'll answer it according to your will and give us the grace to accept it. Lord, we pray that we would see you work in our midst in a mighty way. We thank you, God, for the freedoms that we enjoy and the freedom we have to worship as we see fit in this country. May we not take it for granted in those that exist Existed and lived in persecution for many years to pass down the faith that we have today. Lord, I thank you for the church that you gave yourself for, that we get to be a part of. We pray you would give us faith and boldness as we go out into this world to stand for you in a wicked day. We ask these things in Jesus' blessed name. Amen.