We are going to be dealing tonight with the topic of personal separation. Personal separation. As I get started, let me uh encourage you with some good some great news. We have Pastor Derek let me know. I think 44 young people signed up and participating in master clubs downstairs And uh that really is uh a great number of young people uh out and getting involved in that. And we praise God for that and all those that are working in that ministry as well. I'm just excited to hear That the word of God doesn't return void, and the word of God is what they're studying and learning down there, and I pray that it will work what uh its effectual goal in in each of their hearts. So if you're in 1 John chapter number 2, we'll follow along with me as I read verses 15, 16, and 17. The Bible says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away And the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Tonight we're looking at the idea of personal separation. Personal separation. I believe that personal separation for the believer begins when we trust Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. As soon as you get saved, the minute you trust the Lord Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit begins to dwell, comes and dwells in your heart, you have a relationship started with your Heavenly Father And I believe it's just like uh maybe you could picture with me a ship that was moored, that was tied, that was uh hooked to the shore, and I believe it's just like you cut the ropes You are now separated from the shore. And I believe as you grow as a Christian and as you walk through your Christian life, It is a process of separation that will continue to take you further from the shore and closer to God. Through your life, you're going to continue to grow in your relationship with God. Get closer to Him, and the closer we are to Him, the further we'll be from the world. And I believe this is what God wants for us as Christians to be separated from the world. I'm going to give you a lot of Bible tonight. I don't know how much of it we'll have time to turn to. But you want to write these things down, this idea of personal separation. We talked about the three arenas of separation. There's separation of church and state. personal and ecclesiastical. And then the aspects of separation inside of each one of these is moral, doctrinal, and practical. Then we uh we talked about how the idea of separation is not only from the world But it's unto God. We're not just separating from the world just for separating from the world's sake. You know, there was a group uh years ago in uh Pennsylvania that used to paint all their bumpers black. I I I think they were Mennonite, but they were known as the Black Bumper Mennonites. Because they felt that a shiny bumper drawed too much attention to them. And so that needed to be black bumpers. And so they established this standard of a black bumper. And that's what you needed. And but it was it it's a matter of separation, but separation for what? Our goal is to be unto God, that we might be closer to God, separated from the world and unto God. Separation benefits our profession. It impacts our power and it protects us as believers. As we dig down tonight into the idea of personal separation, you let God speak to your heart. This is an area that for some reason many people look upon with disdain It is not a popular topic in churches today. Many people are ridiculed and criticized for addressing the idea of separation. They're looked at and a message like today people would think of as hate mongers. I got notes. I'm okay. Thank you very much. You have my Bible? Oh. That's funny. Uh they're looked at as hate mongers, thinking, oh, you're you're just a hater. You know, you you you you don't love people Because you're teaching biblical principle. Because you're teaching biblical principles. And that's just not the case. We are teaching Bible principles, and it's what God says It is vitally important to the Christian life that we live separated from the world. It's what God would expect and what God would want. Anyone who teaches separation and those who practice faithfully separation in their lives is blessed by God. But I want you to know that the principle or idea of separation is not the goal anymore. In and of itself. It's not the goal of Christianity as a whole is not just that we might be separated. That is not the ultimate goal. It is not the ultimate purpose of the Christian life. The idea of separation is not as paramount or as important as the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But neither should the idea of separation be relegated to obscurity and never looked at. And that's where many of the churches today they say, well, the gospel is paramount, and everything else can be put aside. That's just not true. It's not true. It's like the farmer who goes and weeds his garden. Is he weeding the garden because that's what it's all about? Is that the reason he's out there weeding the garden because he wants to have those weeds collected in a pile out back? No, he's doing that because he realizes it's important if he wants to have the fruit and the vegetables that come from the garden, he's got to do some weeding. He's investing that time and effort. It's like the surgeon who goes in to do the surgery, and before he goes, he stops and he turns on the sink. And he begins to wash his hands. And he washes and he washes and he washes. And everybody's in the in the operating room waiting for him. Did the anesthesiologist and all of the nurses that are in there and his assistant, did they all gather in the surgery room for the purpose of him to wash his hands? Are you there? Are you awake? No. No, he didn't get they didn't do that. They came for the purpose of surgery But the washing of the hands is a vital part of performing a successful surgery. Otherwise, the patient may get some type of infection When I was four years old, I fell 16 feet onto a hardwood floor because I was walking across a four-inch beam, 16 feet up in the air. I'm not much better today, but I broke my arm. They put me under. I had surgery. Do you know two years later, my arm swelled up to about twice its size? And there was so much pressure inside my arm that it I couldn't move it. When I lost function of my left arm, my parents said, well, maybe we should go to the doctor. So he went to the hospital and they found out it was infected and there was an infection from something they did during the surgery two years ago. That was the source of the infection in there. And they had to cut open the other side of my arm. So I have a big star about that long on this side, and a one about that long on this side. And this scar, they couldn't sew it up. They had to give me antibiotics and let my arm drain for weeks and weeks, getting all the stuff out of there. Doesn't that sound Terrible. It was nasty. Just like it sounds. Changing the bandage all the time. But why? Because there was something in there that wasn't unclean. Separation for the Christian is not the end goal. It's not what's most important, but it is vitally important if we are going to be what God wants us to be. And continue in the faith that God has called us to continue in. It is important. Let me give you tonight, first of all, the perversions of separation. Just some thoughts about those that look at separation in a derogatory or negative way and uh just the way they think about it and kind of trying to spell some of those thoughts. In an article written in Christianity Today, which I would not recommend for you to use for your spiritual uh food. Christian educ uh the Christianity today, there's an article that read like this. Imagine a weird world Where before you could be admitted to the hospital, you had to have a clean bill of health. Imagine a place that the only way that you could go and get glasses See an optometrist is if you have perfect vision. Imagine a world where people who get lost in the wilderness are required to come down from the mountain. Get cleaned up and patch themselves up before search and rescue will agree to see them. Now you read an article like that, and they use this deductive reasoning where people say, yeah. And then they throw stones at churches like this. And they say churches today are requiring people to clean up their lives. No, we're not. God says very clearly, come as you are. He says, come to the cross. Come unto me, all ye that are weak and heavy laden. God calls all unto himself just as they are. And we preach the gospel, come as you are. But I want you to understand, God never Never in the Word of God did He send somebody away and say, Stay as you were. He said, Go and sin no more. Didn't He? God accepted them just the way they were, but when he saved their soul, when he washed them clean, when he forgave them of all their sin, he said, now you're saved Now you have a relationship with the Father. Now you know God and He's done this miraculous thing for you. Go and sin no more. That's what God expects. And it hasn't changed since he was here on earth. His book is still the same. Amen? Some excuses that are made most of the time by those who don't want to live separated lives. They might say, uh, so and so doesn't have this standard So-and-so doesn't live like this. And you know what, brothers and sisters in Christ here? You know, it might even be somebody that you look up to or that you respect. You may look at them and you say, you know what? They don't think it's wrong to do this. They don't think it's wrong for us to go to the movies. They don't think it's wrong for us to go mixed swimming. I know so-and-so, and they think it's okay. Well, I just have a question for you. Are they the standard? You know what? The person standing in front of you right now may let you down. I I want to try and strive to be an example that can be followed. But do you know what I may allow something in my life because I'm a sinner saved by grace and I'm tempted just like you are. And I may allow something in my life and you look at that and say, Well Pastor Caleb can do that, then Then it's okay for me. But I'm not the standard. Jesus Christ is the standard. His word is the standard. And we're not trying to please Caleb Battrell, or we're not trying to please that other person that you look up to and you say, you know what, they think it's okay. What does the Bible say? What does God's word say that we should do? The Bible says to abstain from the appearance of evil. You say, well that's not sin. Even the appearance of evil we're supposed to abstain from. First Thessalonians five twenty two. 1 Thessalonians 5 22 Abstain from the appearance of evil. We touched on this a little bit in the introduction, but the idea that the most important thing is that we win souls and nothing else matters. That we just want to win souls. And you know what? If we're going to win souls, uh, we've got to, you know, the idea of be like them to win them. I mean, hey, if they don't accept us, they're not going to hear our message. They've got to accept us. You know I don't think that as Christians we're called to be acceptable unto the world. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove that which is good and acceptable unto who? God. I'm not striving to be acceptable to the person at work. I'm not striving to be acceptable. I'm not going to lower my standards and and go ahead and and take a drink of that alcohol or go ahead and participate in that illicit activity or go ahead and laugh at that dirty joke or go ahead and be a part of that bad crowd so that one day I might have an opportunity to say, hey, could you go to church with me? I don't need to be acceptable unto them. I'll trust that the power of the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and Him working through me will reach them. And reach them from the position of a clean life. God says, be ye holy, for I am holy. Some say that we have liberty. We're talking about the kind of perversions that ideas and philosophies that get into this idea of separation. They like to use the word that we have liberty now in Jesus Christ. So you can't tell me that it's wrong for me to go to the beach. And get stripped down into my underwear and run around with a bunch of other people. You can't tell me that's not good. Because I have liberty in Jesus Christ and I can do that. The Bible says in Galatians 5. 13, for brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. You're right. We've been called to liberty. Use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh Anytime somebody demands they can do something for liberty, the only reason they're doing it is because it's an occasion to the flesh. Because they want to satisfy the flesh. And that in itself is wrong. Use not liberty. Liberty has never been a license to do wrong. Do you understand that true liberty is limited? Do you know what limits liberty? I'll tell you, in the Word of God 1 Corinthians 10, verse number 23. This is the verse that you'll find what limits our living tree. 1 Corinthians 10 23 says, All things are lawful for me. But not all things, not all, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify. not. Our liberty is limited to that which edifies We don't have liberty to do whatever we want. We have liberty to do that which edifies. Amen? Liberty to edify one another. In 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verse number 9. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block. to them that are weak. The liberty that we have should never be a stumbling block to somebody else. You say, well, Pastor Caleb, I can do this. I don't see it in the Bible. And you won't convince me of it. I have liberty to do this. Maybe. But it's not just for you to do because you want to do. Is it a stumbling block for somebody else? You see, the our mindset and our philosophy is wrong today where we can just do whatever we want to do with disregard to anybody else. We should look at and evaluate and say, if I do this, am I a stumbling block to somebody else? This is some some perversions with the idea. of separation that many have today. Let me give you some principles with regards to the practice of separation, the practice of separation. I told you there's moral and doctrinal and practical areas inside the idea of personal separation. So, first of all, we're going to look at moral separation. We are supposed to live separated lives as believers. Dealing with the areas of our life, moral separation here is dealing with the areas of our life, that we have come to a biblical understanding of the Word of God. And we have believed that it would be morally wrong to participate in a particular activity that we might live up to. And without, live without a conscience, void, or have a conscience void of offense before God and men. The scripture calls us to live that way, to live that we have a conscience void of offense before God and men. So morally, we're supposed to live separated lives We're supposed to separate from sin. It's our obligation as Christians to separate from sin. This does not mean that we are never in the presence of somebody that sins. This does not mean we're never in a place where there are sinners. Obviously, Jesus went home and ate with sinners. He sat down and he was in and among the sinners. It does not mean that we're not in the place of sinners, but it means that we do not participate. in those sins. I believe there's some things that our eyes should not see You see in Psalms 101, verse number three, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. There's some things that as Christians our eyes shouldn't see. If we're going to be morally separated, we need to control what goes into our eye gate. Do you understand that in today's world that's very hard? Man, woman, boy, or girl, I want you to know we live in a visually oriented age. Everything today is graphically enhanced. And we, I mean, everything has to do with the eye gate. And as Christians, there's some things that we should not see. That means there's some magazines that as Christians we shouldn't be looking at. They say, well, I just read it for the story on this page. But the majority of it is not good for the Christian to consume. So you need to separate yourself from that. Again, would it be a stumbling block to somebody else? You say, well, uh, if you came to my house, I'm not sure how far to go with this. I I don't even know any magazines that might be borderline. Let's say I had a novel on my table, or on my office, down in my office on my desk, and it was one of these love novels. that you see on the bookshelves at the store, you know, with the scantily draad uh dressed woman on the front and the the real robust man all all buff and you know some caption like you're the love of my life or something like that, whatever it is it's You know what that book has in it. Let's say you came down there and you saw that on my desk. Pastor, I can't believe you would read that. Right? There's some things that as Christians we just shouldn't be reading. And I could say, well, that's for research. That's I'm trying to help this couple in our church and just trying to help them understand what this is all about. And I mean I might come up with some reason, right? But it that wouldn't be wise for me to have that. I could get the research I needed by talking to Brother Glover. Or somebody else. No, I'm saying I don't need that. It wouldn't be wise for me to have that in my office. There's some things as Christians we just shouldn't be reading. I want to ask you. If a good godly Christian came to your house, there's some things we shouldn't be listening to. If a good godly Christian came to your house, would you be embarrassed by what's on your shelf, by what's on your presets? By what your search history was on the internet, by what you looked at recently. You say, oh well, I was just checking out this thing and these ads came up. You know they have uh smart ads? You know I get tool advertisements all the time. What I'm saying is whatever you look at is what they keep pushing at you. Ladies, if you're getting pornographic images pushed at you or coming in your email, that's because somebody on that IP address has been looking at that. It doesn't just come from nowhere. All of their advertisements are geared towards that IP address and what's been that thing's been looking at. You gotta be careful as a Christian where you go and what you let through this eye gate. There are some things that are morally wrong for us to see that we don't need to be participating in. I will set no wicked thing before my eyes. You gotta decide that and say, I need to live a separated life. I know this world wants to push that stuff on me, but I gotta fight against it and keep it off. I gotta push it away. I don't wanna bring that into my home. If you have internet in your house, you've got to put up some kind of safety. some kind of guard, some barrier, some protection for yourself and everybody else in the home because that stuff is prevalent and it's pushed. We're going to do a study on it not long in the future, and you wouldn't believe the number of kids whose lives are destroyed by what comes across the Internet. Those things which promote wickedness. I believe there's some places that I shouldn't go. 1 John 2, 28. And now, little children, abide in him. That when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. There's some places we shouldn't go. He says, abide in him and have confidence. That you don't have to be ashamed when Jesus shows up. There are some places that I could be found that I would be ashamed if my father showed up. But what about my heavenly father? If you saw Pastor Caleb walking out of the gentleman's club one night, you would say, what in the world? You would talk to I hope you would talk to the deacons of the church and say, Listen, our pastor, I don't know, but we need to look into this. He came out of the I I saw him coming out of this club down here. He shouldn't be in there. We shouldn't as Christians be in there, but why is it okay to pipe it into our houses? There's some places that we shouldn't go as Christians. And he says, hey. If you abide in him, if you're in the presence of God, if you're with God and fellowshipping with God, then you don't have to be ashamed at his appearing when he shows up. I'll tell you what, wouldn't it be awesome for Jesus to come back and find us in church? Ha hallelujah. The one night a week I was doing good. Lord, you've caught me doing good Now hopefully not. Hopefully the Lord catch you doing good any day during the week, right? Because we are Christians seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, not just on Sunday morning or Sunday night or Thursday night. Because this is a way of life for us. This is what we want to be, pleasing to the Lord every day and every hour. Amen. There's some places we shouldn't go. I don't believe a Christian that loves God needs to be going to the beach to be mixed swimming. Now there's some nice beaches that are deserted. And hallelujah, you can go and enjoy those with you and your wife or your family. I still think there's a level of modesty that God expects, even if you're just with your family Ladies, your children shouldn't be seeing your nakedness. Even in the house. You don't walk around the house unclad. There's a level of of purity that your children ought to have. And if they see you, they're losing that. There's things about the human body they shouldn't know until they get older. You gotta remain pure and clean. We shouldn't go to the beach, we shouldn't go to the bar. Shouldn't go to the bur burlesque house. Anything with a bee, just don't go no, I'm just kidding. No, I think buffets are okay, amen That's right, Bob Evans. Amen. Uh no I mean just joking about the bees. But hey, there's some things in this Christian place that we shouldn't go. And we've got to be careful and realize for the sake of our testimony and for the power of the Lord Jesus Christ on our lives, we want to live separated unto God and say, you know what, I don't need that. I need God. Separated from the world to God. We're supposed to separate from worldliness Our text verse that we read tonight. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now obviously we're not talking about this uh Creation. We're not talking about the world as in where we're at. It's okay to behold the beauty of the Grand Canyon or the the magnificent architectures of the Rocky Mountains and to look at that and say, man, that's awesome. Look at what God did. It's okay to enjoy the world that He allows us to live in, but what He's talking about here is the world system. He says it very clearly if you read on another verse: the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, all those things that stand in opposition to God. We're not to love those things. We're not to desire those things and seek after those things. We're not supposed to care what wicked, ungodly, God-hating actress wins the Emmy Awards. Who cares? Oh I gotta know if she won the award this year. That's not what our heart is supposed to be after. Our heart is supposed to be after the things of God, not the things of this world. Separate ourselves from worldliness. Demas, forsook God. Why? Why? Come on, church, why do demons forsake the Lord? Having loved this present world. He was in the very presence of God Himself, and the world had a strong enough pull to pull him away from God. You understand that's something we have to fight as Christians. Because this world has a continual pull. A continual, the lust of the eyes and the pride of life. All of this world encompasses, draws us as believers, and we are supposed to separate from that unto God. To be with God, not for the sake of just being separate, not for the sake of just standing against the world, but to stand with God. We should not participate in or seek after those things that stand in opposition to God. Our affections should be on things above, not conformed to the things of this world Do you know this world is more evangelistic than the church ever has been? Do you understand the world is searching after you? Seeking you, desiring to get you. I mean, they're doing everything they can in their power to pull you or draw you in. They've got a stronger evangelistic team than any church ever has. And as believers, we've got to learn to say no And to separate from the world, that we might be in the presence of God. This is moral separation. There's also doctrinal separation I believe the doctrinal separation is those things, those teachings in the Word of God, or those that would teach things contrary to the Scriptures I should separate from them. A continued association with those that teach things contrary to the scriptures will leaven the whole lump. In 2 John verses 8 and 11, he says, 8 through 11, he says, Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have brought. But that we receive a full reward. Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, bring Receive him not unto your house, neither bid him Godspeed, for he that biddeth him Godspeed is a partaker of his evil deal deeds. That's 2 John verses 8 through 11. You understand we're not even supposed to bid somebody God's feet. Somebody that's teaching false doctrine? Somebody that's teaching against our Lord Jesus Christ? Somebody that believes, that doesn't believe in the blood atonement? Somebody that doesn't believe in the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus Christ, somebody that doesn't believe that Jesus was God and that he was man. somebody that doesn't believe that he was born of a virgin. There is a lot of false doctrine being taught and ported out there and it is prevalent and it's available and it's readily at your fingertips on YouTube and all kinds of different sermon sites and with the just the the Lack of discernment sometimes will allow you to go and to listen to somebody that you don't need to be listening to because they're teaching you things that aren't biblical. It's there and it's prevalent And God says, you're not even supposed to wish them Godspeed. You're like, oh, but he's such a nice guy. He's got such a good smile. He's well educated. He it's okay. It's just this one thing. God said, if you wish him godspeed, you are a partaker of his evil deeds. That's pretty strong language. We think, oh, well, it's okay. He's just this one little area, this one little thing that he's not, you know, it's alright. We are supposed to be doctrinally separate. Those that teach false doctrine about Jesus Christ or about the Holy Spirit. I'm running out of time. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 3 and 4. He says, But I fear lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if he received another Spirit that ye have not received, or another gospel which ye have not accepted, ye might Well bear him. He says, hey, those that teach against Jesus Christ, listen, if you're if somebody came up and started saying false things about your mother, false things about your dad or about your wife. I hope that there's enough loyalty in you to not just go, well, he's a pretty nice guy. Yeah, but he's a good guy other than that. Other than that, he was just lying about my wife. Why is it we would listen to and let people lie about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? And think, oh well, it's okay. He's just off a little bit. He's teaching false doctrine. And the Bible says very clearly we're supposed to separate from them. That we're not supposed to wish them godspeed. That we're supposed to be separate from them. There's those that teach falseness about the resurrection. Let me give you the reference. I don't have time to read it. 2 Timothy 2, 16 through 18. Shun profane and vain babblings, false teaching about godliness. 1 Timothy 6, verses 3 through 5. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which was according to godliness. We're supposed to separate from them. Would you agree uh have I adequately laid out tonight That there is a standard of personal separation given to us in the Word of God. Would you agree with that? I have another three pages of information and don't have time to get to it There's a level of practical separation. That's our last point. I'm not even going to touch on that. That's what God expects in the how how to separate, who to separate from. And there's a process of separation. How do we come up with the doctrine or with the with the principles of how to separate? How do we decide who to separate from and who not to separate from? Those are the things I don't have time tonight to cover. But I hope you see clearly in the Word of God that God expects us to live separated. And although there are many churches today that want to port this uh uh You know, promote, sorry, this this free gospel and come as you are and leave as you were. We're just all going to love Jesus together. I want you to know they're not teaching or preaching the whole counsel of God. Just like the surgeon, it is necessary for him to wash his hands to perform clean and correct surgery. It's necessary for the Christian to live a separated life to be pleasing unto God. In direct proportion to our closeness to God is how far we'll be from the world. You cannot, you cannot say, oh, I love God, now I'm going to come into His presence. Without leaving the world behind