Well, I hope that you are a vessel of honor. Even as I was saying that in my mind and thinking, well, who thinks that they're a vessel of honor? Who would attribute that to themselves, but it ought to at least be our desire to be a vessel of honor. And know that He is working on us, and it's He that brings about that change in us that brings us to the place where we can be a vessel of honor. Amen. It's the work of God in us. It's not a matter of pride, it's not a matter of look at me and look at what I am, but it's a matter of look at what God has done with an old wretched sinner like me. And that's an amazing thing to think about and ponder. I wonder this morning if I was going to ask you to tell me, and I am asking you to tell me Something that is precious to you. Now, you can be spiritual if you would like. That certainly is okay. But maybe there is something else that's precious to you. It might be something that holds great sentimental value. It might be worthless to other people, but to you, because of who it came from or the story behind it, it's something that's precious to you. Maybe a family heirloom is something that has come down through generations and might not have a great amount of monetarial value, but for you it is very precious. Um I don't know. I I just wonder couldn't some of you tell me you'd say something is precious to you, Ms. Kim. from being in the armed service services. David, the flag that was presented to her at her father's passing for his service in the military. Uh somebody else, something that's precious to you, Matt. Your wife is precious to you. I'm sure those of you that have children would would that something that's precious to us would be our our children, the the kids that God has given to us. Amen. And Matt does need a good wife. Amen. Anyone else? Something that's precious to you? Josh? Your church family is precious to you. You know, something that uh makes something precious sometimes. It might be uh because of the sentimental fact or because of something that is meaningful to you because of the time and the story behind it, but it might also be something uh of the scarcity of it, something that's rare makes it precious. Um something that is valuable or expensive. Brother Greg? So I got a picture of my dad and my brother who died in 56 pregnancy on bed. Anything they gave, I got my dad as an air, he was a first marine. Anything I found my dad I was 15 and died All that stuff I keep. But it's precious. All the silver dollars you gave. All the two dollar bills. Anything you got boys looking at, boys Amen. Amen. Anybody else have something that might be precious to them? John? Salvation. Your salvation? The precious salvation that we've received of Jesus Christ, Harry? the radio on the TV made with peace hope and happiness. And that was found in the bottom and messing up back up on So he's thankful or precious to him the peace, hope, and happiness that we have in Jesus Christ. Amen. Well I think if you would hold on to that thought about those things that are precious to us for just a moment, and we're going to tie these two things together, but I believe that everybody here would look at this book, the Word of God, and of course that would be something that's precious to us. The Word of God, I think each one of us understand and would believe that the Word of God is truth. This is truth. The Bible says, let God be true and every man a liar. Everything that God says is truth, and the truth of the Word of God changes our lives That's what Jesus said in John 17, 17. He said, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So, beloved, the principles that we learn from the Word of God are truth from God Himself. Peter in 1st and 2 Peter presents to us several principles He presents several truths that he defines as precious. Would you turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter? We have been reading. These passages of Scripture in our devotions, if you were reading part of the along the church reading schedule with us, we've been reading these chapters. And these thoughts that are found here in 1 and 2 Peter, these precious truths. These ideas that Peter, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, thought they were worth calling them precious Now, I did not come across these in my own reading of the scriptures. Actually, several commentators through the reading and the writing of the devotionals and things that we have written, several commentators pointed out or they recognized the fact that Peter had an affinity for this description, that Peter actually seven times in 1 and 2 Peter, seven times he uses the word precious And describe some things that are precious to him. And I would like to know what Peter, under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, thought was precious, wouldn't you? Amen. Well I'm glad that you want to, because that's where we're going today as we look as we look at Peter's precious truths. Let me ask God to bless. Lord, we look to you this morning. I'm tasked with presenting the truth of the Word of God, and I don't carry that burden lightly. Lord, although I'm the one speaking, we're looking for you, the Spirit of God, to speak to hearts. We ask you, Lord, that you would reach down into this auditorium and through those that are connected via live streams to the service today, whether they're in Texas or California Right here in Maryland, maybe part of our church, but can't be here today, wherever they're at, whoever they are, we ask you, God, that you would speak to their heart. That you would maybe remind us of these precious truths and stir in our heart to hold these things precious and to value them and to show that great gratitude. For the truth that you've given us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. We see here something that is precious, of course, is something valuable, something that was costly, something that's rare The first thing that I would like you to see that Peter tells us is precious isn't found in chapter 1, verse number 18 and 19. Chapter 1, verses number 18 and 19, you see here he says, For as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things. As silver and gold from your vain conversation received by the traditions from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of the lamb without blemish and without spot. The first thing that he tells us is precious is the blood of Jesus Christ. The precious blood of Jesus Christ. It is through the blood of Christ that we are redeemed. Redeemed. Redeemed means to buy back, to pay for, to pay in full. Jesus Christ, through the shedding of his blood, he redeemed us. Can I remind you this morning that before your redemption, you had nothing? You had no hope. You had no real purpose Or ambition or reason even to be living this life. Oh, the writer of Ecclesiastes. With all the wisdom that God had given him, we see that he says about life, I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. He says, all the works that are done under the sun, everything that we run around and try to accomplish in this life, all of our ambition and goals and all of our effort invested in this world He says it's vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. And if you've ever stopped to pause and to think for a few minutes, you in your own heart and mind have thought, what's it all for? Why am I doing all this? What's it all about? I mean, why are we going through this struggle? It just seems like it's vain. Yeah, we see there in verse number 18 he says, For as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed as corruptible things as silver and gold, from your what's the next word? Vain conversations. That sounds a whole lot like what he said in Ecclesiastes that What we're doing in this life, a lot of this world and before Christ and before salvation, we didn't have much purpose. It was all vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. In Ecclesiastes chapter 2 and verse number 1, he says, And I said in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore enjoy pleasure. And behold, this also is vanity. He says he's not denying the fact that you might have some type of fun. You might have some joy. You might have a season of mirth and happiness, but that too is vanity. It's vain In 2, verse number 11, he says, then I looked, this is Ecclesiastes 2. 11, he says, then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought. He's saying, everything that I did with my hands, all the work I did with my hands, and on the labor that I labored to do, and behold, all was vanity of vexation of spirit. And there was no prophet under the sun. Beloved, before redemption we had nothing. But we have been redeemed by the precious blood of the Lamb. Our debt has been paid, our sins forgiven. By the blood of the Lamb this morning. Now, I don't know if you guys are just asleep or you've got it all in neutral, but I'm telling you that we have a precious Blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for you and shed for me, and it's only through that precious blood of Christ that our sins have been forgiven. That's something we're saying amen about. That's something we're praising God about. That's something worth acknowledging and realizing we have a precious blood of Jesus Christ that would redeem our soul from hell. Redeemed. How I love to proclaim it. Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Redeemed through his infinite mercy, his child, and forever I am. Redeemed, redeemed, redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever I am. Redeemed, he says, the hymn writer goes on. Redeemed, and I'm so happy in Jesus, no language my rapture can tell. I know that the light of his presence with me doth continually dwell. I think of my blessed Redeemer. I think of him all the day long. I sing, for I cannot be silent. His love is the theme of my song. I know I shall see in his beauty the king in whose law I delight, who lovingly guardeth my footsteps and giveth me soul. In the night. Have you been redeemed this morning? By the precious blood of the Lamb. Beloved, it's only through the precious blood of Jesus Christ that you and I could possibly be redeemed. Hebrews chapter 9, verse number 22 says, Without the shedding of blood there is no remission. It's only through the shedding of blood that sins could be forgiven. And beloved, it was only through the shedding of The shedding of the sinless blood of Jesus Christ, that our sins are forgiven. Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 7 says, In whom we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. You see, redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. It's only through the shed blood of Jesus Christ that you and I have our sins forgiven. Colossians chapter 1, verse number 14 says, In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness Of sins. You know, beloved, it's not, I don't understand it, I don't know why, but there's an idea today that churches are taken away talking about the blood of Jesus Christ. Like, oh, it's too it's too gross, or it's too vulgar, or it's too to talk about that blood that was shed for you. But beloved beloved, without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. There is no forgiveness. You know they're actually rewriting the song books, the old hymns that we sing, and they're re they're removing any reference to the blood of Jesus Christ Taking it out of the songs. I don't understand why. Because it's a precious blood that was shed for me, that by it and through it I have forgiveness of my sin this morning. You can't get forgiveness by doing good. You can't get forgiveness by getting into a baptismal water. This water doesn't magically wash away your sin. Only the shed blood of Jesus Christ, that blood that had never known sin, that was shed for you, forgives you of your sin. Without that you can't know forgiveness, friend. You can't know the Bible tells us that the blood of goats and bulls can't take away sin. He says in Hebrews ten, verse number four, For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. You see, that didn't take away the sin. The sacrifices that they did in the Old Testament, that was a means and a way to cover To cover the sin for a period of time. But beloved, the shed blood of Jesus Christ takes away your sin. It washes it in a way as if you had never sinned. Justified, just as if I had never sinned, you've been cleansed, washed clean, as white as snow, because of the precious blood of Jesus Christ. The law couldn't take away sin. In Galatians 2, verses 21, he says, I did not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness came by the law, then Christ died in vain. He says, hey, if I could be made righteous by living according to the law, if I could be made righteous by doing good things, then why did Christ die? He God gave his only son and allowed his son to die, a shameful death on the cross. That we might know forgiveness of sin. He hung on that old rugged cross for your redemption. But can I remind you this morning that we make a lot of times a big to-do about the cross, but you know they hung a lot of people on the cross. And it's not the cross, but it's who's blood was shed there. Right, right. It's the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed on that cross that forgives us, that washes away your sin, that redeems you. Can I ask you this morning, have you put your faith and trust in Christ and in him alone? Are you trusting in him completely? I have no fear this morning about my eternal soul. There is no hesitation, there is no question, there's no wondering. I know that my sin has been washed clean by the shed blood of Jesus Christ because I did what he told me to do and I have No hesitation today, no question, no, no fear in my heart, no, no wondering if I'm safe or if I'm okay. Because Jesus shed his blood for me and I've trusted in that and that alone. I recall the story of a man that not long after public flight became popular and people could get on a plane and fly from this destination to that. And I recall the story of a man who stood against it. It's one of those new fangled flying things. God doesn't want man up in the air. If he wanted us in the air, he would have given us wings. I mean, he was against flying. But his wife won an all-expaid, all-expense-paid trip for a vacation and she really wanted to go. And so she started working on them. And he's like, we can't fly. We're not gonna fly. I'm never gonna get in one of those things. That's not natural for those things to be up in the air. Then the kids started working on them. You know, mom really wants to do this and you you it'll be okay. You go do it, you know. And uh so finally they talked him into it And he got in a plane and they went on vacation and they had a good vacation. They got in a plane and flew back home. And he got home and the kids said, Dad, see, that wasn't too bad, was it? I mean, you know, you had enough faith to just get in the plane and fly there. He's like, no, I didn't. He said I was in I was in that that plane the whole time I was in that plane. I never one time put all my weight down You see, he was in the plane, but the whole time he was scared to death. The whole time he was afraid. He's thinking like if I like Actually sit down in this seat all my weight this plane's gonna go down There's a lot of people living their life like that They know about Jesus Christ. They know that He shed his blood for them. They know that they've got a promise of forgiveness and they've got hope of heaven. And yet they're afraid. Wondering if their sins have been forgiven. Well, I want to tell you this morning, you don't have to go through life like that. You can know that you know that you know that you're saved, that you're on your way to heaven Because Jesus died for you and he did it so you could have your sins forgiven. All you've got to do is accept him today. I would implore you as we close our service here in a few minutes, if you haven't been redeemed by the shed blood of the Lamb, that you do it today. Boy, that old rugged cross. The poet said, the old rugged cross was stained with precious blood of Jesus, where he died for me in awful agony. My poor human mind can't comprehend such mercy, but I'm so glad he chose to go to Calvary Without the blood, I would never know my Savior. Without the blood, I would be lost eternally. And without the blood, I would never go to heaven. Oh, thank you, Jesus for each drop that was shed for me. Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you fully trusting in His grace this hour? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? I'm glad this morning that I don't have any stress in my heart because I know I've been washed. And I'm thankful today for that precious blood. Like Peter said, it is precious. Secondly, I'd like you to see the precious stone that's mentioned in chapter 2, in verses 4 through 7. First Peter 2, verses 4 through 7, he says, To whom come as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God. and precious. Ye also, so he talks there about that living stone in verse number four, the living stone that was precious. He goes on to verse number five. Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifice acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect precious. And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corn. You understand this morning that that precious stone that is described there is Jesus Christ. That precious stone, that cornerstone. The cornerstone of our faith, the foundation of the truths that we hold dear. Is Jesus Christ. He was the first stone. He was the foundational stone. And he is the chief cornerstone. He is the only Lamb of God that taketh away the sin. Oh, the hymn writer said, On Christ's solid rock I stand, on all other ground is seeking sin. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. Are you thankful this morning for Jesus Christ? Do you value, do you think that he is precious? If he's not precious to you, what's your faith about? If he's not precious to you, what is it that you're living for in this life Jesus Christ should be precious. He is that sure foundation. He is that chief cornerstone. David Livingston said this. He is the greatest master I've ever known. If there is anybody greater, I don't know them. Jesus Christ is the only master, supremely worth serving. He is the only ideal that never loses its inspiration. He is the only friend whose friendship meets every demand. He is the only Savior who could save to the uttermost. We go forth in his name and by his power and through his spirit to serve and reach this world. Jesus. He says he is the precious stone. Boy, Peter says the blood of Jesus Christ is precious. Jesus Christ Himself, who willingly gave himself for us, but he committed his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, he died for us. Jesus shed that precious blood, and he did so willingly Nobody took his life, he gave it for you and I. Boy, he is a precious stone. I want you to see in chapter 2, I'm sorry, in 2 Peter chapter 1, turn to 2 Peter chapter 1. We see something else that Peter defines or describes as precious. This is also echoed in 1 Peter 1 and verse 7, but we'll look first at this point here in 2 Peter 1, verse number 1. Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained a like precious Faith. With us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Peter is writing to other believers here He's describing them as people who have a like precious faith. That faith that joins them together. The Bible says that the Spirit beareth witness. Peter was acknowledging and expressing the fact that our faith is something that's precious. Our faith in Jesus Christ, our faith that He has passed down to us. A faith in God, and it is a precious faith. I'm glad today that it's the same faith that Peter put in Christ that I put in Christ. By that same type of faith, we're saved today as they were in the Bible days. We have a like precious faith. Wait, how how precious is your face to you today? Your face May be tested. It's only a few chapters. Would you turn back to chapter one of 1 Peter? 1 Peter chapter 1. I left this one off because it goes together with what we just saw here. He's talking about faith, but he says not only is your faith precious, but he tells us here in chapter 1 and verse number 7, he tells us that the trial of your faith Is precious. He says in chapter 1 of verse number 1 Peter chapter 1 of verse number 7, that the trial of your faith being much more precious. Than gold that perisheth. Though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Wow. The trying of your faith. I don't know that many of us Would on the surface say the trying of our faith is precious. That walking through the fire That test, that challenge that makes you question and wonder if your faith is really real or not, or is it going to be strong enough to carry you through? But here's what I know, beloved, that anybody that has walked through the fire, anybody that has endured the trial, when they come out the other side, is when they acknowledge and they say, Oh, the faith that I had. That carried me through that trial, the faith that I had and trusted in Jesus Christ that gave me peace when I laid on that hospital bed. That is precious Man, to have that faith, to have that in Jesus Christ. Do you see people walk through the fire and have a smile on their face and they have joy in their hearts And they would be the first to tell you, it's my faith in God, and that faith is precious to me. It's precious. Man, to have that kind of faith The trial of your faith being more precious than gold, to prove, beloved, to prove my faith in God. You know, we don't necessarily like it, but as I pondered and thought about this, you know, a young man that's in love with a young lady Should I tell you a a secret? My daughter my daughter's gonna kill me. My daughter right now has three guys that are very interested in her. And she's like, Dad, what do I do? I called the guys, I says, Hey You want a chance, you got a you got a winner heart, man. You got it you got a winner heart And here's the thing. A young man that loves a young lady, he rejoices in the opportunity or looks for the chance to prove his love. He would be glad to. Any opportunity he could get, he'd be asking people, What's your favorite candy bar? What's your favorite flour? What's your favorite color? What's the thing that she likes? And he'll be looking for any chance that he can do, anything that he can do to try and prove his love. And he would rejoice at the opportunity to be able to show how much she means to him. Beloved, I think that that is what is precious to Peter when he says, the trine of my faith is precious to me. Because I have a precious Savior who shed his precious blood for me, and I've got an opportunity here to show him how much I love him I've got an opportunity when I'm running through the fire, when I'm put to the test, when I'm going through the trial. I've got the privilege of showing him that my faith is real, that my faith is powerful, that my faith is true, and that it will carry me through because it's in a Savior that doesn't fail, so I cannot fail him. That's precious to him. Precious faith, the trying of his faith. Described here as more precious than gold. Faith that hasn't been tried might not be trustworthy. You know, you just read Hebrews chapter 11. Walk through that hall of faith. Just read about what the saints endured and what they did, the trials they went through. I don't know about you this morning, but I want a faith in God that's powerful. I want a faith that will stand the test. That is strong enough to go through the lion's in if needed. I want that kind of faith. When your faith has been tested, you can come through like Peter describes here, more precious than gold. It's the kind of faith, beloved, like Job had when he said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. You see, beloved, I think many times we think about our faith in God, and we think, if I have strong faith, I will be spared the trial. If I have strong faith, I will uh not have to go through the fire. But Daniel went into the lion's den. The three Hebrew children went into the fiery furnace. The faith, the faith in God doesn't necessarily mean that you will be spared the test. But that he'll be with you through the test. And that he knows. It's trusting, like Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. The three Hebrew children, you remember when they were standing before the king? He they they said our God is able to save us. And then he says, But if not, we will not serve your false God. We will not bow. They said we trust him. We know that he is able. But he may choose not to save us, but that's okay. We still trust him and we will not bow. That kind of faith. Man, in Hebrews chapter eleven, I think it's close to the end of the chapter, but there there's describing the verse starts with the women. I think it's verse 18. describing the women and the faith that they had in God, but then it says that they, I don't know if the words denied Or rejected the deliverance. They rejected the deliverance because they wanted to see A greater redemption. A greater. They wanted to see God glorified in a greater way. Now, I don't know how they could have been delivered. Maybe if they would have bowed, maybe if they would have rejected Christ, they could have been delivered. They said, no, we're not going to bow. We're not gonna we're not gonna do that. We're gonna stand. And they rejected the deliverance they could have had that it would be an honor and glory to God We see in our verse here. He says, If the trial of your faith be much more precious than gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You know what that faith? It might not save you from the fire. But it will bring praise and honor and glory to Jesus Christ. So is your faith that strong? That's a precious faith, a precious faith Let me show you the last one in 2 Peter chapter 1. 2 Peter, turn over to 2 Peter. I know you've moved a lot in your Bibles this morning. Second Peter chapter number one, verse number four. He says, whereby are given unto us exceeding great And precious what? Promises. Exceeding great and precious promises Beloved, can I tell you this morning that this book is full of precious promises for God's people? The precious promises of God are laid out in these pages. And these are promises that are given unto you and to I. A book here chocked full of the promises of God, and not one of them will fail. Hallelujah. What a Savior. A few years ago we gave the church family a little Bible. That was called the Promises Bible. It just was a Bible that had the promises of God underlined. Now I didn't walk through those pages and count them all. So I'm not positive how many there are, but there are those that maybe they used a computer, I d I don't know how they determined it, but they came up with a number of about seven thousand. There's about 7,000 promises in the pages of Scripture for you and I. What precious promises we have from God. These promises that He's given to you and I that love Him and serve Him I'm not gonna give you all seven thousand of them this morning. But can I give you a couple? Can I just remind you of a few that He said, and maybe in your heart and mind you've got some promises that you've held dear that are precious to you this morning. But can I remind you that he said that he was going to bless thee? He said, he would build you up. He said, I will heal thee. He says, I will help thee. I will hold thy hand. He says, I will instruct thee in the path that thou should go, and I will teach thee. He said he would deliver thee and He will sup with thee. He says he'll satisfy thee and he'll strengthen thee. He says he'll save you. And he'll put his spirit in you. He says he's going to uphold you with his right hand. He said he'll not forget you, he'll never fail you, he'll never forget you. He will forgive you and he will restore you. He promises to be your guide and to be your God and to one day give you a crown of life. He says he loves you and that he'll lead you and that he'll lift you out of a miry pit He promises to comfort you. And he promises that he's coming again. And we could go on and on describing the promises of God. How long has it been since you've pondered and considered the precious promises of God that are written unto you? Beloved, you can take these promises to the bank. You not one of them is going to fail. All the promises of God are true. They should be precious to us. I recall reading a story about a man who had to cross a pond or small lake. And being new to the area, he wasn't sure about how thick the ice had grown in the winter, and he needed to cross this lake. So he began walking across the lake, and as he was getting further and further from the shore, he's getting more and more nervous and not sure how solid it is. concerned about whether he was gonna actually maybe fall through the ice and so he thought maybe I better get down on all fours and and spread my weight out some and so he gets down and and he's he's working his way on all fours, spreading out his weight, just Gingerly moving slow, trying to be careful to get across this pond. He's working and striving hard to get across the pond. He gets about two-thirds of the way across the pond, and he's just sweating with the effort that he's putting forth to get across and the nervous energy in his heart, afraid at any moment he would pass through. And then he heard a noise behind him and he turned around and there was a guy driving a truck across the pond. Drove past him while he's there on all fours. And he's like, oh, I guess it's pretty solid. Stands up and walks the rest of the way. There are many people living their life not fully trusting God. You're crawling and walking on all fours, just wondering if God's promise is true. He said he would never leave you nor forsake you. He promised that if you call on him, he would save you and take you to heaven when you die. And you're going through life afraid and gingerly walking and crawling and so concerned that at any minute you might pass off into eternity. But do you have the promise of God you can hold on to? Some people that know and they've grown to trust these promises of God, they're precious to them and they're in the truck just driving and not at all concerned. Because they've got the promise of God on it. Could I implore you this morning to trust him, his promises, for they are true. Isaiah 12, verse number 2 says, Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid. You can trust him and don't have to be afraid this morning. How precious are these things to you. Peter's precious truths, the blood of Jesus Christ. That stone, the chief cornerstone, which is Jesus Christ, the faith that we have because of Christ. And the promises that are found in this book