Well, what book of the Bible are we in? All right. At least you got that one. Philippians. At least you know where we're at. So I'm I'm still kind of getting there myself, but you're in Philippians. We are going to be finishing up chapter one. Uh so uh the title if you if you've written down the division of the chapters that I gave you Uh initially I've changed the title of this last division, this last section, just I haven't given you these notes yet, so unless you were ahead. Uh you don't have this, but tonight, this section, verses twenty-eight to verse number thirty, I'm going to call it the gifts of surrender. The gifts of surrender. As we walk through these chapter, these verses, I mean, we'll see what gifts God gives us. And uh, you know, we we began this chapter, of course we did a a lesson on the introduction, looked at, you know, the City of Philippi and and the Book of Philippians, and Paul is a writer and talked about those things kind of as an introduction, but we began the chapter, we looked at verses one and two talking about the greeting of the saints. Paul and Timothy greeting the saints that were there, and of course the peace and the grace that was theirs because they were saints. And then we talked about the giving of thanks that we see in verses 3 through 6 And uh then the Guild of Believers, verses 7 and 8, the growth of Love. Now the Guild of Believers, I didn't give that to you. You're like, what what is that? That's another one that I've added since I taught this. So I squeezed that one in there. Uh but uh we looked at the the growth of love, the gospel of Christ. The gain of Christian living is what we looked at last week and then tonight the gifts of surrender. The gifts of surrender. So, you know, we're going to get get right into this. Would you look at verse number 28 And follow along as we read 28, 29, and verse 30 to last verses of chapter number 1 of the book of Philippians. He said, End in nothing terrified by your adversaries. Which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation. and that of God. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. Having this same conflict. Which he saw in me and now here to be in me. Let me ask the Lord to bless us with Well, we thank you for tonight. We ask you to give me clarity of thought, Lord. There's a lot going on in my mind and and uh seem to be uh distracted, Lord. I pray you would give me focus. Lord, I ask you to be with this message that you would Open the hearts of your people, Lord, that you would give me liberty to preach it, that uh it would be challenging and stirring, Lord, and as we look at your word and learn another lesson. Uh, from this passage of scripture, Lord, what uh what gems that we've been able to glean so far just from chapter number one of this book and And we pray as we conclude this chapter tonight that you would close it out, Lord, and challenge us once again in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we see here, first of all, I want you to see the gift of strength that is given to us in verse number 28. The gift of strength, he says, in nothing terrified by your adversaries. You see, Paul is encouraging and challenging the saints there to have courage, to be strong, to not be terrified. He is understandably instructing them that, listen, you're going to have some adversaries. And it's going to take more than just conviction to stand. It's going to take courage You're gonna have to have some courage. Sometimes we know what we believe, but standing in this wicked world is hard. Sometimes you think, well, I know what's right, and I I I understand what the Bible teaches and and I agree with it and I believe it. But boy uh I'm a little bit terrified of the adversaries. I'm a little bit concerned about those that would come and attack my faith or about those that would Try and belittle my belief in God or try and make me feel small because I believe God created the world in six days instead of it happening magically over billions of years. It takes just as much faith to believe in that as it does to believe in that God created. It's still faith. Except the faith that we have is is not in nothing, it's in the substance of things hoped for The evidence of things not seen. We have that faith given to us by God, and we might know what we believe, but sometimes the adversaries we're honest. We're a little fearful. We're a little concerned. We're a little bit worried. And Paul is encouraging him, listen, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries. You know, he's really reinforcing the statement that he gave them in verse 27. Would you back up and look at verse number 27? He says, Only let your conversation, of course we know that is lifestyle, be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. So he says, listen, live the way a Christian should. Somebody that's saved, that has the gospel. Let your life show that. And he says, that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs. Here's the statement. He says that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. So he just got through telling them, listen, live how a Christian should live. Live like you are saved, like you are on your way to heaven, like you do know God, and you do know what you believe. And if you're going to do that, listen, stand fast. Stand fast and stand together. Amen. He says, striving together. Not for one moment should we as Christians be intimidated by the enemies of God And one way that we can have courage to stand fast is to stand together. To stand together. I can tell you it it means a lot when you got somebody standing with you. I got a text this morning from Pastor Jeff Ferguson. Let me read it to you. He's uh an encouraging guy. Oh, sorry, that's Pastor Edwards. He said, Good morning, Pastor Battrell. Just wanted to let you know I'm thinking about you, praying for you. Stay faithful, my friend. In the power of His might and for the glory of God, have a great Sunday, we'll be praying for you all. Love you. Amen. So he must have seen on somebody's Facebook that we have anniversary Sunday and said, Hey, uh, praying for the church, praying for you guys, standing with you, hope things are going well. That's just encouraging. And man, just a little note, when you you hear somebody going through something or you you you the Lord touches your heart about somebody in the church and you know you just say, hey, I'm just gonna give them a call. This week, Lord touched my heart about Brother Garland. I'm in my office and I'm studying and I haven't seen Brother Garland in several weeks, and I thought, you know what, I'm going to call Brother Garland. So I called him up on the phone and I said, Brother Garland, how how are you doing, brother? Just wanted to call and say hi and see how you're doing. He said, Pastor Caleb, I ain't doing too good And I said, oh man, I'm sorry to hear that. He says, I am out here stuck in the mud. I said, man. You want me to come pull you out? He says, well, I already called the guy and and he's supposed to be on his way. I said, listen, brother, I'll be glad to I'll be glad to come pull you out. You just You just give me the word. I mean I'm ten minutes from you. I could be there, get you out, no big deal. I'm happy to do it. And so we talked for ten or fifteen minutes. You know, he says, no, that guy's coming. He's going to be here in just a minute. And uh then we hung up The next day he called me and he says, Pastor Caleb, he says, you won't, you, you can't know how much that meant to me, that you called me. He says, I was about to lose it. He says I was stuck in the mud and so frustrated and upset and just mad and he says I was just He says, I just didn't know what I was going to do. And then you called me up and managers lifted my spirit and I thought, well, what's the big deal? I mean I'm stuck for a few minutes and nothing else. Pastor Caleb will come pull me out. He says, man, that just meant so much to me. And I thought, well, thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. I mean I didn't do anything. I just was in my office studying and preparing. The Lord said, Call Brother Gardener. I called him up. I didn't know that that that that time is when Brother Garner was going to need a call An encouraging word. And we need to be sensitive to the Holy Spirit. If we're going to stand, we need to stand together. Striving together. And that will help us stand. It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay. And if we're going to stand together, we need some people standing with us in the battle. In verse number 27, we see that call to faithfulness as citizens. And as much as that is a call to faithfulness as citizens, verse number 28 is a call to fearlessness. He says, listen, don't let there's going to be adversaries. There's going to be Satan. There's going to be people standing in your way. Amen, Margaret. It's going to be Satan. Trying to stop, she's just telling me before church, as soon as I try and say I'm coming to church, there's Satan right there getting in the way, stopping things up, you know, and Satan's gonna try and stop us But he says you got to be faithful, but you also got to be fearless. I want you to see what the conclusion is to standing, or what is the result of it. And we stand fearlessly. He tells us it's an evidence of the token of perdition to the adversaries. When you and I stand, It tells those who are standing against God, understand that they hated him before they hated us. And when somebody is opposing you, they're really not opposing you. They're opposing the Lord Jesus Christ and his message. And he this is a powerful truth here that he tells us. He says there in verse number 28, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation. You see, as you stand for Christ and live for Christ, the only way a Bible-believing, saved, born-again believer should live You don't forget what he says in verse number 27. He said, Let your conversation, right? How we're living, let your conversation, that is your testimony of Christ. It will declare to those that are against you. That God is with you. And they will be struck with the truth of the fact that they don't have Christ. That's what he says to them in that truth, in that statement there, he says, which is to them evident token of perdition. That they don't have Christ. It is a token, it is a testament to the fact that they don't have Christ when you continue to do what's right, even though they mock, when you continue to follow Christ. And be where God wants you to be, even though they make fun or they laugh or whatever it might be, you continue to do that. They may laugh in your face, but in the quiet of the night, they know the peace you have they don't have. They go home and they say they say, I wish I had their confidence. I wish I had that faith. Because truthfully, I really don't know. But you know because you have the Word of God on it. And that is a testament to them. And it will be used to bring people to Christ. Yes. We each should value our Christian testimony more than material gain Paul starts that verse with the word only. Only. Verse number 27, only let your conversation, that is Above all else. That means, above all else, only let your conversation, this is of utmost importance, of top priority for you. Is your Christian testimony of top priority? Your Christian testimony will keep you from doing something that you know you shouldn't do. And it's not about what you gain or what you lose from it. What it's about is the testimony that you leave with those that saw you do it. Being honest in a situation. I'm sure almost anybody here, if you've tried to live honestly, I'm sure sometime in your life You have walked out of the store with something that either they charged you for and and you didn't take or that you took and they forgot to charge you for. Those types of things happen. And I can't tell you the numbers of times that I've walked back into the store and said, Oh, uh, I bought three of these and you only charge me for one. And and Uh you know, I wish I hadn't looked because then I wouldn't know. But it was since I know I have to bring it back in. I mean I have to be, you know, um I have to be honest. And I've had cashiers tell me you were out of the store already. Why did you bring it back in here? I mean I had one not too long ago where I mean I bought like fifty bags of concrete or something like that and they only charged me for one. That's a pretty good deal. Buy one, get forty nine free. And I went back in and I said, listen, I appreciate what you did for me. But but you know, now that person was just, wow, thanks. uh if we had more honest people like you, you know, we could really stop our our losses here at the Pastor Derek this week went to uh Owens Mills Home Depot to pick up mulch and they were trying to find the mulch. And the store, thing in the store said they have 2,000 bags on hand. And they couldn't find any mulch. And the employer said, the way things get stolen around here wouldn't surprise me if they're gone. 2,000 bags of monks gone? Are you serious? Stolen? I'll tell you what, it's a testimony when you do right. And God will use that. People say, wow, that's amazing. Not only that, beloved, we see here as a secondary as a result here, he says, standing fearlessly. As a Christian is evident to the token that you have salvation. That you have salvation. That's what he says there. Token of perdition, but to you of salvation. And that of God. One of the reasons some people doubt their salvation is because they're living like the devil Because they aren't being honest with their dealings, because they aren't doing what they know God wants them to do, and they think, how could I be saved and still be doing all this foolishness? Well it's no wonder they're doubting. Because they're not doing and living the way God wants you to live, but when we do it, when we live And stand strong in the power of God's might and do what God wants us to do, you have that evidence of salvation in your life. And there's no question God's in your heart Because before, you would have walked out of the store with that and said, thank you, Siah. You would never have carried that back into the store and turned that in or whatever it might be. But that change was brought in your life and in your heart. And you say, Thank you, Lord, for your salvation. Thank you for changing me. Thank you for doing this in my life. What a testimony of salvation in your own heart. And when God's doing that in people's lives, you couldn't convince them they're not saved. They know they're saved because of the change that God brought into their life. Amen? That's what it's about. That strength. Living the way God wants us to live. He tells them to do that. Then I want you to see in verse number 29, there's two gifts that we have here. First is the gift of salvation. He says, for unto you is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him. So, first of all, he says, we've given this to you. You've been given that faith of belief. And the title of this is The Gifts of Surrender and What Happens in a Person's Life when they finally come to the end of themselves. And they realize and they're willing to admit that they can't do it on their own, they can't be good enough, they could never give enough money to church or or Or do enough good deeds in the community to possibly pay for their sin and earn their way to heaven, they still, no matter what they do, they have the weight of sin on their heart. And it's there all the time When they finally surrender, say, okay, Lord, God meets them at the foot of the cross. They're able to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and believe on him. The gift of salvation is given. That Given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him. It's given. Salvation is freely given. Not by works of righteousness that we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. I'm so thankful today it's not up to my performance to keep and maintain my salvation. It was a gift that was given to me by Jesus Christ. It's not by keeping the sacraments or by faithful attendance to a confessional or by a continued observance of communion. or by baptism in the church's baptistry. It's given freely All we have to do is accept it. But we've got to come to the point where we come to the end of ourselves and say, okay, Lord, it's not me. Nothing I can do. It's not it's not up to me. I'm not trusting in in my works and in your sacrifice. I'm turning it all uh I'm putting all my faith and trust in you, I'm surrendering to you. When somebody surrenders that they they get the gift of salvation. And their life is never the same. Then we get the gift of suffering Say, Pastor Caleb, the gift of suffering, he says there, for unto you is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, But also to suffer for his sake. So we get the gift of suffering. And it is a gift. Now, as we introduce this, I'm going to kind of Go through this. It's going to be some teaching here, but first of all, I want you to understand that sometimes people suffer because of their own stupidity. That's just the facts of the matter. And we can try and blame it on whoever we want, but ultimately it boils down to I was stupid. I mean, if I hit my thumb with a hammer. Okay, I could get mad at Ms. Lisa, but it's not Miss Lisa's fault, right? I could get mad at the hammer. But it's not the hammer's fault. I put my thumb there and I whacked it. I was the one not paying attention. It's up it's my fault. And that's the thing, a lot of times people are in a situation where they're enduring what they would call great suffering, and if they would just be honest, they would have to admit It's because I did some dumb stuff. It's because I wanted what I wanted or went after when did this and and now I'm reaping. Now most people don't want to be that honest. They would rather blame the hammer. But uh a lot of times our suffering is just because of stupidity. That's not what Paul is talking about here. When he's talking about the gift of suffering, he's not talking about that. Now, also sometimes we suffer because of sin. You've heard the verse, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Okay, there's some reaping that happens because of sin. And understand, beloved, that reaping many times comes even though you've asked forgiveness of that. Now sometimes because of God's grace and God's mercy, that reaping is foregone or or somehow God allows you to not have to reap maybe what you deserve from that because of God's grace, but there are many times when We went after some sin and participated in that or did that. There's some reaping, and you're going to have to reap it no matter what. You know, let's say for years I went to rock concerts and did did drugs. Okay. I know that's good type gasine, right Uh let's just say I did that. And then all of a sudden I I realized I was a sinner and that was wrong and man I need to get right with God and I confessed and and I forsook it and I never touched another thing. But Seven, eight, ten years of doing drugs all the time. Uh I did some damage to my body. That all of a sudden is not going to all be healed and all go away because I've confessed it and forsaken it. I still am going to have to reap the damage that I did. And so there's many times because of sin in our lives, things that we've done that we knew weren't right That we still have to reap, and we say, Oh, but I confessed it. I got it right. Well, you are forgiven, and praise God, that's not going to be held against you But listen, if all you do is drink Mountain Dew and eat chocolate, your teeth are gonna rot. Okay, that's just the facts of life You can't say, well, I was sorry for it. Well, you might be sorry, but you still gonna your teeth are gonna rot and and you know when I go to the dentist, I've had the same dentist for many years now. And he gives me a hard time. But when I go to the dentist the first time in when I go to a new area, and I've always had bad teeth. I had my first root canal when I was about four years old. So I've always had bad teeth my whole life and uh the dentist asked me one of the first questions. He says, Is it Coke or Mountain Dew? Said, what? And I tell him, get off me, leave me alone. You know you're gonna reap. Even if you feel bad about it. Now, a lot of times when we're talking to somebody, we don't want people to get that honest with us. But that's what it boils down to. But that's not what he's talking about. Here he's not talking about people that sin because of stupidity. He's not talking, I'm sorry, that suffer because of stupidity. And he's not talking about people that suffer because of sin. He's talking about people that suffer because of the Savior. For the cause of Christ, because of your faith, because you're trying to do what's right, because you're honest on your taxes, you could cheat and not pay. Just finished my taxes last night. Ouch. You could cheat and not pay. Or you could be honest and pay double. Well what am I gonna do? Well I'm gonna suffer. I'm gonna take the hit. I'm gonna pay what what they say is owed. You know, it it's it's that idea that he's talking about, suffering for his sake Paul reminds the Philippians here that their suffering was allowed by God because of what it works in their lives. It truly is a gift, beloved. Although at first we certainly are not excited about it, suffering works in our lives many things that would never be accomplished without it. I've said it before and probably enough that you're I don't know where it came from originally. Pastor Hanks used to say it all the time. I stole it from him. But fullness leads to forgetfulness. And when the sun is shining, when things are going good, we have a habit of not looking up. Fullness leads to forgetfulness. We forget how blessed we are, how good things are, how wonderful things are. We forget about all of that. And I think that's one of the big problems in our nation. Why our nation is so discontented and why there's so much turmoil and stress and division. Because fullness leads to forgetfulness. Our people are so blessed. They've got so much. They've got nothing better to do than to attack their neighbor. But when you're suffering The fact that the neighbor's dog messed in your lawn compared to you sitting at the hospital with your husband who has cancer? That really doesn't matter. It it's it's it's irrelevant in the grand scheme of things because you've got more important things to deal with. And the suffering that Christ brings into our life or he allows into our life is always for our good and his glory. Now suffering accomplishes a lot. Can I give you some things that it accomplishes and some references to go with that? You can just kind of jot these down. Suffering brings fellowship with Christ. You're never closer to Christ than when you're going through suffering. It brings you into his presence. It brings you down to your knees. It causes you to get everything else out of the way and get as close to him as you can. Those are some of the richest and sweetest times for any believer when they're going through that because they're able to feel and know God's presence in such a powerful and impactful way. They would never get there except for suffering. Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 10 is the verse for that. He says that I may know him in the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. You know him and that power because you're in fellowship with him. Everything that you've gone through, Christ has endured. He knows the feelings, he knows the temptation, he knows the struggle. And you can fellowship with him. It brings you into some good company. Matthew chapter 5, verses 10 and 12. He says, Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which before you I'll tell you what, puts you in good company when you're enduring some suffering. All those that have gone on before, that have been faithful and continued on, and they endured it, but you were able to keep on for him. One dear old saint of God wrote this to her friend was actually in prison for his faith. He said a prison for Christ What is this for a poor worm? Such honor have not all the saints Both the degrees which I took at university have not set me so high in honor as becoming a prisoner for the Lord. Looking at the degrees they earn that he earned in college, the award ceremony, the recognition, he said that that was nothing compared to being able to do this for Christ. It brings growth. It brings growth. Hebrews 12, verse number eleven. We are exercised. Uh it brings growth when we go through suffering. It strengthens your faith. It strengthens your character. It brings godly character to your life. James chapter 1, verses 2 through 4. It brings godly character. My brother, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience. Amen. It brings patience. I remember when I was in college, there was a another young man in college there, and God really got a hold of his heart. And he began praying and begging God for patience, this type of faith, this type of growth in his life. He got serious about it. He started begging God for it. He started fasting. He started asking God for this type of patience. This patience The trying of your faith, that that, Lord, is what I want to know. I want to know that it's real, and I want to know that you're real, and that it's powerful, and Lord, that I can trust you no matter what. He began to pray for that. Newly married. And he got cancer. Began going through treatments, of course, lost all of his hair. But he stood up in the pulpit with a smile on his face and joy in his heart. And he said, this is what I asked God for. To know him, to know his power, to have a trial of affliction that would bring me to the place where I had no place to go but up. He said, I asked him for patience. And this is how he's teaching it to me. In faith, believing God. It'll it'll grow your character. It brings heavenly reward. Second Timothy chapter two and verse number twelve. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us. But it brings heavenly reward if we go through this suffering that he allows into our life And it establishes or strengthens your testimony. Romans chapter 8, verse 17 and 18. These are things that God does through the suffering you might endure. And I know nobody likes suffering. For the present, for now. But man, if we could look at it and say, Lord, what are you trying to teach me? What is it I need to glean from this? Lord, I know everything that I'm going through is for my good and your glory. Lord, would you help me to glorify you? Would you help me to gain everything you want me to have from this suffering? And when you come through it like that, you get to the other side, you'll say, I wasn't excited about it, but I'm excited about what God taught me. I'm excited of the lessons I learned and the strength of character I've gained and the love that I have for Christ because of it. So yes, the gift of suffering. Last year I want you to see, lastly, I want you to see the gift of support. Verse number 30. He says, having the same conflict which he saw in me. And now here to be in me. He says the key word here in this verse is the word same. the same conflict. Having the same conflict. You know, it's nice when you find out you're not alone. It's nice when you find out somebody, you know, sometimes the suffering that you're going through might be just so you have the capacity. to bring strength and encouragement to a fellow brother or sister in Christ. There's there's w when you've been through something When you sit down next to somebody going through that, put your arm around them, you can minister to them in a way that nobody else can Because you walked down that road. You've felt that pain. You've endured that. You've come through it. And Paul is telling them that, hey. The same conflict, the same struggles that you're facing. I know what you're going through as you've seen it happen to me. I mean you've seen me be beaten. You've seen me thrown in prison. You've seen me attacked for my faith. You've seen what has happened to me because of my following and trusting Christ. If you have to endure these things, understand that I've already been through it. I'm praying with you, I'm supporting you, I'm standing with you, I'm there for you, but you've got to be faithful. He gives them this. The same conflict they endured. He was involved in the same struggle they were going to face. He says, if you just stand, God will be magnified. Surrender to God. God brings you through something. No, you're not alone. No others have been through it before you. There'll be people that'll go through it after you, unless Jesus comes back, amen. Then we'll all be done with it. And that would be okay. But until then, we've got to just surrender to the Lord's will. And then we get to enjoy the gifts that God gives us along the way. Paul is saying here in conclusion, he's saying, listen, be of good courage, stand for Christ. And stand together. The world will see it, and they'll know that they need the savior that you have. And you will know that you possess salvation. Remembering that amazing gift of salvation, you will find yourself thankful. And then realize that the enemy, the enemy of all believers, Satan, is not going to stand idly by, but is going to oppose you. And you'll need strength to stand. If you must endure suffering, although it is not joyous, Please believe that it is a gift, a gift that's working great things in your life for God's honor and your good The things that God wants to teach you will be taught to you by no other means. Remember this and praise God for it.