Here we are, the Sunday before Easter. Uh in bringing in this week here, you know, this time period which is is typically looked at or called uh Passion Week, the last week of our Savior's life on earth. Uh if you think about it, we're next Sunday gonna celebrate his resurrection. And today uh historically uh he is entering jerusalem triumphant as a king. He's coming into Jerusalem and they're singing praises to him and Hosanna to the highest and uh recognizing him as King of the Jews This last week of Jesus' life, 33 years of a sinless life here on earth And just one week later he will be crucified. During this week he many things happen. He goes through the situation and uh goes and visits the upper room. He's he's betrayed. He is arrested, tried, beaten, crucified, buried, and three days later, praise God, he rose from the grave. He rose. He is not there, for he has risen. Next Sunday we get to celebrate that and Rejoice together. Turn your Bibles this morning to the passage of Scripture that kind of deals with Christ's trial in Matthew chapter number twenty-seven. Our text this morning starts out with Pilate asking a question. He's asking a question of Jesus. He asked him several questions. Pilate seems to be full of questions here. And this morning I've entitled this message, Pilate's Three Questions. Because he asks three questions. of the people. And I'm going to pose those three questions to you this morning. Let's read the passage of scripture. You follow along with me. And watch for the questions that Pilate asks. We'll start in verse number 11 and read down through verse number 26. He says, and Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? So Pilate asking Jesus a question here, he says, and Jesus said unto them, Thou sayest, the wisdom of Christ is amazing. He says, and when he had accused uh when he was accused of the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing Then said Pilate unto him, Hearst thou not how many things they witnessed against thee? And he answered him. To never a word, insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly. Now at the feast the governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner whom they would. And they had then a notable prisoner called Barabbas. Therefore, when they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them. Whom will ye that I release unto you, Barabbas or Jesus, which is called Christ? For he knew that for the envy they delivered him. When he was sat down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. But the chief priest and the elders persuaded the multitude that they should ask Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said unto them, Whither of the twain will ye that I release unto you? Then said Barabbas, they said, Barabbas. Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified. And the governor said, Why? What evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified! When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, He took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. See ye to it. Then answered all the people and said, His blood be on us and on our children. Mind-boggling, amazing, that they would cry for that. Then released he Barabbas unto them, and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him. to be crucified. Pilate asked three questions there in verse 21, 22, and 23 of the people. I'm going to pose these questions to you today. You know, many times uh there's a lot of questions get asked. Uh I haven't looked at the statistics, but you know children they ask an exorbitant amount of questions. And you know, it uh it starts out with just the why questions, right? Why, why, why, everything's why, why this, why that And uh uh yesterday as we were concluding the day we were talking to Pastor Derek and he told the story about Titus. And uh yesterday during the day when they uh uh we're finishing up visitation, they stopped and grabbed some pizza for the family. And they're in the car and they're riding in the car and uh Pastor Derek grabs a piece and he's eating a piece. And Miss Christina grabs a piece and she's eating a piece. And they get home and Titus asks, while they're riding the car, Titus asks, can I have a piece? And Pastor Derek said, No. And so they get home and Christina goes into the house for something and Titus asks Pastor Derrick, Dad, why did mommy get a piece? And so Pastor Derek said, because mommy's special. So Pastor Derek's sitting in a car, and when mom comes back to the car, Titus says, Mom, am I special? And of course, Miss Christina says, yes, of course you're special. That little kid is too smart for his own good. He's he's gonna get himself in trouble one of these days. I know that for sure. But questions We ask questions and you know there is a saying that there's no stupid questions. I think that's just a saying. Because you know there are actually some dumb questions. There are some questions that really are stupid. But these questions that we're looking at today certainly are of utmost importance. And although the crowd, the group there, being s persuaded of the chief priests and the elders, what to answer, They sealed their own fate by so doing. This morning I want you to see for the first of these three questions, there's the question of desire. In verse number 21, the governor answered, and he said unto them, Whither of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said, Barabbas. You see, it was the custom of the ruling, the conquering uh people that uh ruled over the subjects. You see, they had come in, Rome the soldiers, and they had conquered that land, and they were ruling over those people. Now, as a general rule, the Jews and those living there did not like the Roman Empire They had quite a bit of contention between them and the Roman Empire. And that was a standing thing. So what they tried to do is they tried to find ways in which they could garner some favor. with the populace. And one way they would do that at this festival, at this feast, is they would say, hey, there is a prisoner that you value. There's a prisoner that you guys love. We were going to kill him, but would you like him to be released? And the people could say yes, and they would release a prisoner. to garner favor with the populace. It was a custom. It was something that they would do as we read in the text that that's what Pilate was going to do until the governor asked of them, Whither of the twain will ye that I release unto you You see, he knew that the reason Jesus was being tried, he said it in the text, he said it was because of the envy of the chief priests and the elders He knew that he was just. You know, I think it's amazing that his wife came to him and said, listen, don't have anything to do with this just person. You know, men, sometimes it would do us some good to listen to our wives. The Lord's given them some wisdom. And it would be helpful sometimes if we if we heeded that wisdom that they uh Don't elbow him too hard. But it would be good if we if we heed that because they have some wisdom. And she said, hey, don't do anything to the to him because and and Pilate was trying to find a way To let Jesus go. You see, Barabbas was tried and convicted of sedition. He was caught Red-handed, raising an uprising in Jerusalem. You have to read the other gospels. It's not given to us here in Matthew, but if you read the other gospels, you find that he was bringing a group of people up against Rome And he was guilty of murder. He had been found guilty of killing somebody. So Jesus thought for sure, on one hand, we have Barabbas. A murderer, guilty, tried, proven of sedition. And on the other hand, we have this man who is a prophet, who's a teacher. Who goes around healing people? I mean, just a few days ago, the city almost in unison was crying, behold, Jesus, the King of the Jews. They were crying and saying, Oh, we worship thee, Hosanna. And so he thought, for sure, if I put it to him and I ask them. Who will you choose? Baradas or Jesus? He thought for sure they would say Jesus. Release Jesus. He's not guilty. I mean, sure we don't like his message, but he didn't really do anything. You can't let a murderer go. But they didn't choose Jesus, did they? They made the choice of Barabbas. And the question is posed to you and I today, who will you choose? Will you choose Jesus? Or will you choose self? Will you choose Jesus or will you choose another king? You see, to reject Christ is to leave you at enmity with God. When we reject Christ, we're enmity, and we are an enemy of God. To reject Christ leaves you with no peace. Isaiah 48, verse number 22 says, There is no peace, saith the Lord unto the wicked. We as a people, we desire and we look for and we want to have peace. And God says, hey, as long as you choose self as you reject Christ, you will not have peace. To reject Christ leaves you condemned by God. Condemned. You know, it doesn't matter what we think. It doesn't matter how we feel. To reject Christ leaves us condemned. The Bible says in John 3. 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned. Already. Jesus present to you today the question: who will you choose? You're going to choose Jesus, or are you going to choose yourself? You're going to choose your own way, or are you going to choose Christ? Which would you choose? And you have to answer the question. Yesterday, as some were outdoor knocking, One person told me about how they knocked on a door and there was an individual answering the door, this man, and he said, you know what? I'm very learned man. I have read probably more about theology and doctrine than most pastors today. Ever increasing in knowledge but never coming to the knowledge of the truth. He said, I could never believe in just one God. I could never believe in just one Bible. The Bible says, He that believeth not is condemned. He didn't want to believe in God. He's condemned. And it doesn't matter what we think, it doesn't matter how I feel about it. It doesn't matter what I've learned. It doesn't change the facts. And the facts are, if we reject Christ, we're condemned already. But to accept Christ gives you peace We're studying the fruit of the Spirit in uh Sunday school. We'd love to have you come and be a part of that study. We're doing the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Goodness, gentleness, goodness, meekness, faith, and temperance The fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace. It's what you get as a Christian. You get that peace you've been longing for when you choose Christ. He said, peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You want peace? Choose God. But everybody has to make the choice. The question is up to you. Which would you have today? Which would you choose? Life with Christ or an alternative? What is your desire? Because it's your choice. Then he asked him a question that has to do with their destiny. He asked him about their destiny. He says in verse number 22, he says, Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus? Which is called Christ. They all said unto him, Let him be crucified. You know the most important question any man or woman will ever answer Is what would you do with Jesus? What would you do with Jesus? You know the answer that that you need is not uh How much are you going to give towards charity? The answer that you're looking for is not how good of a person you you have been through your years. But what would you do with Jesus? You know everyone's going to answer that question one way or the other. You can't uh like the ostrich, you know, put your head in the sand. You can't just pretend the question's not there. By not acknowledging Christ, you are rejecting Christ You can't be like Pilate, who tried to wash his hands. Oh, I'm just gonna wash my hands of this. You guys do what you want. You how many of you understand he was still guilty? He washed his hands, he was still guilty. We can't just wash our hands of it. The decision is still yours. And we can't just wash our hands of it. We can't just pretend it's not there. When we knock on the door many times, we've had this response We have a questionnaire that we do right now, and we ask him, if it was possible to know, would you like to know how you could know 100% sure you're going to heaven? And we get a lot of different answers, but you know, a very common answer people is like, yeah, I would like to know. And then we follow that up with, hey, is that something you would like to know right now? We could take some time and open the Bible and show you right now how you could know for sure that your sins are forgiven and that you're on your way to heaven. And you know a lot of people say, no, not right now. And then we say, well, we would be glad to come back at your convenience. You let us know at a time that's good for you and we will make it happen. You tell us when and where and we'll get together. And you know we've had people say, yes, I want to know But I don't want to know now and I don't want to schedule an appointment to know to know later. Do you understand that they've rejected Christ? Well you say no they didn't know they didn't yes, they made the decision to reject the knowledge of God. It's a decision that everybody's going to make. By not acknowledging him, you're rejecting him. This is a question about eternity. What will you do with Jesus Not how many candles are you going to light? Not how many services are you going to be in or how many times you observe communion. It's what will you do with Jesus Pilate asked him, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? What will you do with Jesus? That is called Christ. You say, oh, I know about Jesus. I've read about him. I know about his birth. We celebrated at Christmas. I know about his resurrection. We we sing about it and we gather together for Easter and we have so much fun at Easter time and searching for for eggs and and looking for the Easter bunny and we do all kinds of fun things. I know that that's about the resurrection of Jesus Christ But what are you gonna do with Jesus? What would you do with Jesus? Will determine your eternity. To reject him is to reject so great a salvation. It's a great salvation. To reject him is to choose the alternative. Which is an eternity in a place called hell. What you do with Jesus is the determining factor of your eternity. You can choose him And spend an eternity with him in heaven. Or you can reject him and spend an eternity separated from him forever in a place called hell. God never sent anybody to hell. people choose to go there. Second Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7 through 10 says, and to you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in a flaming fire, taking vengeance on all them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. They didn't obey the gospel. They didn't follow. They didn't choose Jesus Christ. To choose Him is to accept this great salvation, forgiveness of sin and a home in heaven. Revelation 21, verse 4 and 5 says, And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. What will you do with Jesus? What shall I do with Jesus, which is called Christ? Excuse me. Then there is a question In verse number 23, he says, and the governor said, Why? There's a question about the decision that they made. You see, they made a decision to let Barabbas go free, the murderer, and crucify Jesus, the healer. And Pilate asked, Why? What evil hath he done? Why do you want to kill him? What evil hath he done? And what I want to ask you this morning Is Jesus Christ who loved you, who gave himself a ransom for you, who died on the cross for you, who came and lived a sinless life for you, and who now sits on the right hand of the Father And is unwilling to intercede for you, could I ask you why would you not choose him? Why would somebody say, Oh, yes, I would like to go to heaven, but I don't want to choose Christ? Oh, I would like to have my sins forgiven and have peace. I would like to know about Jesus, but not now. There's a question about that decision. Have you ever made a stupid decision? Have you ever done something that you thought, man, that was dumb? Oh boy, I shouldn't have done that. Oh I shouldn't have gone there. And there's lots of things coming to my mind about illustrations about that because I've made a couple of dooze. This would be the biggest though, because God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believed in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Could I ask with a great big question mark, why wouldn't you choose him? Why would you choose something else? Why would you disregard him or reject him? Why would you say, no, I don't want Jesus? It doesn't make any sense. Pilate was astonished that they rejected Jesus. You see what happens when we make a decision against Christ We are hardening our heart against him. And every time you harden your heart against Christ, it's that much harder for you to one day accept. Him. True. When you're presented this morning with a very clear presentation of the fact that Jesus Christ came and he died for you and he loves you and he wants to save your soul, and you make a choice this morning to walk out of here and you say, Not today. You've set up one layer in the wall against Christ. And it's going to be that much Much easier to reject him than that much harder for you to turn to him. You say, Oh, I'll do it later after I sow my wild oats. I'll do it later after I get to a point in my life where I really need Jesus. I'll do it later. And but A couple things you're never guaranteed later. You don't know if you're gonna have later to accept him. And if you by God's grace have later, you may have already hardened your heart so hard that even the strongest presentation of Jesus' love for you will not break through that hardening. shell because you've set up a wall. You see how hard they got? They cried aloud, crucify him, crucify him. This man who was a healer, there was probably people in that audience who had been healed of their diseases, who had been made able to walk, who had been made able to see That looked on to it there and they're yelling, crucify him! Why? Because their hearts were hardened against him. When you make a choice, a decision to reject God. You're hardening your heart against the love that He has for you. He gave Him to sell for you. So I ask you this morning, why? Would you harden your heart against a Savior like that? Why wouldn't you choose him? Why wouldn't you let the love that God has for you come into your heart and save your soul and forgive you of your sins? One reason is because the God of this world hath blinded your eyes This morning, the entire presentation is a presentation of trying to remove the blinds, trying to remove the scales. And I can guarantee you, in your heart right now, if you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, in your heart right now, the Holy Spirit is saying that is true. That is true. That's what you need to do. And you have to make the choice: what will you do with Jesus today? Will you accept him? Next week we celebrate his resurrection. What we get to look for and and and his his soon coming appearing, we know that because he resurrected, we will too one day be resurrected. We're going to celebrate that. But what makes that such a powerful and a glorious day for us as Christians is because Because we've accepted his death, burial, and resurrection, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ What will you do with Jesus? Stand with me if you would with your heads bowed and your eyes closed, and I'm gonna ask the pianists to come. We're going to have a moment of invitation. I want to ask you this morning, what will you do with Jesus? Would you choose Jesus or Barathas? Would you choose Jesus or yourself? Just like 2,000 years ago, the crowd had to answer the question. Oh, they cried out for Barabbas. Free Barabbas and crucify Jesus. But I ask you this morning, who will you cry out for? Would you cry out for salvation from Jesus Christ and Him alone? Or would you choose another? What do you desire today? And what decision will you make? I can tell you there's the difference between an eternity in heaven and an eternity in heaven. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, could you would you be willing to just show me by an uplifted hand, say, Pastor Caleb, I need to choose Jesus today. I need to choose Jesus. Would you show me by an uplifted hand right now and just say, Pastor Caleb, pray for me? I need to choose Jesus. I'm not going to embarrass you in any way. I'm not going to call you out. Nobody's going to come to you. Just if you would say, Pastor, just pray for me Because I need to make that choice today. You see that if you haven't made that choice, I know the devil right now is telling you, don't do that Don't raise your hand, but Jesus is saying you need to. You've got that that battle waging in your heart. What will you do with Jesus? Lord, I pray that you'll be with each and every one of us here, Lord, as as people that have trusted Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior, we've made that decision. In the past, at some point there's been a day of salvation for us. I pray God we would celebrate and rejoice in the fact that uh Jesus was presented to us and we were allowed and made able to make the choice for you at one point. And Lord, we're so grateful and thank you, thankful for that. We ask you, Lord, that you would be with those here today who maybe have not made that choice yet. I ask you to be with each and every one, and may the power of the Holy Spirit Convict them of their lost and undone condition, how they stand condemned already. But Lord, may they choose you before it's eternally too late. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.