Everyone should have one of the handout sheets tonight and make it very practical. I enjoyed that singing. I I wish I had a voice like that. I'm finally getting a man's voice now. Or an evangelist voice. And uh but anyways, um But anyways, tonight I want to give you some very practical, practical things that we have learned over the years in the ministry and dealing with our personal finances. And when we look at here in um Matthew 6. 33, you don't need to turn there. Matthew 6. 33, everyone should have that memorized. But it says, seek ye first the kingdom of God. That's our first and foremost priority in life. Seeking first God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And then what all these things shall be added unto you. And if you read the rest of Matthew and prior there, you read the chapter. It talks about how God takes care of the birds of the air, the flowers of the field, and so on, and God will take care of you, and he'll clothe us and he feeds us and so on. But we have to have the right priorities. And when thinking about this tonight, everything in life comes down to priorities and choices. I hate these bifocals. Anyways, everything comes down to priorities and choices. And think about it tonight. What's your number one priority? Putting God first. Accepting the Lord as your personal Savior. I hope every one of us can name the day and the time where you came to know come to know the Lord as the Lord Jesus Christ. For me it was March 23rd, 1970. Somebody came knocking on my door Sunday afternoon, knocking door to door, and I said Oh yeah, I'll talk to you. And he said, let's go privately and I thought, okay. So we went in the attic. That's the only place that's private in our house because we had Six kids, mom and dad and grandma, nine of us living in a two-bedroom apartment. There was nothing private there. Us boys all slept in bunk beds in the living room, you know. But we at least we had a roof overhead And uh so that was the most important priority in life is coming to know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And then I think the number was number two, all of us you better say amen. And I'm going to pitch it to you slowly so you can hand our own rod. But who you married Is your number one priority, number two priority? Or number one is accepting the Lord. And number two is marrying the right person. Okay, men say it. Amen. That made the whole difference. And you know what, young people, I they're not here tonight, but I said I leave the choice to God. I you know when my we had two kids of our own and we took in seven others Total, so we had a total of seven girls and two boys. I told each one of them, let God make that choice, not you And that's another priority. You know, it it's uh it's not going looking for someone, you're not a honey expedition. I always said uh uh being in the way the Lord led me. And that's what being in the way and God will lead you. And then, you know, number three, important priority is where are you going to live? So I chose a when I when I we got married in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. And back then in yeah, it's ancient. Back in the 70s, Florida was my I mean Fort Lauderdale and Miami were cattle towns. There was no I-95, it stopped. And so when we saw the the massive migration of New Yorkers and uh Michigan people moving there at a rate of a thousand people a week. We said, we're getting out of here. And not because of massive people, but because we wanted to be where we can God can use us. So we became one of the quarterbackers. That means we moved the quarterway back up north, but not all the way. And so um where you're gonna live? And I decided I want to be a place Wherever I go, I'm going to be where there's a good church. Because my life is built around church. My church family is closer than my actual families. So where you go to church is the number one, another priority. And where you're going to work, another priority. What car do you drive? You know, that's another priority. These are all choices. And and uh you know, how much you're gonna spend on clothing, how much you spend on clo uh on transportation, food and homes and so on, how much you're gonna tithe. These are all different choices we all make But I like what the Bible says, whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. That makes good sense. Do all to the glory of God. So priorities and choices will change over lifetime. You know where you're going to live, that's going to change. And and you know, uh as you get older you think maybe I want to live closer to my children. And uh Come to think of it, since my daughter's moving to Malta, I don't know if I want to move over there yet. But my wife is already talking about her next trip. Um anyway, so these are choices you all have to have to make. And uh you know your choices will change And uh and however your choices change, your character uh is always with you. Your character. Now, not your reputation, your reputation is what other people think about you, but your character is what God knows about you. And that character is always with you. And so we need to ask God daily what our priority, what our priorities need to be. And choices that we need to make, that Lord, we put you first in everything that we do. So it's important tonight, importance of priorities, is to choose first the kingdom of God. A rich life involves more than financial success. A rich life is success with your family and your children. A rich life is when you look at the relationships you have, and this is your number one relationship, that makes you rich. A lot of people out there who consider themselves millionaires, which are like one every every two minutes in America, another milli person becomes a millionaire. It's you know it's just now it's becoming now you've got to be the billionaire, then you're gonna be the trillionaire, whatever else is coming down the road. And and and that doesn't make you successful the size of your bank account Not all the alphabet soup you have on behind your name. That doesn't make you successful. It may state that you were very disciplined to get there where you are. But it doesn't make you successful. What real success is when you got the relationship with God right, and then you get the relationships with each other right, and that's what makes you rich. So choose first the kingdom of God, Matthew 6. 33. And so sometimes we not only just have to think about what we're going to do, but I want to write some of those things down. I want to write down what some of those choices need to be. And uh people who set goals are much more likely to obtain those goals. But if you aim at nothing, that's what you often hit. So I sat down and said to my wife after we got married and we weren't married about a month, and I said, You know, we need to sit down. Here's where we are We were not youngsters when we got married. We're career people. My wife was a a nurse on the Amazon jungle and then and I was just trying to start this ministry and fly flying the airplane wherever I could to do work for that, whatever I could do with that. And uh, you know, God brought us together. When I was well we she was a missionary and I was a missionary pilot flying an airplane down in the Amazon jungle And then God put some things together. And uh success is not just attaining those financial goals and those goals relationship-wise, but real success. Is is when you are exalting the Lord Jesus Christ in everything you do. Whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. People who set goals and pursue them are much more likely to be successful. So tonight, when I ask you, what's your goal for this week? I you know I I hear this all the time. I I know I should get back to exercise. Well you and then I'm I'm aiming to do that one of these days, and uh I like what the old country preacher said, quit your aiming and start shooting. That makes sense. You know, people who set goals are much more likely to be successful. Not just set goals, but pursue them. And you know, when you set some goals, you have a sense of you're you're you're getting something done And so the importance of priorities, I want to make sure that God's first. I set a strategy with my wife and said, here's where we are, here's where we're going to be in five years from now. We're not going to be living in our fifth-wheel trailer or the motor home Or the m we had an airstream. Why that was a nineteen sixty-three airstream airstream. I don't know how anybody wanted to try to steal it, but it was gone And so, anyways, we get out of that one. And we set some goals and we said, okay, here's where you are, here's where you want to be. But all the time, I want to be in the center of God's will as well. So we wrote down, we sit down and here's where we are. We want to get this car paid off. You want to get all the credit cards paid off, and then we're going to start saving up money for a home. And if God gives us a family at our age, great, great. But here, we want to put God first in all this stuff. And so write down and visualize your goals. Create a strategy and a timeline. Ask God for wisdom and understanding. Now when Proverbs 1 1-7 talks about us of wisdom and the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Start with that. Lord, I'm going to have to give an account of my stewardship. And so if I'm just going to, if I aim at nothing, I'm going to hit nothing. I want to have an accountable stewardship where I'm going to hear those words, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Amen? That's a goal I want to hear. And well done doesn't mean you have a bank account of seven figures or whatever. Well done means you're faithful. Ever faithful. And then sometimes you need to seek some godly counsel. You know, sometimes you you want to make some choices, but there is safety in the multitude of counselors So when you're you're trying to choose some priorities, sometimes it helps to get some good godly counsel so you don't go down the wrong roads. And then number two in our priorities tonight is the importance of providing. And I talked about mention here providing. God gives us money not as a as a It's a tool. God gives us money as a tool, but God gives us money also as a test. I want to make sure I pass the test of stewardship It's a test. And by the way, money is a testimony. It's a testimony because how you handle your money reflects your priorities So I want to put God first in my priorities. Someone says, I can't afford to tithe. I hear that often. It's not that we can't afford to tithe because tithing has nothing. Get this tithing has nothing to do with the amount of money you have, and it's everything to do with the amount of love you have. I just didn't say to my wife, we can't afford these kids. Hey, they're there. And the more the merrier. I grew up in a large family, six kids, grandma, mom, and dad, nine of us. I mean, nine of us in a two-bedroom apartment. I didn't know we're poor. And we we had hey plenty of meat and potatoes. Maybe a hamburger and and potatoes at breakfast or maybe potatoes and hamburgers at night, but it was, you know, it was something. We ate something, beans, a lot of beans. Dad would take the buy those beans and boil them down and they got soft and made his own bean and sold them sold them at a restaurant even. Wow, you know, priorities. To make sure that God's first. And so make sure that, first of all, God's first in your tithe, because tithing has everything to do with how much love you have. You cannot say, I love Jesus, and not do something. Because when the Lord asked Peter And I think this is a lot, I would say about almost 60% of the people in our churches, do you really love the Lord? I think most of us answer the way Peter did. Well, I like you, Lord. You know, and then finally the Lord said to Peter, if you love me, what? Feed my sheep. What is he saying? Do something. Now just talk about it. And if you love the Lord, you're going to do something. And let's start with demonstrating that love by tithing. Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And then I said importance of providing. I said, pay off some debt. That helps. You know, it's amazing how we can talk ourselves into any amount of debt if you want something bad enough. Yeah. Hey. Your car's broke? And you can talk yourself into car payments for the next five years. Or you can say, well, I'm going to have a prayer meeting. And who knows what God might do. You know, I'm doing what I can. I put God first, and I'm going to do what I can, but I'm not going to go out and finance another car. Never. I like my 99. We bought it for $3,000 after the thief stole it and the insurance company gave you $3,500 for the car after it was stolen, and we got the car back. Hey, I'm driving it for free and I'm on the positive side of this game, you know. Imagine s some teenager stole the car right out of a church parking lot where in church. And then the police found him and they tried to chase him and stop him. And this six seventeen-year-old kid tried to outrun a police cruiser with a four-cylinder, and a four-cylinder outrunning a police cruiser, you know, there's something wrong with that kid right there to begin with But I'm saying, praise God. You know when I put God first? Hey, I got the car for free and I got five hundred dollars in my pocket. God can do that for you if you put God first. Pay off debt. Pay off the credit cards. I think the this statistically 54% of Americans believe they will never pay off all their debt. Fifty-four percent believe they'll never get all their debt paid off It's not that it's not your cash flow coming in. It's how you flow the cash going out that makes the whole difference. God always gives us enough money to do the job that God wants us to do, and he tells us about tithing first. Seek first the kingdom of God. So when I put God first, God always seems to have the unseen paycheck. You know what the unseen paycheck is? Yeah, somebody you know where it is, some of you know where that unseen paycheck is? I mean you're I'm driving down the road and my wife said, Where's your did you bring your suitcase? I said, Yeah, I packed my suitcase. I don't remember seeing it in the trunk of the car. Wait a minute. That was a hundred miles back where we've stayed, and now we're on uh in a different state even and you're asking me where the suitcase is Yeah. I thought, I know I know I put it in. She said, I don't remember seeing it. You heard that discussion? And while you're driving 70 miles an hour, you're not thinking about where you're going. Is that two case really back there? So we came to an uh uh an exit ramp. I pulled up the exit ramp, got out of the car, opened the trunk to show her, it's there. See, I told you it's there. And she said, see, I told you it's not there And it wasn't. Wow. I thought, what are we going to do now? I got my tennis shoes on and my blue jeans. And a polo shirt, and I'm preaching tomorrow. And got none of my church clothes with me. Wow. Now some churches that would be normal, but not our crowd. Yeah. I dress to respect and honor the name of the Lord, the King of Kings. If I go see the President, I'm not wearing my polo shirt. Or my pajamas Some of these teenagers want to do. And so we we get off that extra ramp and I I thought, what am I doing? I she said, Is it in the trunk? I said, You're right. I'm sorry. And I'm looking at her, and as I looked out, it's like I'm looking through that window of the car, and right there, there's a a sign across the whole back of this building said, Goodwill. We went up the ramp, came right back around, went inside the store, got myself a suit coat for five bucks, got a shirt for a buck and a half. Got some trousers. I did have an extra pair of dress shoes in there. And I got a dollar a tie for 99 cents. And I I didn't even try it. I came in and came right back out because if my wife goes in there, she's going to stay for two hours. And the grandkids are going to get more toys. And my office is already full of toys that I can't even get into it. And so We went in there and I got those clothes. Came back out. Trove another 50 miles. Got to this church where we're going. And she said, are you sure those are going to fit? I said, yeah You're laughing, ladies, because some of you said the same thing to your husband. You sure that's gonna fit? You didn't even try it on. So we got where we are. I got out that shirt. That shirt fit perfect. And the tie, who cares? You just tie the length whenever you want. And I and I got those pants on and I put my hand in the pocket and said, how do you like this? And I'm smiling. And I honestly I stuck my hand in a pocket and I felt something in the pocket And I pulled that pocket out and pressed to the inside of a pocket was a $20 bill. I'm trying to tell you tonight, when you put God first, God gives back more than you ever give to him. Yeah, and and it's like it was like the Lord was giving us a wave offering. I'm here. Just let you know I'm still watching over you, still taking care of you. Yeah. Hey, pay off debt. Get the credit cards paid off. Pay off the mortgage. I I I did something years ago when I um when I got my first house. It'd be well worth for all of us to do this once a year. Look at your amorization table. And I looked at that amortization table and I said, I paid them $500 a month. And that back days that 12% was considered a low interest rate during Jimmy Carter's years. And so I got 12%, and people are paying 19%. I got 12%. And I looked at the $500 a month. Six thousand dollars. I looked at how much the principal went down. $17. 50. I thought, this is insane. Yeah. What made me sign up for a 30-year enslavement plan like this? I didn't like that. So I looked at that amortization table and I said, well, how much is it going to pay the next year? And it was $20. I sent him $20. That knocked off year 29 of those payments, which saved me $6,000. I know how to trade $20 bills for $6,000 bills. Now some of you will figure it out. I don't know about these youngsters down here, but I you you got it? I said that in our church one time and someone says, is it legal? Is it legal? It's not only legal, it's common sense. In fact it's idiocy not to do it. But you know, people don't do that and they want to listen to their unsaved accountant who says, you don't want to pay your mortgage off. That's the best tax deduction you've got. No, this insanity paying this thing for 30 years. So the next month it was like $23. The next year, so you're year number $27, $23. I sent an extra $23 Then I send next month, you know, every month I looked at what the next payment was and I sent an extra. Whew! That was pretty good. Then, you know, we got this refund check in the mail. Tax refund? Yeah. Hopefully you get one this this year. I really believe I've studied that tax law over and over and over again, the new tax law. And uh I think it's gonna really help most people. Um there's a few that may not get as big as refunds. Those the Duggers are not going to get the biggest refund they used to get. And if you don't know them, I'll tell you who they are. They're good friends, very good friends of ours. We take our vacation together with them. Very nice family. But you know I it's gonna hurt somebody you know when I looked at and I said I'm gonna take my tax refund and when I've got that tax refund I'm looking at this check and then one year was $7,000 refund. Well, we had a whole bunch of kids. And our income wasn't doing that great. And they said, you're poor. I said, my dad never got this. And I think they we said we said we were poor with nine of us living in the projects. You know what the projects are, the survival of the Baptist neighborhood, you know. And so we were living in that neighborhood and we we didn't know we were poor. And now the government says you're gonna get this money, seven thousand dollars. You know what I said to my wife Since we have lived for 364 days without the $7,000, we're going to take that $7,000 check and send it right to the mortgage company. That $7,000 saved us over $64,000 in interest. That doesn't take a stock market. That doesn't take a bookie. That just takes common sense. Just do that. Anyone here want to guess what the number one thing people do with their tax refund here in America? I saw this on on Fox Business News Channel back here around April 15th last year. What is the number one thing people do with their tax refund? Vacation was number three. Yep. My my father always said, I'm I'm gonna pay more in, but at the end of the year I'll get some money and we'll take a family vacation, which meant we went to the shore, spent a few days over there Number three, anyone get number one. Buy a car. Number two, that's number two. Buy a car. Don't buy a car in the springtime because people take their tax refunds and use it for down payments. And that's why cars are usually more expensive in the springtime. If you go to the auctions, you'll find they're always more expensive in the springtime. I was shocked when I heard this and here's number one. Number one thing for people do with their tax refund, alcohol consumption. Yeah. That's what I said. And the news commentator said the same thing and the other one news commentator says, yeah, but not everybody gets a big refund. If they get two or three hundred dollars, you know what they do? They're gonna go out to eat. They're gonna order some wine, get a few bottles of vodka or something, and they're gonna go come home. And that's how they they take their tax refund. It's before you know it, two times eating out in a nice restaurant and a and several bottles of alcoholic beverages they might buy, and it's all gone. Number one thing, not in my house. Take that refund, send it to the mortgage company, and a knock off years of payments off the mortgage. It took us seven years to get that first house paid for. That means I say 23 years of payments, 23 years of payments of 6,000. Now multiply 23 times 6,000. Some of you got that in your head? That's about $138,000 in savings. You could have a 30-year mortgage and have your eating out with your tax refund, buying your car, or taking a vacation. I just pumped it on the mortgage and just saved $138,000 And like Dave Ramsey says, if you live like nobody else now, you get to really live like nobody else later. It's starting to enjoy that living like nobody else later. No more house payment. Anybody could do that because we were getting earned income credit. It wasn't like we had a multiple six-figure salary. We were doing what we could and doing what we should. Party of a providing here. I I figured out how to win the lottery 100% of the time. There's another place where people take their tax refund. That was in the list. I know how to win the lottery every time. Don't play. I said that to this guy one time and this trucker I saw him buying the tickets I said, I know how to win. In fact, I have never lost a lot of tickets. You know, and you stop at a truck stop and the guy buying those tickets, and he stay he looks at me and he says, How do you do that? I said, it's a C It's a secret. He said, is it legal? I said, Oh yes, it's so legal. If I told you, you're gonna say it's that right there, so obvious right here. It's right on the end of your nose. He said, How do you do it? I said, don't buy. And I win every time. Because you're a loser when you're buying that stuff. Yeah. Try that when someone goes by the lottery tickets at a quick quick stop. And then what about the importance of protecting? Protecting some things. Everyone ought to have a will. Everyone ought to have a will. King Hezekiah the Lord said in and told him in Ezekiel 38, 1, this night, this night. And you know, he was thinking many years this night. You know, we don't know when our day is going to come, but we need to have something in writing. And you don't wait till someone gives you the big C word that you go start thinking about it. You do it now. We weren't even married two years and my wife said, we're gonna go out and buy our grave. What do you mean? We're too young for that. She said, no, we and and I've I I have never seen all the stuff, but my wife said she's got the funeral all planned. My funeral and hers. I wonder what's going on when I'm not home. No, she's got it all planned out. Don't partly don't stick somebody else with that responsibility. You know, the first person you call is this preacher over here when someone dies. You ought to be able to just say, preacher, I've got everything all planned out. And here's what mother did, and here's what she wants, and here's how she wants her funeral, here's all the bills are paid, here's where all the insurance policy, and pull out one folder out of the safe deposit box, I mean not out of the safe deposit, out of your safety box If you've got it locked up in the bank, how are you going to get out? Get it out if the person who's got the key is now deceased. It could take a year to get that out of that box And it takes a court order to get it out of that box. So I tell people, get a good fireproof box, lock it up at home, you know, put it in the floor and no one else can find it or something, you know in the rafters or wherever. But uh you know, keep a fireproof box where important stuff is, then a copy of all this. So since my son works for the law firm, I said, here's a copy, here's here's an envelope, son, if we pass on, open the envelope, it tells you everything you need to do. And we ought to have something in writing. A last will and testament. And some of you did one of those 20 years ago. Or when you're in the military from not Vietnam, it's time to update those things. I've seen people that got things listed there that they don't have, and even worse, I've seen someone on their second spouse. And they yeah, still got it all mixed up. And so y yeah, you say second spouse, because the first one passed on, now he married again, but now he has nothing for her. And you need to review these and get the get them up to date. What about your insurance policies? You know, uh what about your life insurance? No, when you had life insurance and you still got this thing you started twenty years ago, but now your kids are growing up. How are you going to divide things up? Maybe one of your spot your spouse has passed away and And maybe one of the children passed away and you want to update your will. There's no reason why you could not go on the internet and at least get a very a basic, simple will to put some of this in writing. We used to say it costs too much. It costs too much not to have one of those. And if you've ever been an executor in the state, I can't think of a more thankless job than that. Every decision you try to make, someone else is going to say, well, you should have done this. And what takes so long? Well listen, that's just the way it is. It takes about a year sometimes. Sometimes it could take many years Because you don't have it in writing. The importance of protecting. I also here protecting. Protect yourself. Change your passwords. Those of you who have computers, change your passwords I got mine, well, because I'm connected to the IRS and I know I'm a target by thieves. But we've got we it changes every couple hours. And then we change the the main password and uh put something in there that no one could even read Hebrew, something in Hebrew, and put something down there and uh and put some Old Testament verse or something uh and find it But you're update 'em. Because these thieves are are a lot more clever than you want to think they are. As we certainly found out at lunchtime today that thieves can steal just about anything And uh and in fact you say, well I got TurboTax. You know, even TurboTax got hacked. How many, what, so many millions of tax returns We're stolen with bank account numbers, routing numbers, experience out there the credit agency gets hacked. If they can get hacked, the IRS can get hacked. Where do you with your same password for five years still use an AOL? Update those things. And then here the importance of planning. I'd say set a budget. Set a budget. People don't plan to fail. They fail to plan. You need to tell your money where to go and stop wondering where it went. You ever get this way you look at the end of the year and you're doing your tax return and you say, did I make sixty thousand dollars? Where did it go? Well, stop wondering where it went and start telling it where to go, and you'll have more money left over at the end of the month or the end of the year. Track your spending. Work on your spending plan with a budget faithfully. Continually do it. I you know, a budget is not something you call names and you make it up and you call it names. And it's not, men, it's not something you put your wife on that you don't put yourself on. Yeah. We're laughing because some of us do that. It's something we work together on for us It's a good time was you know, when kids were younger, Sunday night church is over with, kids gone to bed, let's sit down and here here's what we got here's the bills we gotta pay this week. And you know, and I think The man should be in charge. I can authorize my wife to write the checks, but I can't delegate responsibility. And the responsibility ought to start and end with the man. The responsibility doesn't mean my wife can't write section, can't pay bills, but I can give her the authority to write that. But I'm responsible to make sure the money is there to take care of those bills. How about a savings plan? Save for emergencies. Emergencies do happen. I always say one of the big reasons many couples fail in marriage is money. It's not the number one reason, but uh many people may say money is the real problem. No, money is the fruit and it's not the root. Money reveals the marriage what it's made out of. Or what it's not made of, put it that way. Money is a great revealer of someone's character. And so when you get married, now you see a totally different side when you see that all the credit cards and how they spend money, they're trying to buy identity or security, like we said this morning Money reveals what you are, but it doesn't make you what you are. And so I said, start a savings plan. A wise man foresees the evil and hides himself from it. Hey, we need to plan ahead And so unexpected emergencies, illnesses, home repairs, sudden unforeseen bills, these things all happen. And a lot of couples never have a plan for the unplanned for Like you might be out of work for three months. And you know everything seems to be going good now. It's wonderful. Everywhere you look there's help wanted signs. I wonder, I love that. Trying to find a worker, a good worker, it's getting harder to get. Yeah. Yeah. Shame that's we got uh this president, you know, shame we got that and we got all these people who don't want who have got a job now instead of collecting. Oh stop here. Unexpected emergencies happen. I we had last year, just about this time, we had a hail storm. It lasted for seven minutes down in Green Gold Greer, South Carolina, where I live That hailstorm caused $46,000 in damage. The hail was as big as a softball. I mean not just a hardball, I mean a softball. And if you take the speed of gravity, 167 feet per second You know, this thing is moving really fast when it's coming down from sixty to eighty thousand feet high and coming down to where you are, and it's this big ball of ice. And it not only took the shingles, but it took the plywood off the roof and the subroof underneath that. Destroyed plywood. Three-quarter inch plywood just beat up The deck is wiped out, the windows are busted, the screens are ripped up in seven minutes. It could happen to any of us I'm glad we had insurance. Review your insurance policy probably once a year. When one of the things we do when I'm here looking over the books, I want to make sure we got enough insurance. And sometimes we've got something years ago and we haven't updated it. This is a good time to make sure your priorities that review what you have. And and then um I said not only in planning, but uh we ought to start a savings plan for the emergency, maximize your retirement plan. If you got a 401k plan, do the max. Where else can you get 100% on your money? That's a good place to do it 71% of Americans already have admitted that they do not have enough money to retire for when they reach retirement years. Seventy-one percent Well, and Dave Ramsey, that's that's we can get that quote from, 71% of those who are retirement years Do not have enough money to retire. You say how much is enough money? Well Social Security is never enough It's uh Social Security at max, at max, it should never be more than sixty percent. More likely forty percent of the your of your retirement savings, forty percent of your necessary income is gonna come from Social Security. Where's the rest of the sixty percent gonna come? Well, hence then we're going to keep on working and keep on working, and then you what? You can't work anymore, and all of a sudden now what? Well, we'll go and move in with the kids. No way. Hey, we moved them out. We ain't moving in with them. And we want to maintain our independence as long as we can. So we we did some good we tried to do some planning and setting up a savings plan. Work your spending plan and with a budget and then start a savings plan and start changing $20 bills for $6,000 with a savings plan. And then where should we invest our retirement plan? This is a good one here. Because I know some people said, now Dr. Vallier, you encourage people to invest money. Yes, I do. We've been doing that for 30-something years, trying to get people to invest money. There's two types of savers. There's two types of savers here tonight. There's the loaners, and then there's the owners. You can loan money to Bank of America, and they will give you maybe two-tenths of one percent interest on your money that you put in there in your savings account. Or would you rather be an owner of Bank of America? I haven't found too many people who are owners of Bank of America that have a shabby-looking car. So I decided back there in 19 uh 2000 was it 2008 when 2008 got to the bottom there and Bank America went down to three dollars a share. I said, I could actually own Bank of America. I could buy a hundred shares and that's nothing for some people, but a hundred shares at three bucks is three hundred dollars. Do the math. Where is it at today? 17, 18? It's up there. I like doing that. In five years you you made five hundred percent. I mean, since oh eight till now, that's ten years, you made five hundred percent on your money. I'd rather be an owner than a loner any day. And so when I said start investing, you say, don't you think the stock market is gambling? No. It's being a part owner of something bigger than yourself. Is it wrong for me to own a business? No. Now, is owning a business a gamble? Yeah, well hey, look at how many businesses start and fail within one year even. I tell folks if you're going to start a business and you can't see yourself doing this five years down the road, don't start the business because if you're going to change in five years, you're not going to find yourself making a whole lot of money. It takes about five years just to get your name known out there in a business. And so w why would it be gambling to uh to invest in the stock market, but it wouldn't be gambling to start a business No, buying a owning a business is some risk at it. Hey if owning a business is gambling then How about being farming? You want to know what gambling is. Take $60,000 worth of seed, throw it out over the dirt, and hopefully in six months you got your money back. That's there's some risk there. That's not gambling. Neither is owning a share of Bank of America or some other company like ATT or Coca-Cola or I'd rather be an owner than a loner any day. And oh and owners tend to make a whole lot more money than people who lend them money. If you like your two-tenths of one percent, good for you. Well, don't you think we can take some risk? You might lose it. A farmer can have a bad season, too. But don't look at something as an investment for one year. An investment when you're talking about investing and owning a part of a company, it's not a one-year deal. It's not one minute. I know some guys who buy and sell in every day Buy in the some guy told me he said I buy I I buy on the fact and I sell on the rumor Well, maybe he's good at it, but I just don't get into that. That's and doing that several times a day, the same uh same shares and every day 50,000 shares of whatever ABC company. To me that's almost gambling. Because you're not intending to invest it. You're just turning over money and hoping the cards come out good that day for you. Be careful that you don't get greedy when you come to your investing. And uh So I said, invest. If you got a four hundred one K plan, make sure you keep that up. I said, leave a legacy. Leave a legacy through estate planning. Everyone should have a will. And then I want to make a difference, and I said this morning, I want to make a difference for all eternity. And so I want to make sure I I have some sort of plan to to what I'm going to do. And and here's what here's the number one reason why people I think people don't do this, fear. Well, the reason why we haven't got a will yet, Brother Valley, is we just don't know who to lead our kids to. Well, the state will pick somebody, so pick somebody out there. Or maybe some people got this, they got the heedy jeevies, you know, they think just because they did a will, they're on the bus to heaven tonight. There's some people like that. Just because we fill out a will, I know I thought that way. You know, we're we're we're not even married two years and my wife's got everything all planned out At first I thought, well, we're not on the bus to heaven yet. Some of us, you know, you you got teenager, you got teenagers at home. You know what's really comforting? This is so comforting. You're sitting there at Thanksgiving dinner and your kids are talking to their cousins and they're all talking about how they're going to divide up the parents' inheritance yet. Hey, wait a minute, son, I'm not even on the bus to heaven yet. And they got it all divided out. Hey, if you don't have it divided out, they will have it divided out, and it may be just to where you don't want to give it to And you don't have to leave everyone something in your will. If you've got someone out there who's out there on drugs And living a lifestyle that you don't support. You can be when one guy said, leave him the sum portion of one dollar so he knows that I love him. And give them all your prayers. Or I like what some parents have done, they set up a special needs truss for a wayward child. So someone else will make sure this wayward child at least has a roof over the head and not out in the street. There's some things you can do and you can't do, but I'm not going to go leave someone a lump sum of money if they disrespect my values. And parents, don't give yourself a guilt trip because you didn't leave your kids any money One lady said to me, I'm sitting there in California, the lady said, I I believe I'm going to leave all my 401k plan to my sons. And I'm looking at this elderly lady and she's got a $500,000 portfolio in her 401k plan And her husband, he was one of these guys that was on Normandy Beach during D-Day. He's sitting in a wheelchair and he's shaking everything again to put lifting stuff up. We're not leaving those Gilberts anything. And I looked at him and he said, yeah, both my sons are in prison for robbing the bank. And mama feels guilty not taking care of them. I'll tell you, if you give it to them, the state's gonna say, you're After you're gone, those kids got money, they're going to say, we want reparations for the kids' time in jail, and all that money will just go to back to the state to pay for the jail time. You want to make sure you have something in writing. And so leave a legacy. Update your beneficiaries. Sometimes you set something 20 years ago and now your kids are different You got more kids, more grandkids, and so on. Um I d I don't like to leave a lump sum to kids at age twenty-one. I'd like to think that we can leave it to them well I used to say 25 now I feel like one lady said uh leave it give my kids their inheritance when they're 39 I said, why thirty-nine? She said by that time they'll have teenagers that they're all and then know what life is all about. But you know, you don't have to go out there and give them a love sum and say, well, they're 18 years old. I want to put it in trust and say, here's this money. If you want to better yourself through buying your first-time home, we'll help you. You want to better yourself for college? Good, we'll help you. Otherwise, sit down and wait till the youngest child reaches age twenty-five. Until all the kids grow up, then nobody gets anything. That way each kid gets an equal share. I say leave a legacy. I like what we did with the Jehovah Jireh Foundation. And I see we got Jim Bossey over here. Jim Bossey was a businessman here in Baltimore, did very well, started with little or nothing, and worked his way up hard work, long hours. gas stations and so on and then got this little shopping center and happened to be in the right location. And you know what he said to me one day when we were talking about setting up something and what to do with his taxes. And he came and saw me and I said, I know how to get you so you'll never pay any taxes. You mean how how can you do that? How can you sell this business? I said, we're not going to sell it. We're going to give it away. Give it away. Yeah, I said, give it away. And that way we'll have no taxes. In fact, if we give it away to a charity You'll have tax write-offs on your other businesses for years. He wasn't laughing anymore. And I said, better yet, let's set up our own charity so that we can go fund churches all across America. I think we're up to about 140 churches that we've helped get started. All because one man said I'm going to make a difference in eternity. You know, Sam Walton, remember you know who Sam Walton is? You know, he he coined the slogan, made in America, sold in America. Now it's more like made in China sold out to China. But he said that. His wife wrote a book, and she's said that one of the worst things that happened to them in their home and their families. Is now that once they went public, none of the children knew what it was to go without and have to work 80 hours a week. None of the children. They had 20 billionaires created when their company went public. Billionaires. Never mind how many became millionaires and they know nothing of the value of hard work. Not saying they're all lazy, but this is what she writes on her biography of her husband. Be careful what you pray for. God just may prosper you such that it will destroy your family and destroy those values. I think tonight protect your protect yourself, protect your family, leave a legacy, get a will done, start a savings plan. I said and then um Then I'll gonna finish up here number F on your sheet. Stay healthy. I've heard this and I I'm not saying everybody can do what I do and go jog and exercise, but Real wealth is health. The old saying goes, when you're young, you spend your health to get your wealth, and when you're old, you spend your wealth to try to get back your health. Real wealth is having your health, like Lee Robertson, 96 years old, still preaching Take care of your health. Health care begins with self-care. I don't need the government to tell me that. But some people it might help them to have that. Protect your health's your health uh by doing some preventative stuff and so on. search yearly the right medical insurance and um by the way, a medical insurance, this Obamac Obamacare is what it's commonly known, the street name is known as The penalty is still there in 2018. Some people got this idea with the new tax plan the penalty went away. No, it doesn't go away to 19. Because they passed the tax bill in January, so it didn't go retroactive. It's from the next year forward. So some people think that there is no penalty in 2018, you're mistaken, it's still there. And it's like six hundred dollars, six hundred twenty-five dollars per person. And so um i uh I'm just letting people know that that stay healthy and get some insurance. You don't have insurance Uh there's always these need sharing program. I I can Christian Healthcare Ministry, CHM, Samaritan Ministries, there's others. That our insurance is like 70% less than the open market. These are Christian organizations. You can get insurance and coverage that's 70% less than what you get on the outside market And I'm starting to see even some of them out there unsaved, unchristian not even Christian organizations have started some of these need sharing programs, and they're doing a better job than the public can, and certainly they're doing a better job than the government can. I can't think of anything the government can do better than private enterprise because the private enterprise has a profit motive. And and it and I'm saying the government is true about every part, but they have a preservation motive that keep my job. And so uh get get your health care. Look it over it. Don't wait till you go to the hospital to find out, do you have health care? This is a time of planning ahead. And then last thing tonight I want to say, involve your spouse in your financial plan Some women are totally in the dark. I find some men are totally in the dark. What's going on? I have no idea where they are. And we need to involve each other. It's time to communicate. And we've done this since now that our kids are growing up. We talk to them. I did something, oh, about two years ago, maybe three years ago. I'm trying to foster the financial wisdom that God's given us into my kids. So he did for my daughter, I said, honey, if you will, if you'll just give me your tax refund Let me invest it. I will match that tax refund. Hey, what is a 22-year-old going to do with $300 refund? I hope it's not alcohol. But what are they gonna do? It's gonna be gone. It'll go. I said, if you'll give me that 300, I think it was $340, give me that $340. So when I did the tax refund, it put on there, it put my bank account, so it went to my bank. Then I sent to the investment company that we're in, they happen to be American funds or Fidelity funds or Vanguard funds or a number of others. But I picked one of those American funds, fairly conservative, and I said, I sent them not the 340, but I sent them $680. I matched it. And I said, if you never touch this money, you can keep it. And so that next year comes along, my daughter's starting to get a hold of this. You know where I'm going with this. I'm in trouble now. Because the next year, she had like $800. See, the first year she got out of college, she only taught for four months as a teacher, first grade teacher. So the second year she taught for 12 months. Now we got an $800 refund. And she said, here we are, Dad, here's the money. And I matched it. You know what I'm teaching them? Discipline and personal responsibility. And there's a child will do something if they redeem the reward great enough to do it. And so I made the reward great enough for her to do this. And then the third year came along, and now it was a twelve hundred dollar refund. I'm getting in trouble now. And um So anyways, I did match that and I put the 2400. Now they got a little Bambino. I'm in big trouble because they get two thousand dollar child tax credit for every child under the age of seventeen. So she's going to have that plus a whole year's worth of teaching and a tax deduction and then she'll get the earned income credit and I'm gonna have to pay her back on an installment plan or something. You know what I taught them? Discipline Involve your children with that. I I didn't want to give my kids, here's money and just go do it. Earn it My son said, Dad, I want to go to the wilds. Great. I'm glad you want to go to the wilds. How much is it to go to the wilds? $400. I'm not giving you $400. Wait a minute, don't you want your kid to go to the wilds? Yeah. I said, here's what I'll do. For every book you read, I'll give you five bucks. That book better have at least a hundred pages. Not counting the the the blank pages. A hundred pages, not counting pictures. So when you read a hundred pages, I'll ask you a few questions And although you read it. Did you read it? Yeah. And so, okay, here's five bucks. By the end of the year, he had read over 3,000 pages. We paid for his way to the wilds, but he earned it. He also earned self-respect. He also learned some self-discipline. So when he got the high school years and he took the SAT scores, readers are always leaders. And he scored well enough to get a thirty thousand dollar scholarship. I think I came out on the top of that because that's thirty thousand I didn't have to pay I'm trying to encourage parents to involve your children and your grandchildren with some discipline measures to help them become better stewards in light of their time, talent, and treasures. Tonight, let's close here and say, let's be faithful. Be faithful, 1 Corinthians 4 2, it says, moreover, it is required in a man that he be found faithful. Let's make sure we please God. Do everything decently and in order with our stewardship. For which of you in Luke Luke chapter 14, verse 20, for which of you intended to build a tower Sit a dot down first and count at the cost. Whether that's sufficient to finish it. Hey, here's where I'm at. Where am I going to be when I finish this life? I want God to say, well done, thou good and faithful servant, don't you? And what better way to see that God will say well done? Because you've been a good steward of your time, the talent, and treasures. Let's prize and pray. Father, thank you tonight for helping us. Thank you, Lord, for giving us wisdom. Thank you for your mercy. And thank you, Lord, for you bless us abundantly in this country. Lord, I pray that tonight you would not let us become apathetic. But Lord, help us to be concerned about the stewardship that we might hear those words of well done. Lord, you said in your word to whom much is given, much shall be required. Oh Father, I pray that we might excel to that level of doing at least that which is required of us. To glorify you in our stewardship, and our time, and our talents, and our treasures. Bless tonight. Help this message just not be another message on stewardship. Lord, change some attitudes tonight. Work someone's heart. Someone here may be struggling, Lord. Someone here just has a flippant attitude. Lord, help us to realize we have within ourselves a power to do something tonight that can make a difference for all eternity, not only on our home and our family, but make a difference in our church and our friends. If we would just take the stewardship of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ, we'd all be better stewards. And hear those words, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Ask your blessings in Jesus' name. Amen