I'm going to ask God to speak to our hearts this morning. Would you pray with me as we open the message this morning? Lord, we thank you for your love. We thank you, God, for the privilege to be in your your house today and I pray Lord that you would allow this morning the power of your word to speak to the heart of these people that have gathered this morning to be challenged I pray, God, they would feel and know your presence, that each and every person here would be met by the Spirit of God where they're at. Everyone dealing with different situations and facing different battles and involved in different types of struggles, Lord, some carrying burdens that they feel are more than they can bear this morning and others who maybe are on cloud nine who have just extra Great victory in in different areas and and everybody in between. But Lord, we pray this morning that you would take the words from your scripture that's been sent to us, that it would feed our spirits and strength Strengthen us and encourage us and challenge us to continue to be what you want us to be. Lord, I pray you'd use each and every one here, from the youngest in the auditorium today to the oldest. I pray you would use this thought this morning in our hearts and life. In Jesus' name, amen. Turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter number one. Galatians chapter number one, and we'll be reading for our text this morning, verses ten. 11 and 12. Paul is writing to the believers of Galatia and he's using his own testimony. He puts out there for everybody to see the motivation of his heart. He puts it on display. That he might encourage us to a similar action. Would you look at the text this morning, Galatians chapter number one? Verses 10, 11, and 12. He says, For do I now persuade men or God? Do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men, I should not be the servant of Christ. But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. Paul here states clearly, for do I now persuade men or God? Do I seek to please men? What it what is the motivation for why Paul was preaching what he was preaching? He said, there's a desire in my heart, there's a motivation for why I do what I do, and ultimately here is my my goal, here is the end game. That question is put to us this morning in the message that I would like to preach to you, pleasing men, or the Master. Pleasing men. Or the master. What is your end game? Paul was striving to counter the false teachings that had crept into the church. He says in verse number 6, I marvel, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto another gospel. He said, Oh, I I'm just shocked that you're so quickly turned away. So quickly. These false teachings have come and you've been kind of pulled away. Well, you see, these false teachings that had come into the region there of Galatia had come in They were motivated by self-preservation. They were motivated by convenience. They wanted to teach for the reason Really was ultimately to avoid persecution. You see, they wanted to accept Jesus, yes, but they also wanted to hold on to the law. And they were teaching people that, yes, Jesus is good, but you need the law. And all of the Pharisees, those zealots in that area, were persecuting the Christians. But Paul tells us, if you would like to look at it in Galatians chapter 2, a couple of verses in Galatians 2, verse number 16, he says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, But by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. I mean it doesn't get any clearer than that, does it He says, listen, there's no work that can justify you. There's nothing that you can do on your own. You couldn't possibly be pure enough or clean enough or do enough to earn your own way of salvation. Your own way of forgiveness of sin. No, no, no way to attain that on your own. But They had begun talking about the law and they had talked about circumcision and how that, you know, oh yes, you you can get saved, but you still need circumcision and and Paul says, no, you don't. You don't. He actually says in Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 6, he says, For in Jesus Christ, neither circumcision availeth anything. Nor uncircumcision, but by faith which worked by love. So he's saying the act of circumcision, this work that they're trying to attach to salvation, does not do anything. It does not provide salvation. Salvation is in Christ and in Christ alone. And today there's many who they're not trying to add circumcision to salvation. But they do try and add a lot of works to salvation, don't they? It starts from the very beginning that they try and add baptism to salvation. That you got to be baptized in order to be forgiven of your sins, to know salvation of the Lord. Listen, a free gift is free. The minute it's not free, it's not free. It doesn't matter how small of a payment you give. If it's a payment, it's a payment. If I told you I got a beautiful Honda Accord uh coop outside and it's only got 75,000 miles on it And uh I want to give it to you as a gift. All you've got to do is give me 500 bucks. I think anybody in here would take it for 500 bucks Without a doubt. Man, I could turn that over. I mean it's retail uh blue book on it's probably about twelve thousand. So that's pretty good, five hundred bucks. But It's not free anymore, is it? I mean you got a great deal, but it wasn't free. Well, Jesus Christ gave salvation free without works In Galatians 5 verse number 11, he says, and I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? He says, if I'm preaching what they want, why am I still being persecuted? You see, what I'm telling you here is the motivation behind what was going on there in the church was to avoid persecution. They were adopting these outside truths because it was popular to have them. And there was motivation there to please men. Instead of pleasing God. And Paul is saying, do we please men? Or do we please the man? What is our goal? What is our heart's desire? Do we please men or please the master? Right from the beginning of the book, Paul says it clearly. Do I please man or do I please the master? And from Paul's day until now, every saint of God has battled with the same question. Some have answered it by default, while others have made a conscious decision. But beloved, everyone chooses. Your heart's motivation for why you do what you do. Do you do it to please men? Or do you do it It to please the master. Two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self So this morning I want to compare and contrast the man pleaser and the master pleaser, that we might look at our own hearts and determine where we're at individually. What does God How does God challenge us? Are we doing what we're doing for God because we want to please the Master, or are we doing it because we want to please men? So, first of all, the man pleaser What do we know about him? How can we look at him and maybe point out such an individual or maybe do a self-check and evaluate our life to be sure that we're not living by that means as a man pleaser? Well, first of all, the man pleasure is focused on what men see. He's focused on what men see. This is what's important. I'm going to give you some scripture. If you'd like to turn to him, you can. You're in Galatians now, you could turn over to Ephesians. Just a few pages over there on the right. Galatians and then Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 5 and 6. He says there in Galatians 6, 5 and 6, he says, Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters. according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart as unto Christ. Verse number six there, not with I service as man pleasers. You see that desire there? The man pleaser is looking for when somebody's looking at him. He's he's with eye service. I uh is anybody gonna see me do this? Is anybody gonna recognize my great contribution to this effort? Doing what is right because others are watching? Let me ask you, would you uh come to church if nobody else was going to see you? Would you be faithful? I mean faithful, faithful, faithful to church? If you didn't have the encouragement of Your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ? Now, praise God, we do have that encouragement. But what is our motivation? Is our motivation because everybody in church is going to see us? And think of spiritual or is our motivation because there's a master, a God in heaven that we want to please. You see, uh when Mary and I first got married, John and Stephanie just got married. The honeymoon's over, man. They just got back a couple days ago from their honeymoon and uh life is starting for them. We s we we determined when we first got married that we were going to have family devotions every night Every night we're going to have family devotions. And we started that with our kids when they were very, very young. So young that they didn't even know what was going on yet. We would sit down every night and have family devotions. You know, there was many times That dad didn't feel like having family devotions. I was busy doing something. But one of my kids would come to me and say, Dad, are we going to read tonight and pray? Um what am I supposed supposed to tell no, we're skipping the Bible tonight. We're not gonna I mean this What do you tell your five year old that comes and asks you, you're like, man, did I just get convicted by a five year old? I mean, seriously? Yes, we're going to re-pray. I'll stop what I'm doing. This is a very important task and come and read and pray with you. So you can go to bed, you know I mean what was my motivation? Now it oughta beer, it ought to be I want to do this to you know point my kids to God and please God and this is what's most important Sometimes we need the external motivation, but our heart's desire ought to be to please God, not to be a man-pleaser. As long as men are watching, we diligently serve. But if we take that public display away, it quickly falls by the wayside. I wonder you could do a kind of a self-test for yourself right now with regards to streaming. There are some that stream very, very faithfully, but obviously nobody at church knows whether you're streaming Just for those of you that are visiting here, that there's about half of our church that's not present right now. They're they're streaming online because of COVID and they're in risk categories and so on. Sick d dealing with different things. But here's the question, when you're not here, do you stream faithfully? Do you, I mean, you don't miss? You stream faithfully? I mean nobody's gonna know whether you do or not. But what's the motivation? What about reading and praying your Bible, walking with God on a daily basis? Do you do that? Nobody's going to know whether you do or not. I told you before how when I was in college, I was in Bible college, many people call it seminary, you know, and studying to to preach the word of God and uh there's about two hundred students in the college that I went to and And you know, we had the men's dorm and we were in the men's dorm and in the men's dorm you had the really spiritual guys that they would find some public place To cry down fire from heaven. You know, they they would somehow find a place where everybody would see them having their devotions and we would be in like the break room and we're all talking and having fun. They'll be like, excuse me, can you be quiet? I'm trying to have my devotions here. And we're like, uh no Uh go to a private place to have your devotion. This is a public room. Why are you why are you doing this right here? I mean, but they're out where everybody can see it. Since I'm telling on myself I'll I'll make this a little worse, you're gonna be even more disappointed in your pastor after this morning. In college there was a rule that you had to be out of bed by six AM unless you came in after 3 a. m. So if you were in bed before 3 a. m. you had to be up at 6 And somebody would come around and open your dorm room and look, and if you weren't out of bed, you got in trouble. Well I knew that. So I would get up, set my alarm, and get out of bed, sit down at my desk with my Bible Wait for the guy to come by. He would he would come in, open the door, like oh okay, everybody's up and he'd close the door. I would close my Bible and get back in bed Man, I was tired. Three hours till I had to be in class. What am I gonna do for three hours? Say, man, Pastor, I thought you were more spiritual than that. I know. I know. I've just let you down today But I'm saying is sometimes the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak, right? What is our motivation for why we're doing it? Uh the only reason I got a bed at got out of bed at six was because somebody was gonna come and stick their head in the door and if they weren't going to do that I would have stayed in bed. That's the wrong motivation. The motivation for why we do what we do should be because we want to please God. It's a matter of doing it with the right heart, with hearts. You see in the verses there, you know, you probably aren't there anymore, but in Ephesians in verse 6 he says, not with eye services mentally But as the servants of Christ doing the will of God from the heart. Doing the will of God from the heart. It's having a heart's desire to do the will of God and to want to accomplish that. Not just doing it from the because people are going to notice it or see it. Do you go through the motions just because that's what's expected of you or what's required? Or is it because you You have a heart for God. Beloved, at some point, what you do has to become a personal Bible-based conviction. But this is what I do because this is what the Bible says and this is what God wants of me. You don't just do what you do because it's what the church expects. Or because pastor might see, but because this is what God wants, and I want to please God. From the heart. That heart motivation. In Colossians 3, 22 and verse 23, he says, servants Obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. In whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as Unto the Lord and not unto men. You see, a man pleaser only puts effort into what he's doing when he's going to get recognition for it. He's doing it heartily unto men, but not unto God. How many of you know that you can't please everyone? Yeah. As hard as you work, you can't please everyone. There's an old fable told about a older gentleman who had a mule and he had his grandson with him and He was pulling the mule with his hand and leading the mule and his grandson was walking behind and they walked through the first little village and the people of the village complained. Man, sir, you're an older gentleman. You shouldn't be leading that mule. You have that mule. You should be riding that mule. So he got on the mule, and the boy was leading the mule, and they walked through the next village, and the people thought, my goodness, sir How in the world? You have no compassion for that young boy, that boy making him walk while you ride on a mule? So he got off the mule and put the boy on the mule Then he was leading the meal. He was walking through the next village and the the next the village they said, man, how in the world you you're you're Young man, you're sitting up on that mule. You have no respect or compassion for this older gentleman. You ought to respect your elders and you ought to let him you know what? Why don't you both ride the mule So they both got on the mule and they went a little further. Got to the next village. Next village, they thought, wow, the cruelty! How can you both be riding that mule? Well, that very frustrated frustrated older man, the last time they saw him, he was carrying the mule. So uh somebody w wise person said that when you try and please everyone, you end up carrying a burden you weren't meant to carry. And here's the thing, when you try and please everyone, you end up pleasing a few people but not pleasing the one that matters, and that's God. Our heart's desire ought to please God. That ought to be our motivation, our reason. For what we When you try to please men above God, you're bound for ruin. Herod. Herod wanted to please men and act. It says that he killed James, the brother of John with the sword, and because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded Proceeded further to take Peter also. Because he saw it pleased men, he did this. Boy, we see this in our world today, so many places. Where the motivation is not what's right or wrong. It's about who is going to make happy. And our desire ought to be to please. the master. So let's look secondly at the master pleaser. Not that you're a master pleaser, because that doesn't sound good, does it? But that you please the master The one that pleases the Master, that that is his heart's desire. In Hebrews eleven verses five and six we see A description and a testimony of the man called Enoch. He says, by faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found because God had translated him. For before his translation, he had this testimony that he pleased God. Boy, that would be great, wouldn't it, to have that testimony? That he pleased God. You know, he might not have been that dynamic of a speaker, but he pleased God. He might not have been that that had that grain of a personality, but he pleased God God. He might not have been rich, but he pleased God. Well, maybe you can be rich and please God too. But can you please God? That's oughta be the heartbeat of every Christian The desire to have that kind of testimony that we please God. How do we please God? Well, in that same passage of Scripture, verse number five says that he pleased God. Verse number six says, but without faith It is impossible to please him. So if we're going to please God, pleasing God begins with faith, with developing faith in our life Faith, of course, begins at salvation. Putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Trusting in Him and Him alone. Boy, I have to I have to tell you this. I talked to Nieten Thursday night after church. We talked for forty-five minutes. I don't have time to tell you the testimony that he told me about the process which God brought him through. that brought him to the place. But let me tell you just the last couple of the last day or two. You see, he thought he was always saved because he had always been in church. His mom always took him to church. and he was a Christian and he loved God and he wanted to do what was right and and and he saw all of that, but he's from India and And in the Indian culture, uh there's a basically if you identify as a Christian in the Indian culture, there's an expectation, even if you don't go to church, That you've been baptized. So when you reach the age of eighteen, if you haven't been baptized yet, they will come and say you're a Christian, it's time for you to get baptized. And they will take somebody that doesn't even go to church to take a This is what happened to Neteen. So anytime anybody asks him if he was a Christian, he's like, yes, I have my certificate. certificate. The certificate actually in India is even used as a means of identification. And basically he said it's like when you go to Y you know, you you go this family goes to the temple and this family goes to the church. And you know, it's just what you are. So he thought he was always a Christian while his son began, Johan began asking questions about getting saved. And Nitin thought, well my son's too young to get saved. I mean he needs to wait until he's eighteen. But he didn't want his son to feel left out because several other kids in the church had gotten saved. And so because he thought, well, I don't want my son to be left out, this is how we do it in America, you know, I'll I'll I'll talk to him about it. But he thought, well, I'd better go talk to Pastor Boots and ask him, you know, what do we need to do to to show my son whether he's saved or not. So Pastor Boots gave him some illustrations and talked to him about how to lead his son to Christ. So Neetine sat down with his son and his wife, and they sat down at the table and was talking to Johan about trusting Christ. And Johan had been asking, and Johan was very ready to trust Christ already. But uh Nieten used an example that was given to him by Pastor Boots and he said, okay, Johan, here's a piece of paper. And on this piece of paper, oh, I gotta tell you this. Before this day, in the last week, one of Nitin's uncles passed away in India. And he, this man, said he was a Christian. But Nitin knew that this man was a drunkard and that this man didn't do what was right. So he called home and he asked his family, he said, did Nitin, or did my uncle, and Eating said, did my uncle go to heaven? And his family said they don't know. He said, well, from my understanding, from the preaching I'm hearing, is you should know if somebody is saved or not. So this started putting questions in Neetine's mind about his testimony and whether he was saved and if he was going to go to heaven when he died. So Nieten. was showing his phone and he took a piece of white piece of paper and he said, You get born and you know, here's some sin on here. And he took a you know his black marker and he wrote, Here's some more sin. And then you get up and oh you you lied to your mom and here's some more sin And and y you took those cookies without asking and here's some more sin and he he's writing sin all over this and and Johan's like yeah yeah and showing everything that they did and he says all the sins on there he says now when you get to heaven if this is your life and you show it to God, God can't let sin in heaven So what are you going to do? He says, somehow you have to have your sin covered. And he took another piece of paper and he wrote, Jesus. A clean white piece of paper, and he took that piece of paper and he laid it over the top of his sin. And Neteen said, as soon as I laid that paper on that other paper, God smote me and said, You have never had your sin covered. He said, You're still Dead in your trespasses and sin. And he said that immediately right then, he says, it came upon all three of us, and all three of us knew at that moment that we were not And he said, Pastor, there's a big difference between knowing God and trusting God. He's going to be baptized this morning in his church. But could I tell you this morning, if you're here this morning, you don't haven't put your faith and trust in God, there's a difference between just knowing about God. Knowing he rose from the dead, knowing that he's real, and and and that that heart belief that he is there, and putting your faith and trust in him, at some point you've got to trust him as your Lord and Savior. If you haven't done that, I hope you do it. That's where faith begins. The Bible says, for by grace are you saved through what? Faith. Putting your faith and trust in God, trusting in Him and Him alone for your salvation, not by works of righteousness, but faith. That means any work. Then we continue in our Christian life and we develop the faith that we have that God has given us. And we know that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. of God. You develop the faith. You grow your faith as Christians. You continue to walk with God and grow your faith and that pleases God And then we deny the flesh. Romans 8. 8 says, so then they that are in the flesh cannot Please God. Now this is a battle that we face our entire life because this soul flesh is powerful and it calls for us all the time. I mean, I was thinking this morning, you're such a spoiled brat think about myself because I don't like being cold. And this morning it was cold. So I started a fire in the house and I'm standing in front of the fire, you know, in the fireplace, not just in the house. I'm standing in front of the fire and I'm just standing there, you know, reading my notes for the day and I'm I'm s getting warm and I'm like, man, it's not really that cold, but you can't be a little bit chilly. Just because your body like says you're a little chilly, you're gonna start a fire. And I I thought, man, isn't that how we are with our flesh? We just just satisfy it, you know Just satisfy it. That's how we are. And and the flesh is so strong and it pulls at us and makes us do what we want to do. And Christian, we can't please God if we're living in the flesh We've got to live and follow the Spirit of God and what He wants. And when we're walking in the Spirit, we'll also display faithfulness. It's exciting that it's accounted under a steward that a man be found faithful. God doesn't call you to be the best at anything, the best there ever was. He doesn't call you to magnificence. He calls you to be faithful. Faithful with whatever tools, talents, and treasures God has blessed you with. You say, Well Pastor, I don't have much. Praise God, you don't have much to be faithful with. You don't have to worry about it. You know, hey, uh well I'm not that talented, but then you're not going to be held accountable for that much. It's o it's okay, but whatever we have. Whatever talent we have, whatever treasure we have, whatever God has trusted to us, we've got to be faithful. Faithful with that. That's what God wants us, and that pleases God. Turn to John chapter 8. If you have your Bibles. John chapter 8, I want to show you something. I want you to see it in the Word of God. There's someone here that said, For I do always those things that please the Father. In John 8, 29. Now Those of you that are there in John 8. 29, can you tell me who it is that said, I do always those things that please the Father? If you have a red letter edition Bible, that should be pretty easy. Jesus. Jesus said that. I do always the things that please the Father. Boy, I'll tell you, wouldn't that be great if we could say that? I always do the things that please the Father. Now, tonight in the service, we're going to look at the things that please the Father. We are to be faithful with what He is He's trusted us with the Do you do what God wants you to do? Because God wants it, or do you do what the church expects? Do you do what your friend might expect or what other people want you to do. At some point, beloved, it's got to not stop being about pleasing somebody else and it's got to be a Personal relationship with God. Winston Churchill knew that pleasing the crowd was not necessarily a One day after he spoke to a rather large crowd, they are said to have been over 10,000 people. there. He got in the vehicle and his aide said, man, aren't you proud? Aren't you impressed that 10,000 people came to hear you speak? And he said, not really. A hundred thousand would come to see me hung. You see, it's not necessarily about who we please down here But are we pleasing him? Are we pleasing God? As you bring as I bring this this morning to a conclusion Could I ask you to do a self-test? Evaluate, am I pleasing man or pleasing the master? Would you answer yourself honestly, in your heart of heart What is the most important thing to you? Are you looking for the applaud of men or for the applaud of the master? There's a story about a very accomplished, but very Young violinist. This young violinist was standing on the stage all by himself, and he completed his concert. At the conclusion, when the last note fell, the crowd of over 2,000 people arose and began to applaud, and they gave them a standing ovation, and there was just that surge of energy in the room and that excitement. But this young man bowed his head and he began to cry. He turned and walked from the stage, and by the time he reached the edge of the stage, there were tears falling from his eyes And there, the stagehand looked at him and said, Why are you crying? Why are you so dejected? You've received a standing ovation. There's thousands of people out there that are praising you right now. And he turned and he told the stagehand, he says, do you see that one man sitting there in the center who is still seated? That man is my father. That man is my teacher. And if he does not stand and applaud, It doesn't matter what everybody else does. Beloved, unless God Our Father stands and applauds what we're doing. It doesn't matter what everybody else does. What is your heart's motivation this morning? Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I would like to have a moment of invitation and call each and every one of you. Only two choices on the shelf, pleasing God or pleasing self. Ultimately, when we're man-pleasers, that is just pleasing self. Displeasing ourselves, because it feels good, because we want to look good. But do we want to please God