This morning I preached a message entitled, Pleasing Men or Pleasing the Master, and putting forth the question as to each of us individually, who are we pleasing? And ultimately what is our goal for doing what we're doing? Why are we being faithful in church? Why are we being a witness? Why are we raising our family for God? Why are we doing everything that we're doing? Serving in the church, working in Sunday school, being a usher, soundmen, security, all of these different opportunities that we have to serve God here or in our life. Why do you get out of bed in the morning and read your Bible? Why do you uh pass a track out to somebody. Why are you living this way? I think the question of this is probably settled in your heart. maybe even before this morning. Really that the matter is is that we want to please God. Sometimes, as several told me at the conclusion of this morning's message or through the afternoon here, it's just it's nice to have that reminder It's nice to bring our focus back and kind of remind us why are we doing this, because even in the ministry we get so busy doing, we forget about what it's all for and why we're doing I believe that God has put it in the heart of every Christian to want to please God. I believe it's it's that is a natural byproduct of the Spirit of God living in us. It's just like any child until they get older and the the trials of life maybe turn them bitter and angry and they they walk away from their parents. But the normal aspect, normal child wants to please their mom or dad. It's just they want to make mom and dad happy. And I'll tell you what, a a a smile, a nod, a praise from mom or dad means so much more. than from anybody else because it's in the heart of a child to please mom and dad they want to make mom and dad happy. And I think as child children of God that our desire is there, that we want to please God. So if your goal is to please God and I think that it would be great to know the things that please God. Be kind of the If we want to please God, then let's look and see what it is that pleases God. And I know we could speak in generalities tonight, but I'm glad that the Word of God has quite a bit to say with regards to this. You know, ladies, sometimes it's not that your husband doesn't want to please you. Sometimes it's just he doesn't know what you want. I mean he would be happy to do whatever you want him to do if he just knew what you want him to do. That wouldn't be that hard. If uh and I know from a lady's standpoint, well if I have to ask for it it's not that special. If I have to tell him, why didn't he think of it? Because he's a guy. Don't think like he loves you any less. Let him know what it is you need, and then praise God, he's willing to do it. Now, men. If she lets you know what she wants and you don't do it, that's on you. Okay? I mean that's on you. That that you you've got to do it. When when they let you know and you have clear direction, man, oh man, we gotta get her done. uh or else, right? We want to do that. And I'm glad this this evening that God has given us some clear direction He didn't just leave us wondering about what pleases him. He didn't say, well, try and figure it out, and if you love me, you'll do it. No, God put it in the word for us. He he gave us what it is that pleases him, and there's quite a lot, actually, I did not even I didn't even put it all in the study. I i it just got too broad and too big and I I I had to leave a bunch of things out that are really still very clear teachings on what pleases God. So we want to look at this tonight, just kind of systematically look at what pleases God. First of all, I would like to make note of the fact that man's natural tendency is to please ourselves. We have the Spirit of God in us, and the Spirit of God that's working in direct proportion to how much we live in the Spirit will please God, and how much we live in the flesh will please ourselves. But our the natural man, the natural man wants to please himself. In Romans 15, verse number 1, he says, We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak. He's saying sometimes there are those that cannot take care of themselves, or those don't have the means And ye that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak. Not just pleasing yourself, but using the strengths and the means or the ability that God has given you To bear the infirmities of somebody else. And I know it would make us happier to do what we want to do. But here's the need And so we we go there and we see that it's God's goal for us is not to be so focused on ourselves and please ourselves, but that we desire to please God. Just like the children of Israel, even though they were God's people Even though they God had protected them, provided for them, met their needs, and miraculously gave, fed them, and protected them in so many amazing and powerful ways. Yet still The Israelites kind of drifted back into pleasing themselves. Isaiah chapter 2, verse number 6 says, Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people in the house of Jacob, because they replenished from the east. And the soothsayers, like the Philistines, and they pleased themselves in the children of strangers He is saying that they got satisfied with intermingling with these people from the East With being involved with soothsayers. They pleased themselves in how they were handling their worship instead of doing what God wanted. You know, it's man's natural tendency to please himself. It's man's natural tendency to try and please other men, as exemplified by Hulix, who To please the Jews left Paul bound, as exemplified by Pontus Pilate, who to please the mob crucified Christ. He couldn't find any fault in him. He couldn't find anything wrong with him. But the scriptures are saying he could not convince the mob. So he washed his hands. And gave in to the mob. To please the mob, he crucified Christ. So the question is asked then: should we never seek to please men Well, I didn't have time to get into the full scope of this study this morning because I wanted that to be a very narrow pointed message about deciding who you're going to please, but as we consider this topic in the scriptures, I want you to understand that that's not the answer either. You don't say, well I please God, so I don't care what anybody else or who who anybody else thinks. Now ultimately when it becomes between God and man, then what God thinks is what matters and what man thinks doesn't matter. However, when it doesn't contradict God and it doesn't cause conflict with what God teaches, we should try and please other men. When we can, we should try and please other men. If it's possible. It's not wrong, men To try and please your wives. To make an effort at least. And I'm be I'm kind of being hard on the ladies, right? Listen, it's not wrong, ladies, to try and please your husbands. To make an effort if there's something you can do. It's not wrong for us to try and please other men. That's why we do what we can here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church to try and make sure it's comfortable I mean, it would be a lot cheaper for us not to run the air or to not turn the heat on. That would save a lot of money. But I can guarantee you there wouldn't be too many people in the pews. That's just the facts. You say, well, if they want to please God, they'll be here. I agree. But We're battling this old flesh, and the flesh doesn't like to be cold. And if the church isn't more comfortable, people aren't gonna come. So we make it comfortable because that's okay, we can do that. that. It's not in any compromise. It doesn't conflict with what God would have at all. In fact, Paul had this as part of his ministry. Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse number 33, he says, even as I please all men in all things. Not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. He says, Hey, I'm doing this so that souls will be saved. I'm not seeking my own profit. I'm not looking for making myself comfortable. I'm not looking to adjust and do what is best for me. I want to do what I can to minister to others, to make other people comfortable, to try and make other people as happy as we can. God first, others second, ourselves last. Now even spiritual Christians are God first, myself second. Others last. I mean that's if we just are honest, if we're just honest, that's how it I'm I'm spiritual and I know I'm pleasing God first and He's most important But I'm a close second. You know what I mean that's just we're just honest. That's the way we are many times. And so the idea of well I really don't care what you think is not spiritual. We need to try and help. This, you know, I look out and there's people all over wearing their masks. And you know what? This is one of the things. It's something that, listen, if we're pleasing ourselves You know, but why why do we do it? And I'm I don't have a problem with just like when you go to a restaurant, you wear your mask in, you sit down, you can take your mask off. You're distanced from everybody, you sit down, you can eat your food. but when you're intermingling and walking around you put your mask on is because you're not social distance and whatever. So I d uh But I'm saying the reason that we're doing that is not necessarily because I'm afraid of the virus or that I think that but I'm doing it because I want other people to be comfortable. If we could do that and somebody would come to church and maybe hear the gospel and get saved So that to me is a very small thing to do. And that's just one example, but uh all of our life we we look at it and try it, God first, others second, ourselves last So, our natural tendency is to not please God. The breaking of vows does not please God God. The breaking of vows does not please God. In Ecclesiastes 5, verse number 4, it says, When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it, for he hath no pleasure in fool. Pay that which thou hast vowed. You know, God expects us to keep our promises. Whatever you've promised to do, God expects you to keep it. The promises that you've made and and And this goes from marriage through your business relationships all the way down to your children. And this is vitally important. You are really teaching your children a tremendous lesson when you follow through and keep your promises. And you are teaching them a bad lesson when you don't. When they start to learn and see that dad or mom doesn't keep their promises, they say we're going to McDonald's and something gets in the way and we don't do it. You know, you have to be careful what you promise. You can protect yourself by saying, we're gonna go to McDonald's if I don't have to be at the church too long. You you're saying I'm going to make every attempt, but this might happen. You know, so you you you've got to think about what you're saying and just don't promise the world to your children and then not follow through. It's vitally important that you keep your promises. Listen, that includes borrowing money. I don't believe declaring bankruptcy is Christian. I don't think it pleases God. You have borrowed that money in good faith and said, I'm going to pay it back. And you say, well, the economy turned over. I didn't know that was going to happen. That's ill relevant. You owe that money. You to declare bankruptcy and just say, oh well, I don't have to pay it. And go start another business and get into the same problem again is not godly. And you need to pay back every penny of what you've borrowed. You know if you don't have that option in the background, well, if it doesn't work out, I can just declare bankruptcy and get out from under all of that. this. People would be a lot more careful about what they borrowed. You look at it from that standpoint, if I assume this, it's mine. And uh so we need to pay the vows. It it it God is not pleased when we break our vows. Uh practicing in wick wickedness does not please God. Psalms 5, verse number 4, for thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell within thee. Listen, the actions of the prodigal son that went out and took his inheritance and sowed wild oats and did what he wanted to do doesn't please God. And being part of the wickedness of this world does not please God. Everything that was created was created for God's pleasure. Revelation chapter 4, verse number 11. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things. And for thy pleasure they are and were created. So everything was created for God's pleasure, and I think it's pretty noble goal for you and I to strive to live up to the purpose for which we were created. To please God. That's what we're here for. To bring honor and glory to God. To please God with our lives. This noble task that we've been given by God. To please him. To please God. It's amazing to me that you and I even have the ability to do that. If you just ponder and think about the fact that the God of the universe, something that little owe me I can do something I can do that pleases God that makes God happy. That's just amazing to me To think that I have the power or the ability to please God, to make God happy. You know I don't think there's anything that I could do that would make Elon Musk happy. Nothing I could do that would impact him at all. I mean I don't think And he's just a man. But God has made it so that what we do, our actions, could put a smile on God's face. We can please God. We have the ability to do so. And if we can and we don't, what does that say about us? To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not. To him it is sin. So we have this noble task of pleasing God, and I want to, you've got the list here, I want to run down and give you some of these things that that please God and just check our lives and see are we are we doing these things? How are we in putting a smile on God's face? God's face. And we see here, first of all, that preaching that presents Christ pleases God. Preaching that presents Christ pleases God. First Corinthians 1 121 says, For after that in the wisdom of God, the world wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save Listen, the preaching of the cross is something that can be done by everyone. This is not just something, and yes, Lord willing, and with God's strength and power, we do it from the pulpit of Hunt Valley Baptist Church when different people are standing here and preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. But this is not just here that this is done. This is done every time you're out and you're pointing people to Christ, every time you give out a gospel track or you invite somebody to the church and say Can you come and hear the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Would you just have you can I tell you what Jesus did for me? Every opportunity you have to share Jesus Christ, you're preaching the gospel. And you know what? The Bible says here that it pleases God. It pleases God when we preach Christ. It pleases Christ to place people in the church. Placing people in the church pleases God. In 1 Corinthians 12, verse number 18, he says, But now hath God Set the members, every one of them, in the body, as it hath pleased him. It pleases him to put members into the church People that the church needs, and he looks down to Hunt Valley Baptist Church and he says, man, Hunt Valley Baptist Church I'll never forget the day that Brother Joe and Miss Kim first came to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. They came to church and they were just visiting. And we were in the middle of some project because we're always in the middle of some project. And uh my brother got up and said, well, Caleb's gonna come and tell us what we're doing at work party this weekend or something. And I got up and I talked about how, listen We've got this electrical job and we got this electrical job and this Friday we're going to be tackling these things. If you've got any electrical experience, and Joe's like You tell them I was an electrician. I mean he's like, what? Our first Sunday and somehow they know I'm an electrician. They're announcing they need an electrician. I don't know. Listen, God does that. God said that church needs somebody that has these skills and that's ready to serve and can help in this area. And then God touched their heart and they came to that work party and they came and they enjoyed it and and and been serving God here ever since. God looks and it pleases him to say, Man, the church needs this and and this guy I want to put into the church and the church needs this and I'm going to bring this guy into the church and and it pleases God to build the church So when I ask you, are you building a church? Are you inviting people to church? Are you pointing people to Hunt Valley and saying, Hey, here's a church where you can grow, here's a church where you can worship the Lord together with us. Come join us. How long has it been since you've extended the invitation? And I know COVID This is, this COVID thing has been so hard on the church. Not just our church, but I'm talking about the church of the Lord Jesus Christ across this whole nation. This has impacted the church drastically God said, This is my church, and the gates of hell aren't going to prevail against it. So we're going to keep going for God and watch God bring in Who he wants to add to the church. But we've got to be doing our part. Knowing that it pleases God when the church is growing. God enjoyed it today seeing The visitors walk through the door, the guests of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I mean we enjoyed it, but God enjoyed it. God says, there's somebody else that's being ministered to today. I'm going to bring them by Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Church. It pleases God to put people in the ministry. Putting people in the ministry pleases God. Galatians 1, verses 15 and 16, he says, But when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace. God called him, put him in the ministry. This pleases God to call men and women to particular areas of service. So my question I wonder is, has God stopped doing what pleases him? Or have people stopped responding to God's call? It pleases God to put people in the ministry, and I'm looking for the day at Hunt Valley Baptist Church when God raises up some of these young men and these young ladies. and puts them in the ministry somewhere. Jacob has a desire to be full time in the ministry. He's teaching in a Christian in school right now. I think kind of in a in a not exactly where he wants to be, but he's Using his talents that God's given him and this preparation that he's gained to be able to invest in young people. And as he gets Married and comes here, I think the day may come where God calls them out to go somewhere to do something for God. Sending them out. But there'll be others. How many does God want to call? That's what the church is for, to grow and train and prepare and to send them out into the ministry. It pleases God when men fear him. In Psalms 147, verse number 11, he says, The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him. And those that hope in his mercy. You see, when we see God for who he is, when we recognize his authority in our life And we fear him, but we hope in his mercy. I think about David when he had the choice to be punished by others or to be punished by God. He feared God. But he said, Man, I'd rather be in the merciful hands of God than anybody else. That's where my hope is. And so he chose for God to administer the punishment. Wonder if I should do that with my children. You wanna be no, I'm not going there. When we fear God, it pleases him Do we live our lives in light of God and His authority and His power and what He is in our lives? When men let go of this life, it pleases God Jesus God, when men let go of this life. Second Timothy two, four No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life that he may that it may sorry, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. You can please God, but you've got to let go of the things of this life. I'll tell you what, we get so entangled. We get so entangled. One of the reasons that people aren't called into the ministry is that they get so burdened down with things of this life. They they get a car and they get a a house and they get other toys and and God wants to call them into the ministry, but there's no possible way because they've got they're they're all entangled. They've got all of this life. And I mean you go back and read some of the old missionary stories We live in a different day, and God's not asking you today to sell it all and take three totes of stuff over to a foreign country and live in a grass hut. I mean today's a different day in in every single dimension, even on the mission field. And I'll tell you what, those people, they weren't entangled. They weren't entangled in the things of this life. This life didn't matter to them. They were living for for eternity, not for today, not for the pleasures of this world. It pleases God and we're not entangling ourselves. And we should look at that. Look at our life and say, how entangled am I? Uh is there any any of these knots that I could get rid of? Any of this stuff that I could let go that I'm not too entangled in this in this world It pleases God when we encourage a brother in the Lord. It pleases God. Philippians 4. 18 says But I have all and abound. I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you An odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. Paul says, hey I abound. I have everything that I need. Why? Because of your generosity. Because of what you've sent me. Because of your gifts. And he says, these were amazing and well pleasing to God. God is pleased. You know, it was a blessing to Paul. Paul was blessed by that, but not only that, God was pleased. You know what Hunt Valley Baptist Church did for Heather Trot? I can't imagine the I I I'm as a pastor am humbled. Just thinking about what the church family did. Heather Trott and her mom. And oh man, that was a blessing to them. Do you know what? Church, God was pleased with that. God was pleased with that. You know, a week ago we took a few minutes and honored somebody Here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, many of you gave towards that? Oh, that was a blessing to Amy. She's cried several times this week talking about it. Just overwhelmed by the love of God's people. It was a blessing to her, but you know what? God's pleased with that. God's pleased when we encourage a brother or sister. You know when the church sends myself or one of the pastors or one of the men of the church to the foreign field. We go over there, we give a gift to a missionary, we go we go visit a missionary, spend a little bit of time and encourage them and and uh carry carry a gift from Hunt Valley Baptist Church to them. Man, that means so much to them. They're so blessed by it. But you know what, church? God's pleased with that. God's pleased with that when we go and encourage our brothers or sisters in Christ. You know, kids, you have the power to please God. Can you think how Don't don't look in your notes. It's not in there. I didn't put it in there. Kids, what what does the Bible say specifically with regards to you that you have the power to please God? Melissa? You're almost there, Melanie? Obey your parents. Obey your parents. Can you remember why? Yeah, there's another verse though. This is a very similar verse in Colossians. Pastor Gus, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Obey your parents, for this is well pleasing You can please you can please God. And you know what? It'll make your parents happy too. Yeah. Believe me, I is one of them. It'll make it'll make mom and dad happy. But you can please God, kids. By just doing what you know God wants you to do. And obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. You know what? This in itself should be enough motivation for us. Just the fact that we can put a smile on God's face, that we from our hearts want to please God and live our life in such a way and do the things that we know are pleasing to God, and that should be enough for us. But God has also given us a nice treasure, kind of icing on the cake, a blessing. We see here that he answers the prayers of those that please him In 1 John 3. 22, he says, And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. Whatever you ask, you know let's just uh I was gonna say like parents and children, but it could be any any adult and any child. Isn't it like the the child the that's doing what he's asked? I mean you You just want to do whatever you can for him, don't you? I mean he's fulfilling your your request and and man, you just want to go overboard for him. And you just want to want to please them and want to do for them That's what God says he does for us. When we're doing what is well pleasing to our Father, He says He answers our request. He answers our prayers. Man, that's amazing. Because we please God, He answers our prayers. And then He brings peace to those Who please him. Proverbs 16, verse number seven. When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. When a man's ways Please the Lord. Man, you have battles or conflict or struggle in your life? Are your ways pleasing God? Because when our ways please God, this is a blessing that God gives us. Hey, just because we love him should be enough. But God blesses us above and beyond that. He answers our prayers when we please him. And he brings peace into our life when we please him.