Book of Proverbs. I don't know when or where that originated from. I found it in different books as I was studying in referencing the book of Proverbs, The Laws of Heaven for Life on Earth Now the key to the book of Proverbs is found in chapter 1, verses 1 through 9. Chapter 1, verses 1 through 9. It is in those nine verses that we have a almost just an encapsulation of what the book of Proverbs is. It gives you insight into what the balance of the book is going to be dealing with. It tells you who, it tells you what, it tells you why, and it tells you how to get the most out of the book itself. We want to just kind of look at this quickly here in the book of Proverbs, beginning in chapter 1, verse number 1. It tells us there in verse number 1 who wrote it. The Proverbs of You guys awake? The Proverbs of Solomon, yes, the son of David, king of Israel. So he tells us very just Right out. This is the Proverbs of Solomon. There's not any question, not any doubt. These are the the book tells us who it was that wrote these pages. Then verses two and three tell us what he wrote. What it is that he's going to be writing about here. Look at, first of all, there in verse number two, he says, to know wisdom and instruction to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity So these are the things that he's going to be writing about. Now, wisdom is knowledge and understanding. Put together. Look in chapter 2 and verse number 6, just right over the page there, or one page over, chapter 2 and verse number 6. He says, For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh What does it say? Knowledge and understanding. So the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. So wisdom, beloved, is the taking of the knowledge and taking it one step further, getting understanding. and then applying correctly the understanding and the knowledge that you have. So knowledge is the understanding of the facts It is understanding is comprehension of the facts. Knowledge is just knowing the facts in your head Some people have knowledge, but they don't really understand. So often I talk about the fact that I'm a parts changer, not a mechanic. If I take something apart, I can I can put it back together. But that doesn't necessarily mean it's fixed. It just means you've got to put back together. I mean I have a knowledge of the fact that if I take that bolt out of there, that bolt has to go back in that spot. I understand that, I can take it apart, but because I maybe don't completely understand what's happening Maybe I didn't fix it. Um I took college algebra and I took it to I I took it at a at a community college in uh summer courses, intense classes, three nights a week for how many other weeks. Uh but I got it done quick. It was a summer course, might be a month, I don't remember what, but I took my college algebra class and uh you know what I learned the facts So that I could write my answers on the test, so that I could pass the class, uh, but I could tell you nothing about algebra today. Nothing. I literally outside of we're searching for X, which I have no idea what X is, but that we're looking for that, right? Outside of that I could tell you nothing about it. Why? Because I never did get any understanding of the facts. So you have those things combined. You need, first of all, knowledge. You've got to have the knowledge. Then you have the understanding, which is a comprehension of the fact, and wisdom is the use or the application of that knowledge. So we see here that he's writing about wisdom. He's writing about instruction. Now that word there, instruction, we think it would be like today, like I'm instructing you. But that's not what the word means. If you look up that word uh in Strong's, the word literally means chastisement. Chastisement. So instruction here could mean to teach or train by discipline. To teach or train by discipline. That's what instruction is, and that's what a parent does. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from him. It is to give instruction, that is to train by discipline. And then understanding, we know, I've said already, is comprehension. It is comprehension Now the whole book is about imparting this instruction that should lead us to understanding and should give us the ability to correctly apply wisdom. He goes on and he says it's also justice, teaching justice, which is right behavior. Justice is right behavior, acting justly, doing right. And then judgment, it means verdict, using wisdom, being decisive And equity, equalness, or being fair, being equitable. These are the things. This is what he's teaching. Then, verse number four tells us why he wrote it. He says why he wrote it. Notice here again the word to. He says to. The reason that he wrote it is to give subtility to the simple. to the young man knowledge and discretion. So he says, hey, we want to give subtility to the simple. That would be wisdom. To the simple. Um you know, uh simply uh simple means that you just don't know Many times the younger a person is, the more simple they are, just because they don't know much yet. But you know, as we get older, uh even any of us here, we could be simple concerning different things. Some people maybe are a little more simple uh concerning financial aspects of life They don't really understand how investments work or uh return and ROI and and uh what you know how these different uh you know Roth works or what's the difference between a a Roth or a traditional IRA or things like that. They're like, well, uh I'm simple concerning those things. And that just means they don't know about it. Some people are simple concerning mechanics. You know, the Bible tells us that we're supposed to be simple concerning those things that are evil. Towards wickedness, towards those things that are wrong. You know, we really ought to be careful how knowledgeable we are about that. It's a sad thing today, but the Hollywood has educated our churches on things that we shouldn't be educated about. It has taken the the the sim simple uhness of the Christian who shouldn't know about all this thing in the world, uh, but has educated us. You know, it's sad that a lot of Christians could name more Hollywood movie stars than they could Bible characters. They're educated about the world, they're simple about the things of God, but that's not the way we should be. So he says, Hey, I'm going to give you some wisdom. Why? So you won't be simple. So you'll know some things. So you'll have some wisdom there. And then he says to give guidance to the young man. In uh he says uh they're to give subtility to the simple and to the young man knowledge and distraction. Discretion. Uh giving that just some guidance. Hey, here's the young man, here's what you need to do. And you see that over and over again, this book addressed to the young man. This is the only book in the Bible that is specifically addressed to young people to the young man. Uh why? Because you're a whole lot better off how many of you older people would agree, you're a whole lot better off if you get some wisdom while you're young. You don't have to wait until you learn it all through the school of hard knocks, right? You don't have to wait until you get way up in years and say, boy, I wish I would have known that before. I did that. You know, that would have been nice. And so that's the thing. This book is written to give wisdom to the young. Obviously, it is still applicable to all of us. Then we see verses 5 through 9 tells us how Proverbs can benefit us the greatest. The Proverbs is going to benefit anybody that will spend time in it, but he kind of takes it one step further and he says, hey, the way that you're going to get the most out of this book The way that this is going to benefit you the most, like sometimes when I'm starting a particular class or I've taught in the high school level, I've taught in the college level. And uh the students come in that first day and say, okay, the semester is this long, here's what we're going to do. The way you're going to benefit the most in this class is and lay out some ground rules, lay out some things that would help them, whether that be, you know, do the homework, read, read the reading assignments, uh stay awake in class, take some notes study with somebody else, different guidance to try and help them get the most from out of it. Well that's what he does here in verses five through nine. He says there first of all in in verse number five, a wise man will hear and will increase learning, and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. So first of all, he's saying, hey, you're gonna get the most out of this if you will listen. If you will hear and let it sink in, if you'll attain unto wise counsel, I'm sure all of you here, we've few a little bit younger, but the the vast majority of those present are old enough to have given instruction to other people and you've all probably had somebody younger you said, hey, this is what I think you should do, and they decided not to do it. And you're like, okay, you know, I mean, you can do what you want, but you as a much more mature, older individual know what's going to happen. And they did not attain unto wise counsel. They did not listen. And so he says, hey, you want to get the most out of this as you're reading it. Let it impact you. Listen to it. Just hear, get understanding, dig in. He says here, you know, the idea of learning what you can, listening. If you wanted to start a business It would be beneficial for you to talk to anybody else who started a business. You know, spend some time with anybody who's running their own business and listen to them. Have a set amount of questions that hey here's what I want to know. What how what you know faults do I need to avoid? What steps do I need to take in the current market? Here's the direction I was thinking about going and and have you know is there any books that I need to be reading? Uh you know what just get some questions that you have and any opportunity you have to talk to somebody that's done that uh seek that wisdom. He says you'll get the most out of this if you listen. Secondly in verse number six he says learn to understand. Verse number six, he says to understand a proverb and the interpretation. the words of the wise and their dark sayings. So he says, here's the thing. You need to learn to understand. Mm sometimes the sayings are dark as far as they don't the the the light doesn't come on immediately. It doesn't make perfect sense right away and you you might have to Dig in a little bit. You might have to examine it. You might have to reference some things. You might have to, you know, but learn to understand. You know, you can learn to understand. Understanding is comprehending the facts. You know, you might have to look up the interpretation of some words. And by the way, don't take for granted that you know, just like the word instruction here, when I looked it up, the word is actually chastisement. You wouldn't immediately think that when you start to look at it, you say, well, I want to understand this proverb. So maybe you need to look and make sure you're defining the words correctly. So you're learning to understand and spending the time to know them beyond simply what's on the surface, getting the most out of it by listening, by learning to understand. Verse number seven is by fearing the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and destruction. He says, boy, you want to have knowledge, it begins with fearing God. Just let the fear of the Lord guide you through this process. Would somebody look up uh chapter 8, verse number 13, and would somebody look up chapter 14? and verse number two. These two verses define the fear of the Lord for us. It's a two-part definition. They define these for us. What does 813 say? Somebody want to read that for me? We looked up eight thirteen. Melissa, the Laura is to hate as the easy Okay, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Gives you a little bit more definition or a little more description of evil after that. But the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. So to begin with, we're talking about, well, we need to fear the Lord. What does it mean to fear the Lord? Does it mean I stand here trembling and afraid that God's gonna beat me over the head with a with a with a big stick? What does it mean? Well, what does the Bible say it means? He said, first of all, here, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Then let's see what else he said. The two-part definition. These are definitions right out of the book of Proverbs, chapter 14 and verse number two. What does it say? Uh John Okay, so he that walketh in his uprightness feareth the Lord. So to fear the Lord is to hate evil and walk uprightly. Definition right from the book of Proverbs for us. To fear the Lord and walk uprightly. That's what fearing the Lord is. And he says, hey, you're going to get the most out of this book if you'll fear the Lord. And then verses 8 and 9 is tells us to listen to your parents. Verses 8 and 9, remembering that this book is written specifically to the young. Uh he's saying you're going to get the most out of this. He says, My son, hear the instruction of thy father and forsake not the law of thy mother, for they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head and chains about thy neck. So this is the way we'll get the most benefit out of out of this book. Now, this book can be studied in many different ways. I know many of you probably have had as a pattern or a habit of your life, maybe continually, maybe one year you did it, one year you didn't. But reading the a proverb every day of the month, if it's the seventh, you read the seventh Proverb to the Book of Proverbs, the seventh chapter. If it's the seventh the twelfth, you read the twelfth chapter, uh, and uh and so on. And and there's many people that do that. They read a proverb, they read some Psalms, Read some Old Testament, some New Testament. Maybe you're on a reading schedule that just takes you through the book of the Bible in a year, so you're not doing the Proverbs thing. But you can look at Proverbs several different ways. And so I've given you a couple of ways here you can do it uh ways to study Proverbs. One is you can look at all the different men of Proverbs. I've given you a few of them here. This is not a complete list at all, but there are different men that are described in Proverbs. We have the foolish man The wise man, the diligent man, the slothful man, the wicked man, the righteous man, the young man, uh the old man, and th there are so many others There's an angry man, a good man, a discreet man, forward, upright, contentious, deceitful, faithful, happy, merciful. There's a lot of them in the book of Proverbs. So you could just look and say, okay, I want to learn about these different men. And uh so there's some men that you want to be like. And some men you don't want to be like, but you you study those men. You could look at the different women in the book of Proverbs. There's the evil woman, the strange woman, the foolish woman, the angry woman, the virtuous woman, the wise woman, the prudent woman, the And so there are many of those. That's not a complete list either. But just walking through the book of Proverbs, say, boy, I want to learn about this. You could do it that way. Then you could study the different duties of man that are given in this. There's several directions for that. First of all, the duties that man has to himself. We're to know wisdom and instruction, Chapter 2. We're to watch for financial ruin, Chapter 6. We're to be diligent, not slaughter. We're to avoid sexual impurities, Chapter 7. And then we have some duties to uh of the man to others. And uh there's to let mercy lead, to be careful in our conversation with others, to training children, to train them up in the correct way, to avoid partiality. And then there's duties that are given to us regarding how we are to be towards God. We're to trust him. We're to fear him, rely on him, put him first. And these lists are not all conclusive. These are just ideas for you. If you were going to study proverbs, you could start these and go from there. You could grow these lists, build them yourself. Then there are different subjects in the book of Proverbs, different subjects you could study through the book. Just pick out a subject and study it through the book, like child training. There's a number of references there on child training. You could pick up business matters. There's a lot of different things about finance and you know The borrower is slave to the lender, and there's things about your business habits and what you should and shouldn't do. Uh immorality, evil companions. self-control, strong drink, friendship, the tongue, different topics like that you could look at. So this just some ways to study the book of Proverbs. Alright Now, just so I can breathe for a second and uh make sure you guys are awake, is there any questions about Proverbs that I can write down and answer for you next week? I'm just kidding. I'll try and answer it right now if I can, but just uh checking in, take taking a breather. I've been running and uh I said that today was gonna be a lot of information. And so we got some more ground to cover. So uh we're going to look at Ecclesiastes. I mean we're covering all five of these books today. Well, not the first one because Gus did that already, but the rest of them. And so we see Ecclesiastes, the author of Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes means to address an assembly. To address an assembly. This is what the word Ecclesiastes means. And the preacher here, Solomon, is addressing the assembly. And so we see him addressing the assembly here. Weirsby said this. The preacher did more than call an assembly and give an oratation. The word carries with it the idea of a debate. Not so much debating with the listeners as with himself. He would present the topic, discuss it from many viewpoints, and then come to a practical conclusion. Ecclesiastes may appear to be a random collection of miscellaneous ideas with a variety of topics, but Solomon assures us that he wrote, what what he wrote was orderly. And so you don't have to turn there, but in chapter 12, verse number 9, Ecclesiastes says, and moreover, because the preacher was wise He still taught the people knowledge, yea, he gave good heed, and he sought out and set in order many proverbs. He set in order many proverbs. So he was very systematic. He had a reason and a direction for what he was dealing with. So we see here as we're introduced to the author that he's addressed in assembly, he calls himself a preacher, he calls himself the son of David. This is Solomon acknowledging the relationship there and the fact that God was protecting his throne because of the promise that God had made. to his father David. So the author, but what was the aim? Chapter 1 in verses 2 and 3 give us the aim. And I'm not taking too long on Ecclesiastes because we have dealt with this in a service recently, and I touched on it as we conclude it up. Solomon's reign because this is kind of the end of life for Solomon where he realizes this. And so we talked about these things briefly. So you should have a working knowledge here on the book of Ecclesiastes. I would go into much more detail had we not already dealt with this some. But The aim here we see that he comes to the conclusion, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profit had a man in all his labor which he taketh under the sun? So those two statements there which we've already dealt with and taught on, but the word vanity, uh the word vanity 37 times is found. which means empty or meaningless. Uh everything under the sun, twenty-nine times, uh that is found in the book. Twenty-nine times. His viewpoint was from under the sun, and as one commentator said, he needed to change his view viewpoint to above the sun, to be to view things from God's perspective instead of man's perspective. And that was his problem through this whole thing where he said, man, it's all a waste. It's all vanity. There's no meaning in any of it. Ultimately, it's because he was looking at life outside of God. And so Then we have the address, what he gives, and kind of an outline here of the book in a very basic thing. There's the vanity of man's wisdom, chapter one. The Vanity of Pleasure, Chapter 2, The Providence of God, Chapter 3, The Vanity of All Things, in 4 through 6, where he systematically goes through a list of I tried this and it's vanity, which means empty and meaningless, empty and meaningless over and over again. Then we see in chapter 7 through 11, the wisdom of God, and chapter 12, the conclusion. So now we're gonna get to the Song of Solomon. Lot of information here. Guys doing okay? Are we live, awake, enthusiastic? All right, we're we see first of all the views of interpretation. Now there are many different views of interpretation. Uh I came across as many as seven different views of ways of interpreting the Song of Solomon. It's a very misunderstood book. Uh it is very rarely preached on. Because of that and because of the content of the Song of Solomon is not preached on much. Uh I did teach several lessons out of the Song of Solomon to the family class when I taught the family class downstairs where I was just dealing with husbands and wives. And the kids were not present. Uh but the Song of Solomon here, first of all, one uh some of them the means of interpretation are for so far out there they're not even worth considering, they're just uh off the charts. But Allegorically, there are some that really believe that nothing here is to be taken literally, that the whole thing is just kind of a picture, that it's just an allegory, that it's just to be looked at figuratively. And so it the whole book is a picture of the love of God for Israel. Or and depending upon who's talking, the love of Christ for the church. That team that the love of Christ for the church seems to be a pretty well uh established or there are a lot of very good men that would teach through the book of the Song of Solomon with that application. taking the church and the love of Christ and that relationship and and defining things that way. I I'm certainly not upset with them and I Can't say 100% that they're wrong as far as doing that. It's definitely a an application that is okay. Certainly the love of God is the greatest love that we know. and the love uh for his church and so there are many ways you can apply that. However, there's some things in the Book of Solomon Solomon, and I cannot take time this morning to go through those, but they have to take some pretty wild uh far out there leaps. to try and apply the church to some of the things that are in the book. I mean, it would be on par with me saying, well The reason that we have two plants up here by the pulpit is because God gave us a sun and a moon And those two things are represented by these two plants. I mean that's pretty far like it's just I just made it up, right? I mean just made it up like it's We could say whatever we want. We could say there's two plants up here because one day there was two bugs crawling on the floor and we want to represent them. What I'm saying is you could make up whatever you want. And in order for them to apply consistently the Book of Solomon to the church and to that relationship They've got to take some pretty strong leaps in some areas and say, oh, this is the church and this is what it means. But you understand there's nothing to back up that application. They're just saying this is what it means And I'm please, if you've heard some preaching on it, I'm not there's great application there. Well you've got to be careful with with Proverbs and with uh parables. Is there really should only be one interpretation? There's only one interpretation. There can be many applications. You can apply it many different ways, and that is not wrong to apply it to your life and your situation if you understand the interpretation. And so I believe that the the interpretation should be literal. That's where I believe it is. I believe it should be looked at straightforward that the text is describing the pure love of a bride and his groom, declaring for us the sanctity of marriage and the preciousness of that relationship that should be between a man and his wife And so the theme of the book is true love, and we see a basic outline here, love described, love that is dependable, and love that is demonstrated in those different passages And read the book of Song of Solomon and think through that on your own. So now we're going to get to the book of Job. And again, I'm not going to take too long on the book of Job because we are going to go verse by verse through the book of Job on Thursday nights. starting this coming Thursday. So this coming Thursday night we're going to start in the beginning of the book of Job and we're going to tackle it verse by verse and see what God has for us as we dig into that book. I believe it's going to be a blessing to you. But let me give you the aim here. The aim is Job gives insight to the question of why. I could stop that right there. Why? Isn't that the age-old question? Why? And so many people consume with the question of why do good things happen to bad, why sorry do bad things happen to good people? And vice versa. Sometimes you look at the Bible says, you know, you see the world and uh the wicked and you see them prosper and you're thinking, What in the world? Why are good things happening to them and bad things happening to us? Well Job really addresses that, uh gives some insight into that question. Then Job clearly illustrates that suffering does not mean you are being punished for sin. You see, Job's three friends believed that he was sinning. And they come to him and say, but we know the Bible says that Job was an upright man that he eschewed evil. And and he was not being punished for sin, for what he had done wrong. And so this is very important, very critical for us to understand personally as well as that we don't turn into Job's three friends and look at somebody going through a hard time and say, well, they must be in sin or else they wouldn't be going through that. You know that That is not necessarily true. Now, God does chasten those whom he loves, and if somebody's in sin, they may very well be going through some struggles. But that is not always the case, correct? Alright, a couple of you. So we see that Job clearly illustrates that suffering does not mean you're being puppet punished. Job teaches us that even an upright man Needs to repent. Needs to repent. Now I need to turn back to the book of Job here in chapter 42. This is all the way at the end, but Job says here in chapter 42, in verses 5 and 6, he says, I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee. Wherefore I abore myself and repent in dust and ashes Now we know that Job was an upright man, that he eschewed evil, that he was not being punished for wrongdoing, that the the the great tragedy that struck his life was For God's glory and for the purposes that we may won't fully understand till we get to heaven. But even in that situation, we also learn that even a good man still has cause to repent. And lest somebody think that they are above or beyond repentance or in the need of repentance, so Job teaches us that Now, the author of Job is unknown. The author of Job is unknown. Some suggest the authorship could have included Moses. Maybe it was Ezra, maybe it was Solomon, maybe it was Job himself, maybe it was uh Elihu, but we really don't know Uh even any of those guesses, nobody has any clear direction or insight to one or the other or why. But so we don't really know who wrote it. Not only is the authorship unknown, but the location is unknown. We know the Bible tells us that Job was a man from the land of Uz, right? From the land of us. So we know that he was from the land of us, but the problem is is we don't know where us is, or where us was. We don't know. Um some people believe that it's possibly in what is modern day Syria. I did not try and study out what their cause or reason for that is because at the end of the day they said, but we really don't know So they they had some conjecture, thought, well, it's possibly in Syria somewhere, but we are just not sure because we don't we don't there's nothing to give us any real clear direction as to where it took place. So we God obviously did not think that that was very, very important for us to know. The date is also unknown, the exact date. When was it written? There are many books because we know what happened, because we know who was present, and the Bible talks about genealogies in the book or gives us you know, the the different months or days that somebody was born, and so you can narrow down really close when the book was written. Job, we really don't know. Here's the thing. J. Bernard McGee said this. I would suggest, and this he is in pretty consistent agreement across many different commentators, bunch of different people that I read after. Uh I didn't find anybody to contradict this or to say, well, I believe it was some other time. So I it is a generally held belief that Job was written in the early patriarchal period. J. Bernie McGee said this. I would suggest that Job was written during the patriarchal period. It is possible that Job even knew Jacob. The fact that the book of Job makes no reference to the Messianic law nor to any of the events recorded in the book of Exodus would seem to indicate that it was written sometime before Exodus. Now, we believe there's several reasons why people believe or hold to the fact that it was probably written in early patriarchal history. Some mentioned there by J. Bernard McGee, which I already read. But first of all, one is the length of his life. The length of his life. So in chapter 42, verses 16 and 17, we're all the way at the end of the book here Everything that's already happened in the book, notice what it says here in verses 16 and 17. It says, one is so near to another that no error can come between them Am I in Job 40? I'm not in 42. I'm in 41. Sorry. Like that is not what I'm supposed to be reading. So he says here, after this, okay, notice it said after this. Now that would lead us to believe he's talking about after everything that has happened thus far, after what has happened to Job in the book here. After this, Job lived a hundred and forty years. And saw his sons and his son's sons even four generations. So Job died being old and full of days. So we know for sure that Job was 140 years old. But quite possibly and more likely he was around 210 years old Because we know that when Job was afflicted with boils and all of his suffering came on, that he had ten grown children. So if you just think about the course of life If he was able to, at that stage of life, have ten grown children that had their own children and had gone through that, he probably was somewhere in around 70 years old. So if he was around seventy when he was afflicted and then he all of this happened and uh you know sixty, seventy, but he went through this time period of suffering, however long that was, and then he lived a hundred and forty years after that. So somewhere between 140 and 210, what we're saying here is ultimately, you know, this early patriarchal period, it that is in line with the length of days that these men lived. If you go through the patriarchal period and think about the lives of the early patriarchs, they lived a long time. You get past the flood, and men didn't live that long. And so that's one very important reason why we felt it was people believed that it was early. Also, Job functioned as the high priest for his family. He functioned as the high priest for his family. There is no mention of the law or the priesthood. Had it been after the book of Exodus, it seems that there would be some mention of the children of Israel, of what tribe. of the priesthood, of the laws of Moses. There's no reference to any of those things. And so that's another reason why we believe it was before. Okay? Then Lastly, here I want to tell you that Job is an actual person. There are Bible teachers, people that teach or believe that Job is not literal. that he is metaphorical, that he is just a picture of somebody that could have suffered. Um I'm not sure why people want to take away credibility from the Word of God or why they would do that, but I want you to understand the Bible is very clear that Job was a literal person. And I've given you a couple of reasons here. First of all, Ezekiel, he's named along with Noah and Daniel. You can look up these references later. I'm out of time to to go and look at those, but he's named Job and Ezekiel and Daniel. You wouldn't name somebody that was metaphorical, that was just an idea, along with two other men that we know lived. So to the God putting him there along with Ezekiel and Daniel, with Noah and Daniel, gives him credibility to be an actual man. Then we know in the book of James, all the way in the New Testament, we see that he is set as the example of patience. And we have all used that over and over again, having the patience of Job. And so obviously referencing him as an individual in the New Testament again gives credibility to uh him being actual person. Uh so if you hear somebody teaching and they they w they say, boy Job was just a fixture of somebody suffering, I would just turn him off. Uh because he obviously doesn't understand and he's trying to take away from what God has said. There's going to be many other things where he'll take liberties with the Bible, and so you don't need to be sitting there listening to a preacher like that. Now I've given you here an outline of the book of Job just from Warren Rearsby. This is just a basic outline from his commentary on the book of Job to just give you a little bit of insight into it. Alright, so that is the books of poetry and wisdom. Any questions? A lot of information, less uh maybe application this morning. Uh hopefully uh you were able to stay awake for it. I stayed awake because I'm standing up here talking. So uh I understand sometimes a little different when you're when you're sitting and listening. But all right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. We ask you, God, that you would uh be honored and glorified with the service this morning. We pray, Lord, that As our guests come in to be a part of this day and honoring our police, Lord, our men and women in blue, we pray that they would feel loved Appreciated and honored today. Also, Lord, and most importantly, if there's one that's present that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, God, we ask that you would Draw them to you, that Lord, they would see their need of a Savior, they would see you high and lifted up and having given yourself a sacrifice for their sin that they might know they're on their way to heaven and their sins are forgiven. Lord, we pray that you would do a mighty work in our midst this day and thank you for the privilege it's ours to honor these men and women and for their service for our community. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.