You see here in uh the book of Psalms, you're in uh hundred and forty-eight, Psalms 148, verses one through five, he says, Praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord from the heavens Praise him in the highest. Praise ye him, all ye angels. Praise ye him, all ye hosts. Praise ye him, sun and moon. Praise him, all ye stars of light. Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. All through the Psalms you will see the idea of the admonition or the command for us as God's people to be involved in praising God And I spoke to you this morning about a truth I'm going to share with you that's in our third point that I think is going to be it's exciting to me. And maybe if you've never seen it before, it'll be exciting to you. But we'll get to that in a moment. I just want to give you a couple of points. First of all, is praise always builds. Praise always builds. You of course know that the Word of God tells us that death and life is in the power of the tongue. We have in the power of our tongue the ability to cut down or to build up In Proverbs chapter 12, verse 18, the Bible says, There is that speaketh like piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise is health. And this area of phrase that I want to begin to speak to you first about, the first point here, the phrase building up is going to specifically apply to the husband and wife relationship. Sadly, many relationships today have deteriorated into a state of hopelessness, a state of despair. The husband has become sullen and withdrawn. He certainly would never voice his own opinion lest he be ridiculed or criticized by his wife. The wife has become discouraged and often wonders if she's married the right person. For most of them, their communication has become centered around conflict. One or both of them feel it's better not to talk at all because it seems like any time they engage in conversation Even a compliment is taken the wrong way, as if there was some ulterior motive or if there was uh something else. It seems as though anything that's said one way or the other is is ultimately leads to conflict. So why even talk at all? Sarcasm, criticism, and disappointment has become the only means or mode of communication expressed between them. This is a description of many, many homes today. It's sad that homes could deteriorate to that point, and the challenge to you this evening is to don't allow that to happen by actively engaging in praising your mate. Because praise always builds. Your marriage this evening is going to be built up or torn down by the words that you use. It's going to be strengthened or destroyed by the words that you use in your conversation. Norman Wright says many spouses suffer from emotional malnutrition. because of too little encouragement. The heart has literally begun to long for one word of encouragement. It's sad that a mate, a husband or a wife would get to the place where they literally just would look for one word, one positive word from their mate. When they should be receiving continual positive exhortations from their mate. It is something that maybe we have to look at because, beloved, we are critical by nature. It is our normal aspect, our normal way of functioning is to be critical. We see the problems and we point out the problems, but a spirit-filled person will substitute that for praise. A spirit-filled person will put off the criticism and will begin to praise. Norman Wright goes on, and he says, when you criticize, you stand against your spouse. But when you encourage, you stand beside your spouse. To encourage is literally to give courage to another Now this is this is jumping ahead because our second point's going to deal with our dealing with our children, but you you've seen it with kids. How just some words of encouragement gives them courage to do what they're supposed to do. Some words of encouragement gives them courage to try and take that test. Or some words of encouragement will give them courage to go ahead and try to accomplish that task. We need to be involved in praise. Beloved, we know that no one is perfect. Your mate's not perfect. They don't do everything right a hundred percent of the time. But can I ask you, do they do some things right some of the time? Okay? Well then we should be grabbing a hold of those. We should be noticing those and praising our mate for those things. You need to choose, consciously choose to look at the strengths, not the weaknesses. With one word of encouragement, we are telling our mate that we're beside you. We're with you. We're for you. I love you. Everything's okay between you and I. With just a word of praise, just a word of acknowledgement of what they've done for you. C. S. Lewis said. I think we delight to praise what we enjoy, because the praise not merely expresses but completes the enjoyment It is not out of compliment that lovers keep on telling one another how beautiful they are The delight is incomplete until the praise is expressed Now that was a lot, but the idea is that there's real joy in being able to praise your mate. Is not just in noticing what they did for you, but being able to see that and express praise. It completes the joy. It brings back that happiness to you as an individual, the one who's even giving the praise. So praise, beloved, always builds. Secondly, I want you to see that praise improves behavior. Praise improves behavior. Proverbs twenty-three twenty-six says, My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. You understand? A child who has never heard any praise, that parent is losing the heart of the child. Why would a child give their heart to somebody whom they cannot please? For whom they cannot ever do anything correct. And it's not that the kids don't ever do anything correct. I mean the fact of the matter is, is we're parents, and our job, given to us by God, is to point out the problems. Our job is to say this is an area you're weak. You need to be strengthened in this area. That's what we're supposed to do. But beloved, we ought to also be using praise as a means of encouragement to improve behavior. Praise improves behavior. It's it's just a fact. It happens Psalms 27, I mean Proverbs 27, verse 21 says, As the fining pot for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise. Just like the fining pot brings the dross to the top and purifies and cleanses the silver and makes that gold pure, so praise does the same thing. Praise can be a very powerful instrument of encouraging right behavior in your children. Many times praise is far more expensive far more profitable than a paddle. Now, you know I believe in using a paddle, and we we ought to be spanking the kids for what they do is wrong But the problem is is too many parents are quick to use a paddle and forget all about the praise. They're not they're not praising their children for what they're doing right. And it's something because of our position as a parent and because of human nature that if we're not careful, that's the way we roll, and we will lose the heart of our children. We need to be about praising them. Probably more than anyone else, kids need to hear praise Kids make it known. One little boy told his father, let's play darts. I'll throw them and you say wonderful. And it doesn't stop when they're five or six or seven or ten or twelve, they still need to hear praise at nineteen and twenty and twenty-one and twenty-three and forty-six. Amen But they they still need to hear a phrase from their from their mom and dad. We need to recognize when they are trying hard. I had a revelation for myself a few years ago with regards to my children. And that is the effort is worthy of praise, even if it falls short of expectation. That's a quotable quote. I was talking to my son Andrew last night about a short message, knowing I was going to be short tonight. And I I said, you know what makes A quote, so powerful, is that so much is said in such a small amount of time. That a message doesn't have to be an hour and a half long to be powerful. It's what's said in that short amount of time. Well, don't you understand is with our children, especially because they're kids and they're maturing and they're growing, effort is worthy of praise even when it falls short of expectation. And that was a lesson for me because I have some high expectations. And when they fell short of my expectations, sometimes they didn't measure up. They didn't quite get there. They didn't do what I wanted. Although they expended a lot of effort or spent a lot of time. And I had to learn, listen. Their effort was worthy of praise. You know, if you've driven by the property, you've seen the the lions that are in the grass. Okay, you know how those lines got so straight? Timothy. You see, effort is worthy of praise. It would shock you how many people cannot drive a mower straight. Okay? I've we've had a lot of people mowing over there, and I've tried to tell them how to how to make straight lines And now anybody that mows over there, Tim's like they messed up my lines. But the thing is is I took Tim outside out and I I showed him how to make straight lines. And to be honest, they needed a lot of improvement when he first started, you know. And I tried to show him you gotta look way down, you gotta pick a spot, you know, way down there and you drive and and run right into that. Don't worry about what you're doing right here. And we went through that and I said occasionally you're gonna get off When you line up again right here and you look, oh, there's a curve in that one. Then you need to correct it in this one. Don't just f keep following the curve. It's going to get worse and worse and worse. You correct it in this one and then and we worked through that But I complimented him and said, man, you did good. Boy, those lines are awesome. You know, hey, let's look at this right here. And we worked we worked through that. You know, he takes personal pride in making them line straight And he mows that yard every week without pay except for a little praise. The praise is powerful. Praise God. Listen, when you criticize effort, they will be discouraged to try and give any effort in the future. The Bible says, And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That's a very familiar passage of scripture, but one that's read a little bit less is in Colossians chapter 3, verse number 21. He says, fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. Discouraged. I think sometimes parents have discouraged their children by lack of praise. If you praise the smallest effort With true love and gratitude that will motivate even the most cynical of hearts to try harder. You know, in school Mary tells me that Ava has uh Transformed in the homeschool co-op. Because when we first started the co-op, she didn't have a lot of confidence. See she had been maybe told by somebody that she wasn't really smart or something. And she didn't have she didn't even want to try and answer the answers. Like she was afraid to even say what even though she knew it, like she might know what's right, but She didn't want to say it because she was discouraged from saying it. But Mary, you know her, she's all bubbly and You know, Ava gets it right and Mary's like, Wow, look at that. You know, hey, look at see, I knew you knew it. Look at let's do this again. And and over the months Mary said Abe is like a whole new student. She's transformed. She has confidence. She's excited about the lesson. She knows, oh, I can do this. I can learn this. This is something that isn't really not that hard for me. She can do it because somebody praised her. You see, praise improves behavior. I want to show you the last truth this evening in Psalm 67. Psalm 67. The Bible tells us in this passage, I want you to see, that praise produces blessing. Praise produces blessing. Would you follow along as we read these seven verses here in Psalm 67? God be merciful unto us and bless us. Notice the repetition that's in this passage of Scripture. And cause His face to shine upon us, Selah, that thy way may be known upon the earth. Thy saving health among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God, let all the people praise thee. O let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt Judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Selah. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise thee. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. We see, beloved, here, the requirement of praise, which is extended in many places in the scripture. There's no question about that. Beloved, it should be a pattern of our life that we are praising God. It should be just a habit, a way of our life that we're praising God, that we're giving to Him praise for the bountiful blessings that He extends into our lives. We need to learn how to graciously accept a compliment, but at the same time, we need to be cautious about stealing praise that belongs to God. Now I know our our pet answer, somebody says, Man, you did a really good job, and our pet answer is, Praise God. And uh we actually had somebody recently uh basically asked like what's like are you guys like super duper spiritual or something? What's all this? Like I I all I'm doing is giving you a compliment and the answer like everybody at church is praise God. Like like like w it's somebody outside the church. They d they are not church. They don't understand. They're like, why are they saying praise God for everything? Like why it doesn't even make sense to this individual. So we do want to deflect that praise to God. That's the heart of a believer, that we realize that it all comes from Him. You know, somebody extends a compliment to you about let's say how good your kids are or behave and you say, well I did do a lot of reading on that and and I have I have tried hard and yeah. We gotta be careful. God has blessed us. You know, how did you achieve financial freedom? Well, I I invested wisely and I I Well, who gave you the power to work? Who gave you the job that that provided the money to to be able to do we've got to remember where things come from. and and be cautious. Now God gives us wisdom. And where'd the wisdom come from? Okay? All across the board we gotta re gotta remember that the praise goes to God. He is the one who has done abundantly above all that we could ask or think. Sometimes people will look at a church and they often will look at the pastor and they'll say, wow, look at what's happening at that church. Man, isn't that pastor doing an amazing work? No. It's God doing a work in and through that group of people there that have assembled to worship God. And pastors, too, got to be very cautious. But accepting or receiving praise that belongs to God. We've got to make sure we're praising Him God is good to us all the time. I know sometimes trials or trouble in our life causes us to lose sight of praising Him. And we gotta be careful about that. We wanna praise him for everything But I want you to see this evening lastly the result of praise in verse number six. He says in verse five, which is a repetition of verse number three, He says, Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. You might want to circle or underline that first word there in verse number six, because what does it say? Then. Then you see this point is that praise produces blessing. After talking about us praising, praising, praising, praising, he says, then Shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us? Praise produces blessing. So if there is a selfish reason for praising, there it is. I mean praising God and deflecting and giving God the praise produces and brings back more blessing. in which you can praise God for. And that produces and brings more blessing, for which you can praise God for. And when we're deflecting and giving God praise and honor and glory for what He's doing in our life He says, boy, I'm going to bless them a little bit more. Look at the praise that's being extended. Look at the glory and honor that's being lifted up and pointing people to me and for what I've done in their life. Praise produces blessing. Listen, this is exciting to me. What a simple thing that we can do as God's people to produce or bring blessing in our life is to be involved in this idea of praise. Can I ask you this evening, when was the last time you spent some time in prayer just to praise him? Just to praise him. When's the last time you went for a walk to talk to the Lord with a list, not your wish list, but your praise list? Can we we say this morning, count your blessings? Name them one by one. Have we done that? We sing the song. Have we really taken time to count how many blessings we have and to praise God for them? The reason for phrases given to us in verse number seven: God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. When we point praise to heaven, we point people to God. We're blessed. And the world sees that blessing and learns to fear. Learns to fear God. When my kids were young, I would discipline if they didn't learn to say thank you. Those of you that have been in the church a long time, you know that all my kids learned to say please, thank you, and more before they could talk. They use sign language. Or they could speak, they use that. And we raise our kids and we teach them to say thank you. And if they fail to say thank you, we take away whatever they received or discipline them and say, no, you need to be thankful. But I wonder how many of us receive blessings from God that we've yet to thank Him for. That we've yet To praise him for. The amazing power of praise not only changes the spirit of the one praised, but it changes the heart of the one offering praise. It'll change you if you change your mindset and begin to praise. Praise is your attitude on display. Stopping to acknowledge what has been done for you changes your perspective. If you want to bring new life to your marriage, start using the power phrase. If you want to bring joy and hope to your children, start using the power of praise. If you want to bring abundant blessing to your life, start using the power of praise.