For that. Been looking forward to coming and uh lots and lots of couples here. I'm excited about uh for come together. Pastors that can say there's something not right about that. And so hopefully this week we'll find out what. But uh anyway. So Caleb and Mary, I'll have a hard time. He's pastor material, I know most people, but Caleb and Mary worked for us for all those years. And Mary is one of those shy kind of people. If you have not met uh Mary, she's just very shy and timid and reserved. And uh how many know Mary, would you raise your hand? How many know that I'm wine would you raise your hand as well? And uh but you know what, uh we don't see each other almost almost every other year we get together as a family get together, and so I always enjoy getting together and Mary's a blast. But I did hear a story, and I I'm guessing it's true. And so I'm not the kind of person that just passes on gossip, but I heard Mary was in a grocery store here recently and uh she had stolen some things and the security guard caught her. She is kind of a kleptomaniac. Ladies, keep your purses close by when she's around And the security guard told Mary, Mary, listen, you can't well even call her by name, but said listen you can't just take off with those things and she had some stuff in her cart she didn't pay for and she said, I'm gonna just tell you something I'm the boss. I can do whatever I want. And the security guard said, I don't think so. This is a grocery store, you kids just feel. And so, you know, I'm just gonna have to call the police. The woman can call the police You know, I it's hard to imagine Mary doing that, but she did. And so the police came and they said, Maybe you can't steal that. She says, Well, I want to pay something, I'll take what I want. I'm the boss. I guess she was just tough relaying what it's like at home. Well anyway, it ended up going to a judge and the judge is there, Barry's there in the court. The judge looked down the way and said, listen, you know, I know you're a nice Christian woman and I don't want to have to punish you for what you did. You know, it looks like you stole some things. You said, No, I'm sorry I didn't steal them, I wanted them, I took them. And the judge said, Well I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to judge you for that. And I looked for looked on the records and said, I noticed one of the things you took was a can of pears. There's eight pears in that can, you're gonna spend eight days in jail Well Caleb because he loved his wife was there as well and he raised his hand. And the judge looked down and said, Sir, I know you're married to her, but she can't just go steal anything And Caleb said, Your Honor, I just want you to know she also stole a can of peas as well. I'm guessing it's true. That's all I know. Praise the Lord. Our time is gonna go fast. It's hard to believe twenty-four hours will go really quick. I know that I don't know you, and I know that you don't know me You know, sometimes when a preacher preaches, it's very difficult when there's not really uh, if I can say, a knowing of each other. You know, most of the time when a pastor goes to a church and he visits a church, he tries to shake hands with people and get to know them Because really truthfully a person lets their guard down right from the very beginning if you know the person is speaking. We don't have a luxury of that. So really we need the Lord to do something right away And we've already prayed, but I hope that, again, that you're come prepared. I I know it's time away from the children. We have eight children, and my wife and I drove 17 hours to get here, and we need this marriage conference now. I don't know if we spent that much time together, just the two of us in a car ever. And so it was interesting. We're both she's taking the flight home, don't worry. She got your bike tur turned over the first day. with me. 1 Samuel, chapter number 1. 1 Samuel chapter number 1. 1 Samuel chapter 1. Let's just look at a couple verses together and we'll get started. 1 Samuel chapter 1, you know the story here of Hannah. And uh how she prayed for a child. And I kinda just want to just pinpoint a couple of those verses with you. In first chapter one, look at verse number ten, here's her prayer. It says and she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and left sore, and she bowed about and said, O Lord of hosts, If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me and not forget thine handmaid But will give me uh give unto thine handmade a man child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. And it came to pass as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli marked her mouth. Verse number seventeen, then Eli answered and said Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him. Jump down in verse number twenty, and it says, Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come, about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son, and called his name what? Samuel saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. Look down in verse number twenty-six, and she said, O my Lord, as thy soul liveth, she's talking to Eli, my Lord I am the woman that stood by me here, praying unto the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I asked of him. Let's ask the Lord's blessing. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to be here. Now, Father, would you bless your word? Lord, so many couples that are here. And Lord, I know that maybe some are here for different reasons. But Father, would you help every person to leave here different? And Lord, that may their marriage be more special. May their families again, their children grow up to serve you. Lord, give us wisdom now. And Lord, again, meet with us. May we again feel your presence. May we hear the still small voice Lord, through your word, through the Holy Spirit, God help us. And may when it's all said and done, and even during, may we look to thee and give thee the glory for it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'm going to refer to you church family just because, alright? Otherwise the whole time I'm here I'll try to figure out what I'm going to call you. I can't call you a friend because I don't even know you. But I'm going to call you church family, so bear with me as far as that goes Like listen, I want to just tell you, I don't know for sure, and I know there's other people speaking, but this probably might be the most important lesson that we're gonna discuss out of all out of all of 'em And I'm not saying that because I'm speaking, I'm saying it because it's the subject. You know, the subject of prayer, and you say you're still a pastor, we've heard everything there is about prayer, and you probably have But what I want you to think about is this. Except the Lord build the house, what? Alright, I'm going to say that again, Psalm 127, 1. Except the Lord build the house, what? Okay, so man or no matter what you get, no matter what you try to have a better marriage, if you don't get God in on it, it's not going to happen I mean just read the passage. It's very, very clear. That the only way this is going to take place is if God does something. And I want to tell you if you came here and you're a newly married couple or if you've been married 64 years, it doesn't matter, anywhere in between. We need God in on this thing. And I want to tell you failed marriage has really come down to the elementary things, and this elementary thing of asking God, praying and teaching God. is really what's really to me the most important thing. Now I want to talk to you just a little bit about prayer. And I know some of you think of this as a marriage conference, but if you'll follow this thing through, I think the Lord will show you how important this thing is Listen, you got up this morning, I don't know how far you traveled, but you came, but can I tell you what's more important than seeing your wife this morning? Is seeing God this morning. Can I also tell you that more important than coming here and meeting the other couples? It's for you to every day of your life spend time with God. Listen, we complain about the spouse, we complain sometimes even about our children. But the truth of the matter is the real complaint comes because we don't talk to God about it. How many times do we talk as pastors? Many of you uh raised your hand as far as uh pastoring a church, and it's almost the same old table. They come in and it's always the other person's fault. I had a lady come in one time and said, Hey Pastor Angel, I'm having a problem with my husband, and she went through all the things that he wasn't doing right. And I always start, when I talk to somebody like that, with this very first question Where do you read in your devotions? And do you read your Bible regularly? She says, Pastor, every morning I take my Bible and just wherever it falls open, that's where I read. And I looked in her and said, I'm going to tell you something, you're not having your devotions then I'm just telling you the problem in that woman's marriage was not her husband. The problem in her marriage is she didn't spend any time with God. Now I want to just talk to you about something really elementary and I'm I'm almost feeling guilty about what I'm going to talk about this morning about prayer. But if we could get this one thing taken care of, I think we could fix everything else. How many of you ever flown on an airplane before? Raise your hand. Hey, when you fly on an airplane The adage is always the same every time they go through all the safety features of the plane and then they go through it, well listen if the cabin loses pressure, you're gonna have oxygen masks fall down, and he said, please make sure you put your oxygen mask upon you first, then upon what? You know what the problem we have in our marriage? We're trying to fix the other person before we get the oxygen max on us first. Now I want you to turn over to Matthew chapter number six this mor on this morning or this afternoon, excuse me. And I want you to think about what Jesus said about this thing about prayer. Matthew chapter 6. I know you have a booklet in front of you, and I'm sure that they'll give you whatever answers that you need as far as the booklet goes. But I want to just start off with this one thought this morning. Has it ever dawned on you that when the disciples came to Jesus Christ, they asked Jesus, teach us to what? Teach us to pray. Do you find it interesting that on two separate occasions Jesus taught this same lesson? In Luke chapter 15, and of course Matthew chapter 6, which I'm looking at, Jesus spoke about how to pray as far as spending time with God. Now I want to just kind of look at the Matthew chapter 6 side of things this morning. I want you to look at your Bible again. Of course, this is the Sermon on the Mount. Look down in Matthew chapter 6, down to verse number 5. And I want you to notice it says, and when thou prayest. I want you to see that it doesn't say, and if you pray. It doesn't say if you have time to pray. It says when you pray. He says, and when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogue and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen of men, verily I say unto you, they have the reward. So verse number five and six, Jesus is going to talk about the place of prayer. Now if you write your Bible, if you want to take a note there Jesus is very specific about the place. Look at verse number six. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which is in secret shall reward thee openly. Now listen parents, adults Can I just tell every one of you, it's not just by the way, I think the husband is responsible for the home. Alright? I think when when Adam and Eve messed up and Eve ate the fruit, Timothy tells us that Adam was not in the transgression. In other words, he knew exactly what he was doing God didn't show up at the garden after knowing everything that happened and said, Hey, Eve, I know you ate of that. What did he say? He said, Adam, where art thou? The person responsible for the home is the husband and it there's no way around it. But I want to tell you something. It it takes two and God put the completer, the help meet with you, it takes two people to spend time in prayer every day of your life. I think that before you came today you should have spent time in prayer. And I believe that when he talks about the place of prayer, he says two things about that place. He says the word closet, and he says when you shut the door Yeah. Can I tell ya, there are so many people they they treat God like fast food. Let's get this thing over with. And then we wonder why our children don't have their devotions. There has to be a time, a place, there has to be a separation. You shut the door so there's no distract distractions. Hey, why did he say, make sure your cell phone's off? Because as soon as we get halfway into this, somebody's cell phone go off and half the people look over to see what the idiot is that didn't turn their phone off. Are y'all with me? Come on. I wouldn't let your phone go off today. Because you know what they're gonna be thinking Do you understand that when it comes to prayer, you've got to find a place. Now I don't go to a literal closet, okay? I don't get in the closet and shut the door. But I am going to go somewhere where there's no distract no distractions. This morning they had me staying at the prophet's chamber at Fun Valley. The nice thing is there's nobody there. I had the whole auditorium this morning. I don't sit and pray. If I sit and pray, I sleep And don't test those. At least so do the disciples in the garden. Alrighty? In fact, when Jesus came back, Jesus' response to their sleeping was, Rise and pray. Alright? So again, I'm gonna pray, I'm just gonna walk, I'm gonna be away from everybody else. I'm gonna make sure there's no discr distractions because that's the place of prayer. Ladies, I can't stress how important it is for you to have a time of prayer. It's not just your husband You can't fix your husband, you can't fix your children until first of all you fix you. And guess who does the fixing? Except the Lord build the house. God's the one that does the fixing. So he tells the place. Look at the next thing he tells us the practice of it In verse number seven and eight, he said, But when ye pray, not if when ye pray use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Verse number eight, be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. Hey, why do you think here? You think God already knows what your husband what he's fixed on your husband If you'll give me the list, I'll be glad to go over it. Alright, I've got several more sessions. Do you understand that God knows what needs to be fixed on your husband? God knows what needs to be fixed on you. He already knows what you have need of. You know, when he talks about this thing of prayer and the practice of it, sometimes I think the reason we pray is because we're constantly asking about the same thing. Just can I just tell you, there's nothing wrong with repetition. The only thing wrong is vain repetition. Hey, does your wife like that when you say I love you? Why is it so quiet in you? I guess he doesn't like you when you say I love you. Alright? Leave me alone, don't talk to me. When you leave the house on a regular basis, you tell you turn to your wife and say, Hey, I hope you have a good day, which you know I love you. Throughout the day you might text her, you might call her. She doesn't send you a text back to say, You already told me that. You know, when Jesus was went into the garden to pray It's very, very interesting that same same story. The Bible says that when Jesus came and woke the disciples up, and then he went back, the Bible says he went back and said the same words It's not wrong to repeat prayer. That's why every day of our life we spend time with God and we pray about things. How many times have you prayed for your family, prayed for your marriage, and you prayed for your church and all the other things and you think to yourself, God already heard this. Yes, God already heard it, but he still wants you to say it again. And here's the cru this this is the main thing I want to talk about this morning for just a little bit. Look at the next thing here I want you to notice the first three words in verse number nine. Can you say it with me? After this man. Say it again. After this man. Young Christian, it's interesting that that phrase actually means in this way. If you looked it up, you'd find out the same thing. After this manner, in this way. When I was a teenager I used to go to the nursing home and I'd oftentimes see a lady sitting in a wheelchair in the hallway and she had this necklace around her and she would re-touch one of the beads on the necklace and she'd say with her eyes closed she would re- her lips were moving And one day I went to one of the people that were there, I didn't know any better. I said, What is that lady doing? And she says, Well she's saying her prayers. Now I'm never I'm not Roman Catholic, and maybe you got saved of Roman Catholicism I've been grew up in a Baptist church, so I didn't know anything of that of the sort. But I want to tell you something. When it comes to Christians, sometimes we become Roman Catholic in our prayers And I want you to understand that when Jesus said in this manner, this is what he did not mean. I get up this morning, Father which heart in heaven, hallowed be thy name, the kingdom from the will be thy name. Give us the name He didn't say to repeat or recite a prayer. When he says in this manner or after this fashion, he means I want you to take the prayer that I gave you. And I want you to pray the concept of this prayer. Are you all still with me? Say amen. I know this is a marriage conference, but if you don't get your Bible reading and prayer taken care of, there's no hope for your marriage I don't care all the little things. Right. Think of her, write her notes, you know the you know if you buy something, let her buy something. I've heard all of them. It's not a matter of do's and don'ts for your marriage. Those are the fruit of the root. Right. What is the root? Your spirituality is the root. Right, right. Amen. If you do not every day of your life spend time in prayer, and I'll tell you something in several marriages, when a person is having struggle, one of the questions, one of the things we talk about is what do you do for your devotions? And I'm telling you, I've sat with them before and I've heard them say, Well, Pastor, you know, I'm just busy. Busy? Well take them you don't care about your marriage then. If you can't get up and read your Bible or you can't spend time in prayer, then you don't care about your wife. I'm just telling you the bottom line is not a bunch of physical things. The bottom line is a bunch of spiritual things. Well I'm trying. No, you're not trying You're not trying if you don't walk with God, because your walk with God determines everything you do for your spouse. Amen I want you to understand that I have met people over and over and over. Pastor, I wish I could get a hold of this thing about having devotions, but I don't know what to do. Neither did the disciples. Jesus teaches to pray. Now listen to me very closely. I'm going to quickly go through this with you this morning. Every day of my life I do that fashion. And I won't tell you why. Because Jesus said to. It's not a matter of quoting a prayer. Listen, I want to tell you, I've met I have scores of people that just said, Pastor, I just don't know how to You know, when I was younger, and I'm talking 17, 18 years old, I wanted to have my devotions, but to be honest with you, I would pray for everything I could think of and be done in two minutes. And and I couldn't think of anything else to pray for. And by the way, it's not the length of your prayer, it's spending time with God. But I want to tell you something. All the work is gone when you know this is what God told me to pray. So watch for me, alright? Most of you know the model prayer by heart. And by the way, it's not the Lord's Prayer. The Lord's Prayer is John 17. This is not the this is not the Lord's prayer. All the the Roman Catholics want to say this is the Lord's prayer. This is not the Lord's Prayer. This is my prayer We call it the model prayer because he's saying in this fashion. So you want help for your family, then I won't just tell you, and you say Pastor, I'm already doing this. And make- hey by the way, if you are, I'm not that's not a waste of time. It's good for us to remember this is how we're supposed to pray. Alright, what's the first phrase? Talk to me. Alright, yeah, the first phrase be Our Father which are in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Thank you. Hallowed be thy name. So every day of your life when you begin to pray, guess what you're going to do? You're going to praise God. A Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. I just want to tell you today, thank you for being my God. Thank you for saving me from hell. Thank you for loving me. Thank you for forgiving me of my sin. Thank you for your mercy. Now give me what I deserve. God, thank you for your grace. Give me a whole lot more than I do deserve. Thank you for my wife and the children and the ministry that you give me. Thank you for good health. Now I want to tell you something. Your list might be completely different, but it's all going to revolve around one thing. Him. That's I don't know what to pray. He told you what to pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. In this fashion, every day of your life, you're supposed to find a closet, not a literal closet, a place away from everybody else. And then you're supposed to shut the door without the distractions of life. So it's just you and God. So every day of my life, if I want God's blessing about my marriage and my family and ministry and everything else, it has to start with me. You say, Pastor I thought this was gonna be about you know praying for my wife or I thought it was gonna be about what my kids need. It is. Yes. They need you. Yes, sir. They need you. Pastor, I'm not a full-time Christian worker and I'm not a pastor and I'm not a deacon. Listen here. This is there's no label on this prayer. We're Christians. We're Christians So what do I do the first thing when I get up in the morning? God, I just want to tell you how good you are. God, thank you for being a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, a friend that loves at all times, a friend that laid down his life. Thank you for giving your son Jesus and died for me. Thank you got a place in heaven for me. Yeah. Thanking for who he is and what he does in your life. Praise God. Second phrase, our Father which heart in heaven. First thing we're going to do is praise him. Then he says, Thy kingdom come. Church and Mount Chang, I know we're not all prophecy experts, but I know one thing, when this life ends, I know where I'm going. You saved? How long are you saved? Uh thirteen years. Thirty is a long time. She's saying, are you married to this? Hey if you think anybody say thing, the Bible means the word thing. She's safe, you're saved. Alright, you've got a Christian marriage. Can I tell you that every day of your life? God wants you to pray tomorrow prayer tonight. And the first thing you're going to do is not say, Our Father would start in heaven, hallow be thy name. God just went praise you for a few weeks today. Yes. You know why he put thy kingdom come? That kingdom come keeps us with the mentality that he's coming back again. Because I want to tell you the way we treat people would be completely different if we thought his kingdom was coming today. Amen. Thy kingdom come. Hey, we understand either by death or the rapture. The rapture takes place right now. The trumpet blows. The shout's given. Come up hither. Now most of us leave and he had to finish the service without us, but we'd all be in heaven I'm not sure if Barry's staying with you or not. I don't know. Do you know what praying in the morning does? God makes a baby in the day. Thank you for the rapture. Thank you again for the judgment seat of Christ when we're in heaven the seven years on earth tribulation, seven years in heaven we're going to be with Christ. Two things are mentioned here in the tribulation period on earth while we're in heaven, the judgment seat of Christ, the marriage supper of the lamb. Fried chicken. It's in the Bible. You don't read it anyway, so uh no matter what I say. Fried chicken. I'm thankful he could come back. And God wants our mentality to be that today could be the day. Alright, quickly to the time and I don't want to be long. By the way, the the average message that I preach is around twenty-seven minutes. Somebody can say amen. Amen. I grew up in a Christian home. What's this Christian school All kinds of services growing up. Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night. In fact, where I grew up, Dad had a six o'clock evening service on Sunday and a seven o'clock evening service One was called church training hour, the other one was called the evening service. Can I tell you what the difference was? Nothing. It was two preaching services. You know, growing up, I'm I'm just telling you, we had all kinds of preachers come. And I'm gonna tell you there are some preachers that give new meaning to the word eternity. So twenty-seven minutes is a nice round number. I'm actually supposed to go two thirty and I might make it. Very unusual. Now watch for a second here When I get up in the morning and spend time with God, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to say God, I just want to tell you how big you are to me. Second thing I'm going to do is God makes a baby that He'd call me home I can't wait for the day I need to be with you. That you have a place for me. Thy will, thy kingdom come, what's the next raise? Thy will come. Do you think God's will is done in heaven? Yes. That will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Which means if it's done in heaven, I want it to be done here. Right. And we don't try to teach all this tonight or this morning, but I was just about to tell you That when it comes to God's will, there's six things in the Bible that the Bible says this is God's will for our lives. Right. Alrighty? It's real it's real simple. Romans 612, verse number 1 and 2. God says his perfect will is for us to present our body a living sacrifice. God, come on to be your servant today. These eyes are yours, these feet are yours, these hands are yours. Come on to be your servant. I want to tell you, it would change the way you think about your spouse if God had control. Yes. The second thing God says is his will, and he's not willing that any should perish, 2 Peter 3. 9. God's will for me to be a soul owner because he doesn't want anybody to go and die and go into hell. When's the last time you ask God, give me opportunity and boldness, and Lord, spring God across that person today, that I might be able to have a witness to them today? That's God's will for your life. God's will for your life is sanctification. Book of Thessalonians says, and this is the will of God, even your sanctification. To be completely set apart from the world and again to be sanctified through the scriptures. To be satisfied. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God. In everything give thanks. You might come to this marriage conference and say, man, I'm not very thankful. I'm not thankful for the way our marriage is, I'm not very thankful for the kids, I'm not thankful for our home situation, I'm not thankful for But the truth matter is God said God's will is for your life is not to compare yourself to somebody else But be thankful for what you got. So easy to compare. Yeah. I'm going to tell you something. It's not healthy. It's not healthy. That's why you're going to start the day off in everything you've got. In the everything you've thanked. God, I just want to say thank you. God help me live a satisfied life. A servant, a soul winner, satisfied, sanctified. God sends it to his will for us to submit to his will. God sent us his will for us to be the slave or to submit to his will to be what God wants us to be Now I'm just trying to tell you that every day of your life, if you would start off with, God, may your will be done, we'd stop doing what our will is. I'm the boss. Is that God's will? You're supposed to submit. Is that God's will? To tell your wife she has to submit? I've had those guys come into my office before. They say, well, I've told my wife it's in the Bible They shouldn't start that way in the Bible because I've got some other verses for him. I had a guy come to my office one time, he says, you know, my my wife's not submitted. He didn't tell me the whole story until his wife came in later. His wife came in and says, you know, he gets mad at me. He slaps me. I was so mad. You know, my dad was a very rough person. Pastor 33 years. He was always more truth than he was mercy. You know, my dad had a guy guy one time took his wife and a guy took an iron to his wife and his scarter. My dad went over to the house and threw him out the front window. In Jesus name. Well I'm I I'm built from that cloth and it's not not the best, but so I called back I called him back in. And I said, I just want to call him my name. I said someone just he was older than I was. I said someone tell you something. You ever slap your wife again? I'm coming over and I'll be calling the police. I was so mad at him. A couple weeks later his wife comes back in and says, Pastor, I said, Don't tell me. Did he slap you again? He says, No, he's not slapping me, but now he's spitting in my face. I called him back in. I said, what in the world is wrong with you? Why are you spitting in your wife's face? He says, Pastor the Bible says to. I am not lying. You talk about idiots in life. He said, you know what? Remember that verse where it says, if her father had but spit in her face, which has nothing to do with marriage, and you're not her father. I'm just telling you that our reaction to people will be completely different if you start the day off, not my will, but dying be done. Give us this day our daily bread And I think you can take it two different ways. I think number one way is for our spiritual, I'm sorry, for our physical needs. Listen, uh can I just make some how long with owning a house? There's nothing wrong with uh having money to be able to take care of things. I want to take some some some people have the Lazarus attitude. You know, if I'm going to be independent Baptist, I can be like Lazarus in order to be able to be with the Father. I gotta start using nicer words, right? That is not very good thinking. And you're stupid. That's crazy The love of money is what? Okay, so God wants to bless you in your life, there's no doubt about it. I'm not a prosperity preacher, but I can I know this much. Give us this day our daily bread. I don't know what you want, but you can go to the Father for those things. I'll just say it in passing, but I think give us a day or day and the bread has everything to do with man shall not live by bread alone but by every word That proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Can I want you to please open the scriptures to me today? Alright, now you don't like this one. Are you all still with me? Say amen. Some of you a little tired of your praying, one of the two. Hey, we don't like this one. Say it with me. Forgive us. For use our debt as we what? Alright? You know that first paper they were given out, I thought they were going to tell you to write down all your husband's flaws. But when I saw it was a half sheet, I knew that's not what he was going to ask. You know what you should do every day of your life when you start off, man and woman? Oh sorry. They can be sense of omission, they can be sense of commission. But it's still sin. God, forgive me for not loving you with all my heart, soul, and mind. Forgive me for being lazy. Forgive me for my selfishness. Forgive me for being critical. Forgive me for that evil thought. Yes. Be ready for that foolish talk. Can I just tell you that every day of your life, don't you want to be justified? Don't you want to start with a clean slate? His mercies uh was it you that said, Pastor Sir? His mercies are every morning. Sir Chuck, I'm trying I'm not trying to hurt your feelings, and I know I'm a weird duck, and I'm sorry. But I don't want to thank some of if you can't honestly sit here at a marriage conference and evaluate you, you're never going to do it on a regular basis and say, forgive us our debts, we forgive our debtors. You know, this is years back, but I still will never forget the day that my wife said to me You have a hard time saying you're sorry. Now I didn't say you need to hear it. In fact, it's the first time I've said it out loud. And she was not trying to hurt me. But when she made that statement, and I can go to God and get all my sins forgiven, I don't have a problem apologizing to Him. And I can't say I'm sorry to her. It's like the Lord says, you know, you're the problem. You're never going to fix the problem until you figure out you're the problem. Cool. Sounds good. Forgive us our debts, we forgive our debtors. God, I'm just asking. Would you please forgive me? And by the way, just because you're an independent Baptist, just because you've been saved all your life, you're not without sin. I don't know if the Lord's getting liberty to preach it to sweet, but If the Lord has think about preaching for a moment on the perfect marriage, because it's really a misnomer. There are no perfect marriages. If you want a perfect marriage, kill each other. Because you're not gonna have a perfect marriage until you get your glorified body And then then it really won't be a marriage because we're in Christ. I was teasing, do not kill your partner. Some of you got a big smile on your face when I said that. The preacher said it Forgive us our debts, we forgive our debtors. Every day of your life you need to confess your sins. By the way, every day of your life you'll think of something, believe me. The Bible tells us Isaiah 59, verse number 12, and verse number 2, but verse number 12 says, as for our iniquities, we know them. You don't have to ask your spouse, you know what your iniquities are, as per iniquities we know them. Quick we have to hustle. The next phrase, the Bible says, uh forgive us our deaths, we forget our debtors. The next phrase says, and lead us not into temptation to deliver us from evil. Very, very interesting because there's two things there. Lead us not into temptation And deliver us from evil. In other words, lead us not in temptation means to avoid the temptation. And when he says deliver us from evil, when the temptation comes, deliver me. By the way, there are some times the temptation is going to be there. You have to say no. There are other times a prudent man foresee it the evil in what? Hideth himself. Hideth himself. Hey, sure that young people are whoever you are, old people. Stacey, I don't know what to tell. I I want to tell stories but I'm trying to be careful, all right. That's sweet. Do you mind if I tell the second story? You can say no. Oh well you're right, I can do it anyway, but you could give me permission. Thank you very much, we're done. All right. My wife for years and years and years made Italian chicken. Any of you know what Italian chicken is, it's kind of uh it's not a bread of chicken, it's and you could with Italian dressing, I guess So for years and years and years it was the easiest I say it's the easiest thing, it was something that's simple enough to make us uh she put it in the oven. So we came home on Sunday morning after service Lunch was ready. So for years we had Italian chicken. Well one I don't know what happened to me. But I was preaching. That's what happened to me. And I was preach we you were there with that, did you? Okay. I was preaching and I said, I'm going to tell you something. There are certain things not worth fighting about in your marriage. That was the message going on that day. I said there's some things you have to fight about. I said, I'll tell you something. And I don't know how many how many years of that have we had fine chairs? It was years. Anyway, I told Sir Family there are certain things not worth fighting. You're gonna learn this really quick though, right? There are certain things not worth fighting for and I said no it takes that my wife makes me Italian chicken for all these years and I cannot stand Italian chicken. I said that from the pulpit That was not worth fighting. And I was trying to teach them there are certain things not worth fighting for. If she makes an Italian I don't mind eating an Italian chicken, it's not worth it was not worth fighting for. Now I'm saying something. Amen. Ever since that service I've not had to eat the Italian chicken. I should have picked that a long time ago. So somebody ran and told her, I don't think you were in the formal service. Several people went and told my wife. That's how you know they're independent Baptists. So after the service we went home. I shouldn't have gone home. My wife almost in tears said, You know, if you'd have just told me you didn't like Italian chicken, I would never have cooked it. And she was try and she was telling the truth. She wouldn't have if I'd have told her. And so I she never made it for me since. And so I learned several lessons that day. There are certain things not worth fighting over, and there's certain things you better communicate so you don't have to fight over them. Hey, can I tell you that at your in your marriage, there's some things you just got to avoid When he says, lead us not in temptation, deliver us from evil, hey guys, there's certain things you know really make your wife mad. You know, it's like picking up your dirty clothes Any gambling can pick up his dirty clothes. Do you pick up your dirty handling clothes? I did not mind your face. It doesn't go in the hamper. It goes next to the hamper. You had the right job. Hamper clothes. Unbelievable. Give me a half a sheet of paper. I got a bunch of questions asked. Pick up the dirty clothes. There are little things in your marriage that you can just fix if you knew they were an aggravation to your spouse. Well, tell you I hurt my wife's feelings that day, but it showed me very, very clearly, my wife wouldn't do anything for me. It would not have offended her if I just told her I don't like it I don't I don't like Italian dressing is what I don't like. I don't like the flavor of it. Never have. But if I'd have just communicated that to my wife, that wouldn't have hurt her feelings. I'm just trying to tell you that leading us not in temptation means, okay, God, help me to avoid the conflict It's going to cause trouble in my marriage. And if when the conflict does come, deliver me from evil. Show me what to say so I don't make it worse. Like preaching it from the pulpit. I'm going long with it. This might be the longest session, I'm just letting you know. I'm not going to go this long. Come on. Deliver us from evil. And then he says, last of all, what does he say? For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. I'm talking about what you're going to do when you pray in the morning. You know how you end your prayer? Somebody who is the kingdom of the power. God thanked that take today could be the day. God thank you that you're in control of the day before it begins. And do you notice the last word? End the what? How did you start up your prayer? Praise. Praising Him. How are you going to end your prayer? Praising Him. Our Father, which are in heaven, I just want to spend some time to praise you this morning. Thank you so much for what you want on the fly. Thy kingdom come. God may today be the day. And Lord help me to live since my life. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Lord, help me do your perfect will, not my will, but thy be done. Help me to die to myself. Give us this day our daily bread. God, would you open up the scriptures and you know what my needs are? Would you please help me there? Forgive us our debts we forgive our debtors. Lord, help me to forgive others, and Lord, would you please forgive me And lead us not in temptation. God, would you please keep me from sin today? Would you please guard my eyes and my ears that I put the right stuff in? For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. God thank you that you could come back today, and God thank you for being mine. Amen. In Jesus' name. Amen. Watch me now and I'm done. I know you're here for marriage, and there'll be a lot more marriage action today. For this hour. I'm just trying to tell you, if some if someone would leave here and get their personal walk with God right, you'd be shocked on how we fix so many other things. Yes, sir. I'm gonna spend sixty more seconds. Are you still with me? And I'll still be done in five minutes earlier. Are you still okay? When I first got married, I didn't know any better, so I'd asked my wife what she was at where she was at in her devotions. Because to be honest with you, this is if I don't have my devotions, I didn't think it mattered. I would ask her on a regular basis where she's reading, when she's praying. This is when we first got married. You that were saved in twenty twenty-five. That's what I was twenty f I was twenty years old when I got married, twenty-two. So I would ask my wife You know, as far as where she was at. And to be honest with you, she never she never batted an eye. She always told me because she had her devotions. As we aged in our marriage, we've been married 36 years. As we aged in our marriage, I stopped doing that a long time ago. But I wanted to tell you something Uh I'm a I'm an early bird and she's a night owl. She likes to stay up late and I like to go to bed early and I like to get up early. So it worked out well with the children, that kind of stuff. But every morning when I get up in the morning, she's still in bed because she stays up later Her Bible is always there. I can see where it's marked. It's because she has her devotions. Hey, we get to heaven, we're gonna find out that any of the kids that were Hanks is they ever turned out right, it's because they're mother. And I'm not saying that in a humble speech. I want to tell you something, I've got a wife that spends time with God And I'm just trying to tell you, if you're gonna have a good marriage, you've got to spend time with God with God. And here's where it starts. Elementary. Pray. Pray. Would you bow your head? I'm going to close in prayer and turn it right over to them. Go on to the next session. Hey, would you just take a minute and say, God help me? And by the way, maybe this was preaching to the choir. Maybe all of you spend time in prayer, it's not this. But I know one thing. It's easy to get away from. I don't know how to pray. God just told you how to pray after this manner praying. Heavenly Father, Lord, I ask you to please help us to pray. They're precious people out here. I know the devil's gonna try to get in. He's gonna try to ruin a bunch of marriages, but Father the Lord help them to understand that the word starts. They've got to be in touch with your Lord, help them be sensitive to the Holy Spirit. Help them to pray without ceasing. Help their God consciousness to be 24 hours a day. Father, would you please bless this conference? And Lord, help us. Lord, not to take lightly this first session. But Father, help us to be people who pray. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.