Uh obviously you saw the the banner behind us, excited about that, our our banner for the year uh and theme for the year, loving God and loving people. Uh Brand and I were trying to get that printed in locally the place locally that normally they can have it within 24 hours or so and so there wasn't really any rush Uh we were still a week ahead of time, but we sent it to them uh to get printed and we had to make some adjustments and and then they sent us the quote. And what was it the local place? What was the price? Five five hundred uh five hundred and something to get it locally and I said, man, that's a lot of money. I says, why don't you look at got print and find out what we can get it done at GotPrint for? So he looked it up and uh Even with us, we bought the best material they had, the best quality banner they had, and paid an extra thirty dollars shipping to have it here by last Saturday. uh so that we would have it here for our vision night um and it was two hundred dollars and all the way from California. And I said, well Mm but they couldn't guarantee it would be here. They said well we're gonna try and get it there, but we can't guarantee it. I said, Well either way, two hundred dollars is a whole lot better than five hundred and to me if it's not here last week we can for saving three hundred dollars we'll wait for a week to put it up And uh so uh very excited about being able to get it for that price. But uh that's our theme for the year, loving God and loving people. We want to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, and mind and strength and love your neighbor as yourself. That's our goal and ambition for this year. And we want to put it into practice. And today's message is going to be applicable to that. But uh I'm going to speak to you for a few minutes this morning on prayerful laborers or pitiful loafers. Are you a prayerful laborer or you're a pitiful loafer? Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter number nine. Matthew chapter number nine If there's anything that has come to frustrate me, the the older I get, it is a lazy man. Somebody who is a loafer, somebody who's unwilling to just work and get done what needs to be done. There are some who cover their laziness with humor They they're great at laughing and making fun and and and they're they're joking and hiding the fact that they're not actually doing any work. Okay, everybody else is doing the work, right? They're just entertaining everybody while they're doing the work. And then there are some that that work harder at not working, then if they would just work and get the job done. If you just stop I mean trying to look busy is hard work. And they they work so hard at just trying to look busy instead of just just do the job. Just get the job done. And It is so frustrating to me, at least, people who are given to laziness and unwilling to just get in there and get the job done and to do what needs to be accomplished. It is sad, but sometimes in the church house you you have the same thing because we're all human. And it doesn't matter whether you're what group or organization that you happen to be involved with, there's going to be Some who are laborers and some who are loafers. It's long been said in a churches that uh typically In your average congregation, there's about 10% of the congregation does 90% of the work. And then most of the rest of the congregation, you know, they they pick up a little bit here and there, uh, but they they really aren't that involved. I don't believe that we're anywhere near that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I believe there are many, many people here that are invested. We certainly have a a laboring church, a working church, uh is evidenced by the buildings and you know everything around here is just because of uh God's people investing time and energy and effort. And so I praise the Lord for that. But uh I want to exhort and encourage you with regards to this text. on prayerful laborers or pitiful loafers. Look with me if you would in Matthew chapter number nine, beginning in verse number thirty-five, we're going to read down through verse number thirty-eight. He says, and Jesus went about all the cities and villages. Teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness. and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted. And were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, A harvest truly is plenteous. But their laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers. Into his harvest. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts through this passage of Scripture today? Lord, we come to you right now, we bow with humble hearts, and we ask of you, Lord, to Put the cares of this world out of our hearts and minds for a few minutes. Just a song we just sang lifted up our voice and sang about trusting Jesus. Lord, I pray that you would remove the burdens and the cares. There's many people here dealing with many different aspects and challenges of life. The weather that is at hand. And Lord, there's so many things that can consume our mind. We ask you, God, that you would just remove us from this for a few minutes and Would you allow heaven to swing low in your spirit to speak to each and every heart? Lord, there are many today who are part of this congregation who are watching online that are observing this service through the medium of the internet. And Lord, we just pray that you would Remove the distractions. May the kids for the next few minutes just sit quietly. May the phone not ring. May Lord we be able to be drawn into your presence and may our hearts be spoken to in a powerful way regarding this truth and your desire for us all to be laborers in the harvest. Ask us in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we want to see first of all that a prayerful laborer, a prayerful laborer is one that's going to see the multitude. He is one that's going to see the multitude. He says, and when Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. Jesus saw the multitudes. You know, beloved, the religious crowd had forsaken the multitudes. The religious group had said, hey, let's remove away from them. Let's separate ourselves. Let's get away from the multitudes. What they saw was the problems instead of the people. Jesus saw the people, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the religious crowd just saw the problems. They were indifferent to the multitudes and to their needs. They certainly were pitiful loafers. Jesus saw the need and was moved with compassion You know, even at times the disciples who walked with Jesus, you remember different times, you know, they would say, send them away. And Jesus said, No, no, let's sit them down and let's feed them. They're hungry. And the disciples said, No, send them out to eat. I mean, we don't have food here to feed them. And Jesus says, Well, what do you have? And the five loaves and two fishes of a young boy came, and Jesus said, well, sit them down, let's feed them, and then we'll continue to feed them spiritually. Oh, he said, suffer the little children to come unto me. The disciples would often want to hold the children. Oh, wait, don't bother Jesus. Don't bother Jesus. And Jesus says, no, no, no, they do not bother me. Let them come. Let them come. Jesus saw the multitude and is you and I have the heart of Jesus. and the love for our neighbor as ourselves, we're going to begin to see the multitude. Beloved, it is really only through spiritual eyes that we see the multitude, because it is natural, not a natural characteristic to see the needs of others. Oh, we see our needs. We have our want list. We have our prayer list. But do we see the needs of others Everywhere Jesus went, he ministered to others. He taught them the scriptures. He preached to them the gospel. He healed. He says there every sickness and every disease. He healed every sickness and every disease. You know, I have often wondered how come these faith healers don't do that? Jesus went, he didn't hand pick the one he wanted to heal. Oh, he no, he healed everybody that came to him. It says he healed every sickness, every disease of those that came into his presence. He had the power to heal. Why won't a faith healer go down to John Hopkins today These guys that claim that they can uh you know hit somebody over the forehead and and they can be healed of their ability to to uh or their their lack of ability to walk or to see or their diabetes or or whatever other uh struggle they're facing. Jesus here, he healed the sick and every disease that he came across. The crowd came to him in multitudes. You know, a crowd draws a crowd. That's why you have gapers blocks on the highway, because as soon as a little bit of crowd draws, everybody else driving by is wanting, what's going on over there? What's going on over there? People want to see it, you know, they want to know what's happening And you get a bigger crowd, and then there's more people who want to be part of the crowd. A crowd draws a crowd, and people were drawn to Jesus because of the excitement. Some people were drawn to Jesus because they wanted to be healed They just wanted to get to his presence and have the possibility of being healed. Although some came to him because they wanted to learn of him. But Jesus saw them all, he saw the multitude. As he trekked across the hillsides, often stopping to minister and to heal, he gave sight to the blind. He touched and raised up the lame and gave them the ability to walk. But do you know what broke Jesus' heart? What moved him with compassion, beloved? It was not that they were lame. It was not that they were blind. It was not that they had an issue with their blood. Is that he saw the condition of their soul? He saw the disastrous effect of sin on their life How long has it been since you've been heartbroken over the disastrous effect of sin on the life of another? When you behold it and you see what happens when men give their life to that pattern of sin, beloved, the Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard. And if you stand back and you just look at it for a minute, you can see the path they're on and the destruction that Satan is taking them down. And are are you brokenhearted about it? Jesus sees the multitude and he doesn't just see them as lame or as blind or as whole, but he sees them as sheep without a shepherd. He sees them on their own. His compassion here is mentioned after he healed them. After he healed every sickness and every disease, he saw them and healed them. What? Because Their greater need was not a need to walk. Their greater need was a need of a savior. He saw that they were weary. You know anyone that's traveled down this life's road for very long without Christ is weary. I mean we get weary and you have Jesus with you. The trials and the burdens of life are heavy, and you got Jesus to help you and to Walk with you. Yesterday in Greece Share, one of the ladies said, Hey, uh, I don't know how anybody goes through the loss of a loved one without Jesus Without God, without His presence, because man, that's what you had to hold on to. And can you imagine how many in this world are going through loss without a savior and they're going through the struggles of life without a Lord. Do you see the multitude today? He saw them as weary. He saw them as scattered. Scattered, thrown out like yesterday's news, with no one to care for them. No one Ever cared for me like Jesus. No other friend so kind as he No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cared for me. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus. Since I found in him a friend so strong and true, I would love to tell you how he changed my life completely He did something that no other friend could do. No one ever cared for me. Like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin in darkness. from me. Oh, how much he cared for me. Beloved, we're so grateful and thankful that he cared for us. That he came to us in our hour of need, and that we know him as the good shepherd. But Jesus saw the multitude that were without a shepherd. You understand sheep without a shepherd have no help. They're hopeless. They have no protection. Nobody to protect them. They have no means or capacity to protect themselves. Sheep without a shepherd have no prudence. You know, it's a sad thing that we are compared to sheep, but sheep aren't that smart of animals. They are bound to get themselves in trouble when there's not a shepherd there to help guide them and protect them and and lead them in the right way, they're gonna end up in a mess for sure. They have no provision. They need a shepherd to take them to still waters. They need a shepherd to lead them to green pastures. That's what the shepherd does, and Jesus saw the multitudes as people without a shepherd. Beloved, do you see them as God sees them? He sees the American that's consumed with his pursuit of trivial and meaningless things. God sees the young who are consumed with entertainment and simply enjoying life God sees the African who is working in the fields today just so he has food to be able to eat for today. God sees the Haitian who hasn't eaten in three or four days and Is starving right now. He sees the North Carolina resident who is digging through the mud and pulls his Soaked family photo album out of that mess. God sees Today, a Californian who's right now walking through the rubble of their burned-out home as tears fall from their face into the ashes Of what once was. And God is moved with compassion for them. Are you moved? Do you see the multitude? Not just do you see them as a crowd, but do you see them As sheep without a shepherd, do you see where they are? Beloved, the harvest is plentious. It is great. The multitudes are out there. There are so many people around us who are lost and dying and on their way to a Christless hell Beloved, they don't need religion. Religion has sent enough people to hell. They need a relationship with Jesus Christ. A prayerful laborer sees the multitude. Well, if we could see the multitude, we would be like the prophet Joel, who said in Joel chapter 3 and verse number 14. Multitudes and multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. Do you understand there's so many hundreds, thousands, yea, hundreds of thousands who are right now in the valley of decision, making the choice that will affect their eternity? Are you glad today for the day that Jesus came to you? And now you know that you're on your way to heaven, you know the Lord is your Savior. Well, are you a prayerful laborer or a pitiful loafer? when it comes to seeing the multitude. A prayerful laborer also seeks the master. He says in verse number 38, Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest. He says we need to be praying. We need to be praying to the Lord of the harvest. It is his harvest. Beloved, this is not a work that we can attempt to do on our own. This is not a work that can be done without the power of God. When we labor in the harvest, we need to labor in and with the Spirit and the power of God, laboring for the multitudes that are in darkness. Do you see those nearest? Do you see your neighbors? Do you see the nations that are without the Savior today? Are you praying for them? Are you praying for laborers? He says the laborers are few. Beloved, the laborers are few, are few when you consider the fact that you know how we say the idea of uh meeting hands make light work. The more people involved, the easier it is. But when you consider the multitudes that need Jesus This family is going down to DC tomorrow. We're going to try and pass out 50,000 John and Romans to the multitudes. Why? Because they need Jesus. Because they need Jesus. There's a multitudes down there, but the laborers are few. I think there will be a few more people down there besides those five. Fifty thousand is a lot. That's just one group in one city. I'm saying the labors are few in compared to the magnitude of the harvest. There's a lot of work to be done. There's a lot of people that need to be reached. Labors are few. compared to the shortness of time. You know, when there's not much time, you gotta work extra fast You've got to have a bunch more people here to get it done, right? The more people you have, the faster you can accomplish it. Well, beloved, we know that the day is far spent and the night is at hand. The time has come. There's not that much time left. Not just the time before Jesus comes back, we know that he could at any moment break the eastern sky and he'll come and praise the Lord, even so, Lord, come quickly. We know there's not much time till he comes, but not only that, beloved, we don't know. Boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know how much time your loved one has, your aunt or your mom or your dad or your brother or sister, how much time they have. You think, oh, he's in his thirties or forties. He'll he'll be fine. You don't know that a car wreck could take him next week. And the opportunity to reach him will be gone. Boy, labors are few compared to the magnitude of the harvest. Labors are few compared to the shortness of time that's available for us to Get out into the harvest. Man's life is short, it's but a vapor that appeareth for a little time, then vanisheth away. Not only that, how many of you understand that many people, they have a window of opportunity when they will come to Christ? Sometimes it's just a short period of time in their life when their heart is tender, when their mind is ready, when the Holy Spirit's been drawing them They've got that little window of opportunity to receive Christ. Are they going to do it? Are they going to miss it? And Satan will come and steal away that work that God has been doing in their heart. Satan will come and cause other things, weeds, to grow up and choke it out. Not only do we see that prayerful laborers Not only do they see the multitude and do they seek the master, but I want you to know that they serve the misdirected. You know what's going to happen, beloved, if you begin to seriously pray for the Lord of the harvest to send forth laborers? Do you know what's going to happen? He's going to send you. If you will earnestly and sincerely begin to pray, Lord, the the lost or dying all around us, Lord. They need somebody to go and to witness them to them. Will you please send somebody to reach them with the gospel? God's going to speak to your heart about doing it God's going to stir you up and challenge you to go. Beloved, this is the greatest thing and the most transformative thing in the life of a believer. When you get involved in reaching others with the gospel. When you become a prayerful laborer, it starts as prayer, but that prayer transitions into the work. Into the labor of reaching those around us with the gospel. That is the mission of the church. That is the great commission to all of us as sinners saved. Through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, prayerful laborers see men without Christ, and they begin to describe, to try to reach them. You see, we see them as men without Christ. We don't see them as red and yellow, black and white. We don't see them as rich or poor or as American or Filipino or African or Haitian. No, we we see them as men who need a savior. The prayerful laborer is always conscious of this. He thinks about that fact when he has opportunity to talk to his postman. When he pays his bill to the waitress at the restaurant, when he says good morning to the teller at the bank When he picks up his chicken at Royal Farms, when he checks out at the grocery store. The prayerful laborer, it's always in their heart and mind. It's always present. It's always there. Are you constantly aware of the lost around you? Maybe we just need to begin praying. If we would just begin praying, God would bring that to our consciousness. The highways and the hedges of our society are full of the hopeless and helpless, desperate need of someone to carry the gospel of Jesus Christ to them. Satan has had his way far too long. This story I was telling you about Charles Kowman. He he was a successful man Him and his wife. His wife went to church and got saved and she began to ask him, would you would you come to church with me? And he didn't want to go to church. And uh finally she convinced him and he he went to church and he heard the message and the gospel was preached, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And his need of a Savior was presented, and he heard it and he understood it, but he didn't do anything about it. Yet he went home and the Spirit of God wouldn't let him go. The course of a time and events, he trusted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, and the transformation that took place in his life was drastic and it was immediate. He immediately said, Man, everybody needs to know about Jesus. And he wanted to tell others about Christ, but he didn't have anybody to train him or show them how to do it. And he thought, well, I just need to start telling others about Jesus and he asked somebody what to do and they he they said, well just go tell them what Jesus did for you. And and he he was burdened about this and he worked in a telegraph office and He he just every day he would go into work and his heart was burdened about sharing the gospel with somebody there, and he was looking for an opportunity to share the gospel with somebody at work. And so He looked for a time and and uh when there was a lull and there was no other work and they weren't supposed to be doing something else and he saw a man by himself and he was looking for the opportunity. He was asking God, give me an opportunity to witness somebody. Open the door. Show me when it could be. And God opened the door. There was a man sitting Or Ernest Kilborne was sitting all by himself and and Charles walked up to him and then he walked away. Then he turned around and said, No, I need to talk to him. I need to talk to him. He walked up to him, and then he walked away. He's like, I got it. No, Lord, open the door. He's here. He's ready. So he walked up to him. And he sat down with them and he began to talk to him. And for 30 minutes, he shared the love of Jesus Christ to Ernest Gilborn. And Charles thought, man, I prayed about this. God opened the door. Ernest Kilborne is going to bow his head and trust Christ right here. And uh Ernest Kilborne says, well, thanks for talking to me. I appreciate you taking the time. You know, we gotta get back to work. And Charles went home defeated. And he's like, man, I don't understand. How could anybody reject Jesus? I thought God was in this and he was so discouraged. But the very next day, Ernest Kilborn came into work and he says, I got something exciting I want to tell you I went home last night and what you said to me about trusting Jesus as your Lord and Savior, I couldn't sleep. And I bowed my head and I asked Jesus to forgive me of my sins and to save my soul And Ernest Kilburn got saved. So now Charles and Ernest began together to be witnesses there in the telegraph office. And they began to witness to people that very week they reached another person in their office. And then they began to pray together that God would allow them to reach somebody else. And inside of six months Ernest Kilborne had personally plucked from the fires of hell seventy-five souls. Why? Because he was burdened about the multitudes that are dying all around him Without Jesus Christ, and he was tired of just walking by them and seeing them just as people. He saw them as people that needed Jesus And he was burdened about it. Not only that, it began to grow, and his telegraph office started mission works where telegraph men moved to other telegraph offices around the country And they began to reach people in telegraph offices all over the country. And then it grew to a worldwide min ministry and earnest Kilborne, who he led to Christ, that very first soul, some years later, Ernest Kilborne went with him as a missionary to Japan. Because he had the courage to stop and tell him about Jesus. But I'm saying, beloved, is we can decide to be prayerful laborers or pitiful loafers. We can sit by the side, let other people do the work, or we can get involved and let God use us to transform the lives of people around us. There is no greater work or no greater joy to the believer than to be invested in changing the lives of those around us. And if we're going to Love our neighbors ourselves. We're so thankful for the love of Jesus Christ and his care and concern for us. We should also be invested in sharing the gospel with the world Are you going to be a pitiful loafer or a prayerful laborer? You know, I wonder. I wonder if you'd be willing today to at least say, I'll start praying. Everybody can at least pray. Do you right now? Charles, you know how he led 75 people to the Lord in six months? Because he had over 200 people that were lost and on their way to hell that he prayed for every single day. To see them set trust Jesus. That's why he led seventy-five people to Christ. How many people are on your prayer list right now? That you're praying for, that are lost, that need a Savior. What I'm saying, beloved, is we're not seeing the fruit because we're not laboring in prayer. That story, so many practical things. Not only did he pray, but then he systematically endeavored to find a time to present the gospel to each and every person on his list. He wasn't just praying, God send somebody to reach my brother. Send somebody to tell this person about Jesus. No, he laid out a plan and a place And on purpose found a time to be able to present Jesus to them. Now you are not responsible for their response, but we are responsible for what we do. And when God calls us all to be laborers in the harvest, the labors are few, but the harvest is plentious. Are you going to be a prayerful laborer or a pitiful loafer? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?