Willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance, and that he gave himself for you, that you might know for sure that you're on your way to heaven, that your sins are forgiven. And uh we would love the opportunity to take a Bible and show you that. Uh and you can know about that. We uh just the testimony of uh Brian and Katie, uh, you know, they're they're grew up and and Brian for a number of years wondered. He says, you know, am I really saved? Have my sins been forgiven? It's not about how much church you go to or how much Bible you know or or how many religious activities you do uh is have you been forgiven? Have has has the shed blood of Jesus Christ been applied to your sin debt And uh, you know, Katie grew up and and uh was brought to church and went to church for a number of years, and then one day somebody came to her and said, Hey, do you know that you're saved? And she had to she was confronted with the question and said, Well Do I know? And she may know a lot about God at that point, but does she know that she's forgiven and on her way to heaven, she had to decide and she answered the question no, and they were able to show her from the Bible how she could know for sure Her sins are forgiven, and she was on her way to heaven. And now God has called them. They're going to go to South Korea and they're going to present that question. to the people of South Korea and try and reach as many of them as they can. But if you're here this morning, what a shame it would be for you to leave this place and not know for sure that you're on your way to heaven. Not know for sure that your sins are forgiven. We definitely want to be sure that you know that. The focus of the message this morning is going to be on prayer. I have Tim I have basically just titled the message Prayer. We're going to talk about prayer for just a few minutes. You can turn your Bibles and make your way to Daniel chapter number six, is where we're going to be here this morning. Daniel chapter number six So on the Welcome Center there is a sign up sheet because We love doing sign-up sheets around here. So there's a sign-up sheet there. But uh some weeks ago one of the men of our church came to me. And uh he said, Pastor, I'm really burdened about our country. I'm really burdened about the direction that we're headed and and what's going on and and uh I really would believe we need to be praying about that. And he said, what do you think about uh trying to motivate the church to to join together in prayer for our country? And uh I said, I think it's a great idea. Uh I said, let's let's let's pray about that and in a couple of weeks we'll we'll try and get something organized on that. And we've met and talked a couple of times and began praying already. Um but uh we also as a church we have a scheduled revival uh that's right around the corner. Um Somebody help me out. Is it in the bulletin already? The dates for the arrival, what are they 5 to 8 of August. August 5th through the 8th. So we're we're right about a month away. And uh what I would like to do is I'd like to ask the church family to commit together to pray for revival. for our church and for our nation. And uh we're gonna put include the church in this prayer time for these next few weeks as we move up into uh revival here at a church. And I actually called uh Brother Ron Ralph, who is supposed to be coming to preach for us, and he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer last week. And he said, as of right now, I'm gonna try and come. He says I don't know what this literally was last week. I still have a whole gamut of tests I gotta go through this week to find out the course of treatment and how hard that's gonna be on my body. He says, I don't know what it's gonna do. He says, as of now, I'm gonna still come. I'm gonna be there for your revival. Uh he said, but I'm just giving you a heads up physically, uh I might not be able to And so as we're praying for revival, we want to remember Brother Ron Ralph and uh this cancer that he's fighting that, you know, he'll be able to come and and be here. And if uh He can't. I need wisdom about what the Lord would have us do as a church and how to what to do because this has been scheduled for probably three years. I've had him scheduled for these dates. But uh we want to pray for our country and then we're going to commit to continue to pray uh all the way until November. And what we have is there's a sign-up sheet on the Welcome Center. For those of you that are early birds, there is a 6. 30 a. m. time slot. Excuse me, and there is a 6. 30 p. m. time slot. And basically what we want to do is we want to try and get as many people of the church family that are willing to say, I'm going to pause. for just a few minutes at 6. 30 a. m. or at 6. 30 p. m. or at both. I'm going to pause for a few minutes and I'm going to pray for revival for our church and for our country. and pray that God would uh help us. And then we've put together a little flyer, a little thing to remind you. And the sign-up sheet has on it, it has a spot for you to be able to put your name and your number And Pastor Gus is going to try and organize a uh little notification that will go out at, you know, 628 uh and say, hey, in two minutes you've committed to pray together with the church family, so you'll get a little reminder. or in the afternoon, uh, you know, you'll get a little text reminder saying, hey, the church family, and we'll we'll just find out how many of the church are committing together to pray for a revival for our country and for our church and for ourselves. So on the little flyer, you could take one of those. It's just some pointers, some points, things to pray for. You know, pray and thank God for our family, for our church, for our country. Pray for revival for yourself. Revival starts with us. If it's going to happen in our country, it's got to start in our heart. And uh so it starts with us. And then pray for your family, for your spouse, for your children, for the areas of struggle or trouble in your home Pray for your church, your pastor, your church family, God's power in the preaching, in soft hearts in the pews, in preparation for the revival coming. Pray for our country, for souls to be saved, for wisdom for our leaders, for healing. in our nation. Uh we need to be prayer for those things. So that's on the Welcome Center. You can get one of those little flyers on your way out and if you or would like to or so motivated to participate with the church. uh in prayer as we get into this uh over the next few months. Our our country is the place we need prayer, amen. Brother Bob. Yes, a little of those lines, I would just like to say too no matter what our political affiliation is, I think we should remember to pray and thank God that yesterday Donald Trump was not assassinated and also prayed for the spectators that were shot one. Just another sign. What's going on in our family? We need to be praying for healing in our country. This division that's uh it seems like the lines are are getting greater and greater. And uh it's There is no movement that's going to heal our nation. It's not a political individual that's going to heal the nation. It's it's God and a return to the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh that's we need to put our focus on him and uh turn back to him so that we'll be praying for these things. It is a sign of the times that we're in. For sure. Would you look with me in Daniel chapter six? I'm gonna read verses one through ten and uh I'm sure many of you are familiar with the story of Daniel. He was taken captivity into a foreign land. As a captive in that land, he and several other men were uh asked to uh serve as helpers there in the palace and uh Daniel and these men they stood up and said, Boy, we want to honor and please God, and they would not eat the king's meat and They they we were godly Christians, they loved the Lord and and uh did what the Lord wanted them to do, and God blessed them for it. And we see that in this land of captivity, even in the midst of all these troubles, that Daniel prospered. I want you to look and just follow along as we read the story here. We're going to read down through verse number 10, which is our text verse to the for today. It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom a hundred and twenty princes, which should be over the whole kingdom. And over these, uh three presidents of whom Daniel was first, that the princes might give an account unto them, and the king should have no damage. Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes, because an excellent spirit was in him, and the king thought to set him over the whole realm. Then the presidents and princes sought to find an occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom, but they could find none, occasion nor fault, for as much as he was faithful, neither was there any error or fault found in him. Then said these men, We shall not find an occasion against this, Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God. Then the presidents and the princes assembled together to the king and said thus unto him, King Darius, live forever. All the presidents of the kingdom and the governors and the princes and the counselors and the captains Have consulted together to establish a royal statue, which was false, obviously. They they didn't talk to Daniel about it But they consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree that whatsoever thou shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions. Now, O king, establish a decree, and sign it in writing, that it may not be changed, according to the law of the Medes and the Persians. Which altereth not. Wherefore King Darius signed the written the writing and the decree. Now, when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house. And his windows being opened in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed As he gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime. Daniel lived in a hostile land. Amongst the hostile people, a decree had been signed that uh if anybody would make a petition or request anything except from King Darius, they would be cast into the den of lions. And Daniel went up into his room, opened his window, got on his knees, and prayed Beloved, it doesn't matter how hostile this nation gets, it doesn't matter what the burdens or struggles or the turmoil is that we're facing. What we need to do is we need to pray We need to be a people that are given to prayer, that we believe in the power of prayer, and therefore we are motivated to pray. Can I tell you that if you believed Right now, without question or hesitation, that if you prayed, Lord, I need $1,000 tomorrow morning in my mailbox, if you believed that it would happen, you would pray it every night. Lord, I need a thousand dollars in my mailbox tomorrow. The problem is is we lack the conviction or the belief that God hears or answers prayer because if we really believed it, if we really knew that God was in heaven and was hearing us and that he Our prayers were moving the hand of God on behalf of men, we would be a much greater people of prayer. And if we're going to see anything happen in this country of any value or of any good to bring any change, it needs to be about prayer. We need to be a people that are given to prayer. If ever there was a time in America that was in need of prayer, it's now. Oh, we have always needed him. But you know what, beloved, I can't do anything about yesterday. I can't change last week or or two years ago. That's all done and gone. But what I can do today is I can change tomorrow I can look to the future and I can say, okay, uh things haven't been that good. We've been in a place of turmoil, there's been lots of division, there's been lots of heartache, but what we need to do is we need to ask God and beg God for revival. in our hearts and for revival in our church that it would start with us and that it would spread and God would bring in this people, this American nation, back to Him. Prayer is what's going to do it. We've got to have a walk with God. It's foundational to the Christian life. If you sing in the choir, you need to have a walk with God. If you serve as an usher at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, you need to have a walk with God. If you teach a Sunday school class, you need to have a walk with God. If you work in any of the ministries at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, you need to have a walk with God. If you've never even been here and this is your first time walking through the church this morning, I want to tell you, you need to have a walk with God You need God guiding your steps and leading you in your life. A walk with God is a time where you commit to read His Word and spend time in prayer talking to Him. This morning we're going to focus our hearts and minds on this aspect of prayer. There's several things that we learn about Daniel here in his verse number 10 there where he went and prayed as he did aforetime. This is going to be a little bit practical and straightforward, but I just want to encourage us as a church to be given to prayer. First of all, I want you to know that he had a place of prayer. He had a place of prayer. It says, now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house and to his windows being open in his chamber towards Jerusalem. He knelt and prayed on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before God as he did aforetime. This was Daniel's place of prayer. It was something that people expected. Those three guys that were trying to uh capture Daniel or trick Daniel and get him thrown into the lion's den, they knew that Daniel had a place of prayer every day. They knew Daniel was going to be sitting there. at that window, morning, noon, and night, calling upon God. That's why they had the decree signed. They didn't think Daniel was going to go hide in a closet somewhere where nobody would ever see him. This was Daniel's place of prayer. He had a place of prayer that he went consistently and faithfully and prayed unto his God. Do you have a place of prayer this morning? A place where you get a hold of God, a place that is precious to you. In Matthew 6, 6 he says, But when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut the door, pray to thy father which is in secret. He's saying, hey, do you have that place of prayer? There's an expectation there. He says, when thou prayest. He didn't say if you pray. If you ever get around to praying, he says, listen, as a child of God, you're going to be a person of prayer. He says, when you pray. He said, there's a place of prayer. There's a place that you need to have set aside, a place that you go and you get alone with God. That place gives you a commitment, that place gives you a a maybe even comfort, maybe even an expectation, because it becomes precious to you. It's a place where you have met with God and God has communed with you. It's a place where you meet with Him. Do you have a place of prayer? When I was just a teenager in El Paso, Texas, just a young man, I had a place of prayer. A place that in my mind's eye I can go back to and remember how the Lord met with me and spoke to my heart there. I've told you before how in Indiana I had a place off away from the college all alone where I would drive down this old service road and I had a place of prayer, many hours I spent walking in the tall grass. I don't know how many ticks I got out there, but I spent a lot of time walking in that tall grass out there just talking to the Lord and and spending time with him. A place of prayer that was precious to me. Do you have a place of prayer? Look in Genesis chapter 19, verse number 27. I want you to know Abraham had a place of prayer. In Genesis 19, 27 it says, and Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the Lord. He had that place. He knew in his mind, when he got up in the morning, here's where I'm going to go. This is the place where I meet with God. This is the place where I'm going to get alone with God. It was a place of prayer. Jesus had a place of prayer. In Mark chapter 1, verse number 35, he says, And in the morning, rising up, a great while before day, he went out and he departed into a solitary place. Jesus had a place. The place was anywhere there wasn't people. A solitary place. A place that he could get alone. A place that he could commune with his father. Do you have a place? Beloved, if you and I will get in that place, the Bible says, thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. If you and I would find and get frequently into that place, we say, boy, I sure would love to see change in our church. I sure would love to see change in our country. Are you getting in that place? Are you getting in the place where you're meeting with God? He says, if we'll do it, he will reward you openly. There's a place of prayer, I want you to see. Secondly, he had a position of prayer. He had a position of prayer. Our text verse says that he kneeled upon his knees. Three times a day. He kneeled down. Beloved, I would not say that you have to get on your knees to pray. The idea here, the principle is that you have a heart of submission to God. The position of prayer is is is a position of humility And I think it would do all of us good to on occasion to get down on our knees before God, but you don't have to be in that position physically to be in that position prayerfully You can come humbly to God, even though you might be standing. You can come humbly to God, even though you might be walking. You can come humbly to God, even though you might be driving down the road on your way to work, but you're there and you're praying and you're talking to the Lord humbly before him, acknowledging who he is as God and creator and the Savior of your soul And you, just a humble human being, coming to the throne of grace and asking of him your petitions. The position of prayer. We are told to come boldly. That boldly is not cocky. It is with confidence. Not confidence in us, but confidence because of who it is we're going to. Realizing that we're approaching God and we can come to Him confidently because He has told us, Call on me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. You can be sitting upright and praying In Luke chapter 22, verse number 46, Jesus talked to the disciples, and he said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. These disciples were a lot like me. They were tired. They had yielded to the temptation Shhh! They had fallen asleep. So Jesus said to them, Hey, might be good. If you're really going to be serious about this prayer, it might be good for you to rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation to fall back asleep You're not praying too effectively if you're laying on the ground. So you what I'm saying the position is a position of our heart. You might be Sitting upright, you might be walking. I enjoy walking and praying. I the the the one place that I have here is in this auditorium. I'm here a lot and I enjoy just walking the auditorium I'm I'm worried that we might see some laps at some point. Um just too many, you know, but this carpet's holding up really good. But you just walk in the auditorium because it's an open space and there's you know it's quiet and there's nobody here And I can just walk and talk to my Lord. It helps me stay awake. Because I do tend to get weary when I'm sitting down or or or n you know, not moving. So moving helps me to stay alert. But a position of prayer is a position of humility before God. Abraham, in that verse we read in 1927, it says, Abraham got up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the Lord. It'd be a lot harder for you to fall asleep reading your Bible if you were standing. Or praying if you were standing or if you were walking. So he had a position of prayer. I want you to see thirdly that he had purpose in his prayer. He had purpose in his prayer. He He knelt down facing Jerusalem, keeping his mind and his eye on that homeland. He understood that this world is not his home. Where he was at, the place he was in bondage, was not where his finish was. He had a home that he was away from, and beloved, it we need to keep our mind on heaven We need to keep our mind on that eastern sky when Jesus is going to come again and look for his soon appearing. We have a purpose in our prayer. He says in Matthew chapter 6, in that what has been called the model prayer, he says, after this manner, therefore, pray ye. And and men tend to like to pray, uh many people that our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, give us this day our daily bread You know, they like to just because they've got that memorized, the Bible it cautions us or tells us not to pray in vain repetition. The the model prayer is a prayer uh of of an example of how to pray. It's not that you say those exact words, it is the idea that you're praying. And I've taught on this before, so I'm not going to take time. I'm just going to go very quickly here. But the idea is that you remember who it is you're talking to. You remember his royalty, our Father, which art in heaven. Remembering that you're talking to God. Remember how powerful He is and who He is in recognition to us. And then He says, Thy kingdom come, remember that He's coming again. That he's going to return and that we are going to be with him, and we're looking for that day and hour that we're going to be with him. Remember that he is in rule, that he is in control. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. God, we know you're in control. We know that your will is going to be done. We yield to your will and we ask of you, God, that this would happen or that this would happen. And we are petitioning you for this. You review your request. He says, give us this day our daily bread. That's your time. Most of us spend the majority, if not all of our time, in this point right here It's only one point of the model prayer. One point of what we're supposed to be praying for is to re remember your request. Give us this day our daily bread. What are your personal needs? What are the things that are burdens on your heart or Are you caring for somebody else? You're interceding for others and requesting of God on their behalf, you know, like our missionaries here today. the Lord would help them get to South Korea and as they go that they would be able to witness with power and that souls would be saved and lives would be changed and a church would be planted and they could learn the language quickly and These requests we bring and ask God to help them to accomplish that so you remember your request. Let me just say that a list will help you remember your request. I know you guys are a lot like me and You have senior moments. You know, your mind y you you can't remember everything. That's why we put together this little list, very basic stuff for you to take. Just to remember, here's some areas to pray for, but um You know, a list to pray for. That's why we have a church directory. What a great thing to be able to look at and pray for the church family. Learning their names, learning who they are. But they look like you can look at that church directory and pray pray through those names and you know, pray that Lord you'll be with Bob Gamble and Pray you'd help Carol to make it another ten years. And uh Lord, would you be with, you know, you're you're praying for each each of them. And and you're going through and you get to see their their face and what they look like and you can you can learn them but pray for them name by name by name. Without a list, I can guarantee you you won't remember everybody. And then as you're praying for them, you'll remember different burdens that are on their heart or different requests that they've had. And uh, you know, I mean, don't don't answer You know, but John, when was the last time you prayed for Brandon? You know I mean Wait Brother Anthony, when was the last time you prayed for John Dugan? I mean you don't answer. I'm just saying, when was the last time? We want God to do something at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We need to be a people of prayer. We need to be given to prayer, and a list helps us, keeps us from forgetting. And you say, man, I can't pray for every one of them every day. No, but you could divide it up through a week, maybe. You could take our missionaries. We have a prayer list that uh we give out on uh Thursday nights Little printed list has the different prayer requests of the church family on there. And then the third page back here has all of our missionaries listed and what's going on currently in their their fields You say, man, I can't pray for all that. I'll be an hour and a half. Well break it up. Pray for a little bit here, a little bit there, but be a person of prayer. Get a list that would help you to review your requests, to remember what they are, the things that you need to be praying for. Then in the model prayer, we are to reconcile our receipt. He says, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. The idea is that you get right with God. Do you have anything that you need to be praying for, that you need to get right with God, reconcile your receipt, get the balance all cleared, keep short accounts with God? Rely on his restraint and lead us not in temptation, but deliver us from evil. We need to rely on, Lord, keep me from temptation. Lord, put a hedge about me. Don't let Satan, you know Attack me. Lord, I need strength to overcome the temptations of this old world and ask God to help you to have victory. And then remember He He is reliable. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever, that God has all power and he is able. That's the model prayer. There should be a definite direction and a purpose in your prayer time. Not just randomly haphazard whatever just praying, but Lord, here's here's what we're I'm meeting with you, and here's what we're going to do. If you have a plan, it'll work. Then I want you to see fourthly that he had a practice of prayer. He had a practice of prayer This is something that he did three times a day. It's something he was committed to. It's something that he gave himself to. Everybody knew it. They knew that they were going to be able to get him. If they just said, boy, we're going to get him against something with his God, because that's something that he does not miss. There's anything Daniel was going to miss, he wasn't going to miss his prayer time. It was planned prayer time. Can I ask you, do you have a planned prayer time? You guys all all all of us know that if uh if it isn't planned, it doesn't happen. We can have the best intentions in the world. But if it isn't planned, it doesn't happen. And uh, you know, sometimes it might not be convenient, but if it's planned and it's scheduled and this is what we're supposed to do, then you say, okay, that's what's planned, that's what I need to do right then. Need to do it Sometimes if it's planned it doesn't happen. But if it's not planned, it's surely not going to happen. And you guys know that that's the case. I mean one of these days I'm going to take my wife out for a nice meal. Someday. You know, right? Uh we're gonna do that sometime. No, you gotta plan it. You gotta say, okay, next Tuesday is winning or whatever. You say You know, sometimes we've done this with church family, with many of you at different times. You'd be like, hey, let's get together sometime. Oh, that's great. Let's do it. That's wonderful. Four months later, we still haven't got together, have we No, it's that's the way it that's the way it happens. So we have to say okay, what are you doing next Tuesday? Can we do it Tuesday? Okay, Tuesday. And then you say what time? Tuesday. Uh uh let's say Tuesday, four o'clock, okay And you set it down, and then whatever up whatever else was there gets canceled because you planned it. So I'm saying is you need to have a planned time of prayer, which is why we're saying, hey, would you be available or would you be willing to pause at 6. 30 in the morning Would you be willing to pause at 6. 30 in the evening and say, we're going to stop, we're going to pause and join together as a church family and pray for our church and pray for our country A planned time of prayer. It's not, you don't have to pray for an hour. Just pause. Pray for our country. Yeah. It was persistent time of prayer. It's something that he did every day. He did every day You know, spiritual strength is not gained because you Went to four services in a row and read seventy chapters of the Bible this week. Spiritual strength is gained because you consistently every day spend time with God. Consistently every day. Five minutes a day every single day is better than five hours on Monday and then not again for three weeks. Just a little bit of time every day, ten minutes a day, fifteen minutes a day, whatever you have time to give to God, but it's consistency, persistency. He he went every day, three times a day. He was persistent in his prayer time. We've got to be persistent in asking and seeking God. God gives us two parables that deal with this idea of persistence, the the friend at midnight, and I've taught on these, I'm not going to reteach him, or the widow and the weary judge. The idea is that the Bible says because of her importunity, because she kept on asking, the judge says, okay, I'll give it to you. God says, hey, keep asking. Keep asking. Keep asking. Keep asking. I don't understand or can't explain exactly why But what I can say is that that's God God told us to do it. Maybe it's he's testing our faith. Maybe he's seeing if we're serious, maybe he's seeing if we're going to continue to pray for it, but he tells us very clearly to keep asking. To keep coming. And we don't see an answer today, or maybe the answer is wait, but we keep asking and keep asking, being persistent in prayer. We want to see revival. It's not going to come because we prayed once. We're going to have to be praying many times. We're going to have to keep praying. You know God wants to do it for you? You know, sometimes when my kids come and ask me for things, um you've heard me before, I uh sometimes I just tell them I just say no to see what their attitude is gonna be. And if they have a right attitude, they'll turn and they'll walk away and and I'll say, Hey, come here. Thank you for your right attitude. I want you to know that I'm perfectly happy with you doing that. You can do that because you had a right attitude. Now they've learned that, and so they probably have a right attitude just to trick me, right? Inside they're really mad. I don't know, but they don't show it to me. But uh you know what I'm saying is God wants to do it for us. He may be just waiting to see how we're going to respond. Do you think God would want to bless your home? Do you think God would want to send revival to Hunt Valley Baptist Church? You think God would like to turn America back to him? I think he would. But are we asking for it? I ask you this morning, is your prayer life up to a crisis? When that car wreck comes or when that phone call comes, are you in the place B. R. Lakin had a heart attack one night, was taken rushed to the hospital. He was on the gurney being taken into open heart surgery. And uh this is many years ago, but he he asked the the nurses, says, can you pause? Can I call my wife before I go into surgery. And nobody else knew. I mean he had had our tech family didn't even know yet he's there in the hospital. So he calls his wife and uh he says, Hun, uh I had a heart attack. They're they're gonna they're just about to roll me into this elevator and take me up and we're gonna go to surgery. And he says, hey, i if if the elevator stops on the tenth floor and I don't stop, I just keep going, uh I want you to know I'm in heaven. And uh I'll I'll see you on the other side. He was he was ready, up for a crisis. It was not a problem. Are you ready for a crisis? Do you have that close relationship, that walk with God? When Daniel heard that they made a decree and said, you can't pray. Daniel didn't say, oh my goodness, what am I going to do now? Daniel went and prayed as he did aforetime. He went back to God. Ephesians 6. 18 says, praying always with all prayer and supplication with the Spirit and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints, praying, persevering, continuing to pray. You know, beloved, you and I build relationship through communication and time. How much of a relationship are you building with God? How much time have you spent with God in the last seven days? Let me ask you this. How many of you don't answer, but how many of you have only eaten one meal in the last seven days? You would never expect to be able to continue to live physically having only me eaten one meal. Why would we expect to be able to continue to live spiritually without a steady diet of the Word of God and of time with God? I was reading this week about a pastor in the Church of Scotland. His ministry only lasted seven years. Because he gave himself so fervently and passionately to the cause of Christ, he wore himself down, he contracted typhus, and he died in March of 1843 His name was Robert Murray McShay. He said this, remember you are not a tree that can live or stand alone. You are but a branch. It is only while you abide in Christ as a branch in the vine that you will flourish and live. Only as we abide in Christ. We are just a branch. We can't flourish and live outside of abiding in Christ. Robert Merrick McShea would give himself to hours of extended prayer time, especially on Saturdays. He would spend many hours on Saturdays for his church family. One time one of his parishioners asked him and said, Do you ever miss your Saturday prayer time for the church? And he said, I could not, sir. For what would my people do if I failed to pray for them? You see, friend Many times we look like let's say the work of the church here, and they say, Boy, what would we do if Pastor didn't prepare a message for Sunday? What would we do if Pastor didn't uh uh plan the next activity or if he didn't organize this event? No, what will we do if pastor's not praying for his people? But let's take that and apply it to you. Many times we think about it at our home and we say, boy, what's my family going to do if I don't bring home a paycheck? What's my family going to do if I don't teach the kids homeschool. What's my family gonna do if I don't make this meal and get the laundry done or get the house clean? What's my family gonna do? No, what are they gonna do if you don't pray for them? Boy, what's our country gonna do if this politician gets in or if that politician gets in What's our country gonna do if this law gets passed, or if that law gets passed? Oh my goodness, what's our country gonna do if this or this or this No, what's our country going to do if God's people, which are called by my name, are not humbling themselves and praying? This is what we need to be doing for our nation. Will you pray? Will you commit to pray? Robert Murray McShay said a man is what he is on his knees and nothing more. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Beloved, what your home needs is prayer