A few weeks ago somebody in the church came to me and asked me specifically about this with regards to how do I answer this. Somebody asked me this question, how do I give them an answer? And I said, well, let me get together a few things for you. But in that I thought, you know, it might be good for the whole church to really kind of get a a refresher on this. And uh as Jacob opened in prayer, Lord, we we are aware of the sequence of events. We know God what's happening. We don't know the day or the hour, but we understand what's coming. I believe that as a whole, the majority of you probably have a grasp and an understanding of these events. But uh if somebody was to stop you on the street and say, why are you a pre-tribulationist? Could you give them an answer? Could you give them scripture? Could you explain your position? And so that's what I want to do tonight ultimately is get to that point where I can I can give you some simple things, some straightforward Bible truth about why we're pre-tribulationalists, and hopefully you'll be able to walk away with that. Um it is important. Uh so as we talk about our church, we believe uh that we're pre-tribulationist, our church is. And I thought, well, a good place to start is our church constitution. Our church constitution in our article number two, that is our statement of faith, what we say the Bible teaches with regards to different matters, letter K reads like this. We believe that that blessed hope, the personal and imminent return of Christ, who will rapture his church prior to the seven-year tribulation period. At the end of the tribulation, Christ will personally and visibly return with his saints to establish his earthly messianic kingdom. Which was promised to the nation of Israel. So th this is important to us and uh we want to be sure we have an understanding of it. So just by way of review, let me just give you a basic timeline. Now I know this might be a little bit far away, but uh first of all you have the next thing on God's calendar, the uh large arrow there with the U U shape is the rapture. Uh this could be called the resurrection of the church. Christ was the first resurrection, and because he resurrected, we know we too one day will resurrect. But you understand that reason that you is right there is because Christ is not actually So we are raptured right there. Now a lot of times The rapture and the return are spoken of synonymously. People many times. Actually, just last week my son Andrew looked at me and he says, you know what I just figured out? That the rapture and the return are two different events. He says, I always thought the rapture was the return, and the return was the rapture. But they're two different events. So the other large arrow there is the second coming or the return of Christ. And you see here on the first, on the resurrection, at the rapture, we are caught up together. The saints are caught up together with God in the air. At the second coming, we are returning with God as he comes down, and we have the Battle of Armageddon right at the bottom there, right before the millennial reign. We have the Battle of Armageddon starts, and then Christ Establishes his millennial reign, thousand-year reign here on earth, where there's going to be peace because the Prince of Peace is present. He's there ruling and reigning. Now on earth In between those two events, the rapture and the return, there's a seven-year period. The Bible is very clear about the seven-year period. There's actually Not a whole lot of debate about that, the fact that there's a seven-year period there where there's going to be a time of tribulation. That time of tribulation is divided into two, three and a half year periods. periods, three and a half years of a semblance of peace where everybody will believe the lie, they're going to be duped by the Antichrist and They're going to have that, what they believe is world peace, and then there's going to be an outpouring of judgment uh towards the the last three and a half years. Towards the end, there's going to be the outpouring of the wrath of God on earth during that seven-year period. Now, during the seven-year period down here on earth, there's a couple things take place up in heaven. Does anybody know what those are? We have the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. That takes place up in heaven. We're up there having the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. There's also something else that happens before that The judgment seat of Christ. The judgment seat of Christ takes place. Now the great white throne judgment takes place all the way at the end of the thousand-year reign of Christ, but we're not going to get into all those other things. So that just gives you a synopsis, an idea of what's taking place. And what we're talking about is tonight is the fact that we believe as a church that we are raptured At the beginning of this time, when Christ returns, we're caught up together with him in the air, and we are taken out of here. The saints are not present for that time of the tribulation. here on earth. We are going to be up in heaven, taking place uh we have the judgment seat of Christ where you're gonna be rewarded for those things done in your body, uh whether they be good or bad, where the crowns are going to be given out, and then we're gonna have the marriage supper of the Lamb So that's what we believe in the order of things. Now, let me give you a couple of uh just this is introduction, and don't get bogged down in the introduction. I'm just trying to lay some groundwork here The rapture is called many different things in the Word of God. Now I ask Gus to put this on the on there for you so that you could have them if you were taking notes. through these pretty quickly, but they'll be on the screen for a little while. So the rapture is called Jacob's Trouble or a Time of Distress in Jeremiah 30, verse number 7. It's called Daniel's 70th week in Daniel chapter 9 verse number 24 and 27. A time of trouble or distress in Daniel 12, chapter 1. The great day, as in the day of wrath, that's going to be in Revelation 6, verse number 7 17, is called the hour of testing. The hour of testing, when the whole earth is going to be tested, according to Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 10, is called the indignation in Isaiah 26, 26. The great tribulation in Matthew 24, 21, and the day of the Lord in Joel chapter 1, in 2, verse number 1, and in 1 Thessalonians 5, verse number 2, the day of the Lord. Mm-hmm. Many places in the scriptures, that's just a couple of references, but many places in Scriptures you see the day of the Lord Now, this is going to be a time of great tribulation. Tribulation actually means great distress or great affliction. Now, I'm not going to be teaching on the on the great tribulation period tonight specifically. What we're talking about is the fact that we're not going to be tribulated. Now the tribulation I'm going to take for granted that most of you understand it's a time of uh outpouring of judgment on earth. It's going to be uh a time of hardship and trial like the world has never seen There's description of that in the book of Revelation, chapters six through chapter eighteen of the book of Revelation describes the time of the tribulation. We're not going to be teaching on that, but Uh wanted to give you that here. It's what it's called and what it means is a time of distress, a time of suffering, unimaginable pain. Where does the tribulation come from? This is important because we need to understand sometimes we deal with trials here on earth, and the great tribulation is not And I'm gonna I don't want to belittle or or marginalize. There are some people that go through some major Major trials in their lives and major tests and major problems today, and they would look at that as a time of tribulation. But what I want you to understand is the tribulation Period is for the whole world, not just for one segment, not just for one group. It's the whole world, not just one person. And so, but where does this come from? Is it from Satan? No, it's not. I want you to see that it comes from God. The tribulation, what is the source of this great tribulation? It is important that we understand that it's coming from God, from God Himself. I could give you many references here with regards to this, but I'll just read you one, Isaiah 2621. It says, For behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth. It's it's from God. Now this is important because in a little bit we're going to be talking about why we believe we're not here. So understanding that it's God that's sending this punishment and as well as why. Why is the tribulation coming? Well, because it is a time of punishment. A time of punishment for all of the earth for their iniquity, the purpose of the tribulation. In 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 2, Verse number 12, he says, they that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in un righteousness. So why is it tribulation? Because it's a time of punishment. Now this is just the introduction, just the foundation. Don't get bogged down in this stuff that I've given you as preliminary because this kind of set the stage, gives you the time period we're talking about, and the fact that we're not going to be here And an understanding of what's taking place while we're not here. What I really want you to get tonight is what we're going to get into now, and I'm going to give you a few things that are I want you to be able to have an answer for the hope that is in you. And that's what I want to give you, and what I really want you to take away from this tonight is why are we pre-tribulationists? What is the argument? Some people argue for uh mid-trib. Some people would say there's post-tribulation. Some people say there's free wrath that we'll be resurrected in in almost all the way through the tribulation. We'll have to endure most of it. But before God pours out his wrath, we're going to be removed. And so there are many different positions. We are pre-tribulationalists, and I want to give you tonight the reasons why. There's three reasons which have several subpoints that I want to support them with. First of all, is the saints position. The saints position. So why why are we pre-tribulationists? First of all, because of the saints' position. Our position in the order of events. Would you turn your Bibles to Revelation chapter number four? Revelation chapter number four. Our position in the order of events. I believe that God put things in the Word of God for a purpose, that He put them in a certain order, that He has them laid out exactly where they are and how it's given to us for a reason. The book of Revelation is divided into three segments. Revelation chapter one is the things that were. Revelations two and three is the things that are. And Revelations 4 and beyond is the things that will be, the things that are to come. That's the book of Revelation. So we have the things that were. the things that are and the things that are to come. There is a progression, an order of events. Well here in chapter number four, we have the resurrection. Of the church. In verse number one, I'm not there. Read verse number one to yourselves. Just read it and get it, get it in your mind. I don't I'm not there, but that terminology The trump of God's going to sound. The phraseology there is very similar to that which takes place at the resurrection When we are caught up together with God in the air. Now I want you to look down to verse number four. I have that one here. In verse number four, he says this. And round about the throne were four and twenty seats. And upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting clothed in white raiment, and they had on their heads crowns of gold. These four and twenty elders are the elders of the churches. These are representing the church. All churches. J. Vernon McGee said this to give some weight and authority to what I'm telling you about this verse here. He says, we know that Israel had elders, and that there were elders appointed in the early churches to rule and to represent the entire church. The role that they played is clearly understood by the people of John's day. These 24 elders stand for the total churches from Pentecost to the rapture Therefore, I can say categorically and dogmatically that herein the church is in heaven. So these elders are representing all the churches, and they are up in heaven surrounding the throne. They're standing as representatives for the churches, but the church is in heaven. in Revelation chapter number four. The tribulation period doesn't start to Revelation chapter number six. So what I'm saying is the order of events that take place. God gave it to us in order. First you have the church raptured out of here. The church is in heaven. And then the So our position in the order of events. You don't see the church again in all chapters uh six through chapter eighteen, all that time of the outpouring of the wrath of God and the judgments that are coming Coming on earth and the tribulation period and all the things that are taking place here on earth, nowhere in those passages do you see the church mentioned. So in chapter 4, the church is mentioned, they're resurrected out. Chapter 6, the tribulation starts. Nowhere in the time of tribulation Do you see the church mentioned? But in chapter number 19, when we get to the second coming, my thing's gone, that's alright, I don't have to put it back. When we get to the second The second coming, the church is mentioned again because we're coming clothed in white raiment with Christ. Okay, so the order of events that are given to us here Um then I want you just to I I hesitate to mention this one because you don't build a doctrine based on logic. Anybody wants to build a doctrine based on logic, I'd be very eerie of that. But correct doctrine is going to be supported by logic. Correct doctrine will make sense. And here's what I'm saying: that the church is the bride of Christ. He loved the church and gave himself for it. He died for the church. He gave himself for the church. He loves the church. He loves you. He loves me. It would not make sense for God to give us salvation To forgive us of our sin, to remove us from judgment, the judgment of sin, but then say you've got to stay here and endure the judgment that I'm going to pass out on earth. As I stated, the reason, the purpose for the tribulation period is very clear. It was to judge the iniquity of the people here on earth. It was to punish those who loved unrighteousness. So it wouldn't make sense for God to leave his people here to endure the same judgment. So our position, not just in the order of events as it's given to us in Revelation, but our position that we have in Jesus Christ because we're saved because he loved and gave himself for us. Christ loves us And therefore wouldn't want us to have to endure this terrible time of tribulation. Let me say this that That if somebody is teaching that you are removed, like let's say a pre a mid-tribber uh is teaching that you're removed during the middle of it, What I want you to understand is that the tribulation period, although it's divided into two segments, when you look at the scribu when you look at the scriptures, the tribulation period is the tribulation period. It is there's the first three and a half years and the second three and a half years, but the purpose and the scope and the sequence of what this is for is all of it together. And so what I'm saying is that if somebody is taking the scriptures and saying, well, we're going to be removed out of the tribulation at this point, well, if we're removed from any of it, we're removed from all of it. Because it is all the tribulation period. All seven years. So if somebody would say, well, we're going to be removed from it at this point, if we're removed from any of it, we're removed from all of it. So first of all, I want you to see we're removed because of our position. Hopefully you've got those two reasons down, our position in Christ and our position in the order of events that God gave it to us. Then I want you to see because of the Scripture's proclamation. Because of the Scripture's proclamation. First of all, there is the absence of the mention of it to the churches. Do you think I know you do? God God is the author of his word, amen. And God breathed. We believe in the verbal plenary inspiration of the scriptures that God breathed The scriptures gave it to man, used men to pen it, but gave the words to them to pin down the message for us. We believe we have the inerrant, infallible word of God. Okay, so if that is true, then consider with me the all of the epistles. All of the letters to the churches and the book of Acts, if we as a church were going to have to endure the tribulation period, Wouldn't somewhere in all the letters to the churches there be a mention of how to endure? of how to how you're going to go through this time, of when the tribulation comes, this is what you're going to do. During the tribulation, this is You see, there is an absence of it in all the letters to the churches, which are teaching us how to have and hold and live this Christian life in this church age. There's no mention of it. Because the church is not going to be here during the tribulation. Okay? So the Scripture's proclamation there, by not proclaiming it, gives us support For the fact that we're not going to be here, God did not say it. I believe that God says exactly what he wants to say. He didn't accidentally leave something out. Oliver B. Green said this. The only way to understand the revelation is to read it and let it say exactly what it says And look to the Spirit to reveal the deep truth that He would have us know. No one will ever understand all of Revelation. Okay, so but he was saying there in the beginning, you've got to let it say exactly what it's going to say. We believe in the literal interpretation of the scripture. And when you get into trouble is when you start uh looking at it in typology and looking at it in al allegorically and looking at it you know uh pictorally, uh these other ways you try and draw these things from it when you just let the Scripture speak for itself is when you get correct interpretation. Okay, so we have first of all the absence of any mention of it to the churches. And then we have, I want you to turn to this passage of scripture, 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. Verses 1 through 9. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verses 1 through 9, we have the fact that we are not appointed to wrath Very clear. This is the key passage. If you say any b you want to go to any passage of scripture, and I was reading uh after one gentleman who did not believe in pre-tribulation uh rapture of the church and and He I mean I could almost see it. I mean I was reading the pages, but if it would have been post-texting era when he read it, he would have written it it written That's all they got Well, I'm sorry. I didn't know I needed more than one verse. I didn't know I needed more than one time of Christ giving us truth to make it fact. Do we have to have Christ giving it to us in more than one place? So this is the key passage. I don't think this is all we have. I've given you several support things tonight, but this is the key passage of Scripture. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Look with me, verse number 1, down through verse Verse number one through three, he's talking about the day of the Lord, that time of judgment called the tribulation. He says, But if the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have No need that I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. The day of the Lord is the tribulation period, that time period. We can see that in many other passages of Scripture. but it comes as a thief in the night. Verse number three, for when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them. Verse number four here is the turning point. He says here, but ye brethren are not in darkness that that day should overtake you as a thief. He says, hey, you're not in darkness, that day should not overtake you as a thief. You're not going to be here. Ye are the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober For they that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet the hope of salvation Verse number nine, for God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by the Lord Jesus Christ. So he's talking about the day of the Lord here, that time of tribulation, that time of judgment, and he says, God hath not appointed us To wrath. God has not said that you are going to be have to go through this time day of judgment. You are not going to have to deal with this time of judgment. It's very clear. This day of judgment we're not appointed It's not for us. In Romans chapter 5 and verse number 9, he says, Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath. We shall be saved from wrath through him. That's Romans 5, verse number 9. Justified by His blood, we're saved from wrath. We as Christians who have been Cleansed and washed in the blood of the Lamb are saved from the wrath to come. Amen? Does that make sense? Hopefully it's clear to you. Hopefully you're making some notes. We see so the fact here that the scripture proclaims it, first of all, and the fact that it's absent in all the letters to the churches, there's no explanation as to how we are to behave during this time. There would be, should uh that be a time we were going to have to endure. Then also, and we were talking about here in the Scriptures proclamation that we are not appointed unto that. We are not appointed unto that. Christ says that he would keep us from that day. Look at Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 10. Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 10. I know there's a lot of teaching tonight. Stay with me. I hope that uh this will give you something to have an answer. Revelation 3 and verse number 10, he says, Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also Will keep thee from the hour of temptation. That hour of temptation is specifically dealing with talking about the tribulation period. He said, I will keep thee from the hour of temptation. of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. That's going to try them that dwell upon the earth, but we're not going to be upon the earth. We're not going to be here. God's going to keep us from that time of temptation when the whole earth is going to be tried. We're going to be out of here. He's going to keep us from this hour. This, let me say, is not keep us through. There are some who teach this, and they teach it that Christ is going to keep us through Tribulation period. That like uh the three Hebrew children that were in the fiery furnace and Jesus was with them, they would say, This is like that. Jesus is going to be with us through the tribulation. But that's not what this verse says. That even in the Greek, the Greek for this word from is actually and does mean from. There's no other way to interpret that. He's going to keep us from this hour. Note also that it's not a local hardship, as I stated earlier, that it's a trial that's going to come upon all the world. All the world. In Revelation chapter 13 and verse number 8, we see this phrase again dealing with those that dwell upon the earth. He says, And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of the Lamb of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the Lord So they're gonna work the old the whole earth is gonna be worshiping him, the Antichrist. If all of them that dwell upon the earth are worshiping the Antichrist, How can the saints be doing that? Okay. The fact of the matter is, it's clear that the Holy Spirit is going to be removed from the earth Second Thessalonians chapter two verses seven through nine says this for the mystery of iniquity doth already work. Only he who now lutteth will let until he be taken out out of the way. So he that now leteth will let till he is taken out of the way. And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of That is talking about the Antichrist. But in order for the Antichrist to be revealed What has to happen according to that verse? The Holy Spirit has to be removed. So the him that luddeth will lut until he's removed. And then the Antichrist is going to be revealed. The Holy Spirit dwells in us. He's the comforter that was sent when Christ ascended up into heaven. The Holy Spirit came and he's with us. And he'll be with us until we're removed. So if the Holy Spirit's removed, then we're removed. And we're out of here. So let me give you the last point here, and that is because this this the Savior's patterns, the patterns that we see in the scriptures. This would be probably one of the weaker arguments just as far as biblically. I think I've given you strong biblical arguments thus far, but we do see a pattern in Scripture, and that is that God has not allowed his people to have to go through times of wrath. Um when God was going to judge the earth uh in the book of Genesis He provided, of course, for Noah and his family, but two chapters before that, Enoch, who walked with God. was removed. Enoch did not have to go through that judgment. He was removed out of there. Um so then also you think about Lot. Lot was a wicked man. He he was carnal in nature, but he was one of gods. And God was going to save the entire city if there was a number of of godly people there, but there wasn't even that. And so But before God would bring his wrath down upon Sodom and Gomorrah, he sent angels in to get Lot out of there. So we have that example that God did not send his wrath down upon those that were his people. And I think we can look at that as an example that God's given us so he wouldn't do that to us as well, send wrath down that we would have to endure. uh when he's given us an example that he removed them uh from the from the earth The last thought is this. No man knows the day or the hour that Christ is going to come, right? Okay, that is not dispute. We don't know when crisis is going to come. We don't know when the rapture is going to take place, when the when the eastern sky is going to break and we're going to be caught up together with him in the air. Matter of fact, everyone that's tried to set a date has been wrong. Nobody knows. Here's the problem with the pre-trib physician. The tribulation is going to start with the revelation of the Antichrist and the acceptance of Him worldwide. It would be relatively easy, based on our knowledge of the scriptures, to know the day and the hour if he was going to come at three and a half years after the start of the tribulation. If it was going to be pre-trib, if it was going to be mid-trib, once we have the revelation of the Antichrist, we would say, okay, we've got three years. We could do what we want for three years and half a year before Christ comes we'll get ready. Or w what I'm saying is it would be pretty easy to deduce the time. But God tells us very clearly that that day when the church is going to be resurrection, no man knoweth the day or the hour. Matthew 24, 42. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Matthew twenty five thirteen. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Nobody knows that. So what I'm saying is if we were mid-trib or post-trib, it would be easy to deduce when. And so again, that is another argument for why we believe in pre-tribulation, rapture of the church. I hope this has been something that's helped you. I know it's a lot of teaching, probably not something that uh would look at and say, boy, that really spoke to my heart. But let me let me give you this two thoughts and we'll be done. One is that this is doctrine. I want you to understand that you can be wrong on doctrine and still be saved and on your way to heaven. You can be messed up here and think kind of goofy with regards to the tribulation and and not be correct, but what you believe about this is not what matters as far as salvation. That is what you believe about Jesus Christ. And if you've accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, sometimes people might get messed up in doctrine, but that doesn't mean they're going to hell. That means they just don't have an understanding of that scripture and any one of us Okay. Now the second thing is we've talked about Jesus coming and we don't know the day or the hour, and I don't know. know if you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus is your Lord and Savior. That those that are here on earth are going to have to go through that time of tribulation that don't know Jesus. This is the rapture of the church, those that are saved, that have trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. And if you've never done that, if you're not a hundred percent sure that you've trusted him, you need to do that. The Bible talks about uh the fact that some are going to be taken, some are gonna be left. When the when the rapture happens. The rapture is gonna take place. If you don't know for sure that you're on your way to heaven, w whenever it happens, the most important thing for you to know is that you're saved.