I was really debating what to do here because we've come to the end of the kingdoms. We've talked about all of the kings that ruled. uh during the divided kingdom, looking at the kings of the Northern Kingdom and the Kings of the Southern Kingdom and uh last time I taught through this I jumped right here, I went straight into the exile period, kind of the time of uh judgment where they were in captivity. And then the really exciting time is the return or post-captivity that brings us right to the end of the Old Testament. However, as I looked at it, I just said, you know, if if I go right to here, there's a large section of the Old Testament that we're not really addressing at all. uh although it is mentioned, although we do talk about it because of the kings, we walk through 1 and 2 Samuel, we walk through 1 and 2 Kings, and that's what we've talked about here through the kingdoms. However, during this time is when you have all of these minor prophets and several of these major prophets. that are speaking, and you know, they are going to the northern kingdoms, they are preaching in the southern kingdoms, they are they are constantly calling God's people back. And so I felt like I really needed to take a moment at least and address this, give you something on all of these books, which a lot of times are overlooked Uh I'm going to be preaching from the Book of Habakkuk tonight, and you know, as I pondered and thought about it, uh those of you that have been in church for a lot of years. I mean you probably could count on your fingers the times that you've heard messages from any of these minor prophets. These do not get dealt with very much. It does tend to have a kind of repetitive message, but these do not get dealt with a whole lot. And I thought, well, you know what? I really ought to do some study and and learn and Let God give me a message from these books that I could share with the church and and so challenge personally to kind of look into it. But we're going to look at Habakkuk tonight, but this morning We're just going to kind of talk about these minor and major prophets that are part of the before we move on, I want to talk about those prophets that were in this period here. Then we're going to move on to the time of captivity, and we'll talk about those that ruled there. So in your notes there, we see over and over again God sent his people warnings of judgment. That they should return, that they should follow him. He promised them that he would bless them if they would turn back to him. But the hard heart of the children of Israel kept them in sin. And sin kept them from enjoying the blessings of God. The message of the prophets over and over to the people is to repent, come back. Returned to a loving God who cared for them. Now each prophet in his own audience, dealing with his own situations, continued to preach the word of God to them, calling them back. But The continued rebellion of God's people led the nation into exile, led the nation into captivity, because they did not return, they did not come back. completely holy to him. Obviously as we saw when we talked about the kings, there was times of revival. There was, you know, periods of return, but then they would go back into apostasy, which is falling away from God and what God taught. And uh so we want to look this morning. We're going to look first at the pre-exile minor prophets, the minor prophets here. Um now Hosea is an indictment. of the unfaithful people, an indictment of an unfaithful people. So we're going to kind of talk about the themes of these books and kind of what their focus was as they were preaching and calling the people back to him. Now he prophesied to the northern kingdom, so each one will just reference whether they were north or south. uh he and Amos labored together after the death of Elisha. So this kind of gives you a time period of when he was because Elisha just passed it off the scene. You remember Elijah came Elisha picked up his mantle. So we're not dealing with all of the prophets that were during this time because you have some that didn't write books. You have some of the prophets like Elisha and Elijah and others who did not write any books, but they were called and they did minister. But we're going to deal with those that wrote books, so we at least have something on that. So he and Amos labored together after the death of Elisha, where Amos preached judgment, Hosea proclaimed mercy. They had kind of uh uh balanced each other out. They both were laboring during the same time, serving God during the same time, but they had contrasting messages, uh both true But both focusing on their own area. This book illustrates the love of God for his people, even though they are unfaithful. even though they were unfaithful. You know, beloved, in a in a right the book of Hosea is such a a beautiful picture of the love that you ought to have in your relationship. uh the husband and wife relationship, that undying love, that love that is selfless, that love that is looking out for the other person. The big problem in uh relationships is now and always has been the fact that we as people tend to be selfish and we tend to look for what we're getting out of the relationship. We tend to look for, well, what has he done for me, or what has she done for me, or is she making me happy? Well, anytime you get to that place in a relationship, you're headed for trouble. It's going to be a a snowball, a self-propagating uh effect that will continually get worse and worse You have got to come to the place where you begin to live for the joy and the happiness of your mate, and your mate lives for the joy and happiness of you, doing your will, what you would have, or what they would have, and when you're doing that. It again goes the other direction. All of a sudden you're motivated to say, man, I I need to be a better husband. She's such a good wife. I need to do what I can for her. And then And she says, man, he's such a good husband. He's doing all this for me. I need to be sure and do something for him. And and and it ultimately goes in an exponential pace in the right direction instead of the wrong direction. And we see that undying love in this relationship between Hosea and his unlovable wife. When you and I ought to have the same type of thought towards God, our concern always should be not my will but thine, Lord. We should always be desirous to serve him and do what God wants us to do. Of course, this book of Hosea uses the human relationship between Hosea and his unlovable wife to picture the love that Christ had for the people. And we can apply that to the husband and wife relationship, but also we know that it deals with the relationship between God and his people. And we ought to live a life putting the Lord's will first, not our own will. Throughout the scripture you see when people, individuals, begin to serve themselves, begin to follow idols, to do what they want to do. You know, an idol is anything that we put up in front of God. that we are going to follow this or go after this before we go after God. That becomes an idol in our life. It becomes something that we want to serve and we go after that first. Well, James tells us in James 4. 4 Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enity with God So when we are going after things that are putting something in front of God, the Bible very clearly calls you an adulterer or an adulteress. And that is the picture that we see in Hosea. Hosea's wife, uh Gomer, was unlovable, but she was loved anyway. She didn't have anything of her own value. She didn't have anything to hold up and say, man, all these men want me because of this. No, she was, by society's terms, an unlovable lady, yet Hosea loved her anyway And she threw that relationship away to go out and play the harlot. She decided she didn't want that. She wasn't satisfied. She wasn't happy, even after everything Hosea did. And understand the application, after everything that God has done People would say, man, I'm not happy with what God has done. I want to go out and play the harlot. I want to go out and live my own life. I want to pursue my own ambitions, do my own desires That's the picture of Hosea where he had this undying love for his wife who was unlovable. She went out and played the harlot. Not only that, beloved, Hosea goes and he buys her again. When she was already his, she goes out and plays a harlot, ends up on the auction block, being auctioned off as a slave, and he goes to pay for her a second time. You know, God created us. He already has the right to our lives, and yet he sent his son to die and he paid for us a second time. Paid the price for to to to purchase our redemption and to cover our sin. That's a beautiful and powerful picture that is in this book of Hosea as he preaches this to the children of Israel. Then we show then we see Joel. Joel uh he is a uh This is a prediction of Israel's future. He prophesied in the southern kingdom as well. Joel is quoted frequently by the other prophets It's just notable that many of the prophets quote the statements of Joel. Now he is calling a sinful Judah back to God. over and over again, calling this sinful group of people back to him. Now, he records for us the worst plague of locusts that is in the in the Word of God. Now there are some, if you begin reading different commentators, you might read after somebody that says that this plague was a parable. I don't believe it was a parable. I believe it was a judgment of God that God sent on the people for several reasons. One is this plague of locusts is mentioned in other passages of Scripture as a time of judgment. Uh there were fruits and vegetables because of the plague of locusts that did not begin to give fruit again for many years. I think the olive trees Don't quote me on this because this is off the top of my head, which any time I do this off the top of my head is bad, but the olive trees was fifteen years before they started producing olives again because of the damage done by the locust. And uh so I'll just note in the margin there somewhere that not a parable. Not a parable because some people want to take away that and say, well, this was just a parable, it's just to teach a principle instead of being an actual Plague, but I believe it was a plague. Now he uses the phrase the day of the Lord. And the day of the Lord all through the scriptures is in reference to a day of judgment. The day when God comes, the day of the Lord is a day of judgment. The second coming of Christ is also called the day of the Lord in 1 Thessalonians 5. 2. I'll read that for you. 1 Thessalonians 5. 2 says For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so come as a thief in the night. The day of the Lord's gonna come as a thief in the night. In a twinkling of eye, we don't know the day or hour, but when that day comes, it's the day where we know we're going to end up facing judgment. God is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. That's coming. Now, God promised through Joel restoration and blessing for all who would return to him, for all who would call on him. God always has mercy on those that will come, those that will return, those that will repent. Yes, we are deserving of judgment. But God always has mercy on those that will return, those that will repent. And that's just something for us to keep in mind. And I've given you scriptures on a lot of this. We don't have time to turn to all these passages if we're going to get through this. So we see Amos. Amos, uh, God's denunciation of Israel's sin. He he just pronounces uh listen, this is unacceptable. As I said in the beginning there with Hosea, they were uh you know co-laborers, contemporaries. Hosea preached about the love of God and his mercy, but Amos preached about the sin. So you had both messages, people being faced with the reality of their sin and then being faced with the love of God that is present and able to call them back to Him. He prophesied in the northern kingdom, the people in the north there, they thought they were immune to the punishment of God because they were God's chosen people. That's something we've got to be very careful. Don't get the mindset, you know, there are some kids, you know, they might think, well, Dad and mom's not going to punish me. You know, dad and mom, no, I'm I'm their child. Uh we know that God chastens those whom he loves. And uh that the children of Israel, this this northern kingdom, they were living in sin, doing whatever they wanted to do, worshiping these false gods, you know, going up to Dan and Bethel and and uh Doing serving these bowing down to these, you know, the sin of Jeroboam, bowing down to these calves and pretending like it was all okay, uh, like God didn't care. Well, Amos was telling him God cared You are going after these other gods, and God is not pleased with that. Amos warns them of coming judgment for people that were given to worshiping these golden calves, the sin of Jeroboam. Amos quotes Joel, letting us know that Joel was written before Amos. If Amos is quoting Joel, you know that Joel came first, right? So uh just again to help put some of these books in timeline or perspective or whatever. Uh Amos boldly decrees God's judgment on a unrepentant nation. On an unrepentant nation. Did that get it edited? Okay, good. So we see uh Obadiah uh here is a promise of God's Faithfulness. If I miss a note, let me know because I forgot to underline in my notes where your blanks are. So if I miss something, just wave me down. But Obadiah promised on God's uh of God's faithfulness to his people. Now he prophesied to the people of the southern kingdom or in that area, but I want you to know he he technically his message was to eat them He he prophesied to Edom. He went to them and and he was giving them the message because they were being judged by gods. His message pronounced judgment on Edom for their treatment of Judah And again, teaching to the children of Israel, to God's people, that God is keeping score. That God knows how others are treating his people. He knows what's going on. And and these people were in need of being corrected and God said, Hey, I'm gonna deal with that, teaching Judah that God holds all men responsible for their actions, not just his own people. All men. Are going to be judged for what's done in their body, whether it be good or bad, not just God's children. Jonah, a picture of God's salvation for all. What a powerful and beautiful picture the book of Jonah is. And uh here is one book that uh you have heard some messages out of. Uh but Jonah's contrasting it's a little bit different than the others. There's not really any prophecy in the book of Jonah. Jonah is more a story about the prophet. And also it's contrasted because where in the other books the prophet is preaching against the sin of the people. Jonah, we're told about his story, this man who was called of God to go to Nineveh, and the rest of the book is about how he is running from God, how he doesn't want to do what God wants him to do. So he is the one in sin. And of course we know the story of him being cast overboard and swallowed uh by a whale and spending three days in the belly of a whale. Uh I was pondering that and thinking, man, you talk about seasickness. I can't imagine how uncomfortable of a ride that must have been. Now that picture there in the book of Jonah is a picture of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, a picture of uh the three days that Jesus would spend in the belly of the earth. and then come forth risen alive and uh continuing his work. So Jonah uh tells us this story of this prophet Now, God's mercy on the wicked nation teaches us, beloved, that God's mercy is not only for the nation of Israel. Now that ought to encourage our heart. God's mercy is not just for the nation of Israel. God's mercy is not just for the righteous, not just for the individual who may call themselves the child of God. God's mercy extends to s to to all mankind. His mercies are renewed every morning. His mercies they fail not. And uh I can tell you what what stays the hand of God in the judgment of God is that he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God's mercy is allowing this world to continue. Sometimes we look at it and say, man, it seems like the world is so bad, so wicked, and you know, why wouldn't God just judge us? Why wouldn't he just return right now, right? Yeah, his mercy is staying his hand, so more people have an opportunity to return, more people have an opportunity to repent Just like the message given to us in Jonah, where the man of God went and carried the message of God to them so that they would have an opportunity to repent. They do repent, and you guys know Jonah is not happy about it. Jonah's upset. Jonah says, I knew you were a merciful God. I knew you were going to forgive those wretched individuals. Now look, they're forgiven, and I don't think they deserve forgiveness. I mean he was not happy about it Uh but God teaches him a lesson. But for us it ought to be encouraging. We don't deserve forgiveness, but God does forgive us. Amen. And that uh story there in the picture of Jonah, what a powerful uh truth is shared with us there. Then we get to Micah. This is a promise of mercy after judgment. A promise of mercy after judgment. Um, you know, God deals with our sin. God judges us when we do wrong. Sometimes we gotta be punished. And you know, those of you that are parents, let me just Encourage you, your children need to understand when they do wrong, there's punishment, but they also need to know that when the punishment has been taken care of That there is nothing between you, that your relationship is restored, that there is no this is one of the reasons one of the problems with uh the mindset of of grounding somebody Uh, okay, your punishments you're grounded for two weeks. That means for two weeks that child is mad at mom and dad. For two weeks there's something between the two of you. For two weeks you guys aren't getting along because that punishment is continuing where if you deal with it biblically and you fly the Board of Education to the seat of learning And the child is disciplined and then immediately, okay, you understand I I as a parent had to discipline you To follow God's command, to bring you up in the nurture and evidence of the Lord, to teach you what is right and wrong. But Now that you've been disciplined, you've acknowledged your wrongdoing, then you make sure your relationship is restored, that there is a right relationship there, and your children understand and know forgiveness. I do not know all the situations, but can I tell you where children learn about forgiveness is from mom and dad. Sometimes young people who ultimately end up taking their own life, we've dealt with this in recent days, because they cannot see their way past a failure. Is because mom and dad did not teach them about the forgiveness of God. They can't see how they could possibly go on after a failure. Because they grew up in a home where mom and dad held things against them. And they think, I'm never going to get past this. I'll never be able to go on. But if we understand the love of God, God forgives us of all sin. And He is faithful and just to forgive us. He does so in a heartbeat. He does so immediately at the po at the moment that we come and confess our sin. uh he forgives us. And children need to understand that they're forgiven. So they will learn about the forgiveness of God so that when they do transgress God's law or they sin in a great way They can understand that God will forgive them still. They don't have to carry that guilt. They don't have to carry that shame for the rest of their life. They can be forgiven and it can be put under the blood. Amen? Amen. So that's what we have here with Micah, a promise of mercy after judgment. He promised the people, I mean prophesied to the people of the southern kingdom. He was a contemporary of Isaiah. His book is divided into three messages, each with its own theme. He preaches or teaches to them about the coming judgment, about the coming Christ, and then he calls them to repentance. He calls them to repentance. Over and over again, God points out to his people that there is a way of mercy if they just will respond to it, that there is a way of mercy. And uh we need to remember there's a way of mercy. God is a merciful God in every situation. Then we get to Nahum. Here's a warning uh learned uh from the people of Nineveh. Nahum shows how the people of Nineveh are going to be judged. Now you remember We just a minute, two and a half, three minutes ago talked about Jonah and the great revival that took place in Nineveh and how God forgave them. And you go, wait a minute, Pastor. Now God's gonna judge them? Well, time frame wise, we covered it pretty quick, but it's been about a hundred years in in history between these two men And during that time the city of Nineveh reverted back to their sinful ways and they needed to be judged. So Nahim w uh Gives them a warning, learned from the city of Nineveh. He follows the continual oppression of the Assyrians. The Assyrian army, you know, continually attacked, continually uh came in they were constantly having problems with the Assyrians. Ultimately, you know the northern kingdoms are taken into captivity by the Assyrians. Nay improphes uh of Setting forth the fall of Nineveh, that Nineveh is going to be judged, and this is showing God's people that He is still caring for them, that He is still looking out for them. In Nahim chapter 1, verses 7 and 8. Let me read that for you. He says, The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knoweth them that trust in him. He's saying, God knows you. He's a good God. He's a stronghold in a day of trouble. He knows them that trust in him. But with an overrunning flood he will make an utter end of the place thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemies. Saying God is going to judge this group of people that have continually afflicted you, and thereby encouraging the children of God to know that God was taking care of them. Now he describes the wickedness of the city in chapter number two. And uh then hearing of God's judgment on Nineveh brings comfort to the people. It's notable that Nahim means comfort. You might want to mark that down. Nahim means comfort. Then we get to Habakkuk. Habakkuk is an explanation of coming punishment. He prophesies to the people of the southern kingdom, and uh Habakkuk has been called a philosopher. He has been called the doubting Thomas of the Old Testament because he questioned God. He his book centers around two uh themes, two major questions. First of all, as he's preaching and he sees the unrepentant heart of God's people and the continuation of sin He he asks God, he questions, he says, How is it that an unrepentant, wicked people can continue and not be judged? Why aren't these people why why aren't you doing something, God? Why aren't you Uh how many of you guys have said that about somebody else? Like your neighbor? God, why don't you just Do something. They're flaunting their sin before you. They're living unrepentant lives. And Lord, why wouldn't you? And he asks why, and his heart is broken over it. And then God teaches him and tells him, Listen, I'm going to bring in the Babylonians, and the Babylonians are going to judge them. And then and then Habakkuk says, Wait a minute. The Babylonians are more wicked than the children of Israel. How is it that a people that is more wicked can punish somebody that's less wicked? We never have liked the pot calling the kettle black, have we? We don't like that at all. I mean somebody wants to, you know, y you you see somebody that's a thief and they call you a thief and you're like, well what are you I mean you're a thief. You can't you can't tell me I'm a thief. Well, it is still a true principle whether somebody that's a thief tells it to you or not. You know, somebody that's laying in bed calling you lazy. You're like, you don't want to hear it. That's the pot calling the kettle black, right? We don't want to hear it. That's the problem that Habakkuk had. He says, Man, these wicked people, you're gonna use a heathen nation Less righteous than your people to judge them? And God teaches him some valuable lessons which we're going to uh look at this evening as he as he teaches him this thing. But He declares the abiding quote used by Paul in so many since that the just shall live by faith. That's in Habakkuk chapter 2 in verse number 4. The just shall live by faith. In Worthington's uh Guide to the Bible, uh Harold Worthington says this, this book that opens with gloom ends with glory. Uh seeing the transgression or the the the transformation of his thought process as he yields to God and God teaches him some lessons through Habakkuk. Then we get to Zephaniah. Here's a warning of the coming wrath. Uh you see the repetitive themes through here. These obviously were men called to preach against the sin of the people. And so that's what they're doing. He prophesied to the people of the southern kingdom. It's notable that he is the great great grandson of Hezekiah. In the word of God, the spelling is slightly different in several locations, but it is Hezekiah as we would know uh that we'd looked at as one of the kings. Uh he prophesied during the reign of the godly king Josiah. You remember he was a the most godly of all the kings brought the people back to him, really uh did a great work. And uh at the same time Zephaniah was there preaching and aiding in that. He gives both a balanced message of God, both preached against sin and the love that God had for the sinner. Notable God teaches us in the that we ought to preach the truth in love. Amen. That's what we're supposed to be. And uh we want people to see the love of God, but they also need to hear Hear the truth. He calls for all men to seek the Lord. Zephaniah chapter 2 and verse number 3. He says, Seek ye the Lord, all ye meek of the earth. Which have wrought his judgment, seek righteousness, seek meekness. It may be ye shall be hid in the day of the Lord's anger. He says, Hey, if you'll seek the Lord In the day of the Lord's anger, in that day of judgment, in the day of the Lord, when judgment comes, you can be hid. You can be protected from God's judgment. So he clearly teaches us that. Then we want to get to the pre-exile major prophets, the pre-exile major prophets. So we see here, first of all, Isaiah. Isaiah. He prophesied to the people of the Southern Kingdom. Obviously both of these are to the Southern Kingdom because the Northern Kingdom is passing off the scene. Isaiah is the author, despite higher critics. There's a whole group of study I don't have time to teach on higher criticism, but it's a group of people that felt they were very intellectual and anybody that wanted to take the Bible at face value was just considered ignorant. They were just considered somebody that didn't have enough education. They just weren't smart enough to determine the reality of the Word of God. And so they tried to use their intellectualism to undermine and devalue anybody that wanted to take the Word of God at face value And so there's through higher critics, they look at the Word of God, they try and analyze it and take it apart and say, okay, uh there are some higher critics that say Isaiah didn't write very much of Isaiah at all Uh there are some that said he wrote the first forty-four chapters and the rest was somebody else. Uh they're just trying to find ways to take it apart, which basically the goal or objective of the higher critic was to find ways to discredit the Word of God, basically. And so if you see or reading any of that Just throw it out. Um if you believe the word of God, turn turn to Isaiah if you have your Bibles there. Isaiah Chapter one Verse number one The vision of Isaiah, the son of Ams, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. He tells us right in the very first verse. This is the vision of Isaiah. This is the prophet Isaiah. All through this, there's no question. God tells if we believe the Word of God and we believe that God inspired his word. Then we have here the vision of Isaiah and we can believe it. Now he presented a message of salvation by grace alone. Look in chapter 1 and verse number 18. Very familiar, but very powerful verse that he gives us here. He says, Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. This great uh prophet and his message was by and large a message of the grace of God, grace and loan. His salvation message, obviously, was to a nation. But more often than not, it's very clearly speaking to the individual. And although there's things in the Word of God that can be applied to the nation, I want you to remember that God deals with the individual. God loves you and he wants to do something in your life individually. People say, well, I know he's concerned about the big picture, but I would encourage you today that God is concerned about you. God knows where you're at, he knows the burden you're carrying, and he knows what's going on in your life, and God will hear and answer your prayer individually. We see his message in broken up the chapters here, that he condemns the sin of Judah, that he pronounces judgment on the nations. He proclaimed a certain future, just the prophecies that he gave concerning the future was going to happen because God gave it to him. He described the reign of Hezekiah and then he prophesied about the coming Messiah. Now this book is both prophetical and practical. This book of Isaiah, very very beautiful in its writings, in its presentation, but this picture that he gives us here of the redemptive grace of God. And how God provides his grace to all mankind, very true, very powerful message given to us through the book of Isaiah here. Then we come to the book of Jeremiah. This is the last one. And I need to make a note of this. And if you have your little chart, I would like you to correct it. Uh so far I found two errors in my chart, uh my timeline here. Uh one is I have the book of Psalms all the way over here to the patriarchal history. That in in scale and such is too far because we really are back here to Exodus where as far as Moses is the earliest author of the Psalms, so it would only come to this period, not to that period. So it's a little bit far. I've already corrected that on my on my main one Then the second one here is I have put Jeremiah as a post-exile book, and it's not. Jeremiah was written somewhere around 560. maybe a little bit earlier, a little bit before 586, because he prophesies of the fall of Jerusalem. He tells us that it's coming. And uh so Jeremiah should be over here. So if you have that and you want to scratch that out and move it over, I apologize for that back in the very beginning when I did this. I'm surprised that's the only two errors I found this far. So uh you want to correct that if you can. Uh so Jeremiah was called to be a prophet as a young man. If you're in Isaiah, just turn over to Jeremiah. You know the very next chapter. We get to see here in Jeremiah chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. He says, Oh, I'm in I'm in Jeremiah chapter 9, not Jeremiah chapter 1. He says, Then the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nation and over the kingdoms to root out uh and to pull down and to destroy and to throw down and to build and to plant God here verse number eleven moreover the word of the Lord came unto me saying Jeremiah what seest thou and I said I see a rod in the almond tree God calling him uh to The ministry, right at the beginning here. Here's what you're going to do. I put my words in your mouth. You're going to prophesy to the people. He began his ministry during the reign of Josiah, and he continued until after the fall of Jerusalem. So he began all the way back here sometime pre-fall of Jerusalem, uh which is the tribe of Judah, the southern kingdom. So he would be right here just right before the fall. And then his ministry continues till a little bit after the fall where the children of Israel were taken into captivity. With the rework of work re of revival started during Josiah, uh although revival was underway, many great things were happening, it was incomplete. And as Josiah's death came on, he passed off the scene, the heart of Judah turned towards a downward path. And we will see the balance from Josiah on. that uh the nation just continued down until they were in captivity. And Jeremiah was preaching to them of the coming judgment. Now he is called the weeping prophet. He is called the weeping the weeping prophet is something he's known for because he was heartbroken over the situation of the kingdom the the that where people were at, what was going on in their lives. He was broken over their unrepentant hearts. He cried aloud for over fifty years to those who would not listen. It's a group of people for fifty years he was preaching the truth. Fifty years he's saying the judgment's gonna come, that God's gonna send you into exile, and the people wouldn't listen, and he was heartbroken. I mean you could think about the idea of a parent trying to get their child to just respond, trying to get them to understand the direction that they're headed is towards destruction that ultimately it's going to they're gonna have a life of ruin, they're gonna have a mess, they're gonna have hardship, they're gonna have trial and oh if you just wouldn't go that way and and a and the parent is broken over the direction that their child is headed and just wish they would just listen like in the Proverbs says, Turn ye at my reproof And this is what the the prophet Jeremiah was preaching and and begging the people to return, but they would not, and his heart was in it, and he was broken over it, and he cries aloud and he weeps. uh before the people, and that's why he's called the weeping prophet. He saw the destruction coming and tried over and over to warn the people of it. He preached retribution for rebellion It's listen, God's going to judge sin, but he also preached restoration for the repentant. That God would restore you if you would repent. You could come back to him, and that's the message that God has for all of us for all time. We can come back to him at any time. If we would just repent and return to him, he would forgive. Through this prophet, God told Judah what he wanted them to do. Look at chapter 9. I know we need to hurry. Chapter 9, verses 23 and 24. He spoke to them what was expected of them. He says, Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. He tells them very clearly, this is what I want you to do. I want you to glory. Glory in the love and the goodness of God and to follow God. Judas Judah's punishment. Through captivity was sure, but God teaches them that it's not permanent. God establishes a 70-year time frame. In Jeremiah chapter 25, verses 11 and 12, we don't have time to read this, but uh he tells them they're going to go into judgment for 70 years. Uh does anybody remember why they were judged for 70 years? Why they went into judgment for seventy years. Okay, in the book of Liticus, uh in the book of Leviticus, God told them that they were supposed to observe a Sabbath year, that every seven years they were supposed to let the land rest. and have a year of rest. That's what God had commanded them to do. God's people in a desire to get gain and to not trust God for that year of rest, to not plan ahead against the year of rest, and well we c we have to plant crops this year because we didn't save any crops from the last seven years. You see they didn't plan and and for the future, so they didn't they did not observe the year of Sabbath for four hundred and ninety years. And God said, I'm going to judge you, and you're going to go into captivity one year for every year that you did not let the land rest. The land is going to rest for 70 years because you did not observe the 70 years that you should have observed of rest So God had commanded and told them that, but they did not. Let me give you those references. You can note them down. It's notable. You want to look at Leviticus chapter 25, verses 2 through 7. I might have put that in your notes there. But if not, write and note that down. That's where they're commanded to give the years of rest. Mark down Leviticus 26, verses 34 to 35. This is where God says, Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate And ye be in your enemy's land, even then shall the land rest and enjoy her Sabbath. As long as it lieth desolate, it shall rest, because it did not rest in your Sabbath when you dwelt upon it. He says, hey, you did not observe the Sabbath when you were there and you could have, and so now you're going to be in judgment And the land's gonna rest to observe all those years. That's why God put them in judgment for seventy years. Now there's another a whole nother aspect when you get into the end times. And the 490 years and the 70 years, we're not going to chase that rabbit. Uh but maybe we'll do some people have been asking me about the book of Revelation, maybe we'll get into that another time. But Note that down. Note 2 Chronicles chapter 36, 21, with that right there. 2 Chronicles 36, 21. He says, to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah. Until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. For as long as she lay desolate, she kept Sabbath to fulfill three score and ten years So he tells them there in the book of Chronicles. Now the book of Chronicles is written way over here. It's given to them after they're returned. From captivity. And we're going to look at that once we get get to this point. First and second Chronicles deals with this time period, but it it's given to him from a uh it looks back on that time period to reteach the children of Israel what happened Because now they've come back to the land, they've returned, and now he's going to teach them, listen, do you remember this is what happened? And he kind of goes through and teaches the people that. And this is why he tells them in Chronicles, this is why they went into judgment for 70 years. And so he's teaching them that. All right. That that brings us to a conclusion. Uh we are out of time, but did I miss any notes? The last one. Not only did Jeremiah prophesy of the return, but also of the coming of the Lord. The coming of the Lord. Or you could say Christ coming, of Christ's coming, I think is what it how it was written. Of Christ's coming. So Jeremiah talks about the coming, uh obviously prophesying not just that they are going to return to their land at some point, but that Jesus is going to come. So his Message is in there as well. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for