God took those powerful words and he put them in a book for us, and they're not just mental exercises to stave off senility. Right? Some people do so so doco, right, so that they can not go senile and other people memorize scripture. No, no, no It's more than a mental exercise to keep your wits about you just a little bit longer. Oh, it's the very words of God. And so here I just want to talk about our relationship with God's Word. Now Master Clubs is done. You got the summer ahead of you. And so stay in the Word. And pray. And read. And it was a couple months ago there was a one of the kids that that rode the Sunday school bus in And he's like, boy, the Bible? I just wish someone would decode it for me. I read it and sometimes there's there's there's places I don't understand. And I said, well, that's what church is. When somebody preaches it, that's somebody decoding a passage for you. And take notes. Take notes, and then because someone decodes it and you can't remember what they said necessarily, but once a passage is unlocked, Study it and pray over it to keep it unlocked. And then you read some more and it and it casts some light on a different passage of scripture, and then you come back to church and somebody preaches another passage and and then that passages unlocked and decoded and and and take the and then keep that pray over it and uh keep that decoded and and pretty soon more and more of the Bible is unlocked And then you find that you're reading a passage that nobody has decoded, but all those other passages shed light on that passage. Oh, the Bible just becomes more and more beautiful as you age. And so you guys just keep take what you've learned, pray over those things, make use of those things, and keep looking for God to unlock his word. He wants that. So today just a um here in Joshua 1. 8 I'm going to draw a few uh thoughts from this and um and and I know you guys had uh uh a nice meal. Sho we should we do some jumping jacks real fast? No. No jumping jacks. All right. So Joshua 1. 8. By the way, we are glad to be with you. We have our display in the back. We have the interactive portion of our display right here. You can ask them questions and uh and we always see you know uh Ben start speaking it in Russian, you know, in the introduction, and it's good to say, what were you telling us? Were you making fun of us just because we didn't know Russians up? What was it you were saying? So you can ask him. But we do have we have lots of music and these guys got to make a recording this year. So they have a CD back there. And so that's one of the there's many CDs back there. And uh if you say, well I don't even have a C D player, they make great coasters Keep those coffee rings off your table as sometimes. Okay. So Joshua 1. 8. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Okay, master clubs, that was you guys. That was you guys. You memorized it. That was good stuff. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. And so here's a promise, for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous And then thou shalt have good success. So God says, if you have a good relationship with His Word, you will be prosperous You will be prosperous with a good relationship with his word. So today, just real quickly, a prescription for prosperity. A prescription for prosperity. Let's pray. Lord, we love you. Thank you for your goodness. We thank you for these young people. Lord, it stirred my heart. Oh, it stirred my heart. It was exciting to hear not only that they learned something, but Lord, there was an excitement about what they learned. It was a blessing to me, and I know it was a blessing to this church. I pray, Lord, they'd continue to take those truths. and continue to meditate and live out those truths. I just pray you'd allow me to be a blessing as we look at these ideas of our relationship with God's Word. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, so we have a promise. We have a promise for prosperity. We want God's word to saturate our life. Those of you that do some gardening or you have some farmland or whatever, you know a little bit of rain, maybe it'll just get stuck on the surface and evaporate off. It takes quite a bit of rain to saturate the ground and get below the ground where the roots can make use of it, right? So it's wonderful. You get in God's word, that's great. But do you take time in God's word and let it saturate you? Get from your mind down into your heart Well the heart. My my heart is pumping blood and my hands work as a result. My heart affects all my extremities. My eyes are working because my my heart is pumping. I can walk Some of you, boy, you uh you get a little older and you don't take walking for granted, do you? Maybe you have some sort of foot inflammation or something is cracked and and you just see people walking by and you don't know what you have. Um boy when your body's working it's such a blessing, isn't it? I find I'm only 43, but I find that I'll walk along sometimes and like Lord thank you I can just walk. Just when this body's working correctly. But you know that heart affects all of us. So God's word, uh we we we know something, but we want to go beyond knowing it to believing something Uh my my daughter's about to turn twelve next month. And so if if if she was with us, she isn't. But if she was with us and I said, Hey, hey Claire, And she she takes off and and and and Derek walks up to me and says, uh, hey, um make sure everyone you love is close to you. There's a vicious animal out there. Well, I'm not going to be like, that's interesting. I feel mentally enriched. Thank you for sharing that knowledge. Uh it's gonna go from a knowledge to a belief. And I'm gonna act, if I believe it, I'll I'm I'm that conversation is gonna be short-lived. I'm gonna be out that door before he finishes the statement. Alright? So when when God's word is preached, is it a matter of thank you? I feel mentally enriched. I'm more prepared for Bible jeopardy. Well there's there's there's more of a reason why we preach than for you to be prepared for Bible jeopardy We want it to saturate and get down into your heart, and this heart affects every part of me. And we want the truth to get in and affect every part of you. So the opposite is true as well. If the Bible says you have this relationship and you'll enjoy biblical prosperity, if you're not enjoying biblical prosperity in your life, I can tell you, according to God's Word, there's something not quite right about your relationship with God's Word. So let's look at that today. For the devil, he has his excuses. I would be godlier if. Right? And he'll load you up. If you let him give you excuses, he'll load you up. If if the authority in my life was godlier, my my parents hold me back. The politics of my workplace or in this church. The the politics that I'm I'm I'm uh in in they they hold me back. Or my right, kids, my parents keep me too busy. I would have that walk with God if it wasn't for the chores that my parents make me do. But the devil he will give us those excuses, but we really do find the time to do what we want to do. Somehow we squeeze that in. And I'm telling you the thing you ought to want to do is uh get in God's word and have that right relationship. And I want to get you excited. If you're like, oh, I know I should, I'm just not that excited. That's part of, would you pray with me, Lord, help me to get excited about that. And that by the way, Praying in God's will is when you really get heaven excited and want to do something for you. I remember when I was young, and I'm like, praying in God's will, you know, find out what interests him and pray a lot. What about what interests me You know, pr th when you first hear about praying within God's will, it's not that interesting. But when you find w after a while you think Find out what interests God and make that what interests me and then pray along those lines and heaven gets excited. Can I just tell you, this is a topic that heaven will get excited about when you say, Lord, I want to get excited about your word That's praying within his will. And it's a lot of times we just aren't. Lord, I don't a lot of times I'm not that pumped to get in your word. Would you help me? I I think we can just be honest with God. You're not surprising him, right? He knows our frame that we are but dust. Lord, sometimes I'm not excited the way I should be, and I want that to change. Would you help me? That is a prayer that will get heaven excited. Now this verse here, um you can stay here if you want, but it but it seems like uh David expands on that in the first chapter of Psalms. Listen to how similar this sounds. Psalm chapter 1. So I'm going to read through this and I'm not going to draw any points from here, but I just want you to listen to how similar it is. By the way, that big book of Psalms, the biggest book in the Bible And you say, such an encouraging book. I wish my pastor could be more encouraging. He's always telling me, thou shalt not this, thou shalt not that. Well, the giant book of the Bible, Psalms, starts with some, thou shalt not. At the very beginning of that giant encouraging book. It says here, Psalm 1, and we'll read that chapter, blessed is the man that walketh not. All those negatives. Walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stand, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And there it is. You want to say, Lord, I want to delight in your law. Would you help me? And that's a prayer request that He would love to help with. In his law doth he meditate day and night, he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. That sound familiar? Well that right relationship with God's word, whatsoever you do shall prosper, delight in the law of the Lord. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff. which the wind driveth away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Someone said, in this life, you need to get out of the world and get into the word. Get out of the world and into the word. So back to Joshua 1. 8, and let's talk about the prescription for prosperity. The first part we see it says, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Alright, so you guys memorize Scripture. Just constantly have God's word in your mouth. Just don't be careful not to just talk about God's word, but actually have God's word itself. in your mouth. Have verses that you're working on. Have verses that you're memorizing. And then say the very words. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. God's words are comforting. His words are comfort. Now imagine Joshua. There's Joshua. He's got millions of people, and he's about to walk them across a river after they all buried grandma and grandpa. Alright? They're gonna God's gonna open up a river, then they're gonna go across, and there's gonna be people there that wanna kill them. And I you better believe. He's like, Lord, give me your instructions. And I want to just really be clear on what I'm doing. This is a big task ahead of me. But you know what? And you have a big task ahead of you, not quite like that, but living your life, man, leading your home. It's just as important. The task that God has in front of you is just as important. Lord, I want to hear from you and I want to be very careful with what you tell me. The task ahead of me is too great to mess around. When you speak, I want to think through your words. Now, if you're Joshua, there's that pressure on your shoulders. And I'm telling you, God's words, oh, like for instance, there's a lot of wonderful words. Like if I was Joshua, I would zero in on verse 5. What does God say in verse 5? There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Isn't that comforting? So when God says, uh this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, oh there's it's not okay. I'll do it. If it makes you happy. It does make him happy, but it's more than that. We need it. We need it. And Joshua and he's I I imagine he's like, oh I read it this morning in Joshua 7 when uh they went up against Ai. And then 36 people died. And then Joshua got really discouraged. And it wasn't God's words that was in his mouth at that point. It was his words when he says, Oh Now Israel has turned their back before their enemies, and now the enemy will come and environ around us and consume us and will be gone. We fled before the enemy, and he says, Would to God we had been content to stay on the other side, Jordan. If only we hadn't stepped out into the will of God If only we hadn't stepped out into the will of God, if only we had been content not to follow God. I tell you, we humans we get discouraged. And that was Josh you you need to get your thoughts out of your mouth and get his thoughts in. Get his words in. And God says basically, Joshua, get up. There's sin in the camp. Let's get the sin out and let's go forward. Alright? We it's not just a little bit. That was wonderful. You guys quote in that scripture, we need it in our mouth on a regular basis throughout the day. Get my words out, get his words in, get my words out Get his words in, it's important. And as Joshua, he's scared to death, and God says, Get up, there's sin to be gotten out. You better believe. He's thinking of those words as I was with Moses. So shall I be with thee. I have never failed anyone yet, and I'm not going to start with you. God repeats it in in Hebrews 13, 5, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as he hath, for I have said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So get your words out, get his words in, and this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. Oh man, talk about the preaching. Talk about what you had in devotions. Yes, my son loves sports. He loves the sports. He wants to get the updates on who's wedding and but son Son, uh, keep that in a balance. All right, I want when with when you're with your friends, I don't want it just sports. I don't want just what's going on out there in the entertainment world I want you to say, hey, wasn't that a good message that we heard? Hey, can I share with you what I got out of my quiet time with God this morning? His words in. Someone said seven days without prayer and Bible reading makes one week. Okay. Um all right. Uh a little play on words there. Uh you're like, oh I got it. It just wasn't funny. I I believe you. I believe you. Um you know does it take seven days without prayer and Bible reading to make one week, or does it take one day? And even a part of a day sometimes, right? Day by day and with each passing moment. But then you say, Lord, it's not enough. And then even I can start the hour well and finish the hour poorly. Lord, moment by moment. I need you. It just takes a little moment. That prayer, I I I pray that prayer pretty seriously of Lord lead me not into temptation. You can have a good day and just mess up in just a little bit, right? Now my kids, when they get in trouble, they become little defense attorneys. And they're ready to explain, you know, uh and they're saying, well, you you broke the rule, you're in trouble. It's like, but dad, I should get credit for the the amount of the day where I wasn't breaking rules There was a good chunk of the day where I wasn't breaking rules. Why are you and you weren't like yay shish boom ba-rah-ra. But all of a sudden I catch your attention, not when I'm doing right But as soon as I do wrong, suddenly I'm on your radar? And now here we are in the bedroom and I'm I'm in trouble? What about the and I wow Now what what if the judge is up there and the and the the guy that just robbed a bank and shot a guard? He's like, but what about the portion of the day where I didn't shoot anybody Doesn't that count for anything? You didn't haul me in here to talk to you for the good part of my day. Why is it that you only care about me as soon as I break the law? What's what what kind of a judge are you? But I tell you, uh throughout the day, Lord lead us not into temptation. By the way, we should be praying that often. He says, when ye pray. When ye pray, that model prayer. There's a lot of good stuff in there. And that's one of them. Lord, I need you today. I need your help. Having that right relationship with God. Boy, you uh um sometimes we think if I have the gist, I'm good to go Now this this brother over here that said he had a eight-minute sermon and a three-minute sermon came out. And I w was there some people here that was like, if only my pastor were more like that Boy. Uh he has a he has a forty-five minute sermon and uh a twenty minute sermon comes out instead. Oops You know, uh a lot of times we think uh it's it isn't the words, it's I I got the gist of what you're saying, Pastor. Shut it down. I got the gist. But you know the gist isn't good enough. You don't come to church to get the gist. You come to church to get the very words of God, an understanding of God's precious words. Kids, they'll it's a good it's good enough for them to get the gist. I remember my wife years ago, she says Alec, um, and we have six suitcases in the basement of all shapes and sizes and she wanted one in particular and she says Alec want you to go down and get the suitcase that's oh the suitcase got it he's heading to the door to go downstairs I got the gist of what's mom saying. The details aren't important. I got a picture in my head of what she wants. And so he takes off down the stairs and she says, okay family, let's let's wait and see. He's going to come back with the wrong suitcase And sure enough, he comes up, sets it there, he's ready to go on with life. Alec, that's not what I wanted. You took off, and the gist was enough for you, but you didn't listen to my words. And so you made the wrong choice. You don't want to come to church and get the gist. Preacher, I shut you off 20 minutes ago because I got it, okay? You can just shut it down any minute. I got the gist of what uh- Uh-uh. The Bible even tells us over there in Isaiah 55, we're not smart enough to walk out with the gist. We've got to keep take God's words and keep thinking them through. Isaiah 55. Oh, let's see, verses 8 and 9. It says, My thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, for as heaven is higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts above your thoughts. You don't come in and say, Oh yeah, God, God and me we're on the same wavelength I got the gist. No no no. Just like Alec is not on the same wavelength as his mother, he needs to okay mom, I will listen carefully. I'm gonna get the words. So that I know what's on your heart, so that I can come back with what you want. It's not enough to get the gist So well you have those you have those words and sometimes when they're little, right, when the kids are little, you say, Repeat back to me what I just told you Right? Repeat back to me what I just told you so I can be sure. Because uh we we played the game Chinese telephone, right It goes like uh through through six people and then it then it's different by the time it comes back. And I've never really had much respect for that game because people are changing it on purpose. I'm convinced. But you don't need any Chinese telephone at all with your own child. You want w you you have it's one person to that person. Now tell me back what I told you. That is not what I told you. They filtered it through something else. And then they anyway, that's what we're talking about. We want to get his words. And when you find a word in the Bible you don't understand, look it up. You know, Webster's 1828 is a good one. It uses actually scripture and the definition. You can get free copies, I think, on your phone. It's wonderful. Look up those words and learn the Bible. So the first thing is confession. Secondly, meditation. Meditation. So, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, the Bible says. Again, we want to be taking that. This is God's prescription for prosperity. Alright, so we want to take these things seriously. Meditation. Oh, when Joshua is thinking about all the pressures of his job. Wouldn't it be nicer to stop and think, as I was with Moses? So I shall be with thee. As I was with Moses. So I shall be with thee. I will not fail thee. I will not forsake thee. Isn't that good? You go through hard times, and the Bible says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind has stayed on thee. Because he trusteth in thee. Well you think of uh there in Acts chapter 16. There's Paul and Silas in prison. They have been beaten and they're chained to the wall, right? And they're singing. They're happy. And the jailer that's outside, he is, he's out there thinking, what in the world? They are out of touch with reality. They're happier than I am. They're chained to a wall. They've been beaten. They're be and and he put them in the innermost prison, the Bible says Not just prison, but the innermost. And they seem to have. I hate the feeling, but I'm kind of envious of whatever they have. They're nuts. But ignorance is bliss sometimes. They're so happy. Why? Why are they happy? That will keep him in perfect peace. You can be chained. Because there's the jailer thinking, boy, if you didn't know better, you'd think they were free, and I was the one in bonds. And the truth was he was bound by sin. And they were bound by something else, weren't they? The love of Christ constrains me. They were bound by the love of Christ and they were thrilled. Those shackles, their feet made fast in socks, uh that that wasn't what constrained them. They were in perfect peace, and by the end of the night It was the jailer who came in and said, at the beginning of the night, I thought I had something that you needed. But now I see that you're the one with something that I need. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Oh my meditation on God's word. The Bible says, Psalm 1-2, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. You say, well, how would I ever delight in God's word Well here's the thing. Rules are what make things fun. You say no rules make life miserable. No. Think about if if I come to your house and you have a board game. And you're like, have you ever played this? I'm like, well uh I haven't, but it looks like we're about to. And I've never played I might ask you two questions and they're basically synonymous, right? I might say, how do you play? Or what are the rules? Because the game, the identity of the game is made up by the rules. Without rules you have no game. Basketball Uh you play basketball and you know the the person steps on the out-of-bounds line, boom, that's out-of-sketball is defined. Rules are what makes the game fun. The volleyball, right? Somebody is facing the opposite way of the net later on today. They're just facing the bat and they're like, hit it that way. They're like, we win. And somebody's like, can somebody go get the mall and tell them what the rules are? It's like, I I I'm a free spirit. I operate by other rules. And you're like, and you're making everyone miserable. Now we've got to go get the mall and argue with you. No, volleyball is fun because you have rules that define it. And this life of ours, you know, there's that game of life, right? And you can pull out an instruction manual and figure out what the rules are so that I can succeed in the game. And in this game of life, there are rules. And this is the manual right here. And it's fun. It's fun to find out what the rules are. Oh, if you don't know the rules, it's miserable. If you know the rules, I know the parameters to stand. It's exciting Thank you, God, for giving me the rules. And as I study them, please help me to understand them better and better. Delighting in God's words. We want to go over God's words in our minds. We have Sunday school buses there at Fairhaven, and years ago I was a substitute bus driver. And so uh one of the you you you play you give yourself little challenges. So I d I don't drive this route on a regular basis, and so when you do the pickups in the morning, the challenge is I wonder if I could memorize it. So on the way home, I can do the drop-offs without the captain telling me. So the little challenge for myself. Now here's the thing. The bus is out there, but there's shuttle cars out there as well. And they're making extra stops and running people to the bus, making extra stops, running people to the buses. Well so there was this one spot we were supposed to go up on Elm and take a left. That's what I remembered in the morning So in my mind I'm picturing, I know what the next step is before he tells me. Well the thing is up to Ellen and to the right it was a pickup that the shuttle car had made. But the shuttle car wasn't dropping them off, the bus was. So the captain said, we're going to go up to Elm and take a right. And I'm like, yep. And in my mind, I'm picturing me going up to Elm and taking a left. And so I'm I'm nodding and smiling because I'm picturing one thing and he just told me the opposite. But it doesn't matter because, yeah, I I hear you, because I was so excited about my thought And so I'm I'm I'm just smiling up there driving thinking, um, I'm gonna go up to Elm and take a left because he just said up to Elman, take a right Hey, hey brother. Did did you say a right on L? Oh yes, yes. Here's this morning we took a left. We're gonna have to go right because there's someone to the right we have to drop off And I'm like, okay, thank you. It was a good thing I went over his words so that they could correct my thoughts. And it wasn't rebellion. I wasn't being a rebel. I just had the wrong thought. But it was as I went over his words over and over again. that the words corrected my thoughts. And you might be here in church. You have ideas that you're excited about. I have these ideas. I picture life going like this. And you come and the words are preached. You want to go over those words. Go over those words and say, Lord, I want those words to correct my thoughts. And so memorize the scripture, read it, write it, meditate on it, obey it. The third thing is dedication, dedication, that thou mayest observe to do. So doing. That the mess observed to do. Boy, there's a lot that clicks once you start doing it. I teach music theory. And so I can say, okay, class, here's what we're going to do. And I can explain it like I don't know, I'm not following. Like it's okay. I'll show you on the board. Kinda imagine a math class, right? And so I can show them on the board. There, now do you get it? Like, it's a little bit better, but I'm still not quite sure what you just did. It's really not until we start doing it together as a class. Okay, uh there's the assignment right there. Start working on it, I'll come around and help you. And then as they do it, and they do it and they do it, that's when things begin to click. So you would say, preacher, you you preach these things and as soon as it makes sense I intend to start doing it. Well we have it backwards. As soon as you know God wants it is when you should do it. And it's amazing how things will click along the way after you, by faith, start doing what you know God wants you to do. So we have confession and meditation and dedication, doing things. The Apostle Paul said, for me to live is Christ. So I don't want my children thinking I'll serve God and then after that that's when life begins. The fun begins after the service is over. No, I want my kids to enjoy serving God. And then after that, you know, yesterday my son is out on the bus route. And he's got a bunch of lawns to mow. And I don't want his mind mowing the lawns already. I want him enjoying that service. I want him learning, enjoying it, and then yes, get to the laws, but I want him to realize that both of those, that serving, making God central Throughout the entire day. Kids are like, oh, well, I'll do this work and then life begins after that. And that's not how it's supposed to be, is it? Doing what God wants. Now the Bible says day and night Meditating day and night. And of course, you've all probably heard of those people that that are like, yep, I read through the Bible three times a month. You're like, whoop! What? I I can't do that. People that read a ton of scripture. Then you have the opposite, some people that are, well I I I've I've been, you know, I just read small portions of scripture and then chew on that. I've been on one verse for the last six years. You know Uh so which is it? You say, should I be reading a lot of scripture or should I be reading a being a little scripture? Well the Bible says day and night. Can you do some of each? Now what if I told you hey we're going to the Grand Canyon? So we could either do some hiking in the Grand Canyon or we can tell a hel we can take a helicopter ride. Which do you prefer? And if you you're like could we do both? There's gonna be wonderful things that you can't see from a helicopter. And there's going to be wonderful things you can't see on the trail. Can we do both? He says day and night. So maybe in the morning you read a length read a chapter or two, maybe a little bit more lengthy And at nighttime maybe you go a little slower and chew and think, or maybe you do the opposite. Boy, can you get some of each day and night? Is that too much to ask? Uh to that in his law shalt thou meditate day And night. And you say, brother, I I'm still struggling with uh with getting in there once a day. Oh, I I gotcha. I gotcha. But but can you get to the point where you're meditating there in day and night? The last thing is completion. Completion. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. According to all that is written therein. Now, Brother Renshaw, he loves his wife. And uh boy, Pastor Batrell might say it'll take you the rest of your life to figure her out. And he might say, I'm looking forward to it. It's the same in my home It's going to take the rest of my life to to figure her out. And I'm looking forward to it. I love her. And you say it's boy getting in the book, it's going to take the rest of my life to do all the things that are here. Amen. Amen. I'm looking forward to it. We want to have a faith that finishes. So the promise. Then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. So there's Joshua. And that Joshua I want you to lead the children of Israel into the promised land and conquer it. Okay, Lord, what should I do? Well it's important to, what did God not tell him? The people need to be in shape. Make sure they're doing this many jump and jacks every day. Make sure the people are doing this many push-ups. There may be a giant city that they're gonna have to go around multiple times. So they need to be in shape. Make sure they're jogging and doing a lot of hiking. Have have good shoes that you know weren't wearing wearing out back in the wilderness. No, what did God tell him? You will succeed in the promised land. No enemy Will be able to stand before you. If what? They spend a lot of time with their sh their sword and shield? They practice kung fu? What did God tell them? You will prosper if you have the right relationship with my word. Alright, listen. It doesn't have to be that complicated. The prescription for prosperity. Let's have that right relationship.