Turn your Bibles to 2 Peter chapter number 1, 2 Peter chapter number 1 this morning. We are called to press on. It's hard to believe that we are uh here on the brink of another month. 2020 is uh flying by. It's just seems that with all that's happened, I mean it's almost as though we lost twelve weeks And it's just, bam. I mean, we're here here we are. Hard to believe the days and the weeks that have passed since the beginning. Uh from the first shutdown here in our country to where we are now where much of the country has begun to open up at different stages and uh life is heading back towards uh what people would call normal and of course they like using the word the new normal because they don't suspect It'll ever go back to what it was. There are some good things that have come out of this. There are many bad things that have come out of it. But in the midst of all this uh that maybe your life has been put on hold. I wonder uh how about your spiritual life? You see, I know that your life has been reworked. It's been turned upside down. Everything's been changed. Those that used to spend their days, many of the moms, they they had their days filled with other activities, and now they're spending the majority of their day homeschooling their children. And uh what a workload that's been added to them, how they have to adjust. What I'm saying is that life didn't stop, our plans got rearranged, where we were investing our time has been changed. But life goes on. You've adapted, you've adjusted, you've made what changes were necessary to get through your days. And so I'm asking you in all of that adjustment Where does God fit? Where does God fit? We have had as our theme this year the idea of pressing on. We're to press on. Have you pressed on in your spiritual life for these last 12 weeks or have you put your spiritual life on hold? Oh, basically church is canceled for 12 weeks, so we're we're on a quick vacation. We're on a little uh I don't have to bother with that right now. I'm just asking. I don't I don't know. But I hope maybe I'm stirring your heart to think about the importance of this idea that we're to press on as Christians Ever be moving forward and upward. This morning we're going to preach a message entitled Press On, A Call to Strength, as we're starting a new month, and we have here our verse of the month, which has been Up on the screens. I want to encourage you to press on, especially in this area of strength, standing strong for God. Would you look in 1 Peter chapter number 1? We're going to read verses 1 through verse number 4. Our text is the theme verse for the month, which is verse number 3. three, but follow along with me. He says Simon Peter, a servant, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. According as His divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life. And godliness through the knowledge of Him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world. Through lust. My desire this morning is to give you an overview. I want to give you the context and kind of explain these four verses. We're going to walk down through them and I'm going to give you an outline. Inside of an outline. So we're going to give you an overview of these four verses, then we're going to back up to verse number three, where the real message for this morning comes, and give you another outline just for verse number three. See, I was taught in speech class to tell them what you're gonna say, say what you're gonna say, and then tell them what you're gonna say what you said. That's how a good speech is. So I just told you what direction we're headed, okay? That's the plan for this morning. As Peter introduces to us his second letter to the strangers of Galatia, he is keen in on an important aspect The key word for 2 Peter is knowledge. Knowledge. As he contrasts knowledge of God with that Of those that would teach and preach a false gospel. And there's a lot of false gospels out there. Amen? And the way that we combat the false gospel is we have a strong faith in Jesus Christ, a strong knowledge of him. You see, in 1 Peter, Satan is given to us and presented, you know the verse. 1 Peter 5. 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a Roaring lion. You see, Satan in 1 Peter is presented as a roaring lion. But in 2 Peter, Satan is presented as a subtle serpent that would desire to deceive you. His goal is the same. His goal is still to destroy, but he would do so by deception. Instead of an outright attack. And I want to remind you this morning, beloved, that Fable, falsehood, false teaching from within Has done far more to hurt and destroy the church than persecution from without ever has. We must have knowledge to be able to combat the false teaching that is out there He is writing to those this morning that are of like precious faith. Simon Peter. A servant, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith. It's precious faith that we have. I hope this morning that you value your faith in Jesus Christ. I hope that it's precious to you He's writing this to them and acknowledging that it's a like faith. There's a lot of false gospels out there, but this letter is written to those that have obtained a like. Precious faith. It's a precious faith. You know that the first century church was persecuted, persecuted, immensely persecuted, and at times they maybe had lost All. Maybe they'd lost their home. Maybe they had been lost, had they been kicked out of their city. Maybe they had lost all of their family or friends. But they had their faith. And it was precious to them. It was a precious thing that they held on to and valued. Faith is what gives spiritual sight to the blind. Once I was blind, but now I see. It is faith that gives wings to the Christian so that he can soar like an eagle. It is faith that gives hope to the hopeless. Do you value your faith this morning? Is it precious faith to you? I hope so. I want you to know that faith is procured. It's a procured faith. He says As servants and apostles of Jesus Christ to them that have obtained the like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. I want you to understand that your faith comes from through Jesus Christ. It has to be procured. We believe that it's not something that you just have. You can't just say, well, I've always been a Christian. I've always believed in God. Those statements might be true in their sincerity But unless there's been a day or an hour, a time when you acknowledged yourself as a sinner and put your faith in Jesus Christ. You had faith that he had the power to forgive you of your sin. You had faith that what the Bible says is true, that Jesus came and he died, he was buried, and he rose again for you. And he has the power to forgive you and to save your soul. And you put your faith and trust in that. We believe there must be a day or an hour. There's got to be a time. It has to have happened at some point. Just like you have a birthday, you know when you were born. It happened There has to be a time, an hour, a place when you procured your faith through Jesus Christ. Not just I know about God, but that I have a relationship with Him. Christ was willing to become sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. What a precious faith! We have. It's through Jesus' righteousness that we're made righteous. His righteousness is imputed unto us. I'm glad I'm my salvation is not dependent upon my righteousness There's not many days that I would be saved if it was up to my righteousness. I'm glad and thankful this morning that it's because of Jesus. righteousness that I'm forgiven. It's a procured faith, it's a peaceful faith. Look at verse number two He says, Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. What a greeting. As I read this, I thought, you know, I ought to open my letters like this. write somebody and say, hey, grace and peace be multiplied unto you. I mean that's quite a quite a uh prayer and quite a uh compliment to these. I mean I w I hope grace and peace is multiplied unto you But would you notice with me this morning that what it is and how it is that that grace and peace is multiplied? It's through the what? What's that word? Knowledge. It's through the knowledge of God. You see, as I began, I talked about the fact that Peter keys in on this through this book. It's the idea of knowing God. Having a relationship with God and having knowledge of God, that's how you combat that subtle serpent who would deceive you It's not just a surface superficial understanding of who God is or that God, the creator of the universe, is there and and we know that that He created the world and and And we believe that he is, but it's an instrument in personal relationship with him Uh I feel this morning and I'm I'm sorry that I'm tied to my notes so much and I'm trying not to move because uh our new online streaming camera, we've got to get it closer so everybody's engaged, and that means if I move I'm out of the camera But I'm not sure I'm connecting with you know the thing about online I have no idea if you're there, if you're even paying attention, I don't know But when we're in the all in the room here and I can see you, I think sometimes I'm I'm losing the connection that you're that it's not sinking in, or that the importance of the val of it or the value of it is not registering in your mind. We've got a precious faith, Christian. A precious faith that I hope you have and you're assured in your heart has been procured through Jesus Christ. And that faith is Brings to us peace and grace through knowledge of Jesus Christ. How many of you remember when you got married? You know what? I can bet that when you got married, you thought you really knew your mate. I mean you thought in your mind like I know everything about this person. I mean, I know we're gonna get closer over time, but I mean right now, I know them. I mean, I know them, and you you feel like you there is no way you could possibly know and understand each other any better than you do right then. Yet after 10 years of marriage, you look back and you think, wow, when we got married, the depth of our love was so shallow. Wasn't it? I mean just ten years, and then you go twenty years, thirty years, plus That understanding and that knowledge of each other just continues to grow And if you have the right kind of relationship, it gets stronger and it gets better and you you you you dwell with them according to knowledge and you know you know them. Beloved, that's how it's supposed to be with our relationship with Jesus Christ. At salvation, you understand who God is and that He's willing to forgive you of your sin, and there's that joy, and you praise God for it. But as a Christian, we're supposed to daily be walking with him and growing and understanding and knowing more and more and more about him. Amen? That's supposed to be the pattern for the Christian life. Paul said, I count all things but laws for the excellency of the knowledge. To know God. So you've had some extra time these last few weeks. What have you done with it? Before long, things will get back to the new normal, and life is going to be back to its fast pace, and you once again will say, Oh, I don't have time for devotions. But when you did, did you use it? Not only is it a peaceful faith, but it's a powerful faith. We see in verse number three. According to as his divine power hath given unto us all things. And we're going to come back to verse number three. I'm going to give you a little outline inside that for the message for this morning. So jump down to verse number four. I want you to see it's a prof protected And verse number four he says, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption That is in this world through lust. By the privilege that is ours of partaking Of that divine nature. That divine nature. You remember I talked about it recently? About how we have our old flesh, that sinful nature. But when we get saved, we get a divine nature. By being partaker of that divine nature, beloved, you're protected. You've escaped the corruption that is in this world through lust. We live in a wicked world, don't we? Sometimes as a Christian, you're out in the world and it just wears you out. You you get home and or at the end of a week when you get to come back to church, you're just tired. And it's not because you you haven't slept. You're not talking about a physical weariness, but it's It's a spiritual weariness from battling the wickedness of this world. Am I right? That because of the divine nature that we have imputed unto us from God, we are protected from that. Men are defiled on every hand, but you don't have to be. You've escaped it. If you would, back up to verse number three. All of that was introduction. Now we're going to give you the message, and the message will be brief I just want to give you three points inside of verse number three, the the heart of the thought today, as we see that we're called, press on, called to be strong. And we're gonna kind of get all the way down to the end before we tie it together and where you see and hopefully it all makes sense to you. We see here in verse number three, first of all, I want you to notice the giver. The giver. He says, according as his Divine power hath given unto us. It is his power. It is God's power. He is the one that it comes from. Peter's acknowledging the fact that it is from God and through him that this power has been imputed unto us. You understand that in order to give something that you have to own it? That you have to be the possessor of it, you have to have the authority, you have to have power over it in order to give it to somebody else. As a father of five children, more than once in my home I've come upon a situation You've probably in some place seen something like this. One of my kids will come into the kitchen and they'll say, whose sick or spar is this? And one of the other children will say, You can eat it. And they'll eat it. And then one of the other siblings will come in and say, who ate my Snickers bar? And you can assume the mayhem that precedes this conversation As we find out the culprit thought, hey, he said I could eat it. Well it wasn't his I never said it was mine. I just said she could have it. I mean it just goes round and round, right? I mean he did not have the authority to give it away. It wasn't his. Who's going to replace my stickers bar? In order to be able to give something that has to be first possessed, I want you to know that According to Matthew 28, verse number 18, and Jesus came and he spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. He has all power. And he has the power to give unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. All things that pertain unto life and godliness. He has the ability to do that. And here he has said he is going to do it. Now stay with me, as I want you to see secondly here the gift. The gift. He hath given unto us all things. Now, this gift here is a planned gift. I want you to understand it's been God's plan. It wasn't something that God gave in a moment of extra generosity. He was one day feeling kind of phant he wanted to be a philanthropist or whatever. One day he decided to be generous. I I read a story of a of a quite stingy man He was known all over as being a real tight wad, not care about anybody. He was walking through the hospital one day and he saw a little girl and they he he he saw the pain that she was in and and He he stopped and asked what was wrong and they said, Well she needs a surgery that her family cannot pay for. We could save her life, but without that she's probably gonna die and and But they that they have no means of procuring what they need and and this rich man said, Whatever they need, take care of it. He had never done anything like that in his life and probably would never do it again, but he had one moment of a soft heart. I want you to know that we're not talking about that here with God. This was a planned gift. From before the beginning of the foundations of the world, God had a plan to give unto his people everything that was necessary For life and godliness. That was God's plan. It was a planned gift. It was also a particular gift. You say, well, this says here all things. Yeah, you see, there's a problem. Many people take this passage of scripture and they like to to use it to preach messages that would be titled as the prosperity gospel. They like to use passages like this and write books like Your Best Life Now. When that's not what this passage is teaching, they're misconstruing the scriptures. This here, there's some guidelines that are given to us. He says here that he has given unto us All things, but then he after that gives us some guidelines. He says, that pertaineth unto life and godliness. Now, the reason this gets misunderstood sometimes is because people don't understand or they don't take time to study that actually in the New Testament there are three Greek words that are interpreted. For the same English word, life. I'm not a Greek scholar, don't pretend to be, and most of this is beyond me. There is value in understanding the original meanings, and you would know what this text was talking about if you could read Greek and you read it in the originals. There's three Greek words that are all translated for us, like the first is bios, which we get the word biology. That's given to us in the New Testament. I don't have time to show you passages of all these things, but that's given to us as the word life. It's literally talking about like the life that's in the blood. It's talking about your physical life, the physical means in which you have life in your body, and if your heart stopped beating, that life would be gone. Then there's psychological, emotional, mental health. It's that part of our life The third word is Zoe. Zoe is quite literally talking about the life to come. This word, Zoe, appears 134 times in the New Testament. If you read passage of scripture and you could read Greek and it actually said Zoe, you would know when you saw it that it was meaning. The life to come, eternal life. So, beloved, this verse, if you read it again in light of that fact and you look at it, it says, He has given to us all things that are pain unto Zoe. He has given us everything that we need for eternal life. There's nothing that you have to do. Once you've accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, the penalty for your sin has been paid, the payment is made in full, there's nothing left that you need to accomplish for eternal life. He has given it all to you. Your ticket's been paid. But can I ask you, how do you know that you have eternal life? How is it that you know that you have eternal life? We'll come to that in just a moment. You see, Zoe, I just want to show you a couple of verses that are familiar with you that this word is translated. Verse John 10 10 says The thief cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy, and I come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. That word life there is Zoe. Let me ask you, did Jesus come to give us life here on earth? Did Jesus die on the cross so that we could live here? No, he came that you might have life. That is, that you might have Zoe, that you might have eternal life Does that make sense? In Mark 10, verse number 17, he says, And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running and kneeled to him and asked him, Good master, what shall I do that I may inherit Eternal life. Zoe. A passage of scripture that I myself have many times missed. Interpreted until this week, when I was studying this out, is this verse in Mark 9:43, where he says, And if thy hand offend thee, Cut it off. It's better for thee to enter into life maimed than to have two hands and go into hell unto the fire that never shall be quenched. Now many times have I taught and preached and I've referenced this verse, I've said it. It would be better to go through life without an arm. Then to miss heaven and go to hell. But if you understood the verse, if you knew that that word was Zoe, he was saying It would be better to go to heaven. It would be better for you to cut your arm off and go to heaven. To spend eternity, the life to come, it'd be better for you not to have an arm and to get heaven than to have an arm and go to hell. So understanding that word brings new meaning to it for us. This certainly is not saying that everything in this life is going to be sugar and spice and everything nice. You know that. That's one of the conundrums of Christianity. Sometimes people listen to the prosperity gospel and they hear that. Well, if you have faith and if you believe, you're going to have a Mercedes. If you have faith and you believe your bills are going to be paid and you're going to be prosperous and you're going to have this and you're going to have that and you're going to be able to succeed at whatever you do Even though I'm a Christian, I still get sick. Even though I'm on my way to heaven, I still have bills sometimes that are hard to pay Even though I have faith and I know that God can take care of it, sometimes I worry over things in my life. You see, that's because he hasn't given me all things that pertain to this life. Because this life is not what's most important. There's a lot of things that I look at that I don't have yet. There's a whole list of things that uh Gonna have to preach on company tonight. Things that in this life that I have not got, that I haven't attained to, that God hasn't given me. That's not what God has promised me here He has promised me all things that pertain unto Zoe, the life to come. God has given us everything that pertains unto godliness as well. So I pose to you again the question, how do you know that you're saved? Do you have a ticket? Did you get a printout in the mail? You got your your confirmation number? You get your email, your security code. How do you know that you're going to heaven Can you show me your past, Caleb? You have your past? Oh well. I would say that how you know is because he has given unto us all things that pertain unto godliness as well. Godliness. Peter was writing to those Christians who were living in a wicked world. And if you know anything about Greek culture, you know it was wicked. I don't think society in America has reached the point of ancient Greek culture. We're headed that direction. But we're not there yet. They were living in a wicked day, and he says, hey, God's given you everything you need to live a godly life. Could I ask you if if If you were to think of somebody that you would say there's a godly person, what is it about them that made you say that? I mean if you're going down the street and you see somebody stealing a car, you don't say, now there's a godly young man That's not what you say. If you're at a stoplight and at the stoplight there you happen to look over at the car next to you. And the guy in the car next to you is going like this. You don't say, now there's a godly young man. I mean when his music is shaking your car. Yeah you don't say there's a godly young man There's a godly young lady. What I'm saying is what is the attributes that you look at somebody and you say there's a godly person? I think that you would say is because they are acting or typifying what you would say God would do. They're acting like God. So godliness is actually godly living Godly living. Living your life day by day in a godward direction. So I asked you this morning: is your life characterized by godly living? Is it characterized by godly living? The pattern of today's Christianity is to minimize duty and maximize personal discretion. People want to do away with duty. Oh, don't get caught up in the wheeze, Pastor. Don't nail down how I'm supposed to live. After all, if I just profess Christ If I just say I love God, then I raise my hand when we sing, oh how I love Jesus, then don't tell me That I shouldn't be drinking. Don't tell me that it matters what music I listen to Don't tell me that it matters how I dress or how I act or what kind of testimony I have before the world. Pastor, you're just getting caught up in all the nitty-gritty. That's not, after all, I love Jesus. This world wants to remove personal duty and make it all up to personal discretion But let me ask you, if I came in next week and said, folks, you know me, it's still me. I'm I'm I'm still a good guy. You like me, I'm sure But I just want you to know I have a drinking problem. But I've tried to quit, I can't quit So uh after all, we're just gonna continue on like nothing. We're just gonna pretend it doesn't happen. And you guys say, well, Pastor, you're a pretty good guy overall, we'll we'll put up with that And then two weeks later I come in and say, Church family, I just listen, I've been struggling. I I I just gotta get this off my chest. Actually, I just want to be honest with you. Uh I'm I I'm committing adultery. I'm I'm I'm actively committing adultery and I just gotta get it off my chest. But after all, I love Jesus So this these things shouldn't really matter. Just talking about that makes you uncomfortable. Why is it that churches and Christians all over this country are accepting as their spiritual Leaders, people living in wicked, ungodly sin. Why is that okay? It's not okay. It's not okay for the man in the pulpit, and it's not okay for the man in the pew. God has given unto us all things that pertaineth unto life and godliness. There is an expectation that we as God's children aren't going to be perfect, but that we desire to honor and please God and are going to live our lives in such a way That we are living as best as we can according to the knowledge of God. How God would want us to act. There's such a focus today on being culturally relevant that the church has lost all Christ-like reverence for holy things. Beloved, I want you to understand that Christ has given to everyone. He's writing to them of like precious faith. And Christ has given to everyone that has like precious faith. If you're here this morning, maybe you show me by an uplifted hand, let's just make sure you're still awake. If you're here and you would show me and say, Pastor, I have like precious faith. I know Jesus. Is my Lord and Savior today. I have like precious faith, okay? God has given unto you all things that pertain to life, Zoe Zoe. And godliness. What I'm saying is you don't have an excuse You can't say, well, if I had patience like Anthony, if I had patience like if I had what he has Then I could. Oh, if I had Pastor Derek's knowledge of the scriptures, then I could No. You showed me by an uplifted hand that you have like precious faith in God is that He has given you all things that are necessary. All things that pertaineth to life and godliness. Everything that you need to live a godly life, God has given to you. You can't say, but I just can't get over it. I just can't quit it. I don't know how to stop it. God has given you everything you need to get victory over that sin. You're using some excuse that won't hold water when we stand before God. God says, I've given you everything you need as a Christian, and I'm not standing here this morning. Saying that it's easy, but I am standing here saying you have a promise from God that says what you need to live a godly life is available to you. God has given it to you All that you've got to do is ascertain it, grab it, and according to the scripture here, what does he say? It's based on knowledge. Knowledge of who God is. Knowledge of God. So we get to the call Through the knowledge of him, he says there, the last part of verse number three, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Now I'm going to wrap it all up and we're going to be done this morning. He has called us to glory in virtue. I think glory is pretty self-explanatory. Everybody understands. what glory is, and we know that we're supposed to bring honor and glory unto God. We're not to seek glory for ourselves, but glory for God and His magnificence. We seek that for God. But this word virtue here is a little bit deeper than what we in our own mind normally think of virtue. We might think of a virtuous woman or Or a person, you know, Proverbs 31, you think of a virtuous woman, or you think of that kind of an aspect. But this word virtue here, if you look it up, it's much deeper than that, it's much stronger than that It quite literally means the idea of having courage, of having valor Of standing strong. God has given to us through the knowledge of His Son He's called us to live a life of glory and virtue You could look at it like this. If there was a man that was renowned for his heroism, he displayed Unusual valor on the battlefield, he would be awarded glory It's not glory that's sought after, but by the pattern of living valiantly, of standing strong, glory Is given. It quite literally is to stand strong for that which is right And when you do so, others will recognize and acknowledge it. So here's where we're called To strength. Press on. A call to strength. We're called, beloved, to be strong in the power of his might We're called to be Christians, to do what is right. We're called to live godly lives, and he has promised to us everything that's necessary. He's provided it all. And then he says, Hey, I've given you everything you need for joy, for eternal life, and I've given unto you the power to live a godly life which is The testimony that you have, Zoe, the godly life, and you've got it now. Through the knowledge of God, live a life of glory and virtue. Stand strong. In the power of his might. Stand, Christian. Be strong. Don't let the devil give you excuses. Don't let the devil keep uh tearing you down. Don't let the devil deceive you as he would like to and feed you lies and corrupt your mind with the thoughts and influences of this world. You can live godly. God has given us the strength. One day when my burdens seemed greater than my body and spirit could bear. Weighed down by the load I faltered beneath my sorrow and care, as I cried to the heedless silence, as I walked where I could not see Where is my strength that is promised? Where is the strength for me? And suddenly out of the silence a voice came clear and true. My child, you're striving to carry a burden that was never meant for you. And the thought of the years outstretching before you has darkened the way Well, the only strength that I have promised you is strength for today. I took one step and I found it Quite easy indeed to take, and the burden slid from my shoulders and my heart that had been ready to break. Give thanks that my eyes were opened, and my shoulders were eased of their load. I saw step by step I was strengthened To walk even the roughest of roads. God has given us all that pertaineth To life and godliness. Christian in the face of this world that would have us live at the very least Weak, anemic Christian lives, I challenge you this morning to take God up on His promise to pursue godliness for His honor and glory.