Uh you'll notice down in front of me that we have published a banner for the title of my message this morning. Pressing on. This is our theme for the year. It's on the devotional book. Uh it's on our calendar. Uh and it will be here in the front of the church, not taped to a table. That's for a different purpose this morning. Uh but I wanted you to be able to see it. We're gonna hang this banner up above the lights right here. We're gonna hang it on the the front of this throughout the year as a reminder to us as a church to press on. For the last few months, this theme, this idea has been in my heart and mind. It's been a goal I knew that God would have for us to pursue as a church. The The heart of this comes from our text, which is in Philippians chapter number three. If you turn there in your Bibles to Philippians chapter number three, If you're in Philippians chapter number three, we're not going to read the entirety of the passage, but if you look down in verse number twelve through verse number fourteen. Where we see the heart of the context of this, he says, not as though I had already attained, neither were already perfect. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. Verse number 14, I press. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus Our verse for January is Romans 1. 7. He says, To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints. Called to be saints. We have something that we are supposed to be pressing towards. And as your pastor, I want to try this morning to encourage you. To press on. Paul said, I press towards the mark. If you would allow me to try this morning to encourage you in your heart to give you a motivation, a strength to press on this morning. Can I start by establishing the fact, and I think you all would realize and understand that those that are content where they are Have no motivation or reason to press on. Those that are satisfied with the status quo, those that are comfortable in their current state, You don't see them pressing anywhere. Does it make sense? I mean they're comfortable, they're happy. Why should I bother to press on? I'm fine right where I am. Does that make sense? We have to get to the place where we take an honest look at ourselves. One of the greatest problems facing the church today is the lack of motivation. Christians who choose to live in a constant state of apathy. Where is the ambition, the motivation to attempt great things for God? Where is the ambition for that? Where is the motivation for that? But that's going to take work, but that's going to take effort, but that's going to take ambition. And you know, Pastor, I don't have it. But I'm I'm saying we need it. We need to press on It starts with being honest with yourself and doing a self-examination, with looking at your life, as Paul did here in our text. In verse number 12, he says, not as though I had already attained. Either was already perfect. He says, Hey, I looked at my life and realized I'm not perfect. I hadn't already attained perfection. I hadn't already attained complete maturity in Jesus Christ. I'm not right now all that God wants me to be. He says that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus He said, Jesus Christ apprehended me. Now, this word apprehended literally means to grab a hold of and pull down. Like tackle. Like you take somebody down on the ten yard line. I mean you just take it you just take 'em down just apprehended and of course if you know the story of Paul you know Paul was literally apprehended like that. He was walking on his uh animal on the road to Damascus and a bright light shone from heaven and knocked him off And I mean he had a a salvation experience like none other. But regardless of whether you were knocked off your horse by a bright light or you just realized you were a sinner And trusted Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sins and take you to heaven when you die, he saved your soul for a purpose. You were apprehended by God to accomplish something meaningful and important in this life. There is reason, there is purpose that God has you here. Brother Desmond, there's a reason God has spared your life and given you more days here on earth. And each and every one of us here, we've been apprehended by Christ, saved by the blood of the Lamb for a purpose, for a reason. And Paul said, I realize I haven't met completed that yet. If you were to be real honest with yourself today Could you say that you have reached perfection? That you have accomplished all that God saved you to accomplish. I think if any of us were honest, we would be willing to admit that we haven't accomplished it all. We haven't attained. We haven't reached perfection. And if we were to be honest with ourselves and say that, then that Brings to light the fact that there's something more to do, so we must press on. You understand the measure, the rule, the standard was not Paul's accomplishments The standard was not other believers. The standard was Jesus Christ. And all that Christ had saved him to accomplish And Paul, looking at himself, said, I haven't accomplished it all. I have not apprehended for that which I was apprehended. I hope in your heart you'll be honest with God today and take a serious evaluation of yourself and consider where you are and if there is area that you might With the church today, purpose to press on. Let me give you three simple thoughts this morning. We need to press on. Towards the object. We need to press on through opposition, and we need to press on because others are observing. First of all, press on towards the object. You see this word press, just kind of throw this out there. Obviously, I think everyone here understands that that means we are exerting effort. The idea is pressing forward, pushing forward to accomplish more. We're pressing on, we're pushing on, we're not just standing still, we're not just content where we are. But regardless of what there is, there's an object out there. There's a goal out there. There's something that we're supposed to accomplish. And we're going to press on towards it. Practically speaking, the difference between success and failure in life many times boils down to little more than effort. Than effort. Victory does not belong to the talented or to the most skilled, but to the one who is determined to press on. To the one who will expend the most effort. So I'm asking of you, Christian, would you be willing to press? We need to press towards an object. You understand that an object is necessary. A goal is necessary. When you enter a race, there's a finish line. They don't just say, okay, you guys go out there and run for twenty-five minutes just to run. Oh yay, you guys all did a good job. No, there's a finish line, there's a goal, there's a place that you want to get to. An object is necessary. A man in England who was called to preach the word of God stood in a pulpit one night in the early nineteenth century, preaching to just a small handful of people. One of those was a young man by the name of George Greenfield He was in his early twenties, and the pastor was preaching on being fully committed to a sacrificial life of serving the Savior. He closed his sermon by saying this, I am not calling you to a life of ease, I'm calling you to a life of deprivation. trial and difficulty. Tonight do not walk down this aisle if you are not committing it all to Christ. That night, George Greenfield walked forward in front of a small group of people and before his God and said, Tonight, I am committing. My all. God impressed upon George Greensville's heart that he was to take the gospel to a region of Africa where it had never been before. He was to go far up the Congo River. Greenfield prepared himself, went out under the London Missionary Society, and set off to take the gospel to the Congo. He had a goal. He God had impressed upon his heart what it was he was supposed to accomplish, and he set out for that goal. I want you to understand today that God has a desire for each and every one of us. You need an object to press for. You need a goal. Do you know that churches need a goal? Churches as a whole need an object The problem with so many churches in America today is that they've lost the object. They've lost the goal. There is no purpose, there is no drive, there is no reason, and that's why they stopped their ministries, and that's why they quit having Sunday school. And that's why they quit having Sunday nights. And that's why they stopped having midweek prayer service. That's why they've stopped these things, because why Why should we press on? There is no goal. There is no object that we're pressing for. We're just existing as a church. There is no ambition. If there's no ambition and no direction we're heading, then why should we bother? Does that make sense, Christian? That's why they're no longer pressing on as a church. We, as the Humph Valley Baptist Church, are on a mission. We're on a mission to see the world minister to. First, those that are nearest, our neighbors and all nations, and we give our money, material, and manpower to see that happen Everything we do at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, every ministry we have, every time we gather around the Word of God, is focused and centralized upon that point that there's a world that's lost and dying and going to hell without Jesus Christ. And we as a church been called of God and are set forth with a mission to present them an opportunity to trust Jesus Christ. We're on a mission as a church. And I'm asking you this morning, church, would you gather together with your brothers and sisters in Christ and press on, press on, press on towards that goal. Every single Christian needs an object. Without an object to press towards Life has little to no purpose. How many times have you heard people say, what's it all for? Why am I here? There's got to be more to life than this. What's it all about? Why is it like this? Beloved, we are here because God has a plan for us God has a purpose for our lives, and it is our goal as an individual to press on towards that goal It gives you a reason to get out of bed in the morning. It gives you a reason to have joy in your heart and a skip in your step and a song on your soul because God has given you purpose in your life. If you're here this morning and you're wondering why and what's it all for and what's the meaning is life just this, just this mundane existence? Is this what it's all about? I'm here to tell you that you're creator Has given you before you were formed in the womb God had a plan for you. He loves you and He wants to give you meaning. Give you an object to press towards. Something and a reason to get up day after day. The object is what motivates you You understand anyone can have a goal, but you must be willing to press, to press, to press. I think in the Bible about the story of the woman who had the issue of blood. Do you remember that story? For twelve years she has lived with this issue of blood, some type of an infection, some type of of bacteria, some something wrong with her inside. And for twelve years she had tried to get this fixed. She had seen every type of doctor she could She had tried every type of holistic medicine available. She had tried everything that she could, but for 12 years she had lived with this. Have you ever come to the place where you just said, I've got to get this taken care of? Oh, I'm tired of living with this. I see that in this heart of this lady. She was so Humble. She thought so little of herself that she didn't even feel like she could cast herself at the feet of Jesus before this crowd and beg God to heal her. No. She thought, if I could just get to him, and the crowd made it extremely difficult. And she pressed her way through the crowd, pressed her way up to the edge of Jesus. And she thought, if I could just touch the hem of his garments, Jesus would heal me. What I'm saying is she had an object, she had something to press towards, and she pushed her away even though it wasn't convenient, even though it was hard. Even though others might have pushed her away and said, Don't bother, don't bother Jesus. She said, I've got to get to Jesus. And she pressed her way into his presence, touched the hem of his garment, and was healed. Every one of us need an object to press towards. God will give you that object. According to our text here, what is the object that Paul pressed towards? Sadly, there are many in the world, even Christians many times, that are pressing towards the wrong object. Look back at our text in verse number 5 through 7. We see Paul here talking about his own life. He's talking about his accomplishments and things that he used to press towards. He said, circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel Of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews, touching the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. He said, I was blameless. He was pressing in this area of his life. He was pushing for all these things. But what does he say about them? He said, but what things, verse number seven, but what things were gained to me? Those I counted lost for Christ. Yea, doubtless, I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. Many, sadly, are pushing, pressing towards the wrong thing. You're pressing on in pursuits of this world. You're pressing on in the empty and vain ambitions of this life. That will not satisfy, that will not fill the void, that will not meet the need of your heart. He says, I account it all but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. The goal, beloved, the object, is singularity in its focus. And that is Christ. We press on For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. It is singularity in its focus, but I want you to understand its plurality in its purpose. And that is What does it mean to press towards Christ? What does it mean to know Christ? Singularity in our focus, pressing to Christ, but in practicality of its purpose, there's a plurality of that, and that is to know Him. And the power of his resurrection. It is to glorify him in and through our lives. When we as Christians live Christ-like When we live so that the world that is around us, that is watching us, that's looking at us, they see Christ in us. That's what it means. We know him. We know his power to live. A Christian life. We glorify Him in how we live and act. We glorify Him as we fulfill the high calling of God. As he said, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God. Next week I'm going to bring a message on the high calling of sainthood. From our theme our verse for the month of January. The high calling of sainthood. Throughout this year, we're going to continue to bring messages from the high calling of God. What is it? What does that mean to fulfill the high calling of God? We're going to focus on that throughout this year. Beloved, everyone needs an object. We need to press towards the object. We need to press through the opposition Press through the opposition. Look in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 18 and 19. He says, For many walk, of whom I have told you often. And now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is their shame Who mind earthly things. Do you understand, beloved, that there's opposition? There's always going to be opposition. Anytime you determine in your heart to press on. There's going to be opposition. When you're standing at the line of scrimmage and the ball is snapped, And your object is to tackle the the quarterback, your goal is to get through that line, the linemen on the other side don't say, welcome. Come on in. Please take out our quarterback. No, they don't do that. They look at you and before the ball snaps, they say, if you come across that line, I'm gonna kill you. They say, Son, you better not come close to me. You're gonna be you're gonna regret it for the rest of your life. You know they're all talking smack down there. There's opposition in the Christian life. It's not gonna be easy. I'm not calling you to a life of ease, but to one of deprivation and trial and torment and testing. God has called you to press on through the opposition. Circumstances will be an obstacle at times that would get in the way of keeping you from pressing on. Friends sometimes get in the way and keep you from pressing on. Families sometimes get in the way and keep you from pressing on. They wonder, why are you bothering going to church? Why are you doing this? for Christ. Why are you investing this much time, energy, or effort in the pursuit of God? It's not really that important. But you've got to press on, beloved. Press on It's not easy. It's not convenient. The crowd gets in the way. I think about the four friends who bore their friend on a cot to take him to Jesus. They wanted to get to Jesus, but the crowd was too great. They they were in the way and they couldn't get there. They couldn't get into his presence because the the house was already full. And so the men said, Well, sorry, buddy, we're going home. No. They pressed on. They said, Well, I know how them roofs are constructed. Give me a hammer and we can open it up. Man, you can't do that. That's gonna damage that roof. I mean who's gonna everybody's gonna be watching you do that? They're gonna think you're a nut. They said, I don't care. My friend needs Jesus. I'm going to do whatever's necessary. I'm going to press on. And they went up to the roof and they opened the roof and they lowered them down into the present. Can you imagine everybody in that house? Like what in the wor what the roof's falling in. What in the world? All of a sudden a big enough hole and they they lower this guy down? It was important to them. They had an object to press towards. They said, we're going to do it. Wasn't convenient. There was a lot of things in the way, but they said, we're going to press on through opposition. George Greenfield prepared himself to set off on the task of taking the gospel up the Congo River, where no white man had ever been before. Halfway up the river, halfway there, not up the river, halfway there, towards the Congo, haven't he reached the river yet, his wife contracted a fever. She could have been saved with any drugs available at any pharmacy in London. But where they were, there was no pharmacies. George Greenfield's wife passed away. His fellow travelers told him, Stop pressing on, George. His reply was, I told God that nothing would stop me, that I was committing my all, and well I fully intended for my wife to be at my side, my commitment to Christ stands. And he continued on. When they got to the mouth of the Congo River, they ran into incredible difficulties. The natives proved to be extremely hostile. Every time they tried to work their way up the river, the natives would throw spears at them from the banks. Six of their number were wounded with spears, and four of those passed away from their wounds. Everybody said, We can't go up this river. The overgrowth is too thick. The river at places is too shallow. We can't get the boat up the river. And not to mention that, the attacks from the banks are too strong. We've there's no way we'll make it up the river. We'll all be dead by the time we get there. George, we've got to stop We've gotta get out of here. And he said, you're right. We need a better boat. I'm going back to London to design a boat that will go up the river. And George Greenfield did that. He returned to London and designed a boat with only an eleven-inch draft. He plated the bottom of it with steel so that he would be able to drag it over the rocks in the shallowest parts of the river. Everybody laughed at him and said, how are you going to get this back? You can't sail a boat across the ocean that only has an 11-inch draft. And he says, no, I'm going to take it apart. put it on a ship, and when we get to the Congo I'll assemble it again. The problem was is when they finally reached Africa's shores and they were transporting this boat in pieces across land to get it to the Congo to be able to put it in to go up stream, they were again attacked by the natives, and his two engineers that he had brought on the trip for the purpose of assembling this boat were killed. He wrote back to London and asked for some help, said I need some more people that are capable, that know how to put together a boat. I need to get this boat put back together so that we can go up the Congo When no help came, George put the boat back together himself. It took him three years to raise the money to build the boat, to test it, and to get back to the Congo. During that time in London, George remarried. God blessed him and his new wife with four beautiful children. And together they began to work their way up the Congo. Again, they were attacked. The London Missionary Society, realizing that three-quarters of their group had been slain, wrote to George Greenfield and said, the cost of this project is too high. The project is closed. George Greenfield wrote them back and said, It's either advance or retreat, as far as I understand it. Sirs, if it's retreat that you are looking for, you must not count on me. I will have no part of it. You may think that George Greenfield was insane. I would propose to you this morning that he had a goal. He had an object given to him by his Savior, the King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords, the Creator of this world, and he said, nothing's going to stop me from accomplishing that for which I was apprehended. The issue was not the cost, the issue was the high calling of God on his life. He pressed on in the face of opposition from everyone, from friends, family, supporters, and even Satan George Greenfield finally began to see converts on the banks of the river, but disease in this area was rampant. One-third of the way up the river, his first child contracted a fever and died He buried that child on the bank of the river. Later, his second child contracted a fever and died, and he buried him on the banks of the river. Then his third and his fourth child died, and he buried them with his own hands on the banks of the Congo River. George Greenfield, later in life, from his own diary, wrote this As I look back at the graves of my children, they act as mile markers along the shores of the Congo. Fifteen years after George Greenfield began to do what God had called him to do, he made it all the way to the mouth of the Congo River. One must realize the value of pressing on, not the cost of it. When the dream has faded and when the long night has begun, we must bring our minds under control and not look at the hardship but look at the goal, Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith. We must push on through the night and through the struggle and through the storm when it would be so much easier to just cease. After all, no one is demanding you of this of you. But for the Christian who knows God They demand it of themselves. For you've known and experienced the joy of victory and are not content with mediocrity You've known the thrill of the second mile satisfaction. And you said, I've got to accomplish that for my Savior. The satisfaction of living in the second mile, success that comes when one will lift the veil and shake off the weariness to see afresh the value of pressing on. Theodore Roosevelt said, it's not the critic who counts The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by the dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who at worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who knew neither victory nor defeat. We've got to press on through the opposition. We've got to press on towards the goal. And beloved, could I encourage you this morning, we've got to press on because of those that are observing. There is people watching. Look with me in Philippians chapter 3 in verse number 15, 16 and 17. He says, Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us Walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same thing. Brethren, be followers together of me And mark them which walk, so as ye have us for an example. He's saying, Listen, beloved, I know you're watching. Come with me. Come on, let us do it. Let's do it. Let's go. You're watching me. We're doing this together. We're on this journey together. Let's let's go. Let's pr I haven't attained. You haven't attained. Let's do it. We're going to press on. We're going to accomplish more for God. Beloved, this morning, could I tell you that there are others watching There is others that are beholding what you're doing. There's saints that are watching. There's brothers and sisters in Christ. And you cannot know How encouraging you are to somebody else in the church when you just press on. You can't know what that means to somebody else. Even if they come to you and say, boy, I really appreciate you. Your faithfulness means a lot to me They can't even express how that encourages their heart. And you also can't know The discouragement that you are to your brothers and sisters in Christ when you fall by the wayside When you quit and give up. When you walk away from Christ and say, This isn't for me. When you do that, it's like a ripple that goes through the church and you can act you can eat You can feel it. Sometimes it's palpable. The discouragement on the hearts of the brothers and sisters in Christ. They think, man, if he if if If he can keep going, what hope do I have to keep going? If he couldn't if he couldn't just press on, how could I press on? Beloved, what I'm saying is you have to press on because you're not an island unto yourself. There are other people watching. The next generation is watching. The younger people of the church, and we look at them and we say, They're the future We need to see them go on for God and do great things for God. If they're going to do that, they need some examples of Christians that press on despite the opposition. We've got to press on because there's other saints watching. You know that their sinners are watching too? You know the people in this world are watching you. You're at work and they're waiting for that one time for you to to mess up and not be the Christian you said you were. Oh, I remember one time when I was a drywall contractor. I was working with a guy in a house. We were hanging drywall. We were we were hanging and banging, man. We were getting it done But we were talking while we were working, and I made a comment. It wasn't even that bad. It was just kind of crude. It's crude enough that I wouldn't say it today. But as a young man, he was this older guy. We were working together and I was trying to be funny and I said something a little crude and he turned and looked at me and he said what And I remember to this day I remember immediately the shame that I felt for having let down my Savior For in that instant, losing. I've been talking to this guy about Christ. I've been inviting him to church. I've been telling him I'm in Bible college studying the Word of God. I've been telling him all about Jesus And in that instant, that little slip, and that man knew that that shouldn't come out of the mouth of a Christian. And he looked at me, and my heart was struck with shame. What I'm saying, Christian, is the world's watching you. They're watching to see whether you're going to go to church. They're watching to see whether you have faith in God in the midst of your struggles. This world is watching you. You've got to press on. In nineteen oh five, George Greenfield wrote in his diary Just 21 years ago, I came to the foot of this cliff. The natives drove me off with their spears. Today, as I sail into the port, they welcome me by singing all hail, the power of Jesus' name. In 1906, George Greenfield sailed his last trip up the Congo River, and his dying words were, Jesus is mine. He had a singular focus. That is to get to Jesus. The plurality of his focus was what God wanted him to accomplish in his life while he was here. He made his last trip up the river and said, I've done what God asked me to do. Like Jesus Christ himself. Said, I've done what the Father wanted. I've finished my race. I've accomplished it all. It is finished Dozens of missionary stations and thousands of converts were brought to Christ as a result of George Greenfield's commitment. A plaque of tribute which reads, George Greenfield, the first man to ever sail a ship up the Congo River, today hangs in the British Maritime Museum Beloved, if we're going to accomplish great things for God, we must press on. We've got to press on towards an object We've got to press on in spite of opposition. We've got to press on because others are observing us. As we conclude today, I want to ask you a couple of questions. Ma'am, will you purpose in your heart today to press on, even if your husband doesn't? Sir, will you purpose today to press on for God even if your wife doesn't Even if nobody else in your family does, will you decide in your heart for God that you'll press on? Young people? Will you decide to press on for God? Even if the young man or young lady next to you doesn't purpose to press on, will you determine to press on? Will you decide in your heart I'm going to press on towards the object to fulfill God's call for my life? Because that is what is most important. Even if nobody else does. Will you determine to press on?