To Proverbs chapter 18. We had to get we had to have a good time getting started here because it's gonna get a little uncomfortable. Yeah, a couple times it got quiet this morning. We'll see what happens tonight here. But uh the the topic uh this evening uh is something that afflicts us all We are going to look at the topic of pride in Proverbs. Pride. We see in Proverbs chapter number 8 and verse number 13, he says, The fear of the Lord. Is to hate evil, pride and arrogancy. You see the punctuation there It says, it doesn't say the fear of the Lord is to hate evil pride and arrogancy. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil pride. and arrogancy. That that pride is evil, arrogancy is evil, and as Christians we should develop a biblical perspective of this pride. It should be something that we despise, that we hate, that we see it crop its ugly head up in our life and We have to take a stand against it and battle against it in our own heart, in our own lives. As soon as you and I feel that we have licked pride is when pride will rear its head up again. This morning we talked about the idea of not allowing ourselves to be spoiled by success, and literally what happens with that being spoiled by success is that we begin to be puffed up in pride. Because we have somehow made it or we've uh achieved a certain level of uh maybe financial freedom or we've gained a certain level of higher education and now we uh view ourselves as as having arrived or accomplished something uh great or maybe some level of success in business. You know, Mark Cuban I I really don't care for the guy because he's very arrogant in in his presentation and his communication with people. Why? Because he's a billionaire and he can. He can just treat people like that and it's just how he comes across is just His his whole demeanor bothers me, even though it's just that idea of, well, I'm successful and you're not, so stick it in your ear if you don't like it. I don't care. You know, that kind of spirit. And that's what happens. If we aren't careful, we can be puffed up in pride over our own spirituality. Boy, look at how I walk with God, or look at how uh how how good of a soul winner I am. How often I pass out tracks and all these things, and I'm telling you, beloved, it's something we must guard against in our hearts. It is prevalent, it is present, and if we aren't careful, it will uh hurt us I want you to see several things. We're going to run through Proverbs. We're going to see a bunch of different passages of Scripture. I'll try and go slow enough to give you time to turn there. In Proverbs 21, verse number 4, we see a description. of pride, a description of pride. Proverbs 21, 40. He says, a high look and a proud heart, and the ploughing of the wicked is, what does it say? Sin, it is sin. I want you to understand, beloved, putting right down brass tacks where the rubber meets the road. Pride is sin all of the pride that we have in our heart, what hast thou that thou hast not received? Uh you know, can you add one inch to your height? Can you add one hair to your head, can you uh give yourself one more level of brain cell or capacity? I mean, no, we can't do that. These things are in the hands of God, and yet we uh sometimes get puffed up in pride and we've got to be careful because every proud uh heart is sin. C. S. Lewis said in his book, Mere Christianity, he said the essential vice The utmost evil is pride. Unchastity, anger, greed, drunkenness are mere flea bites in comparison. It was, beloved, through pride that the devil became the devil. So it is pride, this utmost evil, that thing that sets at the foundation of so many other sins Ezekiel 1649 describes the sin of Sodom. The Bible says it was pride. It describes their sin. It goes on. It talks about their fullness and their abundance and their idleness, how they were given to pride because of their fullness, because of their abundance. Can I tell you that modern society here in America has promoted and and and almost uh added to the pride that we as a people have? Because of our abundance, because of our success, because of the things that we've been able to acquire. The other day my wife and I we got to get away for a couple days and it was awesome. We had a great time And don't know why we came back. But we uh no no it w that's pretty good to come back when you're ready. But we we just enjoyed it, we had a great time and we're unloading stuff out of the car when we come back and I thought in my mind I'm like this is ridiculous that we were coming back from two days away and I had to take three trips into the house out of the car for the stuff in the car. I said that is if if that's not a sign of abundance and complete and utter foolishness. Why do we have so much stuff from three days away? Man, why? Because God has blessed us so much. And we've got to be careful in recognizing that it's God and it's not us. Pride is sin. Not only that, Proverbs tells us, look in Proverbs chapter 6. Verses 16 and 17, these are familiar verses. You guys will know these. Many of you young people and some of you older people would be able to quote them. But these six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are uh what is it? Abomination unto the Lord, a proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood. Nay, pride not only is it a sin, but it's an abomination. It's an abomination. You know, an abomination is something that's putrid. It's something that that reeks. It's something that is vile, that is disgusting And in the eyes of God, the Bible describes even in the nostrils of God is this putrid uh rank smell, that that abomination, those things that come up to his nostrils as an abomination. Proverbs 16 in verse number 5. Uh look at that if you would, Proverbs 16, 5. He says, everyone that is of a pro that is proud in heart is, what does it say? An abomination. Again, pride not only is it a sin, but it's an abomination. We we have no cause or reason to be proud. And yet many people are full of themselves. They're arrogant and egotistical. They're self-centered. And listen, the society today in which we live this selfie society, this self-promotion society. We're so puffed up in pride. But you know the fact of the matter is, is many of those selfies that people are posting aren't even really them. There they've got every kind of uh filter on there and uh they've got you know it's washed all the wrinkles away and it's taken away the freckles and it's fixed the the blemish that you have and gave brother Aaron some hair and uh you know it did all of this very very quick. Uh it's these people posting these pictures. It's not even them. It's just uh It's something that's been doctored and fixed up and manipulated and they're sticking it out there like, look at, look at me, look at me, and it's not even them. And they're they're so proud about those things. Young people, you need to guard against this because I know it's a selfie society and that you guys are posting all the time and sticking stuff out there and You know what, it's it's current current culture, and I'm not going to say that it's sin and get on to you about that, but you need to be careful what you're posting, where you're posting it, and why you're posting it. You've got to be careful about that. Don't let society drive what you do. Let Scripture drive what you do. That's going to be a much better motivation for what you're doing and practicing in this world Pride not only is a sin, not only is pride an abomination, but I want you to know that pride is the source of all contention. Proverbs 13, verse number 10, what does that tell us? Do you know it? Only by pride cometh contention. Only by pride cometh contention. Beloved contention is the source. I mean say pride pride is the source of all contention Beloved, do you know what the number one threat to unity at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is? Pride. We can look at it and say, boy, we ought not be gossiping. If we're having gossiping, it's going to cause a problem, it's going to be bring disunity, and God's against disunity. But that's not the number one cause of disunity, the number one cause is pride. The number one cause of an offense from somebody else is because of pride. Only by pride cometh contention. And what's going to hurt the cause of Christ and the ministry at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is pride. We've got to be careful that we don't allow a comparison. They that compare themselves among themselves are not wise, the Bible says. You gotta be careful that you don't let pride motivate you to compare your ministry with somebody else's. Compare what you're doing to somebody else's, what somebody else is doing or What you happen to be wearing today with comparison to somebody else, what somebody else is wearing, or uh what it there's so many ways in which you you can let pride creep in You get offended, you know, I was telling the deacons, we've got to be very careful. And the release of information at a church is so critical. It is so crucial. We've got to be so very careful that we we do it at the right time and in a way in which everybody can hear because if one person got left out They're offended. Because we didn't care about them, or we didn't let them know, or they weren't important enough to be included. And we've got to be so very careful about that. But do you know why that person's offended? Because of pride. This is the only cause for this. This is just pride. If there was no pride, there would be no offense. Now I'm preaching to all of us tonight, including the one standing in front of you. This is something we've got to guard against. Beloved, pride is sin. Pride is an abomination. Pride is the source of all of our contention If you have a problem with another member at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, mark it down, there's pride. And you say, I know, Pastor, get 'em. I know they have a problem with prides. Let 'em just preach to 'em. But what we really need to be doing is looking in the mirror, amen. I can tell you right now, the person that gives me the most trouble is the guy I look at every morning. I've observed unnecessary contention in God's family. And we've got a guard against that pride that allows that to creep up in our midst. He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife, Proverbs 28, 25 says. He that is of a proud heart stirth up strife. But humility lets it go. You see, pride has to say his peace. But humility lets it go. Matthew Henry said, Whatever hand other lust may have in contention, such as passion, envy, covetousness etc pride has the greatest hand it is in pride that we will sow discord and it needs no other help Pride. The reason that we struggle with authority is pride. We just get that kind of spirit like you aren't telling me what to do. Whoever it is And whoever the authority is, I'm not even talking about the church, we can be talking about work, or we can talk about your mom and dad, or we can talk about whoever doesn't matter. The only reason that we get puffed up in our my heart and mind and say, listen, I know better. You're not going to tell me how to do it, is because of pride. We think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. Proverbs 11, verse number 2. Said, when pride cometh, then cometh what? Proverbs 11, 2. I'll let you look at it. You tell me. Shame. It leads to shame. It's amazing that the very thing that people will use to lift themselves up, the Bible says the thing that's going to bring them to shame. Do we see this description of pride? I want you to see the danger of pride. The danger of pride. Pride brings destruction. Proverbs 1618 tells us that. Proverbs 16. 18 says, pride goeth before what? You're you've got 'em out of order, and I do that too. But pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. And I switch those up too sometimes where I'm saying uh, you know, pride cometh before a fall and a haughty spirit before destruction, but that's That's backwards, and now you're gonna have it really messed up because I quoted it wrong. Hey, pride i pride brings destruction. Pride goes before destruction. Pride is going to take you down. The problem is, is most people that are filled up with pride don't even know it. Their arrogance is sitting right there and they're not even aware of it. I was talking to somebody this week and they were discussing with me some of the tr trials that they're going through, the struggles they're facing personally, and they said, you know what? Here's the thing. is I have been made evidently aware by the Holy Spirit and in my life that I was part of the self-righteous culture of the Independent Baptist movement. He says, I stood there proudly, self-righteous. And I was part of it, and I promoted that self-righteous image, that self-righteous spirit of of hey look at us and look at how we stand for God and stand for righteousness and don't put up with anything and boy we draw the line in the sand and he says I I I the problem is is I was part of it for so many years but I did not realize that I was part of it. The biggest problem he said is that people who are in the midst of it have no idea that they're the cause, that they're the reason, that that is they're the ones doing it. And that's where we're at many times with pride. You're right, preacher. There's a lot of people full of pride. Boy, they really could use this message. If you're saying that, then you're probably one of them. That's the facts of the matter. Because pride is real and it enters the heart of every one of us because we're all sinners saved by grace. It's going to creep up its ugly head, and it brings destruction. Proverbs 16, 19 says, better is it to be of a humble spirit with the lowly. Than to divide the spoils with the proud. He's saying it's far better for you to have nothing and be humble. Then for you to be over here, divide in the spoils, be full of wealth, have whatever uh maybe material gain you might desire, and be full of yourself and full of pride. God says it's far more valuable that you be humble. Pride brings destruction. What does it destroy? I want you to know it destroys freedom. And I'm going to take a break from Proverbs. Can we look at a couple of Psalms? Is that alright? So I should say pride in Proverbs and Psalms. That's what my title should be, right? Pride destroys freedom. Psalm seventy-three, verse number six. Psalm 73, 6. We know that pride brings destruction. Well, what does it destroy? We see here it destroys freedom. He says, therefore, pride compass them about as a chain. Violence covers them as a garment. Pride compassed them about as a chain. Beloved, it's like they know that this pride is drowning them, but they can't get away from it. I'm reading a book right now about about pastoring and and leading people and how to try and be a better pastor and and one thing the the focus of the chapter I'm on right now is to the the the emphasis is on pleasing God. He says, otherwise you become a slave to the expectations of the members. And the expectations of the members are going to change all the time. They're going to go up and down. They're all going to be different. And how could you possibly and literally they the the the the book talks about how you will you'll become a slave to that. You'll be bound to that and try and run here and please that person and please that person and please that person and please that person when what you need to do is please God. Right. That needs to be the focus. And here's the thing, pride chains people, it binds people. I I read about a guy that became a very successful salesman. With this one line. He said, hey, let me show you something that a couple of your neighbors said you can't afford. He became very successful as a stablesman with that one line. These people knew exactly what he was doing when he said it. But pride wouldn't let them let it go. They said, oh, they said, I can't afford that, huh? And he made the sale over and over and over again. Pride chained to them, bound them. It destroys your freedom. Pride destroys your gratitude. Your own pride makes it so that you can't see the goodness of God all around you. You can't see what others do for you in thousands. of little ways day by day. Some people say, what has anybody ever done for me? I accomplished this. Listen, if that's you in your heart saying, I did this, I did this, I did this, you're in a mess. You're in a bad way. You believe that you're completely a self-made man? You're like the turtle sitting on top of a fence that thinks he got there all by himself Not happening I read a story about an old saint of God who talked about how there was a very accomplished organist And uh he was putting on a recital in an old country church. And this old country church had a beautiful, beautiful pipe organ, but the pipe organ was uh powered by hand. Somebody behind the veil had to pump this pipe organ and keep the air, the billows flowing. And this accomplished organist would play a piece And the crowd would stand and applause and he would get up and he would bow. And then he would say, And now I'm going to play for you that magnificent hymn, and he would sit down and play another hymn. After about the fourth song, that guy back there pumping the organ got pretty frustrated. He got sick of it. And after the guy stood up and took his bow and listened to the applause, he sat down to play, and nothing came out And the curtain opened, the guy stuck his head out and says, Let's have a little bit of we and not just me next time. And closed the curtain and went back to went back to pumping See, here's the problem is you and I think that we got somewhere by ourselves, but there's a whole lot of people that have been behind the curtain making things possible for us. And we're enjoying the applause of men and the recognition of others or the the status which we've received, but we need to remember that it's other people that have gotten us there We need to acknowledge that and realize the thousands of little things that people do for us day by day. If that's you this morning, you or tonight, you feel you've accomplished this or you've uh achieved this on your own, you need to come to an old-fashioned altar. And ask God to forgive you. Ask God to give you eyes to see all the ways that other people are indeed helping you. Ways that their love and concern and compassion has made it possible for you to do what it is you do. Pride, beloved, destroys our desire to seek God. And Psalms chapter 10. Psalms chapter 10, verse number 4. The Bible says the wicked through the pride of his countenance. What's the rest of that verse? What's the rest of that phrase? Will not seek God. The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek God. And we have seen this out in the world. We've seen people in the world who don't know God and they're puffed up with pride and they're like, well, we don't need that. Not going to do that. That's why the Bible talks about how hard it is for a rich man. To come to God. Why? Because they're full of pride. They don't need God. But you know what? The Christian gets to that place too. Where we stop seeking God. Well, we seek God when we get the call from the doctor. We seek God when we get the call from the tax man and find out that they messed up on our taxes and we owe $20,000 from past taxes that weren't due. Oh, then we seek God. We seek God when the storm comes, but we get puffed up in our life. We begin living our days as though we were somehow doing this all on our own, and we need to remember day by day that it is made possible through God Pride destroys our desire to seek Him. Pride, can I tell you, keeps men from using the altar, from seeking God. I get concerned when the altars are quiet. When God is not speaking to hearts, or people aren't responding to God and making use of an old-fashioned altar. We have altar calls for a reason because it's a point of decision where you either have to say, yes, God, I'm going to respond and do what you ask of me, or you're going to stand there and say, no, God. And yes, I know that you can make a decision in your seat, but can I tell you there's something special about coming to an altar? There's something special about moving for God, taking that step for God. Solidifies that decision in your heart, and it's a testament to your seriousness before God. And you don't care what other people think, you're going to come and meet with God, with Him and Him alone. That crowd and the audience behind you fades into darkness and it's just you and God The woman with the issue of blood had people telling her, don't bother the master. Oh, don't, don't, don't, no, you can't do that. But she fought her way through the crowd. She said, if I could just touch the hip of his garment, if I could just get into his presence for just a moment, just reach out and touch the hip of his garment, I know I could be healed And she fought her way through the crowd. She didn't care what anybody thought. And beloved, when we get to the place where we don't care what people think, where pride is not an issue, that we want to humble ourselves before an Almighty God We won't worry about what somebody says or what somebody sees. We're going to come to the old-fashioned altar and bow down and say, if I could just touch the hymn of his garment, he could change me. So how are we delivered from this great sin of pride? The deliverance from pride, beloved, the Lord is looking for humble servants. In Proverbs 18, 12, we've referenced it already, but it says, before destruction, the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility. Before honor is humility. Beloved God is looking for a humble servant. Proverbs tells us, let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth. Parents This is one of those verses that my kids know by heart because I've quoted it to them too many times. We need to teach our kids. this. You see, about 30 or 40 years ago, the world got on a real big kick about the self-esteem of our children. And how we need to be boosting their self-esteem and we need to be promoting this self-pride in them, and how they need to think more of themselves. They got on this big kick about nobody can be a loser and you can't use red ink on their pages because they're going to feel bad and all of this and we got kids that that that are winning awards that don't know how to play. And it's ruining our country. We got kids that are so that are that are full of pri pride and they have got nothing to be proud about. Oh, look at my trophy wall. Look at my I love me wall. And they haven't earned any of them. This world has promoted that idea. Let another man praise thee and not thine own mouth. Teach your kids not to be about self-promotion. In God's world, the path up is down. I read a story about a little boat on the Mississippi River back in the days of the paddle boats. This boat had a unusually small boiler and didn't have the real capacity to go too fast, especially when he was going upstream. And he had an unusual loud whistle. The problem was for this little boat is as long as it was given all of its steam to turn in the paddles, it could move forward upstream. But what would happen is when they would begin to blow the whistle, it would divert enough steam from the paddles to the whistle that it would begin to drift backwards. It just barely had enough power to move forward, and the problem is, is it couldn't blow its own whistle and move forward at the same time. Are you getting a lesson? You can't blow your own whistle and move forward. One lady said, the man that sings his own praises tends to get the tune a little too high. Yeah. God's looking for humble servants. We can't be about promoting ourselves. When men try to advance themselves, they tend to go the other way. But when we're humble, we tend to rise to the top. You see, beloved, we're so full of ourselves, we're too heavy, we're just going to sink. But if we empty ourselves, God says he'll lift you up. You'll rise to the top Proverbs 1533 says, The fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility. Beloved, Christ is the greatest example of humility in human flesh that we could ever observe. The Bible tells us, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. If we're going to have victory over this sin of pride that grabs a hold of every one of our hearts We need to ask God to give us the ability to see the pride in our own life. Not to see it in somebody else's life, not to observe it in one of the kids' life, not to see it in our mate's life. No, God help me to see the pride in my own heart and deal with it in a biblical fashion. Confess it is the sin that it is. If we're going to have the mind of Christ, what was the mind of Christ? We know the mind of Christ was a mind of service. He says, being made of no reputation, he took upon him the form of a servant. It took upon him the form of a servant. You know, it takes someone of real humility just to serve Just to serve others. Don't worry about who gets the credit. Don't worry about where where how things go or what happens, or did I get told about this in time? Or no, just serve. Just serve. Let God get the glory. That's the mind of Christ, and that's a mind of humility. It's a mind of service. Letting others go before you, letting others have the best. I appreciate many of you. I know many did not get any chicken. On anniversary Sunday and I apologize, Miss Kathy asked me, she's like, Is this gonna be enough chicken? I said, Well it'll be enough till it's gone. I I uh I well we had a few more people show up than I was thinking and uh I was not counting on them giving us so many little bitty pieces of chicken wing. I saw a chicken wing that couldn't have been bigger than my thumb. I'm like, that's not a piece of chicken I'm like, what is that? That's like crumbs in the bottom. I don't know if they were counting that or not, but uh we had some of that. But I appreciate some of you. Like you didn't eat or you ate the smallest little piece, you let other people do that. That's what a that's what a uh servant does A servant loves others, esteems others better than themselves. The mind of Christ is a mind of service. The mind of Christ is a mind of submission. And being found in fashion as a fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became, what is it, obedient. Became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. A mind of submission. You think about this, the the creator of the world humbled himself, came down to earth, and allowed his creation to boss him around. Allowed his creation to tell him what to do. And he submitted to that. He honored his mother and his father Kids, I know your parents aren't right. Aren't sometimes they're not right either, but what I meant to say is that I know your parents aren't perfect that sometimes they make mistakes. They're not always right. They they sometimes fumble the ball. Jesus honored and obeyed his imperfect parents, and he was a perfect man. We need to live like Christ. We need to have the mind of Christ, a mind of service, a mind of submission. This might be the hardest one of all, is a mind of silence. He became obedient to the death, even the death of the cross. But you know, beloved, in Matthew 27, 12 it says, and when he was accursed, the chief priests and the elders He answered nothing. He answered not a word. He didn't say anything. That takes humility to keep your mouth shut. When you see a perceived injustice. You know, kids, when you're playing volleyball and it was out. And the ref says it was in. And you say it was out. The ref says it was in. Humility shuts up. Because the ref called it in. When you're playing a game and Jacob starts to cheat Yeah. Oh, it's Mom that cheats. Dad, Dad cheats. Yeah. You know, you you view that and you're like, hey, hey, no, you can't do that. You can't no, this is not right. And you you you get all bent out of it's just a game I mean I I like competition. Some of you are letting that destroy your testimony. It's just Uno, for goodness sakes. Come on. What I'm saying is we get those things in four. We just gotta say it, right? We just got we gotta be heard. We gotta be people gotta know what I think about this and and no humility Just say that okay. It's okay. I don't have to I don't have to be heard. I can let it go I'm okay with that. Yeah, it was an injustice. Yeah, things may not have been fair. My feelings weren't considered, but you know what? It doesn't matter That's what Christ did. And if I can be like Christ, I'm in pretty good company. So it's okay. I can let it go. Having the mind of Christ is how we defeat this Wretched scene of pride. Beloved, somebody said when your work speaks for yourself, you don't have to speaks for itself, you don't have to say anything. Just do right. Let God take care of it. Jose had been enjoying a spectacular career as a matador. At twenty-one years old, at the height of his fame, he had achieved great uh recognition and and uh success in the bull ring. But at one particular bullfright Jose had made a tragic mistake. He thrust his sword for the final time into the bleeding delirious bull, which then collapsed in front of him. Jose, believing the battle won, turned his back on the bull. To acknowledge the praise and recognition of the crowd. As the crowd stood applauding and praising him, so too the bull stood behind him Charged him and pierced his back, the horn traveling through his chest and piercing his heart. His dying words were, the bull did it. He's killed me You see, beloved, just when we think we have finished off pride, we turn our back and Accept the congratulations of men, and pride will raise its head again. Stab us in the back and receive victory. We can never feel that pride is dead until we're dead. And it's something we all battle And if we're going to be victorious in a Christian life, that's something we've got to keep under control