Wow, it's a what a day we're living in when when you look at what's happening to our economy uh financially wise There's a lot of fear out there, isn't there? Yeah, I I I think the predominant mood across America is fear. But we don't have to be fearful because we know who's in charge. Now if it was Well I won't say who's in charge now because nobody really knows. The devil know I'd say the devil's in charge. And I'm not particularly any any one individual, but this is this is God's money. And we are God's stewards. And yet we should not be fearful. We're not to be given to a spirit of fear, but to a power of love and a sound mind. But and you look around just what's gonna happen? Anyone ever seen this thing called the debt clock? Anyone? Who who has? Hey, hey, one, two, three. What what did you feel like after you saw that? Yeah. It it's impossible. Yeah. It if when anyone know what the word GDP means? Gross domestic product. All right. That simply says you add up everything, everybody bought and sold in America. That's gross domestic product. Now, what if the interest on the government's debt is greater than the gross domestic product? Anyone s who else would say, uh-oh? That's what my kid used to say when he was real little and he had a little sippy cup and then he'd look over and he'd and he'd knock it down on the floor and it'd spill on the floor and he said, uh-oh Molly Well, we're saying uh oh right now. That's right. Uh-oh, because this thing is i i if if you See what's coming, how many can see the number in the hand or forehead coming real quick easily with all the cell phones we got? It's a matter of time to make the chip smaller. And they can control your buying and selling But we're not to be fearful, my friends. Because you know what? A lot of that stuff is going to happen after the rapture. What are you worried about? So we want to look at some biblical principles of stewardship. And uh, you know, and the word stewardship, what does it mean? Stewardship. What do you think of stewardship? When you think of stewardship, what do you think of? Money issues, right? And so, but stewardship is a lot more than money It has to deal with your personal time and talents. I mean everything I have belongs to God. I love my car out there. I try to give it to my daughter on deputation, and she said, Dad, I know you like your car, but old people drive those cars. Well I'm a good steward. I'm going to keep driving a old people's car. You know, stewardship is much broader than just money. It is stewardship of everything you have, and all your possessions. And the essence of stewardship is what? It's the issue of the heart. Put that in there. Stewardship is an issue of the heart, not just money issues. And the meaning of the word the word stewardship or the Greek word stewardship means house rule. So who rules your house? Well, my mother does Dad thinks he does. Oh. Um you know the old saying, a mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy? All right, so uh the the word media stewardship is a Greek word meaning house rule, and the steward or house manager had the authority to what? They had the authority uh uh to conduct business on behalf of the owner of that house. So I I'm I'm hitting this this house, this feral hunk of flammable flesh But it all belongs to God and God's the the and and God has the ultimate rule over me And so I am just here as a steward and I'm operating on behalf of my owner, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, that's contrary to a lot of people thinking, it's my money and no one's going to tell me how to spend it Yeah. Well pretty soon you're gonna find out you're you you're gonna a lot of things are gonna tell you how to spend it. And well especially if you've got a whole lot of kids. I grew up in a family, six kids, grandma and mom and dad, nine of us in a two-bedroom apartment. Well yeah, it was nothing wrong. We said triple decker bunks in the living room. We didn't know what a living room was. That's a bedroom for the boys. No, and we knew that God wasn't in control? All we know was there was there was always plenty of peanut butter and jelly and bread. Mm-hmm. That took care of us. Didn't hurt me seem like much very much. Uh comparable our day in time, the word steward's the word uh steward's authority was comparable to someone who had the power of attorney. You know what a POA is, a power of attorney? All right. And by the way, if you have not gotten a will or a living will, I would look on that table over there. I'll give you one. I mean, some basic forms to get it done. Because if you die, someone has to have the power of attorney to settle all your affairs. And I've seen it over and over again, someone dies and they kept on putting it off, putting it off, and then left a big mess. And Mama's over there trying to pay her husband's funeral bills and and can't even get into his own retirement account And so the word stewardship means the house rule as one who has the power of attorney for someone else, and God gives us the power of an attorney to act in his behalf. Although a steward may have great manage great possession possessions, God is the ultimate authority of all our possessions. Like like like the words that the Like it says here, the CEO. You know what a CEO is? Chief Executive Officer. Now, I don't owe anything. God's the chief executive officer. I'm just God's servant and God's steward. And uh you know, and I'm not going to take it with me. Some people ever been in a funeral where they put money and gold in the pan? Not gold, but they put money in the casket. Who cares about paper and money going into the casket? Yeah, like they're gonna spend it in the next No You've been around and done enough funerals, you'll you'll see some of these crazy things that people put in the casket. They're not going to take it with them. The basis of stewardship is a realization that all your possessions belong to God. In other words, I don't own anything. God owns it all. And when I think I own it, sometimes God just gives me a knock on the head and let me know it belongs to Him. And God has a way of taking away things from you to get your attention. I'm saying God's up there and say, oh, let's take this away from him. No, God's like that. But he knows what's best for you. And 1 Corinthians 6. 19 tells us, 19 and 21 teaches us that you are bought with a price. What? Know you not, you're not your own, but you're bought with a price. And because you're bought with a price, you were not redeemed with corruptible seed, but incorruptible seed. Because you were bought with a price, you should glorify God. Because everything belongs to God. And you know, some people, they live to glorify themselves with all their possessions. I'm not saying this is true of anyone here or anyone I know, but how come someone can go and spend ninety thousand dollars for a pickup truck, jack it nine feet in the air, and think they got something? Yeah, you know, uh what kind of stewardship is that? Uh uh when the world's going to go hell faster than we can even blink, and we gotta go out there and Well and I'm gonna say I I don't have the pickup trucks. But praise God someone gave me an airplane. No. Hey uh and I'm not going to try to justify the airplane. We just say that we have a uh boot camp every year. Our wings of eagles, you're from our group in Noshka? So we have a boot camp. Just got over with it about ten days ago. And bring about twenty teenage boys in there and just get 'em out there, give 'em the PT in the morning and run around the airport and then get 'em back and get 'em have get take their showers, get their clothes uh I mean, get their uh classroom clothes on and get everything done and then go to class and and go eight hours a day to learn how to fly an airplane. Every boy ought to Amen. Every boy ought to be able to take an engine apart. I don't care if the boy doesn't know how to cook. He can always beat an egg up and throw it in the fire pan. But you know, I I I don't need to teach some boys that, but I need to teach some boys the something that's going to put their life on. And take that engine apart and then go put it back together and then get in the airplane and fly it. Hey, that's something there that's going to give some value to them But your your possessions, you know, you may think yourself it because you own those possessions and God can take them away overnight Yeah. God can take all of it away. James 117 teaches us that you are a steward. Every good and perfect gift cometh down from the Father, lights above. Stewards are responsible to manage manage what? Time, talent, and treasures. That's the three things that God has given us in our trust. 1 Corinthians 4, 7. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Friends, God gives the increase. So when I just remember who gave me the ability to get it. And if God gave me the ability to get it, then it wouldn't I make sense that I would honor God instead of trying to glorify myself? But a lot of people buy buy st buy stuff to make themselves feel better. I own this. I have a boat. I have a, you know, I'm saying nothing wrong with a boat. I'm just saying Especially if you're going fishing for a halibut up there in Alaska. Um, that's a way to live up there. But you you start to think you're somebody because you have possessions Your your value is not measured by the possessions you possess, because those possessions are possessing you. Just let someone knock it up or knock it off the trailer one day when you're towing it and someone hits you on the side and knocks your boat on the ground and there's got a hole in the boat and the trailer's gone. And you didn't have insurance Now you see really who owns it. Our responsibility is to God and to manage well everything that He has given to us. Everything belongs to God. Number two down here. Number three, and number two is realization, the key word. Number three, the root of all evil. Money is not the root of all evil. If money was the root of all evil, then Why did God bless Abraham, Job, Solomon, David? You can name all these patriotics in the Old Testament. They had an abundance of things. So it's not wrong to have things, it's when the things have you. When I I got so many things and then I don't have time for church, there's something wrong with that. Yeah, yeah The love of money can you know can make you a tyrant. I deal with tax law and just let someone get a penalty from the IRS You sent your taxes in on time and the IRS didn't get to it until after April 15th. Then they sent you a bill like $400. And you watch, you wouldn't believe how some people can get really angry. Christian people get angry because the IRS sent them a little nasty gram. And then trying to fix the problem with the IRS, they're already what, over what, 11 months behind? 26 million tax returns the last week, that'll take them to the rest of the year to get caught up. And yet they keep sending another bill, another bill. You watch how nasty some people can get. Friends, don't let that rob your joy. Okay, now God just sent me a bill. Now, Lord, this is your bill. You take care of it. You say God sent the money? No, but it seemed like the other day that you know I found how to save some money and God gave me a way to save some money by doing some investing that wouldn't enough paid the bill. And one of the best investments you've got going is if you can is not just tithing here, but an IRA. Simple IRA gives you a big tax deduction And it grows tax-free for years. Money is not the root of all evil. Giving is empowered by the Lord and is enacted by men. God gifts you with the ability. 2 Corinthians 8. 5. God gives you the ability. Paul notes that they gave what, despite out of what? Their poverty. You say, I can't afford to give. Well, tell that to Paul because he preaches this. They gave out of their poverty. And God made it abound to them. Now, I'm saying, I'm not saying because you give you going to be rich. But riches are not measured just in dollars and cents. Riches are coming down here. And so when I give, God gave me something that money can't buy. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. You're missing that if you haven't caught on to this idea of sowing and reaping. I give not to get, I give because I love the Lord. Now my kids will sometimes try to be extra good so dad'll do something. No, we're not doing it to be like that. We're to just give because we love God today. Uh giving is a result. of godly living, not a substitute for godly living. It's the result of godly living. Once you give yourself to the Lord Giving your resources is easy. Hear that once you give yourself to God here I I took years ago I was at World of Life and they had us come down and pick up a stick and I said, This stick is my life, and I threw it in the fire. Now ain't no way to get that stick back out of there. And so we're to invest our life in in the future. Not just in for what we're getting for we're getting. Giving is a result of God living, not a substitute for it. And scriptural giving is consistent giving. Consistency. Well, you know, some people give every week. I'm glad of that. But be consistent. Some people get paid every two weeks. I get my missionary support once a month. And so be consistent though. Consistent giving. 2 Corinthians 2, 8 and 9. What? Know you're not your own, but you're bought with a price. God desires that you put what he has already provided you to good use. Luke 12, I mean Luke 11, 42, these things ought you have done, it tells us. Christ commended their giving and rebuked their hypocrisy. These things ought to have done. Sometimes you can give and give faithfully, and you say, God hasn't blessed me. Well, is there some hypocrisy in your giving? I'm going to look at that and say, okay, but you're giving, but you're giving it with the wrong attitude. There's some hypocrisy there. Or, you know, y and some in as preachers sometimes we hear jokes and it isn't so funny afterward, but they kind of joke about it. Well, God must have bought me off the head and took that money away from me because I wasn't tithing. No, that's not what the Bible teaches. It teaches that we ought to have a heart for God and a love for God, and God's not up there and not sitting on the rim of the universe to bang somebody on the head and take their money away. But that's some cartoon character. There are three Stooges characters, but it's not in the Word of God. Scriptural giving is to be sacrificial sacrificial. You know, in other words, I don't give that which costs me nothing. Yeah. You know, someone uh gives you a birthday gift and you say, oh, I'm going to give this away. Okay, go ahead. That's that's all right. But uh Scriptural giving does cost. Each member does not give the same amount, by the way. I think the principle is at least the 10%, the 10% to me is a starting point. You want to get hilarious giving. Let's go past the 10% and see, watch God do something. Give sacrificially. I'm not going to give give that just what costs me nothing. And so I want to give sacrificially. And your giving should be well planned and consistent, like the believers in the city of Corinth. Yeah. Uh scriptural giving is to honor the Lord with what? The first fruits. So What's the first fruits? Well in my paycheck I took home $300 this week. Well I grossed $500. Do you give on a gross or you give on a net? Do you want a gross blessing or a net blessing? I mean I'm trying to say I I I I want that gross blessing. And then I want to get past just that kind of giving. I want to go beyond that and get hilarious giving. Where it gets hilarious to do it. And you get the you ever been there where you just you thought this was the greatest secret in the world, you're going to do something hilarious. I I don't say this to build up myself. I I I was in a in a restaurant one day and you know it's and every now and then I get a church gives me a gift card. Well, I I didn't know that and now I know these gift cards you gotta go online and register them and all that before you can start using them And so I thought I was going to be a nice person and go and we're taking out the lunch, went to Olive Garden and good food. So we uh went to the Olive Garden and I was going to pay for it It wasn't registered. It was a card. And you had to go there and then uh well who I gotta go get a computer to get this thing registered? I don't know how to use that phone to make it work, but someone else did. So I said, okay There was someone standing in front of me and a lady she had a pocketbook over here just thick and it was a it was a big bag there. And I knew this lady was a member of her church and she didn't even I I just dropped it in the in the bag. That's hilarious giving. Because they're going to say, where did this come from? How did that get there? Woo! I'm having more fun than I deserve. Yeah, give it secretly. No one knows. I can imagine when they get home and they find that card in there I don't know, someone gave it to me. I couldn't get it to work. I was embarrassed I offered to pay for the meal and I couldn't even pay for it. I'm getting out of here. Yeah and uh the val uh it was like fifty dollar gift card. Yeah. You know it's Next time someone gives me a gift card, give me the instructions how to work it, activate it first, please. Yeah, it just didn't work. That's hilarious giving. Anyone ever done that kind of stuff? Yeah I remember my wife one time we were up in in Vermont. Up there in St. John'sbury, Vermont, where is the place where the Vermont maple syrup is made. We went to the actual place Oh, everywhere tree are out there in that part of the state has got some sap stuck in a bucket out there. And we saw this half a gallon or gallon of syrup. And I said to my wife, you know, so-and-so's mother just died. And I know they love the Vermont syrup. They told me they did. And I said, it wasn't this year, it was like a couple of years ago we got to talk. And I still remember that conversation. I said, you know, she just lost her mother, the two two ladies, and I said, I know, I know mom. And I said, why don't we just send them a gift anonymously and send them each of them a half gallon of syrup? Do you ever get to that place where you want to do something that nobody knows and no one will ever find out? That's hilarious giving And I can see when the the bucket the the box come to the door and it's all wrapped up and uh and then you pull it out and You think, who in the world sent me this? There's no name nowhere. Hey, let them just say from the Lord. Because I don't want to tell them who gave it to 'em. Do some do your giving in secret. Not knowing your left hand knowing what your right hand is doing. Scriptural giving is to honor the Lord with first fruits with all thine increase And many suggested that the tithe today is part of the Old Testament law. No, the tithe is not just the Old Testament law. It's to be today. The New Testament can teach us even a step further, hilarious giving, joyful giving, consistent giving. Some people will say, I don't have to give, that's Old Testament. So then what are you going to do with these verses in the New Testament? It teaches this hilarious giving God loves a cheerful giver. Scriptural giving is to be sacrificial giving, number ten. Most Christians reason that ten percent is too much, yet forget that everything they have came from God. God gave us all for you, so what's 10%? And if you're if you're consistent giving, you never miss it. It's not mine to spend to begin with. If if it's if it was mine to begin with, then I had to give it back. I I wouldn't I know us know that. But friends, it's not mine to begin with. It belongs to God. So I don't miss it because it's not mine to start with. You know, someone put it this way, if you gave Joey, a little boy, if you gave him ten lollipops, is it unreasonable to ask him to give one of them away? Yeah, I could see my grandson five four now he's yeah five? Yeah I think he's five years old. If I gave him ten lollipops and told him to to give one to his sister Yeah, he would. Yeah. Because he's got ten. A whole bag of 'em. No, friends, we got a whole bag of blessings. Yeah. And is it unreasonable to say give one away? No, no. Uh scriptural giving should be sacrificial giving. Scriptural giving should be joyful giving. Joyful giving, for God loves a cheerful giver, not grudgingly nor of cexity. You know, people give because I have to give No, I don't want to do that. I don't have to give. But if I want God's blessings, you've got to get yourself onto the spot where the blessing's coming out. And so when I give, I found the spout. Giving is able is able to make the bound to having all sufficiency in all things. Yeah, sacrificial giving, you have all you have sufficiency in all things. God will take care of it. Yeah w I'm sure many of you can say that when I started tithing I had some doubts. Then I got regularly tithing, then I got i I got s excited about giving, now I got hilarious giving and seeing God take care of every bill. Yeah. Wow. I remember one day I I can't figure this out. I I don't know how I hurt my back or something. Yeah. But I did and so I I went to the emergency room and then they had you lay down there and they looked you over and you know you could spend five grand just in an hour in the emergency room. Yeah. And um, you know, I said, okay, Lord, you you got a reason for this. And I went home and got some rest and did some things and took some don't pills, but that just could have taken care of it all. But no long and short of it I got the bill and it says it was all paid for. Hey, God's got the unseen paycheck. And you're afraid to give? No, I'm afraid to miss the blessing. Scriptural giving is private giving that you do not your own before men to be seen of men, correct You know, some people I uh the y they love it. I like more and more churches are going to the box in the back. I'm not saying everyone should do that. Uh for me I'm out on the road all the time, so we mail ours in. into our home church. And so we want it to be sacrificial giving. We want it to do private giving, not to be seen of men. Matthew 6, 1 through 4 tells you that you do not your alms before men to be seen of men. Number 13, scriptural giving is not motivated by the desire to appear spiritual. You must be unspiritual if you're not tithing. No, you're not trusting God. You get some other issues in your life. You know, giving is a fruit. And if you're not giving, you've got to look at the root. And many times we're not looking at the root of the problem. You say, I don't have any money. You've got to look at the root of the problem there. Because you don't have any money. If you don't have enough money to tithe, that's the fruit. But we're not looking at the root and we blind and want to blame God for it. Oh boy, I I don't want to blame God for anything. If anything's gone wrong and not working out right, it's somewhere it's probably got my initials on it. Yeah. Scriptural giving is not motivated by desire to appear spiritual, rather it's motivated by desire to be obedient. I want to be obedient to God. I love God. I want to have the gratitude for God. And what motivates my giving? Because I want to have obedience to God. I want to show God I love Him and I have this gratitude. Anyone have to tell you that? There isn't a lady here, I have to s we'll say uh this one. Uh every woman I know, every grandma, I'll put this, every grandma I know has no problem at all, no guilt at all in what they do for their grandkids. I every grandma knows that. Now if you're not a grandma or not a mom, you're gonna find out. I I thought I had some some I had my budget under control until we had six grandkids. Are we gonna have more? No guilt at all. They're wetting there there goes your retirement spending. I gotta get on social security quick to catch up. Yeah, spiritual giving is motivated not by a desire to be spiritual, but rather it's motivated by obedience. And God proves, God tells us in 2 Corinthians 2, verse 8. 8, prove the sincerity of your love. You know why my wife gives all to the grandkids? Because she loves them. Yeah. Oh, and grandpa loves that. I got four girls and two boys and just I can't hold them all in one arm, but boy sure try. Yeah. Giving proves the sincerity of our love and our love for our spouse increases as our love for God increases. As you love God more and more, you'll love your spouse more and more too. Someone said, we got some marital problems. Well, try loving your spouse more and God will take care of some of those problems. Yeah. This problem with loving my your spouse, you some people keep score. Hold a scoreboard out. The blessings of stewardship, part there, and the third part here, it glorifies God. Good stewardship assures physical provision for the church. So when when a church is I mean say not every church has bills, I doesn't I say every church I know has bills But I've seen sometimes the years past where the churches floated these bonds and they were selling all these bonds and there were unregistered bonds and every time they needed money they'd make up another IOU and sell it to somebody in the church. That'll get you in trouble. But you know, are we much less different? Because some of us use our credit cards like some of those churches did in the 70s, floated bonds. We're floating credit cards around and you know I'm not saying hey I I got a credit card. It's this is to me this is the best thing for me because I can use this for scraper Chopped ice. That's what I use it for. Honestly, I really do. Oh yeah, I use that too. I got um a couple of them, you know, and I got my FAA credentials, but those cards just mean they're gri they're great scrapers And if you're having a problem with your your credit card, use it for an ice cream and and if it gets frozen it breaks in half and that'll settle your credit problem sometimes Yeah, scriptural giving is sacrificial giving, it's joyful giving, it's private giving, and um it's private giving, it's motivated, it's not Motivated by desire to be spiritual. It glorifies God And good stewardship assures physical provision, 2 Corinthians 9. 6. So why? Because he who sows fairingly shall reap sparingly, but he who sows bountifully shall reap bountifully. Proverbs 3. 9 says, your barns will be filled with plenty. Well, and what is my barn going to be full of? Well, I can say with six grandkids, my barn's full. And then better than that, it's when your grandkids are serving God on the mission field somewhere. Boy, God, my barns are full. Physical provision is a blessing of stewardship, but not the motivation for stewardship. It is true that you cannot outgive God, but giving is giving to get is absolutely contrary to the word of God. I'm not giving the because I want to get something. I'm going to buy my wife some flowers today and she'll give me a nice big hug when I get home. You know, I I don't do stuff like that I do buy yeah flowers, but I'm not doing it to get something either. Good stewardship assures uh is uh uh assures not spiritual reward, uh good stewardship assures a reward. Second Corinthians 9, he that soweth sparingly shall reap sparingly. He that soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully. And so John chapter 3 verse 8 It calls those who um who financially support missionaries as co-workers. I want to be a co-worker. So either you're going to the mission field or you're going to help someone else to get to the mission field. Because your the Bible gives us a great commission. And part of my giving is to fulfill that great commission I want to be able to help others and be able to take care of some of them. I just listened to a guy last week. He was living in, he does live over there in Ukraine. speaks the language. He went he was a missionary in Russia and they kicked him out. Then they just Yeah, and then uh he went went from the Ukraine I mean from Russia down to the Ukraine. Now they kicked him out of there since they got control. And he said, I wanted to stay and I can speak the language fluently. And he said, I was greeted with the Secret Service and said, if you plan to live, you better get out of here now. Wow. Uh I want to support those kind of missionaries. But if I'm over there overwhelmed with debt, how am I going to be able to do something like that? John uh 3rd John verse 8 calls those who financially port missionaries as co-workers. Good stewardship assures spiritual joy. Acts 20 verse 35. It is more blessed to give than to receive. And here's some of the I want to answer this I don't have all the time to get these ten we got five minutes maybe here to answer some of these questions. Does it matter where I tithe? Well the biblical pattern where to tithe uh it's My father would say, you eat in this house, you sleep in this house, you pay your room more in this house. Hey, this is where you're getting fed. This is your church. This is where you die. I'm not saying you don't send an offering somewhere else. But I'm going to give a tithe here. This is my church. And and and to refuse the support to church means is the vote to close it down. So I believe your local your tithe ought to be given to your local church. The tithe should be given to the general fund. Some people want to designate every tithe Next thing you know they're gonna detonate their own grandkids who are on the mission field. No, I haven't seen that happen. But I th I guess you I got some little six-year-old might just think that'd be nice that they did it once in a while No, they want to help my grandkids. They're out there living in the Middle East and uh they want to give them a little birthday gift, but that's not their tithe. Yeah. Um Should I tithe them in debt? Well, the first thing recognize what got you in debt? Maybe because you're not tithing. Yeah. Uh shall I t tie them in debt? Sure. The first thing to get out of debt is recognized that you became a poor steward to begin with, and that's what got you in debt. Determined to honor the Lord where he it where where it with whatever he gives you starting now. Don't wait. Tie it now. Don't put it off, put it off Delayed obedience is really disobedience, right? Yeah. Beginning of the tithe, the quickest way to get out of debt is simply start spending Now if you if you got a problem with the credit card, I could got a great idea. Put it in the microwave other than melt it down. Be careful. Cut it up whatever. But uh yeah. I never tried that. What happens if you put it in the microwave with that chip in there You'll see fireworks like you noticed it. Oh my. Um is the money I pay for my Christian education Is that your tithe? Well some parents send their kids to Christian schools. And because they send their kids to the Christian school, they look at that as a tithe. That's not a tithe. You're getting a benefit. You're purchasing a benefit. But they want to say, well, I give to my church. No, you're sending your kids to the Christian school and you're paying for a service. It's not a tithe. The money paid for a Christian school is a contractual agreement, and it should not be considered a tithe. What if I owe back tithe? Uh, should what should I do if I owe backtithe? Make it up as soon as you can. I'm gonna say, look I don't want to have a back tie that I didn't know. I want to tithe over and above what I know is 10% because there's other things that are not in dollars and cents. Yeah, and it's things that happen that you can't explain. You know, that I just know I pay that lecture bill, but some months I think it's that's too high and some months how do they get that low? Hey, God has a way of working things out like that. So should I make a back tithe as soon as you can? And then uh what is a QCD Anyway, you don't know what a QCD is on your taxes. We're going to close this one. A qualified charitable distribution. Now there's very few people here today. If you're over up there where you have to take the RMD. You know what a RMD is? Yes, I do. I know what the RMD is. Try to have a lot of ever every person 65 and up start doing an RMD because you got to take money out of your retirement And it and here you are in your retirement years, and you've got to take X number of dollars out of your retirement, your 401k plan, or other retirement plans. You've got to take the money out. And then you and when you take it out, you have to pay tax on it. I don't want to pay any tax, especially this government. I didn't see it. I don't want to pay tax, period. I don't want to pay tax. So what you can do is go where your, let's say your fidelity funds, you've got uh your money in their fidelity funds or First National Bank, I just make up any name. But wherever your retirement funds are, If you're at that age, you can tell them to send the money directly to the church. And so it comes out of the 401k plan and it goes right to the church. You pay no tax on it. It comes out as a qualified charitable distribution. And if you're uh you're at that 65 or you're retired, you know you got to take so much out every year, uh it's like about six or seven percent. I had a couple come to me and they said, Dr. Valer, we've got a problem. We just sold our family farm. Whoa, like $450,000. Oh my, what are we gonna do now? And uh and and our uh my financial advisor said you better get to a tax person Okay, Dr. what can we do? We got this capital gains on the 450,000. And uh we want to tithe on that. Ooh, do you belong to my church? No. I want to tithe on that. And their tithe, they not only wanted to just give a 10%, they wanted to build a new a new building. $300,000 building. And you know what that's going to cost them? They take four, they're going to take the whole farm money, and then they're going to pay the capital gains, and let's say they got $300,000 left. I said, if you will go to your where you have your retirement funds, you have a 401k plan. This couple, both of them were triple dippers. Yeah, you you got the civil service, you got the military, yeah, and and yeah, you and your IRAs. So they're both triple dippers and they had all kinds of money sitting over here that they have to take out anyways Don't tithe, I said, don't take the money from this sale of the farm. Take it out of this retirement fund and have it sent directly to the church and you pay zero tax. In fact, you'll get all your refund back. Anything you paid in, you're going to pay zero taxes called a qualified charitable distribution. If you look on your Form 1040, it's about a sixteenth of an inch square. I mean This this line on your tax return is no bigger than the tip of that right here. It's that big. QCD, real easy. I think it's line 16. It's right in there where that where your retirement is If you can do a qualified charitable distribution, that's the way you ought to be taking money out of your retirement instead of taking it out of other non-taxable stuff. and tithing, take it on the taxable stuff and send it right from there to the church so it doesn't touch your hand. It can save you a lot of tax dollars. This couple was able to give the $300,000 and paid zero tax on it. And they sacrif they took enough out of there so they wanted to do the R<unk>D for years. Oh, because he took it out of there and did a qualified charitable distribution. There's a whole lot of other things that I would like to talk to you about. We're out of time. But if you would like to be with me this week, you got some tax questions, or you just want to know about where you what you should be doing now in this economy. I'll be glad to sit down and help you. If you don't have a will, we have I think I got one or two forms on the table. Take a look at there. I got a couple of my books out here on the table. Take a look at those also. We'll just try to be a blessing to you. Let's