I'm gonna give you some rundown. We're gonna we're gonna look at the second half of the message that I began back in January, the last Sunday in January I preached. a message on punctuality. And I only got to give you the first point. We really took the first Sunday there and really established the biblical principle of punctuality. You understand the Word of God doesn't say anywhere, be punctual The Word of God doesn't say thou shalt not be late. Uh we we kind of took some time and and went verse by verse by verse and systematically walk through the Word of God and saw how we understand God has given us our time. All our time is given to us by God. Amen? Oh every it from the from the very first breath you've ever ever breathed to the last one you will ever breathe, every day, every hour, every breath. Is given to us by God. And we're challenged in the Word of God to number our days and apply our hearts unto wisdom So we're to we're to take the time that we have and use it wisely. The Bible tells us to redeem the time. We've got to use it to its fullest potential, and we're stewards of the time that God has given us. With that understanding, we develop the principles. of the Word of God that deal with the idea of punctuality. We showed quickly, I'm going to run through these and we'll get to the second point as we gave you the instructions on this last time, and that is that it to to fail to be punctual, to to be on time, is to disregard God's desire for order. He says, let all things be done decently in order. It is to disregard others, and the Bible tells us to let each esteem others. better than ourselves. It is to show dis to actually be dishonest in our actions. If I gave somebody a promise, I said, oh, I'll be there at two o'clock. And I don't show up till 2. 30. I have actually lied. Tozer said this, anyone who is not punctual habitually is guilty of deception and falsehood. He said he would rather that be um be early than fail to appear. It's it's almost the same. To to be late is to be dishonest, and we of course know we're to be honest. We know that it shows a disregard for God's orders specifically. God wants us. He says that we're Romans 12, verse number 1, not slothful in business, but fervent in spirit. serving the Lord. We're not feeding slothful in business. And that word slothful, men that are a lot smarter than me, uh said that word literally means tardy, late, slack. Not to be slaughter in business. And God wants us to be on time. We saw how that the Bible does give us a command that thou shalt not steal. And if I uh habitually take time from others, I'm stealing that time the same as if I was stealing money out of their pocket. Certainly that's applicable in the place of an employee or employer relationship, but it's also even just a friend. If I make a friend continually wait for me, he didn't give me that time, but now I'm stealing that time from him. We know that we talked about lastly is that we're to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all our soul, and all our mind. And that to be late for church uh uh continually is to not be showing God that He is the most important and the one that we love the most. That that that's the not the case when other things continually come up or get in the way and keep us from being able to get to to God's house. And I want to encourage you to be on time. for church. But we we established those principles and we took an entire message and dealt with that very first point and really looked at the Word of God and and studied that. But I want you to see secondly here this morning is the importance The importance of punctuality, the impact that this has on our lives, the importance that it is, runs the gamut from Barely relevant to life and death. It literally can be the difference Between life and death. If you think about or consider a military operation, this group of men are told to execute at three three hundred hours they're told to execute at nineteen hundred. And this group over here was supposed to execute first and they're they're supposed to come in With the understanding that this group went in before them and this group is late, this whole group could be wiped out. Everything has to be done precisely, exactly, right on time. They synchronize the watches, and it all has to happen, or everything together. It's the difference between life and death, be this idea of being punctual. Tozer said this in his message entitled, Are There Shortcuts to the Beauty of Holiness? He said, everything in nature is dependable. Except man. Even man has a certain amount of dependability that he expects From nature and others. If your car continually fails you You get rid of it. You go get a new car. If your freezer stops freezing or occasionally allows your goods to thaw out You fix it or you get rid of it. You say, hey, this is not dependable. I I'm getting rid of that. He goes on to say, sadly, the root of dependability is dead in most churches. He asks the question, why is it that in church In the church of God, so few are concerned about punctuality. Their carelessness shown to the work of God would literally wreck Most businesses. I want to encourage you in this area of punctuality. This is important, and what you need to understand is that it does harm to many things. Not being punctual does harm to the many things. First of all, it harms, it hurts your testimony, your reputation. One man said, Do you realize that by your further compromise you are by being late, you further compromise, you're already ebbing reputation for reliability and trustworthiness. For years, Rama could be counted on to be late. Got a lunch meeting at 11. 30? He would show up at 11. 45. Class starts at 9? He would show up at 920. Is there a meeting scheduled for 6? He would show up at 6. 30. Work begins at 8. 30? He would get there at 9. People would joke about it. It became a joke among him and all of his friends. When somebody would show up late, they would say, Oh, you must be on Rama time. And it was a big funny thing for all of them until Rama began to figure out that he continually was being passed over for promotions at work. And he found out that people felt him untrustworthy. People thought that he could not get things done, that he was an inefficient person. Because he couldn't even make it to a meeting on time. It hurts your testimony when you're late all the time. It shows that you're under the mercy of fate. That you're incapable of anticipating the possible problems that might arise and planning accordingly. You drive down 695 every day. You should have a pretty good idea of the traffic that's there. You should be able to anticipate and plan accordingly. I know there's extreme circumstances. One day when I was on my way to work many years ago, I was working out in Lithicum. and uh uh a FedEx truck pull uh pulling three trailers. You know, they've got them hooked together. Uh Lost control, the trailers went everywhere, burst open, packages all over 695, all lanes were shut down. Obviously I was late to work that morning. I mean you're stuck there's the you're stuck there. There's nowhere you can go. But we're talking about habitually being late. That it's a pattern, that it's a habit. You're hurting your testimony. It sends the message to everybody around you that you're troubled by time, not in control of it. Benjamin Franklin once said to his employee who was late but always ready with an excuse. He said, I have generally found that the man who is good at excuses is usually good for nothing else. Would you consider how it impacts our visitors here, the guests that come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church? They come to Sunday school class to drop off their kids and there's not a teacher there yet? When they come into God's house on Sunday morning and they're here early and the house of God looks almost empty and they begin wondering, Man, is there Is there is this I mean do people come to this church or is it just the pastor and a few others or uh because all of God's people have yet to arrive? I've been to churches while on vacation and I I like to get there early, even at church where I don't know anybody, because I like to meet people. I'll get there 15 to 20 minutes early on a for a service. And there's been more than one time when on vacation I got to the church 15 to 20 minutes before before church started and nobody. Nobody was there. Zero. Not even the pastor. All the lights were off, the building was locked up, and I thought, man, they must not be having church. I thought, well, we'll wait a couple of minutes because I've been here before. And about ten till the pastor comes in. And he unlocks the building, and here I am, with my wife and five kids, all dressed in suits You know, look looking sharp for church. And he's all apologetic, you know, oh I'm so sorry, you know, oh yeah, we were this is our midweek service, or this is Sunday night, and it's a smaller crowd this evening. I know why Five minutes till a few other people roll in and ten after the rest of everybody else shows up. Listen, church is important. I want the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, everybody, from the pastor down to the last person through the door to come to God's house on a Sunday morning or a Sunday night or a Thursday night with anticipation in their heart, with excitement, with the idea that this is the most important thing happening today. There may be a lot of the things that might need to get done, and you might have something else on your schedule or something else on your plan, but this is the most important thing. I tell the ushers and the greeters, listen, if you come in and it's 30 minutes before the service and the lights aren't on, turn them on. We want all the lights on. You say, oh, we want to save electricity. I want people when they come to God's house to know that we're having church. And that we're excited about it and that there's something gonna happen here. If the music isn't playing, turn the music on. If the lights on the parking lot aren't on. Turn them on. We want people when they come up to have the idea that we've been looking for you. Where have you been? We're glad that you're here and we're ready to have church tonight. It's the most important thing going on. But what kind of a spirit is it in the opposite when we drag in the last minute? It's the idea of well I'm squeezing this in in between my uh breakfast and lunch. The other most important things going on in my day. That's the kind of spirit sometimes we get, and listen, we've got to fight against that and realize that church and God's house is important. Whatever happened to if you're on time, you're late. You ever heard that? If you're on time you're late? I mean what whatever happened to that kind of a attitude in that spirit When you're punctual, you're saying I'm on top of it. I'm organized. I can be counted on. I value your time. It hurts your relationships when you're not punctual. Not only does it hurt your testimony, but it hurts your relationships. Tell me, what is what kind of message do you give your child when he Is once again standing in the line at school all by himself with the with the teacher. All of the other parents have come and picked up their kid a good while ago. And yours, once again, is the only one left there. What kind of message does that send to the child? He might not even be able to articulate it But you know what he feels. Dad or mom couldn't get here to pick me up when all the other parents did. You say, Well, I'm busy. So are all the other parents. But I'm saying is it it hurts your relationships. You tell your wife you're gonna be home at five and Get home at 7 30 without any explanation, without any any discussion or talk, you just uh she just learns that she can't count on you. Wow, Pastor, that's harsh. I'm trying to help you. You don't want to have that reputation. So be punctual. Jimmy Carter tells a story about the early years of his marriage when he and his wife more than once had a discussion concerning punctuality because although she was uh punctual by nature, not to his military standards. And more than once it became a source of contention in their home for her lack of punctuality and It got to the point that one morning he woke up and realized it was Rosalind's birthday. And he had not purchased her anything for her birthday. And he said, What can I do? And he thought quickly, he sat down and he wrote her little note. And he says, To my love. Happy birthday. As an expression of my love for you, I promise to, from here on, never give you a hard time concerning your punctuality. And Rosalind actually, over the years, more than once admitted that was one of the best birthday presents she ever got. It can actually affect your relationships. You miss opportunities when you're late, especially to church, but in any other situations or scenarios you as well, but you know, when you get here early for church, it allows you to prepare time, to prepare your heart and mind for what God has for you. You get here and you get in the y y you're able to take a couple of minutes and relax and settle down. You're able to let the your frustration with the cyclists on Cuba Road go. You're able to let that let that go and and and just kind of get into the spirit of the service. You don't have to come walking in and still dealing with all that and Get halfway through the service before you're ready. It allows you to encourage the brethren, another brother or sister in Christ. You get here early, you can look for somebody to shake their hand and and See how their week went. Ask them, is there anything that I can be praying for you about? Is there anything that is a burden on your heart? Could I help you with that? Could we pray about that? How are things going in your family? It gives you opportunity to encourage someone else. Being here early allows you to encourage the pastor. Hey, it encourages me. I look out and I see God's people here in church ready to worship God together. It allows you to help with any last-minute needs. Say, boy, I would love to love to serve. Not by your punctuality, it's not showing. You get here right as service starts and you leave as soon as it's over. When are you going to squeeze that in? There's two people in the church that on a regular basis ask me on Sunday morning before the service starts, sometime before Sunday school, usually around 9 o'clock or earlier. They'll ask me, is there anything they need That you need today? Is there anything that needs to be done to be ready for church today? To my knowledge, there's only two people in the church that have ever asked me, and those two people almost weekly ask me. Hey, are we all ready? Is everything ready to go? Is there anything I can do? Just an opportunity to serve. A lot of times we're ready. Sometimes, yeah, we've got to get this and this moved. We need to set this up. We've got to get this ready for church. And listen, unless you're here early, you don't have that opportunity. It gives you the opportunity to serve. It allows you to meet and greet the guests as they arrive. When you're here early, you can say hello. Welcome to church. Man, good to meet you. I'm so-and-so. Did you get to meet the pastor yet? Let me introduce you. Bring him over. Hey, this is where we have uh church. Our Sunday school hours right over here. Bathrooms are back here. Great to have you here today. When you don't get here early, you don't have those opportunities. Now let me tell you lastly, I told uh is how to implement this in your your life. How to implement, how to get punctuality as a part of your life. I I told you it's hard for me just to tell you what you should be doing without giving you some type of encouragement as to how to get it done. So how do you develop the principle of punctuality in your life? First of all, you need to be persuaded that it's important. In The Disciplined Life, Richard Taylor said, the habit of being on time will never be acquired unless you are convinced that Christian courtesy demands it. The habit of punctuality will never be acquired unless you are convinced in your heart that Christian courtesy demands it. What I'm saying is you've got to be fully persuaded. The Bible says, let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. Until you are fully persuaded that this is important. That it should be part of your life, that it is what God would want for you, you're not going to implement the practice of punctuality in your life. Some of you here think, Pastor Caleb, you're just being crazy. You're just you're going overboard with this thing. It's really not that big a deal. And you'll never implement punctuality into your life. Because you're not fully persuaded that it's necessary, that it's important, that's your Christian duty to do so. Some of you I I told you when we started that this message was going to be one that was going to get all up in your business. You remember that? It was going to be practical. It was going to be down to earth. Just where the rubber meets the road. And you've got to decide that it's important to you. William Thayer in eighteen eighty-two wrote Tack and Grit, and he said this. The habit of being prompt once formed will extend to everything in your life, from meeting friends, paying debts, going to church, reaching and leaving the places of business. Uh keeping promises, retiring at night and rising in the morning, going to lectures or meeting someone in town, indeed to every relationship and act that you have, however trivial it may seem. seen to observers. When you're fully convinced that it's important, when you're fully persuaded You'll start to desire it and try to implement it. So it starts there. You've got to be persuaded that it is important. It is what God wants you to do. So you're persuaded first, and secondly, you need to pray. Pray and ask God to help you The Bible says in James chapter 1, verse number 5: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him. He says, Hey, if you lack wisdom, ask, and God will give it to you. We we started this whole thing with, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto what? Wisdom. It is wisdom in practice that teaches you to number your days. That it is applying your heart to wisdom, utilizing, maximizing the time that you have. So if you lack wisdom He says, ask God. Pray. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me, even beyond time. Amen. I can do it because I've got God's help. So be persuaded in your mind and pray and ask God to help you. And then you need to plan accordingly Just to have a vision or a dream about it is just the beginning. To be persuaded in your heart is just the beginning. You've got to plan accordingly. In Matthew 25, verses 1 through 4, here we have the description of the ten virgins which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise and five of them were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. They didn't plan ahead. They didn't the prudent man foreseeth the evil. You've got to plan accordingly. You've got to plan your life and think about what's necessary and hey Uh if I need to get to church at uh at uh ten thirty to be on time, I need to be there by ten twenty. So I need to leave the house by this time. That means you might have to let go of some of the frivolous things, some of the things that could wait till later. You know, this is an affliction of my wife. Now I'm getting I'm walking on thin ice here, right? My wife wants to get one more thing done. Just one more thing. But when does the one more thing stop? Oh, I'm just going to throw a load of laundry in. Now it's time to go. Oh, but I'm going to grab the the trash and take it out on my way. But it's time to go. I mean there's one more thing. You might have to say, you know what, the trash has to wait because we've got to go. You've got to foresee, plan, and go. Now listen, she's a worker and she's working all the time and I'm giving her a hard time. But I'm I'm thankful that she takes the trash out, amen. Or or she tells the kids to. Um but it but it gets done. But I I will tell you that more than once I've had to say no, you have to leave that because we're leaving. It's time to go. Because we don't want to be late. You might have to plan and let some other things go. Go to the ant thou sluggard and consider her ways and be wise. Again, we're talking about wisdom. Using and exercising wisdom. The ant prepares in summer for winter. Poor planning produces poor punctuality. So you want to be punctual, be persuaded in your mind that it's important. Pray and ask God to help. Plan accordingly that it'll be part of your life. And this last one you're really going to like. Don't procrastinate. Don't procrastinate. I know it makes a really funny bumper sticker. Why do today what I can put up till tomorrow? But listen, it's killing ya. Procrastination is killing you. It's putting everything off. It's getting harder and harder to keep up. Y y you wanna you wanna start being punctual, you gotta stop procrastinating. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, though for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Hey, you don't know what this afternoon is going to be. You don't know what's going to happen. You don't know what it what it's going to you need to do what you're supposed to do. Richard Taylor, also in the Disciplined Life, page 102, he says, make yourself be punctual. Tardiness is another bad habit which needs When students would come to class wielding a tart comment about their tartiness, such as, better late than never, Professor Bauer would always retort, better never late. Don't procrastinate. Listen, these this last message and this message very very practical, very down to earth on this matter of punctuality. And I told you last time and I'll tell you this time. Listen, if you hear right now you're thinking, I don't think it's that important. I want you to know I still love you. That I'm not mad at you. I just wanted to try and help you. In this matter. It affects your testimony. It affects it. It could harm your relationships. It affects your life. It affects all the people around you. I just want to encourage you in this matter of punctuality. And as we closed up last time, I want to close up again with this idea, is there's a meeting that we're never going to miss. And that's the meeting in the sky. It's one that we don't have we don't have control over. We're gonna be there. And can I ask you, are you ready for that meeting? Are you ready? Are you ready to go home? To be with your Savior? If you haven't trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're not ready. And when that day comes, you've got to have that settled ahead of time. Otherwise, it's eternally too late. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Develop punctuality in your life. I believe it'll help you. I believe it'll help Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I believe it'll help your relationships