If you could turn your Bibles to the Book of Jonah, tonight I have a challenge for you from the Book of Jonah and uh it's an incredible story to be able to go through this man's life because Uh well it's super unique. I mean there's nobody else that I know of in this world that has ever been swallowed by a whale before and has lived to tell about it. If they did, they would definitely make big news and you know I think uh I think Jonah makes pretty big news. You know, there's there's a lot of things that we can be able to learn from Jonah's life. And tonight I would like to uh to go through a lesson that I see Everybody here knows about Jonah. Jonah was told by God to go to the city of what city? Nineveh. He was told to go there because, according to the Bible, there were wickedness that had come up before him And he was told that he was to go and deliver the message that they were going to be destroyed. But Jonah did not go there. Where did he try to go to? He tried to go to Tarshest, you're right, and as he was sailing on the sea there, um God sent a storm to be able to rock his boat And while he was out there, the sailors went and came to him and said, Jonah, you need to pray to your God. And uh who is your God, by the way? And he went and told them that he was that he served the God of Israel. And that scared them because They knew that he had told them when he got on the boat that he was running from God. And normally that wouldn't have meant anything to the sailors. Evidently, it didn't scare them at all But then when they realized who he served, they realized the power of that God, of the God And uh Jonah, instead of repenting of his ways and trying to get right with God, he came up with a solution for the sailors and told the sailors, just throw me overboard. He would rather die than to actually get right with God. And just uh just so you know, that is not the right that is not the way to get right with God. Okay? That's not okay. It is best to repent and change your ways rather than to come up with uh another alternative to skip out. And uh and so Jonah, he uh ended up uh the you know the sailors went and threw him overboard he got swallowed by a fish And uh while he was in that fish for three days, three nights, he did finally sort of get right with God. He came to the point of at least deciding that he was going to obey that fish at God's command. We had to spat him up onto dry land And God went and told him again, Jonah, go to Nineveh. Thankfully, this time he obeyed. He went over to Nineveh. And the Bible says the city of Nineveh is a three-day journey, and a day into that journey, something super unexpected happens. As he was preaching and tell well he was telling everybody, forty days till Nineveh is going to be destroyed. Not a care about these people at all. From the king himself all the way down to the poorest person, they put on sackcloth and ashes. and called out that perhaps God would show mercy to them. They didn't have any promise from Jonah at all. Jonah did not share with them that God would perhaps be merciful. Because Jonah didn't uh obviously did not care about these people. They said, perhaps God will show mercy to us. And God did God showed mercy on that entire city. And then that's where we pick up here because when God shows mercy to the city, you don't see Jonah excited and rejoicing. Yes, I delivered a message. And these people, they went and took the attributes of God and believed him and turned from their ways. Yes, praise be to God. Nope, that's not what happened. Let's read Jonah chapter 4, and then that's this is where we will get our challenge for this evening. In chapter 4 here it says, but it displeased Judah exceedingly And he was very angry. And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord, was not this my thing when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshus. For I knew that thou art a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me For it is better for me to die than to live. Then said the Lord, Doest thou well to be angry? So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a gourd and made it come up over Jonah that it might be a shadow over his head to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose that uh when the morning rose the next day and it smote the gourd. And it withered. And it came to pass when the sun did arise that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wished in himself to die. And said, It is better for me to die than to live. And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. Then said the Lord, Thou hast had pity on the gourd for the which thou hast not labored, neither madeest it grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night. And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixcore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand and also much cattle. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I'm so thankful for your word. And Lord, I am so thankful that you care about our souls. And Lord, I just pray that you would challenge us through this through the life of Jonah, that we would see people as you see them. Lord, I pray that you would speak to our hearts and pray you would speak through me this evening. I need you. I just so in your name. Amen. Now God had called Jonah to warn the Ninevites of the impending judgment of God. And you would think that with the anger and the hatred that he obviously had toward the Ninevites, he would be glad to go. But he wasn't. Now it's pretty obvious he does not love these people. So you would think when God tells him, Jonah, I wish you to be the prophet who is going to deliver the message to the Ninevehites and tell them that they are going to be destroyed for their sin. You would think, yes, I do not like those people. I am glad that I was the one who was chosen to go ahead and deliver that message. I am going to obey right away. I am going to go over to that city and I will deliver that message right away. But no, that's not what happens. He ends up fleeing and going to the city of Tarshis, while trying to go there. And the reason he wasn't excited about delivering this message was because of something that he knew about God. of which he did not want the Ninevites to have a part of. And that amazing part of God was his mercy. We are all in desperate need of God's mercy. Jonah did not care if the Ninevites experienced this mercy from God. And God in turn put Jonah to a test to reveal to him what was going on in his heart and reveal to him. where his pity lied. Now, I want you to first set see here. There's uh the first two points are a little bit of preliminary as and we're just going to be stepping through this passage and then you'll see in the third and fourth points how it all pulls together and gives you a an application through Jonah's life. Now first of all, there's a mercy that was enjoyed in Jonah's life. Now, Jonah, was he a recipient of God's mercy? Yeah, he most certainly was, besides this time where God could have crushed him for not obeying him. I mean God gave him a very direct command. You were to go over to Nineveh. He flat out didn't obey. God could have not had mercy upon him and said, last mission for you, Jonah. That's it. Now, this is just a portion of Jonah's life that we are seeing in this in this story. No doubt there was time and time again where Jonah had experienced God's mercy. But just as an example, this is where Jonah this is an example of Jonah experiencing the mercy of God. Now also Jonah preached this mercy. to the people of Israel. If you take a look at Jonah chapter 4, verse 2. And it says here, and he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord. Was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? Okay, so what was this saying that he had while he was yet in his country? Because he says here, therefore, because of this I fled before unto Tarshus, for I knew that thou art a what? A gracious God and what? Merciful. He's also slow to anger. And of great what? And repentance of the evil. This is the kind of God that he would deliver the message. This is the type of message he would deliver to his own people, the Israelites, and he would remind them This is the type of God that we serve people. These are the attributes of our God. Our God is merciful. You've seen in our from our forefathers in times past. how some of them have um experienced the mercy of God, how God has been slow to anger and did not wipe them off. I mean you think about And just think about time and time again through this through the history of Israel how many times God could have easily just decided, that's it, I'm not using them anymore, but still God ended up using them And that was God's mercy, and this is the type of message that he was delivering to his people. He knew these attributes of God and he said, This is the reason why I did not go to Nineveh. Because I know this is the kind of God you are. Jonah had preached about this mercy to the people, to his own people. Now Jonah, for whatever reason, he thought that these Ninevehite people were undeserving of the mercy of God. Here Jonah sat. I mean just picture what is going on in this story. Jonah, after going and preaching in the city and telling them 40 days till Nineveh is going to be destroyed, and he sees the whole city. convert over and to repent repent of their ways and he goes and he sits and sets up a booth He tries to make himself comfortable here. He sets up a booth here so the shadow would fall on him. And he sits out here and looks at the city. Just waiting for God to destroy them. Perhaps he was thinking he would get to witness what Sodom and Gomorrah and fire coming out of heaven and consuming the people. He was looking at these people, just waiting for them to die. He did not care about them at all. This entire city, he just wanted them all to die. Here is a city that needed the mercy of God, and all he could think about wasn't their mercy, but his own comfort Making himself cozy so he can be able to watch what God would how God would destroy these people. This is the mercy that was enjoyed in Jonah's life, the mercy he preached Now today, there is mercy that has been in your life. If you've been saved, say amen. Amen. If you've been saved, you most certainly have been a recipient of God's mercy in your life. God did not need to show you mercy. God in his great love came from heaven, came in the form of man to be able to pay the price for your sin, to suffer humiliation. to suffer um all the mocking and the scourging and the separation from the father all for you God did not have to do that. And if you've been saved, you've been a recipient of God's mercy. And just know today, if you have not been saved Even though you haven't accepted the forgiveness that God offers to you, His forgiveness is extended to you. It is good for this entire world. It is good for you. And if you repent of your sins God promises that his death, the payment of his blood was sufficient to pay the price for your sins so that you can be forgiven. That's God's mercy. Isn't God's mercy amazing? God's mercy is incredible. We did not deserve it at all, and yet God showed mercy towards us. And just like if you're saved today, just like Jonah, we preach this mercy to the world around us. We go and we tell this world that unless they repent, they're gonna perish. That's what happened to, that's what Jonah was doing in this city of Nineveh. He was telling them, 40 days till you're going to be destroyed. And that's what we're telling this world today. Not 40 days, but unless you repent, you will perish. Now, there are some that are in this world today that you see have the same type of attitude that Jonah had. You see hatred that's on them. Perhaps they're lifting up posters and sharing, telling people how how violent, how they're going to go to hell. And you see people that um share nothing but hatred in their hearts towards others. You know, even those those things are true. I mean it's true about each one of us that we are vile sinners, that we were enemies of God. Doing it like Jonah did in that type of attitude, telling people, 40 days soon you're going to die, 40 days sooner, not not showing them any mercy at all That's not the way that God intends for us to be able to show. God intends us to tell people that they can be forgiven of their sins. Now sometimes We may uh we may be a Christian that just kind of puts in their time. That um You know, sometimes it's easy to I I I don't know if Saturday is always your normal day of outreach or if you uh for us at our church we have Tuesdays that that's our normal day of outreach. But sometimes after a long day or after a busy week or something, it's easy to kind of think, well, this is what I'm supposed to do, you know? This is what everybody in the church is expected. This is what pastor expects. If I don't show up, he's gonna ask me why. And so I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna go knock on doors. And so we go ahead and get the the pack of tracks or whatever and we go and we knock on the door lightly so maybe they don't hear. Okay, good I can finish up there. Go ahead and put that track in the door. Okay, knock. Okay. And we'll we go ahead and we we do what we're supposed to do But we don't have any heart for the person that's on the other side of the door. We're just fulfilling our obligation of being a Christian. And that's not what Christ wants to do. We need to preach the mercy of God to this world around us. And sometimes we may even think that other people, other people out there are not deserving of the mercy of God. But realize who you were before you were forgiven. You were as as I put in your well later on You are an enemy of God. You were alienated from God by your wicked works. Yet God loved you. And that is the type of attitude that we need to have to those around us. We cannot look at somebody else and think, oh, they aren't deserving of the mercy of God and think that you were You were not. Every one of us were sinners before God. But we need to show that mercy of God whether we pe feel that people are deserving or undeserving. Let's continue on here. The second point is there was a grace that was assumed in Jonah's life. If we take a look at verses 6 and 8 here, we see Jonah making himself comfy. It says here, and the Lord God prepared a gourd. and made it come up over Jonah that it might be a shadow over his head to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day that it smote the gourd and it withered, and it came to pass when the sun did arise, that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, and he fainted and wished in himself to die and said, It is better for me to die than to live. There was a grace that God showed on Jonah's life. Now, most certainly We don't deserve God's mercy, but we certainly also don't deserve God's grace. Or something from God which is beyond what we deserve. Now, this grace that was seen in Jonah's life is a pretty simple form of grace. It was a gourd Okay? Now it's really hard to kind of picture exactly what this gourd look like, because we already know that, according to the passage here, that Jonah had built himself a booth. that had ended up casting a shadow on him to try so he had already kind of made himself comfortable. So there is this gourd that ends up God can God causes to end up growing up and it ends up making him exceedingly glad. He is super glad about this sword. So I don't know it probably protected him from the elements. It um I don't know if it provided any food or something. I I'm not exactly sure. But this gourd that came up, it made Jonah exceedingly glad. But this grace wasn't viewed as grace. You don't see him expressing any appreciation to God at all. He just kind of took it as It's here. I don't know how this gore came up, but here it is. Oh wow, this feels so nice. I'm so glad that this is here. And then all of a sudden it gets taken away from him Oh I just wanna die! Oh, life is terrible! I can't believe this! Here I am doing what God tells me to to do. And so this gourd comes up. And then now this, the gourd dies. Oh, why do I have to be the one to experience this? Now Just like this gourd that came up in Jonah's life and made him exceedingly glad. I want to make a quick comparison to yourself and just uh let you know that there are gourds of grace that God has perhaps put into your life. In fact, I'll just say I know that he's put into your life that makes you exceedingly glad. Now I'll just kind of give you a couple of things just to kind of get your wheels spinning, but I know there are many things that will probably come into your mind. The good gourds of grace could come in the form of good income. If God has provided you any kind of income at all, realize that that is a gift from God. Okay? There are um people that are in other parts of the world that do not have any kind of any sort of reliable income in uh I've been in Myanmar a couple of times And you just see people all along the streets there that they do not have a job. They don't have any form of income. There are a number of beggars that are along the side of the street. And that's how they are. So just realize that God has blessed you. Any kind of income right now, God has blessed you. Good health. Our health can be taken away in such a short amount of time And so just the fact that you're breathing on your own, that you're able to walk around, that you were able to get here to church, and you weren't confined to a bed or something, that's God's God's good grace to you of giving you good health. That's God's goodness to you. And we it's easy to take that for granted. Now here's some other things that we just kind of experience in this life too, you know, in in America. is that uh you know you're able to go to a restaurant. I enjoyed going to Carabas today and that was uh really tasty food and you know there was uh good service, you know the wait uh the waiter waiter and the waitress, you know, were coming up to our table and You know, you kinda those uh those are niceties uh of living in America, you know, that you get some of these these things and uh you know you get to enjoy that. Uh all of you, I believe, got here in a vehicle today. You drove here or I mean we walked over here, but may and uh you know, you you have a vehicle that's out there. Uh a lot of you have phones that are out there. I have an iPad right here, and you know, these are some uh nice things that we We get to enjoy in our life. There are things that, like this story of Jonah, they make us exceedingly glad. We are thankful for these these things. Now sometimes we may end up having the attitude that kind of like Jonah, we end up expecting these things. Perhaps we think, well, I lived life God's way. You know, I uh when the pastor said to do something, I did it. So of course I deserve these good things. Well perhaps you think, well, because I'm saved, okay? And you know that that's not the case at all. The rain uh falls on the just and on the unjust. And And so there are there are times where we may be like Jonah where we think, I mean you think about Jonah. He gave up the comforts of his own country in Israel. people that he loved, people that he was surrounded. And then he was told to go to a people that he didn't like at all and to go and deliver this message. And then on top of that, he had to get swallowed by a whale. He had to go through a shipstorm. He had to be now he's sat sitting here in this exceedingly um hot weather and he's doing this, so he probably he probably thinks I deserve this. I have been serving God, been doing, you know, maybe not the first time, but I've been doing what he says to do. Okay? And so sometimes we may have that poor attitude and of thinking that we deserve God's grace in our life because of whatever reason. And again, I'll just remind you, in Colossians 1 21 and 22, it says, and you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled, in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy, unblamable, and unreprovable in his sight. That who we were Alien and enemies of God, and yet God showed mercy, and on top of that, He showed grace to you in your life Now, we're going to dive into some application here, because we see that there was a pity that was misplaced in Jonah's life. If you take a look at verses 9 and 10 here, it says Excuse me And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. Then said the Lord, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the which thou hast not labored, neither madeest it grow, which came up in the night and perished in the night. And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than six score thousand persons that cannot discern me between their right hand and their left hand and also much cattle. To have pity means to have sympathy for, to be compassionate, to have tender feelings for one. Excited by unhappiness. And what did p what did Jonah have pity on, according to these verses? He had pity on the Gore. This is what God told him. You've had pity on the gourd. Now I'm not exactly sure how he pitied this gourd. Perhaps when he woke up in the morning and he saw that it was withered and it was on the ground, perhaps he started running around trying to find some water to perhaps, you know, pour some water on there or maybe get some branches or whatever to cause that thing to end up getting propped back up again. But that's There was something that he did that he expressed pity on the scored because he was no longer comfortable. He felt that he was entitled to the scored. And instead of pitying the Ninevehites, these people right out here in front of him, he was pitying this gorge. Now I want to make this application for yourself about the gourds that we pity in our life. Now we talked about uh we talked about how maybe uh you have a vehicle. That vehicle ends up breaking down. It withers. Boy, that gets frustrating. I mean immediately that changes your plans for the day, for the week, for the month. I mean you're you're making phone calls, you're scheduling the mechanic to come in. I can't believe it makes this sound. It's uh when can you get it in? Oh you're not open until then this day. Oh how you know can you cut me a deal and make me get it get it in any sooner? You know what we're trying to m move things around or whole day gets scheduled moved around. We end up uh dropping our phone. It ends up cracking the glass. And Oh, this is so frustrating. Now and we end up going and uh we're we're upset. We go to the ATT, the Verizon store, the Apple store, whatever, and we're telling them, I can't believe this has to happen and I have to make the I'm gonna be going out of town. I need this fixed right away. Like, oh how long is it gonna take to get it fixed? Okay, oh that now that's gonna cost me more money Uh, I'm gonna have to uh work extra hours to be able to get more money to be able to take care of this here. We get so frustrated, you know, maybe perhaps that's a restaurant or something, you know, yeah you have a certain level of service that you expect, you know, this is just how This is how it is. They you order the food, but perhaps the person messes up the order. Okay, brings out the wrong thing. They forget to put in the order. It takes forever to come out. And now this person is standing in front of you and then realizes the mistake that they made. and you're not happy. I have places to go. I uh you know now you are very inconveniencing my time. Now I'm not even I might not even be able to eat and I'm not gonna come back here again Okay? We're frustrated because those graces, those good things that God has led us to experience in this life have been taken away. And you know what? On the other side of those things is the mechanic The waiter, the the cell phone person, or whatever they are. Okay? Those people are on the other side. And you know what? We're blinded to the fact that they need the Savior and that they need to know the mercy of God. All we see is Our problem, our our entertainment, our things that brought us pleasure are now no longer there, and we are upset. We are like Jonah. We went from being exceedingly glad to exceedingly angry and wanting to die sometimes, okay? Over these things. And God sees this in Jonah and he says, Jonah, wake up! I did this to point out to you that you are pitying the things of this world when there are 120,000 people that are right in front of you and you don't care if they go to hell Because you want your entertainment, you want your pleasure, you want the things that make you comfortable in life, and you don't care about them. There are things, you know, well this focus on this meeting, you know, is a lot about the attachment that we have to the wallet has been mentioned a couple times. How hard it is to be able to give. And you know what? If you start pitying people, you will end up replacing the money that you would spend on the gourds in your life. and ended up looking past those boards to the people that are right in front of you. And so I I just added um I normally don't show this, but I put a couple pictures, and maybe if the guys are able to Go to one of those pictures right now. So I just wanted to show you just a couple people to get you to see. When we were over there for six months in Thailand, there were people that we met that the other missionary family that was there had never met. And there are people that are there right now that need to hear the gospel. That if missionaries don't go, they will not hear. So let me just show you that first person that you saw right there. His name is Utsin Law. He's uh he was a man that is a Burmese. He is teaching English over there. Uh he goes by the name James Bond. Because people because he feels that, you know, if uh people say that they learned English from James Bond, they'll end up coming. And he's like everybody in Thailand enjoys that And so that man, I was able to meet him while I was doing door-to-door visitation. And because he spoke English, I met with him for many, many weeks to be able to share the gospel with him. There's uh this lady, her name is Juri. We went to her restaurant many times. And she's a Chinese lady, and I learned most of what I know about the Chinese people in the area from her. Do you go to the next picture You'll see this uh this young man, his name is Sang. I spent a lot of time with him because of our shared interest in being able to put together videos and he wanted to become he wanted to learn how to be able to put videos on YouTube and become popular. He uh he doesn't believe uh in Buddhism. He doesn't he kind of believes in the science type of thing. And we've uh had some good discussions about that. He learned English through watching videos on uh on online. And so his name is Sam. You go to the next picture. You see this that is his um girlfriend. Her name is Ern. And we got to spend a lot of time with her. And that's her over at her house hanging out with uh listen the kids. You go to the next picture. You'll be able to see and actually I couldn't remember what her name I meant to ask you before. Um oo um Oi. Not ooh oi. Her name is Oi. And uh she was at the she's at a restaurant that we also enjoyed being able to go over there. would she would love while while we were eating, she would end up watching the kids. And so that that was always uh a blessing to be able to just eat and she she loved playing with them. You go to the next picture. Over here, these are just some of the English students that we got to spend some time with. The one on the far left side of Alyssa is her name is Gone And that's some of her friends right there that she would bring. We never knew how many friends she was actually going to bring to one of the English lessons. Sometimes we had six people around the table for her them to be able to watch the the lesson going on If you go to the next picture, we had an English corner with a number of students that would end up coming. And some of those I didn't even get to put in there because I realized I didn't have their picture after I got back here. But uh students such as Tom. and uh who I keep in contact every now and then with uh while he's in Thailand. And another girl whose name is Joy, which I uh found out afterward uh later on that she is actually Muslim and uh reason why she wasn't able to come to the last lesson uh that we had before we left, uh we weren't able to say goodbye then was because uh she was celebrating Ramadan. And uh and so I think I can't remember if there's any more pictures or not. Oh yeah. So in the front right there, they brought their friends and the her their names are Git and Gee. Git and Gee, okay. And uh and so we were able to just in the last weeks be able to connect with them and be able to spend a good bit of time. with them. And so I wanted to point these people to have you be able to see them. That these are people that oh during those six months of time that we were in Thailand, we had opportunities is to be able to share the gospel with some of them, be able to form relationships with some of them that, who knows, they may have never had the opportunity if a missionary never came there. And that's what this conference is all about. Getting you to lift up your eyes and look on the harvest. Because there are people that need to hear the gospel, and unless they are sent. then those people are never going to hear how they can be forgiven of their sins. And so Jonah, he did not pity those people's souls. He pitied his stuff Today, pity not the blessings, but pity that which God pities, and which God desires to have mercy upon, and that is the souls of men. Lastly, I want you to see something that is absolutely incredible about our God, is that there was a heart that was revealed. Jonah's heart was revealed. And this passage is actually, this verse is what caused me to start digging into this this um book even more and what ended up causing me to develop this message. Because I saw in here in Jonah chapter 1, verse 17, I want you to follow this along with me. There's four very neat verses that uh saw in Jonah chapter one, verse seventeen. It says, now the Lord had prepared a what? A great fish. God prepared that. Now turn it to look at Jonah chapter 4, verse 6. And it says, and the Lord God prepared a what? A gourd. God prepared that gourd. Verse 7: but God prepared a what? A worm. Verse eight, and it came to pass when the sun did arise that God prepared a what? A feminine East Wind. God was at work in Jonah's life from the very beginning of this story to the very end to reveal to him what was going on in his heart. The circumstances in your life today are not accidental. Sometimes we think that the graces that God puts into our life are because of us. Because of who we are and what we've done. But God puts things into your life. He has perhaps put good graces into your life. Maybe for the pre for the Maybe like Jonah to re to remove those graces out of your life and to reveal to you what was going on in your heart Because what was revealed in Jonah's heart was that he had a love for stuff. He cared not for the things that are eternal. But the things that are here today and are gone tomorrow, how many times is that us? It was also revealed in his heart that he had a lack of forgiveness for other people. We don't know why he didn't want to show mercy to these people, but that's what God revealed to him all in this lesson. It was revealed that he had a focus on his own self. He was very self-centered. And that he did not have God's eternal view on life. Now back to you. What would God reveal in your heart if He took away some of the good things that He has put in there? Are you like Jonah just going through the motions of obeying God but not truly having a heart for him? Now when I was growing up, and this is a story that I was just thinking about this afternoon, and I was just thinking I would like to be able to share this with you too. So when uh God worked on my heart for missions and ended up putting the burden God had already done a work, had prepared my heart for being able to go and to speak to other people and I was just excited to go but just the opportunity wasn't wasn't open for going overseas so I just you know served where I was at which is what we should all be doing by the way. And so I was just just serving, you know, ja um you know doing Bible studies, um teaching the Bible, um all all the things that you that you that you do. And then I got married, and then I was uh uh up until that point I've been uh living at my parents' house, you know, just kind of saving up money and everything until the point that I was gonna be getting married and so then I went and uh got a house and I really loved the house. God uh I mean it in a amazing way. I you know, won't go through the whole story right now, but it was obvious God's hand in directing me to the right house and it was super close to church. Uh I was able to put some nice work into it and make it nice and made it home. You know, we got married, you had kids, and you start making memories in that house. And then God ends up we God ends up causing you to go. And I'm not saying this, you know, crying because it's like sad to go. But You know, you kind of get used to the idea of your family growing up and making memories in the house. You know, all those um all those normal things that you have in a house. You know, and now you're taking your family you know, all over, you know, into, you know, uncharted territory and stuff, you know, away from the grandparents, you know, uh brothers and sisters grew up with a very tight family and everything. And uh, you know sorry about that And then uh so I was talking to my brother, you know, and and it's basically this choice really doesn't make a whole lot of sense. You know, and I was thinking about, you know, unless God was leading, okay? Which I know that he is. And uh, you know, in the world's uh perspective, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to go making a choice like this at all But I say that because I think that God allowed me to experience what it was like to To get tied down, to enjoy some of the pleasures of life, to enjoy some of the experiences of life, to be able to have a nice house and all those kind of things. Just to cause me to be like, okay, now I want you to go here, removing some of those gourds of grace, those things that I enjoyed in my life. And are you serious? Are you serious about wanting to go where I tell you to go? I think that was the song that we sang before we came up here too. And uh, you know, are you serious as you say that you are, that you're willing to do whatever I say? And you know, that's how God works sometimes. Just like in Jonah's life. He puts good things into your life, maybe just for the ch uh just for the reason of taking those things away and to get you to see See what's going on in your heart. You think about Job. You know, what happened to him when God removed everything from him? Everything. Like even his health. He said, The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And that's how our response ought to be, whenever God takes these things away. takes our money away, takes our house away, w whatever it is that the list could go on and on of comfort that we enjoy in this world. Whatever God takes away Is your focus on things above or on things of this earth? What would God reveal to you in your heart? In conclusion, the lesson today is that we pity that which God's we need to pity that which God's heart pities, and that is the souls of men. We need to learn from the lesson of Jonah and desire to see life from God's viewpoint. God is busy preparing blessings or trials in this life so that we will see life as He does. Do you care about these souls and the souls that are around the world today? And how is that going to affect the choices that you make? Let's pray.