Level of engagement as vacation bible school. Uh we're not gonna be cooking up anything uh and uh not gonna be you know, playing any games, but for a few minutes, if I could just get you guys to pay attention and uh engage, uh I think the could help you with your life. And uh that goes for all all of us present here. You know, uh I can share the truth of the Word of God this morning, but I have no power to make any change in your life. I have no means or capacity to motivate you or to cause you to bring about change that would help you. Those have to be personal decisions. You have to hopefully through the Spirit of God touching your heart, submit and yield to Him, and determine, I'm going to do. What the Holy Spirit, what the Lord has stirred me to do, to bring about or make this change in my life. We're going to, as a place to begin this morning, we're going to look at my life's verse, Matthew chapter 6, and verse number 33. He says, here, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. You guys know as a young man, at least the church family that have been here for a while, you know as a young man, my desire was to go out and make a lot of money. That's what I wanted to do. I wanted to go make a lot of money. And uh that was my goal. That was my ambition. But I grew up in a good home. I had good parents and I understood the importance of desiring to also please God. And so as a young man I decided, uh, well, you know what, I I wanna go make a lot of money But I want to please the Lord. I want to honor Him. So I'm going to try and be a good Christian that makes a lot of money. That was my plan. I mean hey, I had great worthy ambitions. I was gonna support all kinds of missions work and I was going to, you know, help churches build buildings and And uh whatever God wanted me to do, but uh that was my plan, but God changed my ambition, God changed my desire to seek first The kingdom of God and his righteousness. And after this, all these things shall be added unto you. The things that are truly important in life, God will take care of. If we as individuals will seek first the kingdom of God. Last week I reminded you, as we looked at the message on the signs of the times, I reminded you about our fast approaching End of days. That the Lord is coming soon. In our time on earth, our days are numbered, whether that's The Lord's imminent return or our time on earth comes to a conclusion, but our days truly are numbered. Our time is short, and the signs of the times are everywhere. Little did I know that just a few days later we would have such a prominent example of the end of times with the launching of the Olympics. And where this world felt it was okay to mock and make fun of the Lord's Supper in such a wicked way in which they had Cross dressers and These guys get up. I mean, why is it? It's bad enough that they make that a prominent part of a worldwide event like that that children might be watching. But then to try and make fun of the Lord's Supper. Why is it that Christianity is the only religion that they feel okay to mock and make fun of. You know why? Because it's the only one that's real. There's nobody making fun of or mocking the the fairy tales. There's nobody that feels threatened uh by the leprechauns. Okay, those things that are made up that are that are that are fake that have no real impact in this world, people don't they don't bother with. But they are continually attacking Jesus Christ. And this is a sign of the times. The days are coming to an end. Well in light of that, I would like to talk to you for a couple of minutes this morning on our priorities. Our priorities. The fact of the matter is, is time is short, and if if time truly is short, if the end of days are truly at hand, then We really ought to be living where our life guided by some very uh biblically based priorities. We ought to have some established things that are of utmost importance for us. I said last week, if you Only had 10 days to live. What would you do with that time? What we're saying is you would prioritize the ten days you had left. You would look at your time and say, okay, I've got ten days Here's what's utmost important in my life. This is what is the most valuable thing I can do with the limited commodity of time that I have A priority, by Webster's definition, is an item of relative importance, a preferential rating allocated based on supply. Very limited supply? Very valuable. Whole lot of supply? Not so valuable. Well can I tell you that your most valuable thing in life is your time. Every minute once it is spent, you can never get it back. It's gone. You may hold on to a memory of it, but that time is spent. It is gone. You can never recover it. You cannot get any more. You can't make a new investment in time. We have a very limited supply of time. And therefore it behooves us to evaluate our priorities. I read a story this week about an old, the president of a telegraph company. And he was traveling and checking on his telegraphs and he was traveling and he came into this particular town and it was very cold and he thought, well, I'm going to go into the telegraph office where they've got a fire going and I'll warm up And he went into the telegraph office and there was no fire and it was cold in there. And there was a boy sitting at the counter and he was getting ready to send some telegrams and The the man said, Sir, young man, why have you no fire? He said, Where's the fire? How come it's not warm in here? And the boy said, Hey, I'm too busy sending telegrams to bother with a fire And so the vice president wrote a little note. He said, I want you to send this telegram right away. The boy grabbed it and was getting ready to send it and he read it. I'm the vice president of this telegram office, and I would have you fire this boy immediately. Next thing the vice president noticed the boy was coming in from outside with a handful of wood. And he said, sir, he said, young man, did you send that telegram yet? He said, sir, I have no time to send telegrams. I'm too busy building fires His priorities got adjusted. They got re-evaluated. And sometimes in life, things kind of press in upon us from different places and maybe our priorities or what we're investing our time in uh maybe gets a little bit out of whack and we need to reevaluate where we're at and can I tell you the one that should be dictating our value systems is Jesus Christ. Boy, the psalmist says, Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. We've only a certain number of days. Therefore, we need the wisdom of God to have and function and use right priorities to live our life based off of priorities. I tell you, most people live their life Guided by pressure, instead of priority. It's whatever happens to be pushing the hardest right now. That is of what most important. Instead of determining in your heart and mind of what is of utmost importance. And giving your heart and mind and soul to that, instead we live by just pressures. But can I tell you just some very basic foundational truths with regards to our priorities this morning? First of all, we need to remember that God comes before gold. That God comes before gold. We have here this my my life's verse, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Many people, even people that call themselves Christians, they dedicate their life, they spend the majority of their time, the majority of their emphasis, the majority of their focus is all spent on the acquisition of gold Instead of the pursuit of God. Can I tell you that God is to come first? He and I I know Christians without fail, without question, any question that you ask, what should be first in your life, the first response would be, oh, God should be first. But what I'm saying to you this morning is I don't have the means or capacity to make you change. You have to determine to do that yourself. But many people, regardless of what they say with this mouth, they live like God is fourth, fifth, sixth, or seventh. They say God should be first, but their actions say God comes after everything else that I want to do. After all of my pursuits, then we follow God. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verses 13 and 14 says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. And I tell you this morning that God should come first. Do you guys believe that this morning? God should come first. He should be first in our lives. That means we give him the position or place of priority in our heart. You know when Abraham took his son Isaac Up upon that mountain to sacrifice him. Abraham was teaching his son that God came first. I can imagine the tears as they flowed down Abraham's face as Isaac looked at him and said, Dad I behold the wood for the altar, but where is the lamb? I imagine Abraham is walking tears coming down his face, saying God will provide himself a lamb. But he was going to put God first. He was going to do what God wanted. Can I tell you, if you're going to set God as a priority, that means he's going to have the first part of your day. He's going to have the first part of your day. Psalm 63, verse number one says When he was in the wilderness of Judah, O God, thou art my God, early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. You know what? Can I tell you something kind of fun? This week I found a stack of papers. that have been hidden since nineteen ninety probably five in one of the books that I had in my office. And in there was many notable quotes. I like collecting quotes. In there was some poems that I had written. And one of the poems I wrote. was about standing at the back of the auditorium and watching this beautiful young lady. Make her way as the lights of the auditorium shine down upon her head. And I was standing there pretending that I had to hold the door, that I was stuck here. But what I was waiting was to get a glimpse of her coming through that door. And I talked in that poem. I don't even think my wife's ever read that poem. I was just I went back to my dorm room and I sat down and I wrote about what was going on in my heart and how I longed to know her, how I longed I stood there saying, Did she see me? Did she even notice me? Was that glimpse real? Whatever it was, but there was a longing there. What I'm saying, beloved, is there a longing for you to know God? Is there a desire for you to get a glimpse of him in the morning? Is there a desire for you to see his power in your life, to guide and lead your steps as you go through your day We need to thirst after him like somebody in a dry and thirsty land. If God is going to have the position of priority in our heart He will have the first of our day. Is God what you reach for first thing in the morning? Or do you reach for Facebook? Do you reach for the stock market? Do you reach for your self-improvement? You gotta have your protein shake and and and get your exercises in. You gotta do those things that that hey those things are fine and they're all good, but what I'm saying is do you desire God first and foremost? We had a saying we had a saying in college, no Bible, no breakfast. We wouldn't be eating many breakfasts. No Bible, no breakfast. Is God what you're reaching for? How personal is your walk with God today? Do you have a planned, purposeful time? We call it a devotional life. We call it a daily walk. But it's a pursuit of God where you give him the first part of your day, a time of prayer, a time of praise, a time of pursuit. Where you look to meet with God. Do you have that time? Boy, in Psalm 65, verses 63, verses 5 and 6, he says, My soul shall be satisfied. As with morrow and fatness, and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. Are you satisfied with God? Does he have that place of priority in your life? Or maybe has that slipped a little bit? Have you allowed some other pressures of life to come and rob and steal that precious time from you? Can I tell you, not only would he have the first part of your day, but he'll have the first part of your week. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Can I tell you the Bible still says, not forsaking the assembly of yourselves together as the manner of some is. Right. That you and I are to give God I know there was a time in this country where everything was shut down on Sundays. Yeah. And you pretty much the only thing happening in town was church house. Now you got every single option under the sun. Not only that, for some reason they think it's necessary to to hold uh T-ball and and dance class and all of these other, you know, soccer games and all these other children's things they want to do on Sundays. But what you're w is God a priority or not? You know, the world is not going to make God a priority. But Christians should. You claim the name of God. Claim the name of Jesus Christ. His house should be a priority. Dr. Lee Robertson was well known for saying three to thrive. Three to thrive. Said it for so many years, it's something that he was known for across the country, maybe even the world. Three to thrive, what he's talking about is three services a week Sunday morning, Sunday night, midweek service. Three to thrive as a Christian. Now that's getting radical. Christianity. That is so far beyond. I mean, what? You're talking about be it more than one service a week, preacher? How how much of a priority is God? There's some people that are so committed to their ball team they would not miss a season game. But don't think anything about missing church. You know why? You know, beloved, if he has that place of priority in your heart, it'll not just be in your personal walk, but in your public worship. It'll be a priority for you. Now I know this is down where the rubber meets the road. And some of you are uncomfortable because you've been missing church. But that's okay because we're just re-evaluating our priorities today. And you can adjust. You can change. I can't make you change. But can I tell you if you're going to make God a priority in your life, you will change. Church should come before the ballgame. Church should come before kids' activities. Church comes before your hobbies, before your your time on the lake, before your fishing. God's house, make God a priority in your life. Our service for God should come first You know many people that struggle with life's decisions, like should I do this or should I not do this? You know, a lot of them would be a whole lot easier if they really lived like God was a priority. See what I'm saying is instead of just wearing the bracelet that says W W J D instead of just wearing the t-shirt If they actually live that way, a lot of the things that they're fretting over, the decisions they're trying to make, would just be a matter of what would Jesus do? And then they do that because God is the priority. Seek first the kingdom of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness And all these things shall be added unto you. Hallelujah, Hallelujah God before gold. Are you guys doing okay? Nobody's mad yet? Alright. Family before fame. Family before fame. First Timothy five eight says, but if any provide not for his own, and especially for his own house. He hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. God puts a high priority on family. You know, we have we have a tendency to desire to try and please people. That's human nature. There's nothing wrong with that, but we have to be sure we're living by priority. What I'm saying is oftentimes you'll work a whole lot harder to try and please your boss at work than you will your wife at home. One of the reasons you're having struggle at home is because your priorities are out of whack. Because the job is more important than the family. Now the job is a necessary evil. It's part of life. You you need the job. You've got to earn money. The Bible says you don't provide your for your own. You're worse than an infidel. But the job needs to be a means to an end. The end is to provide for the family. So why would we allow the priorities to get switched and all of a sudden the job is what's most important? The family has to sit in the background. We have got to be careful we keep these things in the right place. We've already established, beloved, that God is to come first. Matter of fact, in Matthew chapter 10, verses 37 and 38, he says, He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. He that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. He's saying God comes first. God comes before your husband or wife or your mom or dad or your son or daughter. God comes first. But then family should come second, and it should come before fame. What I'm saying by that is it should come before before you worry about what Pastor Caleb thinks of you down at the church house, you ought to worry about what your wife thinks of you at home. Before you worry about what the ushers or the deacons or or somebody in a Sunday school classroom think about your children, you ought to worry about what your children are doing at home We're so worried about how we look out in community and trying to put our Facebook image out there of our special home and how how pleasing and all these things are when that is not a reality of what we're living with. If we would put half as much effort into making our home what we want to picture it to be, it could be a whole lot better home. Can I tell you Satan is out to destroy homes today? He is tearing them up. There's people that are struggling in their home to try and get along with one another and they're they're battling with their children about trying to raise them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and Satan's doing all he can to disrupt that We need to put family back on a priority of our heart and be giving the emphasis and the focus in our heart and mind. How focused are you on it? You say, well it's important to me. Well let me ask you, have a re have you read a book about being a dad lately? Have you read a book about how to be a good husband or a good wife? Have you done any study on the home or the family? Or you just think you know how to do it all? Maybe one of the reasons you're struggling is because you haven't put forth the effort that it takes to have a good home. Understand, beloved, it doesn't just happen. I know we think it just happens, but the problem is many people are living their life by pressure. They're letting tomorrow come and living tomorrow with whatever happens to come up. And dealing with whatever fire that happens to arise instead of living their life on purpose. You know, me talking about that poem, me standing at the back of the auditorium, I was standing there on purpose. I was standing there because I wanted a glimpse. I was wanting to find a means or a cause, a way to get close to her I was going to try and do what I had to do. We started spending some time together. What I'm saying is I built a relationship with her because we spent time together on purpose. Your life does not, it will happen. If you let life happen to you, that's what you're going to get. And can I tell you, you're going to be very frustrated. You're going to be, how in the world did I end up here? This is not what I pictured But you have not been pursuing the picture. You've been letting life happen to you, just day by day, letting it happen. Whatever comes, comes, and hoping somehow you're going to end up there. Does that make sense? Now this is pretty good practical teaching this morning. I hope some of you are getting it. Now, the first family relationship that should have a priority for us in life, the first family relationship in life that we come to. Is our mother and father. The Bible is very clear. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and thy mother. So that first family relationship that should have a place of priority in our life is mom and dad. Kids, you should be honoring your mom and dad. Boys, that means you listen with the intent to obey. You honor your mom and dad. Are you guys honoring mom and dad? That's what we need to be doing, honoring our mom and dad. That's the relationship that ought to be a priority in our life. Well You know, most young people, the most important relationships they have are their boys, the brothers. Right Got your brothers? Boys you want to go hang with? What do you what do you call it? Help me out. Teach me. Bet beta hang you gotta hang with them. Those are the most important relationships. when the most important relationship you have before God, what should be a priority before God is your mother and father. Some of you kids are having a hard time with your relationship with mom and dad, but that's because they have not been a priority for you. You see, you think you're obeying them for them. You think if I obey them, that's for them, but you're looking at it wrong You see, if God does come first like he should, God tells you that they're the priority and that you're to honor and obey them. So you're obeying them first for God. And then secondly, you're obeying them because it is the first commandment with promise. Ultimately, you're obeying them for you Because if you that the first and one of the easiest things you can do in life to set yourself up for a good life is honor your mom and dad. The Bible says it will be well with you, and your days will be long on the earth if you honor mom and dad. And that's a pretty easy thing to do. Let me ask you, young people, you guys tell me, let's get some audience feedback. What's some things that you can do to honor mom and dad? But some things you can do to honor mom and dad. I already stole the easiest one, obey, right? Munchy Clean your room. Okay, clean your that would be an honor. You know why? Well I'll get I'll tell you why in a second. What what's your idea? What's something you could do to honor mom and dad? Wash the dishes. Is it DJ? What's your name? Gerald. Gerald. I'm sorry, Gerald. Here you go. All right. What so watch the dishes. What's something else you can do to mom to honor mom and dad? Call and talk to mom and dad. Make mom and dad breakfast. Miss Trudy? Listen to them. Listen to what they're saying. Yes. Get some work outside? Does that mean get out of their hair? Is that what that means? Get some work get some work done outside? Yeah. Do you Pay their bills. Put her there, man. Awesome. Damn, let's do it. Pay their bills, boy. Mom and dad would love that. Armando. Represent them well when they are not present. That's very good. Honor mom and dad. You see it's not just obey what Do things without them asking. Several of these things I would summarize as fulfill their wishes. Something you know mom would want or dad would want. And that would be they're not going to ask you for it. You know why? Because they don't want to hear you whine and complain. They don't want to hear you bicker and why I always have to do this work around so hard. So mom and dad are going to do it themselves, but if you just did it, boy, that would be honoring to them. They would be so thankful. You would be blessed, Greg. Respect them. Respect them. Respect him, honor and respect him. That's something that would listen, this is what God wants us to do That's the most important relationship. Secondly, the second relationship that we come to for most people in life is your mate. Is your mate. That is the relationship that's supposed to have priority. Amen? Your husband, your wife. There is a law of priority that is supposed to be present for you. They are supposed to come first. The Bible says you leave mother and father and cleave Unto her. You become one flesh. There's a law of priority that should be present in the home. Mom should come first. That means mom comes first before the job. That means dad comes first before the kids. There's a priority on that relationship. Yes, God comes first, but secondly, the priority in the home, what we should do first, is that relationship with our mate. Putting a priority on that. Investing time and energy in that. You have to work hard to protect that priority because life's pressures come in. Things get in the way. And oftentimes it's our family who has to come in last and suffer the most when it shouldn't be that way Lastly this morning and I'll try and be brief, but we want you to see that it society before self society before self. Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 12, because we have several verses we're going to look at here. What I'm talking about here, beloved, is that others Lord, others, let this my motto be, that while I kneel and pray, my prayer will be for others. Others should come before ourselves. He says here in Romans chapter 12, verses 9 through 18, follow along with me. He says, let love be without dissimilation. Abor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. Be kindly, affectionate one to another with brotherly love. In honor, preferring one another. Not swathful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer, distributing to the necessity of the saints, given to hospitality. Bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one to another. Be not mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. This passage of scripture here, this whole just over and over again, describing and talking about that relationship we have with others. Those that would fit into the realm of society, those that we would call our neighbors, our community. Our church family, those that we have opportunity to rub shoulders with others before self. In honor preferring one another. If we live that way, if we actually put a priority on others before self, can I tell you that's contrary? To current culture? That's contrary to the humanistic way of thinking. You see, if you have a problem managing your time, you're going to have a problem managing your life. Because time is what life is made up of. We need to manage our time and establish our priorities and realize others come before self. Too many are living based on pressure instead of principle. We need to establish principles. What is the priority? What is of utmost importance? And dedicate and give our time to those things that are of utmost importance. And let those things that are not of utmost importance drift into the background All of us know we have way more to do every day than we can get done You have more yard work to do than you can get done. You have more housework to do than you can get done. You got more shopping to do than you can get done. You got more work to do at the job than you can get done. You've got more time to invest with the family than you can get done. You've got more work for God than you can do than you can get done. Every one of them are demanding your time. How do you know what to do? You establish priorities. Live by principle. You see, too many people are living with an airplane mentality. You see on the airplane when you sit down, the stewardess stands up there. I know that's not politically correct. What do they call now? Flight attendants, yeah, because you can't call them a stewardess, right? Uh but the flight attendant stands up there and says, okay, in the event of a loss of cabin pressure, You will see from the ceiling these most uncomfortable masks you've ever seen in your life. Round hard plastic discs are going to fall from the ceiling. And what do they tell you? They always say, secure your mask first. And then help somebody else if you can. Now you understand the difference from that in normal life is that you are in imminent danger. Your life is literally about to end. And so what they're saying is if you go unconscious, you're not going to be able to help your son or your daughter or your grandmother or whoever else is with you. So they're saying, put your mask on so that you're able to help others. Well, can I tell you what putting your mask on in this life is? That's getting up in the morning and spending some time with God. That's making God a priority in your life. That's putting God first. When you put God first, God gives you what you need to help others But many people want to live their life. Well, God helps them who help themselves. And I can't be expected to help anybody else unless I'm nurturing and taking care of myself. I mean, how can I do this unless I get the rest that I need and I get the personal strength that I need and I get my own self uh gratification that I need? and and only after I have what all that I need can I possibly help somebody else. You know, beloved, that joy is a byproduct. Of doing right, not something that is attained by going after it. And this world is running headlong trying to make themselves happy, and you tell me. Are the people in this world happy today? Is there more joy and satisfaction and happiness in this self-satisfied world than there's ever been? No. There's more disgruntled, more disappointment, more more uh suicides because you are not made happy by pursuing it yourself. Somebody many years ago wrote the acronym Joy. Jesus. Others. Then yourself. Jesus first, others second, then yourself, right? That's where joy comes from. So that means we need to establish that priority and live that way day by day. As I bring this to a conclusion, I was reading a book this week and I don't have time to to go into all of it because what I want you to know is there's a lot of things that demand your time. You understand that? And all of those things have some importance. I mean if we said, hey, serving God and and reading the Bible and prayer is the most important thing in life, and you say, okay, well that's what I'm gonna do uh twenty hours a day, I'm gonna read my Bible and pray. Well you won't be able to do that very long because you're going to get to that passage that says, if a man provide not for his own, he's worse than an infidel. If you're reading the Bible to learn, you're going to learn that God says there's some other priorities, there's some other things that you need to do. What I'm saying is you can say, Oh well I'm going to give all my time to that and you're going to be out of balance. Everything in your life has importance. Yes, the job is important. You've got to have a job, hopefully a good paying job that you can earn money to pay your bills. That's important. And you do have to spend time there and you do have to work and you ought to show up for work and you ought to show up on time and you ought to do what needs done Why? Because you're a child of God, and he says, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do with all thy might. Do it as unto the Lord. Amen. And so what I'm saying is, yes, the job has importance in its place. It has importance in its place. The family has importance in its place. The church has importance in its place. Your personal self-improvement Has importance. Hey, this is a temple of God. The Bible is very clear. A bodily exercise profiteth little. There is some profit, and we ought to take care of this body You're not to abuse the body, the temple of the Holy Spirit. You ought to, you know, do what you can to eat right and and exercise, but we're not going down that rabbit. You do that, but those are good things There's a place for that. I don't think you should be doing it for four or five hours a day. I think you're out of balance. If it's taken that much of your life, probably you're out of balance You know, no, I'm not going down that road either. So what I'm saying is each thing has priority in its place, right? And what you need to do is you need to find that place, put that thing there, and give it the priority it deserves. In its place. How do you do that? With the wisdom of God. By seeking and putting God first. Then all these things shall be added unto you. Living life by priorities. And now I'm done. Why don't you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?