Turn your Bibles to the book of James tonight as we get into the Word of God. James chapter 4. Glad to see those of you that could make it uh here tonight and look forward to the hopefully not too distant future when a few more people have the vaccine and uh Uh people are more confident about being out in in public and we can get some more of the church family back with us w regarding to the weather I felt like we had a very good attendance. this morning even with the weather that we had, knowing some people in different areas couldn't get out because of the ice and uh the parking lot actually was icy first thing this morning and uh So glad the sun uh melted that off. I'm glad that everybody was okay. The book of James, I guess you guys know that I enjoy enjoy James. But we're going to speak tonight on profitable planning. Look at James chapter 4 and verse number 13 through 17. James 4, 13 through 17. He says, Go to now. Ye that say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now ye rejoice in your boastings, all such rejoicing is evil. Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. James, this practical preacher. is dealing with and talking about uh the future and presuming upon the future and thinking about what's coming down the road and planning for Tomorrow in the balance of the year. I feel like we're kind of at the beginning of the year here, and I know we're rolled over into February already, uh and it's just progressing very quickly, but we This year you look at it and say what do I want to accomplish this year? What do I want to get done in in the next uh eleven months now? And and looking maybe you've got a five year plan, maybe you've got some goal to to achieve over the next three years, looking maybe financially, I want to get the house paid off in the next ten years or I want to get this accomplished in the next what whatever your goals might be. And as you're planning, there's uh some things to keep in mind to keep profitable planning. James opens up verse number 13 and he says, go to now. Go to now. That that's kind of a a call to attention. It's He's saying, like, behold now. He's saying, consider, let's consider this. He says, he's a call to attention. He says, hey, I got your attention? Okay, think about this. He calls us to attention to deal with the idea of self-sufficiency. It is far too common practice for Christians today to think about their life. and to plan their agenda completely separate from God. It is the idea of complete self-sufficiency You never know what's gonna happen. You know, just mentioned Dave, I mean just a couple weeks ago he had a stroke. You know, I mean you you never know what a day may bring forth. You think about the frailty of our body. I mean the whole world is walking around with mask on because of a tiny, tiny little virus. So I did a little research to try and understand myself and maybe to be able to share with you. This thing that we're so afraid of. Now, if you took the coronavirus and blew it up 4,000 times, It would be the size of a poppy seed. Just that idea is just such a small thing, yet it can destroy the body. I mean, how foolish is it to live our lives outside of God and to plan our futures as though God does not exist? We live as though we are 100% in control when we are constantly reminded that we're not. I mean it's it just seems like we have more reminders about how much we are not in control than we do about how we are in control, yet we still seem to push ahead like we are. Can I remind you, beloved, that this is Satan's plan? God wants uh I mean Satan wants us to live outside of God. Satan wants us to feel self-sufficient and To feel as though we can set our agenda and plan our future and do what we want to do and not have to acknowledge or think about God at all. It's called humanism. It's called a belief in self and that we exist. We're self-existent and self-sufficient and don't need God. The idea that man is in control. He says, go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Now, beloved, this title of this message is Profitable Planning, and certainly you know that my that I like planning You know that I believe the Bible teaches that we ought to be planners, that we ought to have vision, that we ought to have a goal and be headed somewhere, and and certainly the path of success Is paved with planning. And I believe in planning. So this message is not a message against planning or against thinking down the road or looking ahead and preparing adequately for it. But the idea of profitable planning is that we've got to keep some things in mind. We've got to remember some things. At the age of nine, architect Frank Lloyd Wright was walking in the snow with his uncle. They reached the end of a field, and his uncle stopped him and turned him around, and he pointed back across the field. Looked at his nephew and he said, Do you see my path? It's straight and consistent. And he said, Do you see your path? He says this morandering track through the through the field where you're going to look at this cow and going over to hop on the fence and your path goes everywhere. Frank Lloyd Wright said, that day he learned a lesson that he never forgot, and he would never again wander through life without a purpose. So we should have a purpose. We should have a plan. We should be looking down the road, but the problem comes when we make those plans without Christ. When we make those goals without thinking about what God wants. Despite the warnings in Scriptures, many Christians continue to make life-altering decisions Important decisions that have far-reaching effects. They make those decisions without consulting God. Because they really boil down to a decision of expediency or convenience or profit, many times it's a profit thing It's well this job's gonna give me a better pay and so I've gotta move my family over here. You can take that down the path, and there's so many ramifications to a move like that. How it affects your family, how it affects your your your kids, how they're influenced. And where they end up down the road. It's compounded to a point where we can't even comprehend one decision like that. James gives us this example of someone planning to go into a city. He's dealing with a move here. He's dealing with taking another job or planning to make profit or earn money, which seems many times to be the motivation for decisions that we make that caused us maybe to take steps without consulting God. And I'm not saying that God doesn't ever plan a move, that God wouldn't ever want you to to take a step or to take a new move position or to change jobs or those kind of things. I believe God does do those things, but are we praying and seeking God's will in each of those decisions? Or are we just doing what we want to do and hoping God gets on board? See, that's the difference. So if we're going to have profitable planning, let me give you a couple of things. First of all, you need to recognize the complexity of life. Recognize the complexity of life. In verse number 14, he says, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. Life is a complex adventure full of uncertainty. That's just the nature of life It's a complex adventure full of uncertainty. We don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. We have no way of knowing the future. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. At any time we could fall victim to disease or Get involved in an accident or even be taken in death. At any time those things could happen. We don't know. We've got to be careful not to presume upon a future. John Blanchard explained it well when he said this. The moment a man is born, he begins to die. That death could come at any time, by design, disease, disaster, or decay. But man is not here to stay, he's here to go The fact of the matter is as we when we're making decisions we gotta be careful not to be to presume upon an unknown future We gotta remember the complexity of life. You know, recognize that. Here's one of the problems with our credit card age, with our buying everything on credit. Everybody's presuming upon a future that's not guaranteed. They think, oh, well, I I can buy this because I know it's tight right now, but next year I'm supposed to get a raise, and when I get that raise, that'll put the cushion in and I'll be able to make this payment But you don't know that you're going to have that raise next year. I know it's supposed to come, but it what if it doesn't come? And then what what if you lose your job? And you have to take a job that gives lower pay. And now you put yourself in a terrible, terrible position. You say, Well, it wasn't supposed to be this way. I was supposed to have this and this and this. The problem is is you didn't recognize the complexity of life and you planned upon a future that is uncertain and said, oh I'm gonna buy this car, I'm gonna buy this size of house, I'm gonna do this, and and because this is what I want And you get so many people get themselves into a mess over and over again because they're presuming upon that future that's uncertain. What if you lost your job tomorrow? Do you have three to six months of money to draw upon? Are you in a position where you have adequately prepared? If you had to take a job making less, if you lost your job tomorrow and went a couple weeks without a paycheck, would you lose your car? You haven't recognized the complexity of life. You haven't prepared adequately. You haven't planned for the future. You're living from check to check on a shoestring and just hoping and praying nothing breaks. That's no way to live. That's a lot of stress. That's a lot of pressure. And you've done it to yourself. But that's not how you want to plan for the future. Have you prepared? I mean, do you have your will done? Do you have your your living trust done? Whatever preparations for when your life changes or if you pass away? We've got to recognize the complexity of life, realizing that life is uncertain. Any one of a thousand things can happen to upset man's plan. It's estimated by the experts that lightning bolts last 45 to 55 microseconds, that the average running shoe lasts 350 to 500 miles. That's a lot of running. The uh the average number two pencil can write 30,000 words. A ballpoint pin can draw a line 7,500 feet long, and a 100-watt incandescent light bulb less 750 hours. Yeah, James says your life is but a vapor. We don't know how long we have. Even with our continual experience of our best-laid plans that get messed up We still many times presume upon a future that is not guaranteed. Life has no guarantees and to refuse to face it. is foolish. We've got to be ready for that, plan for that. Adequate, profitable planning recognizes the complexity of life, and whether we're talking about financial decisions that you you're making or we're talking about a move that you need to make or or whatever decision in your life, buying a vehicle or whatever, it's gonna keep that in mind. Realize, hey We don't know about tomorrow. We gotta be careful. This is not wise to to run this close to the to the line. We've got to keep that in mind. And Keep obviously praying. He says, remember in verse number fifteen we want to remember the Creator. Verse number fifteen he says, For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. This is where we get the idea of, well, it's the Lord's will. It's the Lord's will. And we pray about something and we find God's will and we do it Whatever the Lord wants us to do. And as we have prayed for the court case over and over again, our prayer has been, Lord, here's what we would like, but our desire is in your timing and in your will. Lord, what you would want for Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and we're leaving this in your hands and leaving it up to you, and we're doing our best to pray in the will of God, not just our own will or what we want. Remembering that our life is in the hands of God, wouldn't it be wise to consult Him when making life-altering decisions? If God is in control of my life, it would make sense that I would discuss my life with Him. Look for the will of God in every decision we're making, from small to big. Every decision. In your life, let God lead you. If you begin practicing on the small decisions, it will be a lot easier to know what God wants on the big decisions. You'll have that confidence. You'll have that faith that oh I know this is what God wants. Because God has led me, God's directed me, and I I've made these these little decisions. You know, uh I I guess it's not really a small thing, but David defeated uh a lion and a bear before it's pretty big, but he defeated those before he defeated the giant. What gave him the courage to go and fight the giant? He said, Hey, God, put into my hand the lion and the bear. God gave me that victory. And if you pray about you say, well, this is just a small thing. It's in inconsequential. It's not a big deal. But when you pray about those and get the leading of God and He directs you You see how God works and how God leads and you make those decisions and then when you make the next decision you see God lead. And then when you have to make a big decision, you're used to that and you know how God directs you. And you can take that step with confidence, remembering the Creator in every decision, everything that we do. You know, I know God's will, we we we like to say that a lot. Well, it's God's will. But I I have noticed over the years that It's not very often that God's will is leading somebody to do the hard thing. Most of the time it's well it's God's will that I take this job. I mean it's going to be double pay. It's God's will that I that I move over here because after all here's the the benefits. But what what about it's God's will that I take this job even though I'm gonna be making uh you know half of what I would be making over there Now I'm not saying God doesn't want you to have the job that makes double pay. But I'm saying a lot of times we decide what we want to do and then then work hard to get God on board. Work hard to justify it in our mind and explain and this is the best reason and this is why and we've convinced ourselves that this is going to work instead of just praying and saying, Lord, whatever you want. That's what I I want to do. And letting the Lord direct your steps. And taking that with confidence, knowing you're doing God's wills. Proverbs 3, verse number 6, in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. Psalms 143, verse number 10, teach me to do thy will. For thou art my God. Teach me to do thy will. I think some of us need to pray. Lord, teach me to do thy will Not my will, thine, Lord, but thine be done. What do you want, Lord? Then, verse number sixteen, you need to remove the conceit. Remove the conceit. He says in verse number sixteen, he says, but now ye rejoice in your boastings. All such rejoicing is evil. This idea of boasting here is is an empty an empty boast, uh an empty praise. uh boasting and praising about something that you don't really have. All of us have heard kids boasting. You've heard them talking about, you know, one guy says, well, yeah, I I could jump that. I did that the other day. And some other kid says, yeah, I could jump that too. That's not that hard. And then the first kid says, Well do it. And the other one says, I d I don't feel like it right now. Wait, wait. No, no, you do it. I I dare you. I could jump that easy. I just don't want to You know, there's empty boasting. It's this uh oh yeah, I could do that. And and we've all heard those discussions about different types of things where uh you know, people kind of lifting themselves up about something they don't really have Well in the context here he's talking about life. And so many times we hear people boasting about the good life. They're boasting about the life that they have created. And about what the the the the the life that they've got and all this things that they've done and how they've lifted themselves up by their bootstraps and look what that they've they've established and how they've done this and how they've done that. And God's saying that's empty boasting. Because you haven't done any of it. God did it That is empty boasting. Boasting of something you really don't have. Sometimes people in the world would boast about living a great life, and God is saying that they have yet to even experience life. Because they have never known Jesus Christ, the one who gives life. They're still dead in their trespasses and sins They're empty boasting. They're boasting of something that they don't even have. That they can't even experience because they don't have Jesus yet. This boasting of self-sufficiency is evil. Ye rejoice in all your boastings, but all such rejoicing is evil, he says. Psalms 49, verse 6 and 7 says, They that trust in their wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches, none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. He says, you boast in all your riches and all your wealth, but do you know what? All that wealth can't buy your brother's redemption. All that wealth can't purchase life for anybody else. Only God can give life. It's from Him and through Him. That's empty boasting. It's far better, beloved, for us to be like Paul. Paul, who said, But by the grace of God, I am what I am. It's God's goodness. It's God's grace. Anything that I have accomplished in life is because of how good God has been to me. Because of God's blessing, God's provision. He's He's helped me to make some wise decisions. He allowed me to get a good job or he allowed me to, I mean, you one of the joys of my life is the family that God has given me. But I just stand back in awe and just say, I I don't I don't know how or why I can't put down on paper and tell somebody, oh yeah, well if you do this and this and this, you know, your your wife will love you and praise you and support you and And help you and and your kids will honor and respect you. And and I mean there's biblical principles that we try and follow, but I just say it's God's goodness. Right. It's God's blessing. Certainly not anything that I deserve or that I could look at and say, Well, I'll tell you why, I faithfully, without error accomplish this or that. All the time I look at my life and have to say, man, I I've messed up here, I've fallen short there, but God is still good. Amen. God is good. It's empty to talk about what we've accomplished because ultimately we need to recognize that it's from God. We need to remove that conceit out of our life. And if we're going to have profitable planning, we need to realize the crime, verse number 17. He says, Therefore to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him It is sin. To know to do something and to do it that we should do something and to do it not is sin. Sin is not just doing the things that we know we shouldn't do. It's also not doing the things that we know we should do. When God has given us the plan of action, when God has showed us what we should be doing, that is what we must do. This guy knows what he should do, but he refuses to do it. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 26 and 27, he says, And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, Shall be like unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house. And it fell, and great was the fall of it. I've often looked at that story of the wise man and the foolish man, and you see the houses there? And they're both maybe on a cul-de-sac somewhere. And from the outside, they they look very similar. They look like good houses. They look like they've been constructed correctly. I mean they're beautiful facades. And another thing is that both of them had the same knowledge. They both had access to the same plans to build that house. But one chose to refuse to do it the way they're supposed to. And the other chose to do it how they wanted to, to be self-sufficient. And when you look at it, everything looks fine, but then when the storm comes, the house just falls apart. That's what it's like, beloved, when we're living life without God. I'm saying is God is part of our to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. We're Christians and we're carrying our Bible and we're going to church and we're praying and we've got this structure of Christianity that's out there and everybody sees it. And on the outside it looks good On the outside, it's praiseworthy. But the foundation isn't there. And when the storm comes, when the hardship comes, when the trial comes, The house is going to fall. And that's when everything gets blown away. And the foundation erodes. And a lot of Christians, I've heard many of them say, I don't know what happened. I thought everything was okay. But they didn't do what they knew they were supposed to do. Profitable planning. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Beloved, as we think about our future and what we want to do and what we would like to accomplish, the challenge tonight is to remember your creator, to consult him, to think about what he would want, to do it his way. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Lord, we come to you now in a moment of invitation, and we ask you, dear Lord, that as we have been challenged from the book of James tonight, with these thoughts about So ultimately, Lord, you're in control and we can't ignore it, we can deny it, but to live life outside of your direction is foolish.