Turn your Bibles to Proverbs chapter number 30. Proverbs chapter 30. So you're in Proverbs chapter number 30 I told you this morning we were going to be talking about balance in the Christian life. This is something we've been studying, looking at, and I've enjoyed the study myself. Just a systematic area of looking at and just Dissecting the Word of God, looking for areas that as Christians we're supposed to have balance. Well, we're supposed to have balance in every area of our Christian life. This is something that is expected of us by God. Uh the s aspect of balance. I I think through this and as I'm driving around I'm musing upon balance and thinking about different ways to illustrate and To show uh balance. And we've done several and given you several of them already, but another one I thought of this week is that there is balance also implies a level of tension. Or level of attention that's given to something in particular. For instance, if you from what I understand, I'm not a seamstress. But from the reading that I did and developing this illustration is that a sewing machine, the thread that goes into the sewing machine, has to be at the correct tension. If there's too much tension, the thread will break. If there's not enough tension, it'll get snagged or caught on something, or uh it's not going to work correctly. You've got to have the correct amount of tension on the thread. And in our Christian life, we've got to have that correct amount of tension in both directions. We've got to have that correct amount of attention that we give to different areas of our lives. We're not supposed to be overly vested or overly attentive in one area at the neglect of another area. So tonight we want to look at the idea of balance of prosperity in poverty. At Proverbs chapter 30 and verse number 8 and 9. Scripture says, Remove far from me vanity and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches Feed me with food convenient for me, lest I be foal and deny thee, and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor. And steal and take the name of my God in vain. We are to have balance in our lives Really, in every area of our lives, and it is the tendency of man to get out of balance. It is our tendency to drift. And we continually need to find our center again. And I want you to understand, I'm I'm going to come up with a good illustration on showing this. How many of you know how a a a large pendulum works in a skyscraper? In the very top of the skyscrapers, they have huge weights. That hang that counter the wind load that the structure gets on it. This pendulum counters that wind load to keep and minimize the movement in the building That weight at its center is what keeps it stable. I want you to know for a Christian, our center should be the Lord Jesus Christ. That weight, that polling focus, that thing, whenever we get Jesus Christ out of the center of our lives, we are going to get out of balance somewhere. That's just it's going to happen. We've got to keep him at the center, and then the other things will maintain balance around that. We don't want to get too far in one area or the other as we looked at last week with regards to mercy and truth. God wants us to have balance in our life. You know, you're supposed to have zeal, but you're also supposed to have knowledge. It it takes a balance of both. There was one of the great knights that came to the drawbridge of a castle He came up to the drawbridge and they lowered the bridge and he came he came across uh to the master of the house and uh he he was just barely hanging on to his horse. The master of the house came out and saw him, and his armor was all beat up and scarred, and his helmet was cracked, and his face was bruised, and he just looked so weak and broken down. And the horse was injured, and he says, Man, what have you been doing? And he says, Sir, I tell you, I have been out warring. And plundering and burning everything from all your enemies to the west. And the leader, the master of the house, he says, You've been doing what? He said, I don't have any enemies to the West. He said, Oh, I think you do now. He had a lot of zeal. He was real energetic about going and getting it done But all that zeal was for naught because he didn't have the knowledge to go with it. It's supposed to be both. We're supposed to have that balance and as we pray and ask the Lord to help us for balance We need to ask the Lord to help us to be conscientious but not a perfectionist, to be discerning, but not critical, to be disciplined, but not demanding. To be friendly, but not familiar. To be generous, but not gullible. To be gentle, but not hypersensitive. To be holy, but not holier than thou, to be meek, but not weak, to be self-reliant, but not self-sufficient. To be steady, but not stubborn, to be tactful, but not timid, to be bold, but not cocky. And we could go on in our life, there is a tendency for us to give attention or to focus in one particular area that maybe is our strength or that we enjoy. Well, we leave undone those areas that might be our weaknesses or that we don't enjoy, and we're not achieving balance in our lives. So as we look tonight as the idea of having a balance between Prosperity and poverty, we see in our text here that he says, give me neither poverty nor riches. So let's look first and consider the principle that's being taught here. What is the principle being taught here? This is not setting for us a mark or establishing a level. Of standard of living. It's not saying that this much, this standard of living is riches, and this standard of living is poverty. It's not dealing with an actual number, it's dealing with a spirit. How you think, how you feel about where you are. about how you view the finances or the means in which you have, it's our attitude towards money more than anything else The question is posed how much is enough and how little is insufficient. For everybody that number is going to be drastically different. For some, enough would be substantially less than for somebody else. And is one person wrong and the other person right? Not necessarily. It's what you believe in your heart with regards to what God has given you. You know, this poverty that it's talking about in this passage is not talking about the level of national poverty here in the U. S. You know, you can as a family you can make twenty-five thousand a year and you're still considered in poverty in the US. Um as an individual, as a single person, you can make over twelve thousand a year and still be considered in poverty. That's not what it's talking about necessarily. It's talking about your mind, your heart, your spirit with regards to what you have. You know, some falsely believe that the life of a pauper is somehow more spiritual than the life of somebody who has riches. There is this mindset that, oh, if I swear off riches and dedicate my life to live a life of pottery, I am more spiritual. than someone who has a lot. That's not true, you know that, right? But do you know on the other side of the table over here we also have a whole group that's very popular today They're called prosperity gospel preachers. They preach this gospel, this mentality that if you love God and you have enough faith, you could drive a Bentley. You could have whatever car you want. You could have a plane if you wanted. If you have enough faith and and you trust God, why God wants you to be rich All you need to do is send $79. 95 to me. And I'll pray over this piece of cloth. And I'll send it to you. And this will be your seed money. Sent so you can be wealthy. So he buys a jet. Off the funds of all those people, we said, ask God help me to be giving but not gullible. Amen? There's a prosperity gospel. Somehow, this mindset, if you're spiritual enough, God's going to just pour it out on you and you're going to have untold wealth. That's not true either. The writer here in Proverbs, he asked the question, he says, Lord, give me neither poverty or riches. Neither one. And I want to remove from our mind a dollar value because everybody in here has a different dollar value. What is riches? How much money do I gotta make to be rich? How much money do I have to lose before I'm poor? It's different for everybody. It's an attitude. It's a spirit. He says here, feed me with food convenient for me. Feed me with food convenient for me. That word convenient for me is not Easily had. Aha. That means sufficient. That means enough. As he said in the Old Testament uh the idea that the uh Israelites had to go out and collect or get their bread, the manna, daily. They had to get what they needed for that day, and God was going to provide it for them. And in the New Testament, continuing that principle, I believe it's in Matthew chapter number six, he says that we are to pray, ask the Lord, give us this day our daily bread. Give us what is sufficient for today, what we need for right now. And understanding that is the mindset that we're supposed to have. You know, what's sufficient for one is not necessarily sufficient for another. Contrary to socialist thinking. Okay, I know it's it's gaining a resurgence in our country of people that believe it's unfair for you to have more than me. Even if you work harder than I do. We should be equal. Well, I want you to understand that's not biblical. Biblically, a man is rewarded for his labor. A man is paid what he agreed to get paid for what he did, and whether that's a little or a lot, whatever they agreed upon. And if a man wants to work 60 hours a week instead of 40 hours a week and come home with a bigger paycheck, Then he can do that and he shouldn't have to give you half of it because you only wanted to work twenty hours a week. That's false philosophy, false thinking going around. It's socialist thinking. And that's not what God teaches. In Exodus chapter 16 and verse number 18, he says, and when they did meet it with With Omar, he gathered much and had nothing over, and he that gathereth little had no lack. They gathered every man according to his eating. See, every man gathered what they needed. So even in a church house sometimes we get a the idea or the mentality that, oh, that person's rich. And I'm so poor. I don't have nothing. I don't know if that's fair. Listen, we've got to be careful about that. Give us neither poverty nor riches. Neither one. It's having the right spirit about what it God has given us. You see, if I had to pay next year's bills, today, I'd be in trouble. But I can pay today's bills today. What I need my daily bread today, what is sufficient, what is convenient. So he's saying you're praying, talking to God, ask God, Lord. Meet my needs, my daily needs, what they are right now. Recognizing this is the fact that God owns it all and gives it all to us, and it shows a submission to His will. In Proverbs 11, verse number 24, he says, There is that scattereth and yet increaseth. And there is that withholdeth more than is meat, but tendeth to poverty. You see, what it boils down to is God's blessing. There is that scattereth, yet increaseth. And yet there's one that is gathering everything he can. I mean he's going to get it all, and he's still in poverty. The difference is what is God doing for them? And God can pour out his blessing on an individual when he has the right spirit and the right heart with regards to money. And so I want to show you the problem that arises here in this passage of scripture. So he says In Proverbs 13, verse number 7, he says, There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing. There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches. In our text, he says, Give me neither poverty nor riches, feed me with food convenient for me, lest I be foal and deny thee. And say, Who is the Lord? You know, you don't have to be Jeff Bayles to deny God's existence. You just have to think what you have is all you need. And you don't need God. That's when you've reached the point where you've got too much. Where your level of riches is exceeded your ability to trust and follow God. Right. So he's saying, give me neither poverty nor riches. I recall a story about a businessman who Came to the pastor and he said, I'm I'm just struggling, paying all my bills, and I I don't know what to do and I I don't know how to and of course the pastor he asked, he said, Are are you tithing? And he says, Pastor, I I don't I can't afford to tithe. I don't have any money to tithe. And he says, Well, I want you to trust God. Take ten percent of whatever you're making and give it to God. So the man began to take ten percent of what he was making and he and he and he began to give it to God. That 10% was very little. It was maybe a hundred bucks a week or something. I mean it wasn't a substantial amount, but it was he he started be giving that to God. And then uh God began to bless his business. He used to only make uh $1,000 a week and God began to bless his business and now he he was making $50,000 a week. And he came to the pastor and he said, Pastor, I I can't give this much. I can't give this much to God. It's too much money. And he said the pastor said, Oh, that's all right. I'll just start praying God reduces your salary to the number you can afford to give. You see it wasn't a problem to give when the amount he was giving God wasn't that much. When God blessed him beyond his level You see, he made him rich. Rich in his own mind. And he said, Oh, I can't I I don't trust God anymore. So where is that for you? You may make twenty thousand dollars a year and not trust God. You may make $150,000 a year and not trust God. Where it at is up to you as an individual. Give me neither poverty nor riches. What he's saying is don't let me get to the point where I'm so rich, I say, who are you, Lord? Who are you? I I I I've done this. And where we reach that level is different for everybody. It's different for everybody. A rich man has a tendency to forget God. You know, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. It's amazing when you think about the fact that a man's riches He doesn't even realize it, but his prosperity has turned him into a fool. Because in his prosperity he said there is no God. Even though God is the one that gave it to him. He takes all that God has given him and shows it off like it's his. There is no look at how God's blessed. Man, God's blessed me so much I I don't deserve this. It's it's I'm embarrassed about how God good how good God has been. Wow, look, praise God for this or that. No, it's Oh look at my new toy. Oh look at my new toy. Come check out my new house. Come check out all it's all about Us instead of about God. So a rich man will have a tendency to forget God, and a poor man will have a tendency to forget the law He says here, give me neither poverty nor riches lest I steal. Right. Because it's not fair that everybody else in here has money and I don't. So I can steal it from you. I can steal it and take it from me. And I uh you may very well need it, but to steal it is sin. And again, you're not trusting God to provide it. So a poor man will be driven to steal, to forget. You understand it's a spirit that's in our heart, not our actual numbers. How many of you seen people that are actually wealthy that have a problem stealing? They they're kleptomaniacs. I don't know, some time ago I saw a news article on a on a lady that I mean she had three or four hundred dollars in her purse and she was stealing a twenty nine dollar A shirt. You know, why? Just because. It's the mindset. It's not about how little you have. It's about You may make $100,000 a year and think God hasn't been fair to me. Man, I've been working so hard. I've been investing all this time. I've been given all this stuff. I've been tithing and doing what God wants, and I only make $100,000 a year. And there's people in the room right now saying, oh my goodness, if I made a hundred thousand a year, I would be set for it. I would be, we would be flying high on the hog, you know But again, it's not about how much money you make or you don't make. It's about the spirit that you have with what God has given you. Do you view yourself as rich to a point where you don't need God? Or as poor to the point where you think God's forgotten you This is telling us in no uncertain terms that extremes are usually not handled very well. Getting super wealthy or get being extremely poor is not usually not handled very well. And so what God is saying, have balance. Have balance in this area of your life. Most men today ask God, give me more. Take away those things which are painful to me. We we we don't want the hardship and we want more and more things. Our want list for God is pretty long. I wonder how many of us pray or have ever prayed. Don't give me riches. Don't make You understand it's not about saying, God, don't give me over this number, this amount of money. It's saying, God help me to always look at you. And to never have so much that I lift myself up above the God who provided it. Consider with me, if you would, the profit that's given to us as a benefit of Having a balance in this area. In Proverbs 10, verse number 22, he says, the blessing of the Lord it maketh rich. And addeth no sorrow with it. The blessing of the Lord it maketh rich, and addeth no sorrow with it. How many rich people do you know? You're like, I don't know any rich people. Let's just say at a distance. Via the internet or television or what have you, how many rich people have you viewed that are miserable? They've got all this money and they are just miserable. I told you before about the story how we went to this uh Mary and I over a year ago now we went to India. And uh in India we went to the Uberai uh and it's a resort. And they had one room there at the resort that was ten thousand dollars a night. And there was a family that came there, the the guide that was showing us around, the the guy that he was he was like a manager there, he was a friend of Brother Pratt's, and he was giving us a tour. And he showed us this room that's ten thousand dollars a night. Comes with his own butler. Guy stands outside the door, just waits for you if you need anything at all. Well this family had uh got this night or this this room for how many nights, do you remember? It was it's like fourteen nights or something like that that they had got this room. And then they brought other family with them, but they didn't want them in their little hut, so they had three other huts as well that family were in. And those other ones weren't ex weren't that expensive. They were only like five thousand or seven thousand a night or something like that. And anyways, as they were checking in This guy and his wife had a fight. And everybody in the resort knew it. And this guy and his wife did not talk to each other for the first three or four days that they were there. They they are spending $10,000 a night and nobody wanted to go to their room because they said it was like a war zone. This this they said it was just it was crazy. And this young Christian who hadn't been saved very long, he says, you know, it's just amazing all this money and they are miserable. But you see, Proverbs 1022 says, the blessing of the Lord it maketh rich and addeth no sorrow with it. When God blesses you and gives you wealth or means or ability, when you're still looking at God, whatever that is, hey, I pray God makes a couple of you multimillionaires. God hey, God's gotta build that building on Shawan Road somehow. So you some some of you guys need to design an app or something and sell it to you know, Elon Musk or something. You've got to do something. I pray God blesses you like that, but no matter how much blessing you got, I pray you always acknowledge it's from God. And it's not about how much we have. It's about the spirit we have with how much or how little God has given us. Having a correct balance view of what it is that God has blessed us with. Proverbs 15 and verse number 16 says, better is a little with the fear of the Lord. Than great treasure and trouble therewith. Be better just to have a little and fear and love God than to have all kinds of money and just be full of treasure trouble because of it. God's blessing is not usually seen in the extremes because God knows we usually can't handle it. I was telling one of the men in the foyer last Sunday night, I think it was, that uh Spurgeon said to his preacher boys, he said, most can handle the trial of poverty, but very few can handle prosperity. So that's why in Philippians 4, verse number 5, he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. Having a balance, not going in extreme one way or the other. As we close, I want to ask you, would you be willing to pray and ask God? God don't make me poor. Just give me what I need. And I'll trust you. I'll be happy. I'll be content. I'll be pleased with what you want to give me, God. Oh, I know. We like to pray, Don't make me poor. But would we pray, Don't make me rich? Lest I forget you. To maintain this balance in our life, in this area and in other area, as I said in the beginning, we've got to put God at the center. And as I have pondered this idea of balance in the Christian life, uh I had a revolutionary thought this week. Are you ready for it? There is only if you're ever out of balance, how do you get back into balance? There is only one thing in the Word of God. That to my knowledge you cannot get out of bounds in. And that is prayer. Because you are to be praying. Always and without ceasing. So as I thought about this, I thought if we get ourselves out of balance in our life, How do we get back into balance? I think we've got to spend some time in prayer. And God will help us get back in balance. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Lord, as we come to you in this moment of invitation, I pray God your people would yield to you and do what you want them to do. I know that this world pulls at us to Go after and search and try and gain prosperity at any cost. But Lord, I pray that our heart would be content With your blessing. And God, if you choose to bless beyond measure, where we wonder where it's all coming from and how you can continue to pour upon us so much, then praise be your name But God, if you choose to allow us to remain by this world standards in a in a level of contentment. Lord, praise be your name. I ask you, Lord, that you would help us to have a right spirit with regards to the having a balance in prosperity and poverty in our life and to continually look for to you regardless and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.