Well, turn your Bibles to Psalms. Psalms chapter number one. It's been fun reading in the Psalms, hasn't it? Been fun. I enjoy reading the Psalms, although this morning was kind of long for a Sunday morning. uh to read all those verses. Uh but great devotional written by uh Pastor August this morning. I I enjoyed that. Actually began thinking about a message uh preaching from that text with that idea. I'm going to be preaching for Pastor Whitaker when we're on vacation uh in August and uh I was thinking about their church and that passage of scripture might be applicable and God might use that, so maybe doing some studying that way. But this morning we're in Psalms one on Thursday night, Brother Wirig brought a message where he was Speaking on the example of Nehemiah, how Nehemiah was broken over the plight of his people, and how he went to his knees to pray over the need of his nation. How he decided that he would do what God wanted him to do and he walked with God around those walls that were broken down, burdened about what the state of his nation The condition of the nation was not just something that he observed from afar. He didn't just hear about it and say, Oh, that's too bad. But upon hearing about this poor and needy situation, He began to pray and seek God and ask God what could be done. Emboldened through prayer and empowered by God, he got up from his knees and he participated in a solution. He said, not only can I pray, but God has something he wants me to do. And he didn't just say, oh, I'll pray about it, but he said, I'm going to get involved and I'm going to do something about it. And I was blessed when I read in verse number 9 of chapter number 1 there, he said, he asked God to prosper him. And we, of course, if you know the story of Nehemiah, you know that he was prospered. That in 52 days they were able to construct and build these walls. In the face of amazing adversity, in what would be very poor conditions, in the poorest of times, in the worst of circumstances, God prospered them. And I was challenged to begin to study and prepare to preach this message this morning, prospering in spite of poverty. Prospering. In spite of poverty. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts this morning, to teach us from the Word of God? Lord, we come to you. We bow our heads humbly before you. We ask you this morning that you would use the pages of Scripture. These powerful words, Lord, this word of God sharper than a two-edged sword. The truths that are held in these words are for us. They're for our hearts. They're for our lives. Lord, if we would but be doers of the Word, they would transform our lives. Lord, we could experience prosperity in the face of amazing poverty if we would do what you want us to do. And I pray, God, this morning You would challenge hearts. You would stir us. Move us not just to pray, but to participate, to do what it is that you've called us to do. Lord, we pray you bless this time around your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. In our church right now, there are many unknowns. Of course, we are We'd love to be able to build out on the Shawan Road property and the unknown of what's gonna take place with that and how it's gonna proceed and where will we be in a few years and I mean oh my goodness in the middle of COVID, you know what's gonna happen, how many people can be in church and how many cats and all of these unknowns things that we're facing and dealing with. There's young men in our church, as we mentioned, that are just about to get married. I mean, their life is full of hope. Everything's in front of them. And there's men in our church that have been married for years and they've lost all hope. I I mean I mean their life is full of hope. I'm just kidding. Steve if you're listening, okay. Uh uh but there's men that that are young, they're they're wishing they could get married. They're they're ready and waiting. There there's anticipation. Looking for the future. Obviously, in our nation right now, things are in a bad way. Not just economically But these social ills that are plaguing our nation that are driving men apart That are separating us further and further. It's heartbreaking to see the situation in our country today. The rampant, unashamed practice and promotion of sin is destroying lives on every hand. How could a person possibly hope to have any prosperity in such poor conditions I believe if we would go to the Bible, we could allow the Word of God to instruct our souls today, to teach it. In our text here in Psalms 1, we're given a promise. A promise from God. A promise that is real, and you could take it to the bank. But you got to remember this is one of those conditioned promise verses. This is a promise that you can count on, but you've got to do what it asks of you. Psalms 1, 1 through 6. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners. Nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. And his leaf also shall not wither. I skipped the phrase. What's before that? That bringeth forth his fruit in the season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth Shall prosper. But the ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in judgment. Nor sinners in the seat of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly. shall perish. Psalms one. The promise there to prosper. To prosper. In light of extreme adversity, doesn't matter. The poorest of conditions doesn't matter. Certain uh your your particular circumstances are not what matters. What you do with God's instruction is what matters. I want you to see the contrast that's given to us here between two types of people. You have the devout and the depraved. Both given to us in here, and in here we see their destiny. the difference between them and where they're going to end up. So first of all, we see the devout. I ask of you this morning, are you devout in your heart and in your actions? Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sinneth in the seed of the scornful. Do you understand this morning that behavior is based on knowledge? Behaviors based on knowledge. You see the reason that we have these white pieces of plastic on our pews that Mark out social distancing is because of knowledge that we have. The reason that you all come in and sit separated And you wear your mask coming and going and and uh you you've been you know buying up all of the hand sanitizer and and all that. What why? Because of the knowledge you've been given. Because there's something in your mind that has said, hey, this is needed, this is necessary, and it affected your behavior. Right? It affected your behavior. If they started talking about how the use of inkpins has been proven That when you use a pen, the ink seeps up through your skin and gets into your bloodstream. And it's proven that you are ninety-eight percent more likely to have a heart attack because of ink that's soaked under your skin because you used a pen, you know what, ink sales would go down to next of nothing. People would stop using ink pens. Everybody would be using lead, which is worse than ink Well what I'm saying is what you know, what you've been told, what you've taken in as far as knowledge is what affects your behavior. That's why it is so vitally important, beloved, who we're getting our counsel from. Blessed is the man. Happy is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Where are you getting your counsel from this morning? You want to prosper in your home? You want to prosper in your life? You want to prosper in everything that you do? Where are you getting your counsel? Where are you getting your instruction from? Listen, I'm not talking about you got a mechanic and you He he's lost but he's a good mechanic and he knows how to work on cars and he says, Listen, this is the oil you ought to put in your car. That's not what I'm talking about. He knows cars and he can give you instruction, but I'm saying where are you getting your advice on how to run your home? You should not be reading Cosmopolitan Magazine to learn how to have a happy home. You should not be listening to the view on how to get your man. Okay? That's not where you get your instruction on how to have relationships. Where you get you want to be happy, don't be listening to them people. They don't know anything about it. Your instruction should come from those that believe the Word of God. That have a relationship with God. We should not be going to the world to learn how to have a happy home. We shouldn't be going to the world to learn how to build and establish your relationship. We shouldn't be going to the world to learn how to handle your finances. You say, oh, they know how to handle finances. Yeah, but they don't believe in God. And they're going to tell you the first thing you've got to do is uh Quit your charitable giving. But beloved, it's not charitable giving. It's God's. God owns it. What hast thou that thou hast not received? God owns it all. And what he asks of you is to give him A little portion of that back so that his work here on earth can go forward. You understand, beloved, you've never given God anything that he didn't first give you. And when you have somebody out in the world that doesn't know God, doesn't believe in God, they'll think you're crazy for giving to God. But the Bible tells you that if you don't give to God, you're cursed. And you wonder why you can't make ends meet. Listen, I don't preach on given very much, and this is really not even part of this message. But this is an area that a lot of people separate in their minds spiritually and and like, oh I could get you know a good financial counsel out here, he can tell me how to have how to handle my money. But if he doesn't know and love God and want to follow biblical principles He's not going to tell you right. Now there are other biblical principles that he'll give you with regards to investing and stuff like that. I want you to understand that if they work, it's because they're based on Biblical principle, whether he knows it or not. He might not even understand it. He can't point to chapter and verse, but biblical principle works every time, whether you know God or not. When you're doing how God said to do it, it works. But you need to get instruction from somebody that knows God That's biblically based. What does the Bible call a man who doesn't believe in God? The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. Why would Christians go to a fool to get instruction? To get Teaching, to learn how to have a happy life. He is yet to adopt the most basic fundamental thing Does not nature itself declare the handiwork of God? And they choose to reject it. Listen to how Romans describes a man who doesn't fear God. Listen to this description and think about going to this man. For your advice. As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good, no not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre. With their tongues they have used deceit The poison of asp is under their lips, with mouth whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood Destruction and misery are in their way, and the way of peace have they not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Listen, don't you want to get advice from somebody that's really, really smart? Let me use another word for that. Get advice from somebody that has wisdom. What does the Bible say that the beginning of wisdom is? The fear of the Lord. Beloved, you can't hope to have a happy life if you're getting your Counsel and your direction and for your life from Cosmopolitan. From some psychologist who doesn't know God, but he's going to teach you how to raise your kids. Teach you how to have a happy home. Could I encourage you to get your instruction from the Word of God or from counsel? that knows God and believes God and is going to try and guide you biblically. That's where a happy life comes. That's how you prosper even in the face of great poverty. Where are you getting your advice from? I hear so many Christians listening to and heeding advice, not just from professionals, like let's say a psychiatrist. But from friends, friends who don't know God Some co-worker at work. Gary, you don't gotta put up with him. You just leave him. You you better than that That's right, come on. I I've had people tell me, Pastor, my husband Telling him not to work it out. They also told me that their friend has been divorced twice. And this is who they're getting advice from. So their friend has has been divorced twice, and that's who they're listening to about their relationship. Listen, friend, you need to get with somebody who knows God that's going to guide you biblically. Biblically. That's how you'd be happy. Hey, blessed is the man that walketh not in the council. Of the ungodly. Don't walk in that counsel. Blessed is the man that standeth not with sinners. Okay, this I think is talking about is it's not talking about standing in line a giant with a center. I mean you could do that. It's okay. It's not talking about going to ball game and somebody in seat 22B is a sinner. Because the person in seat 22A is a center too Okay, we're just a sinner saved by grace. We're not any better than that person. But Jesus Christ is our Lord. I believe what it's talking about is who do you want to go to the ballgame with? If you are more comfortable going to the ball game with the lost guys from work who don't know God, then you are going to the ball game with the guys from church. You have a problem. You should be more comfortable with God's people. Have you he have you ever heard somebody, a lost person, you ever heard them say, Oh, I I'm just not comfortable in church You know, you say, oh, it's okay, you can come however you are. Just come dress like you are. That's fine. You're welcome. He's like, it's not about what I'm wearing. It's about church. I'm not comfortable in church Well, that's because they don't know God. Because they feel like a fish out of water, because they're in a place that's foreign to them and they don't have a relationship with Jesus yet. Christian, there ought to be some places that are foreign to us. There ought to be some places that we that we just say, hey, I just don't feel comfortable in that place. Yeah, amen. I can't tell you how many times we've been on vacation or traveling somewhere and there's a nice looking restaurant and I'll say, Hey, it's you know vacation, let's flourish, let's go to this restaurant. We walk in and I'm like um Nah, we ain't eating here. They probably have good food. I just ain't comfortable in that place. I'm not comfortable sitting in a bar. I'm not comfortable sitting and listening to that music or when the the waitresses aren't aren't dressed and covered up. I couldn't sit in an environment like that. You want to be blessed as a Christian? You should get to the place where you're more comfortable with God's people than the world's people. Where do you feel comfortable? Where are you more at home? You're not looking for uh uh you know getting out of church. You want to get into church Amen. Do you do you find yourself just getting bored in church You see, his delight. The devoted has a delight, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate. Day and night. His delight. Do you delight in the things of God? Or are you bored in God's house? You know, you tell me, any anybody, you just shouted out, tell me something that is of interest to you. I I don't I'm I'm looking for Don't get spiritual on me now. I love Jesus. Okay, I know that's the direction I'm heading. Let me do that. Okay, you tell me something that's interesting you that's Uh just something secular. There's not done that, but just something you enjoy. Jacob? Reading. Hiking. Hiking. Do you have the All Trails app? Yes. On your phone? Okay. Dirt bikes. Chocolate Sh we need to have a confession service right now. Chocolate. Shooting guns. Yeah, fishing. Oh here, Brother Weirick, man. I'm surprised he didn't give that one. Fishing, man. Looking at the sky. Looking at the sky. God's hand God's handiwork. Here's the thing, beloved, something that you're interested in You enjoy hearing about it. You enjoy reading about it. I mean, if if I've seen somebody catch a fish, I've seen somebody catch a fish But that's not how Brother Warwick feels. He wants to know what kind of test line they're using, he wants to know what pole are they using, uh what kind of kind of real is it and they're pulling it in and how long do they have to let 'em run and and what size is it and all that. And he's waiting for all the details, you know. Got the all trails app on her phone. So you can see all the trails in the area and how far they are and learn which is it, what is it intermediate level, how hard is it? You know, is it going to be easy or difficult? And you know, am I likely to sprain my ankle or read the reviews and it's all this stuff you're interested in. You know, I I've done some investing. You know, until I was 43 years old, it's only been the last couple years I've been in in investing. And uh until I was 43 years old, I never cared at all what the stock market was doing They're saying, oh, the stock market's up today, down three points today, the Dow just I mean it didn't matter to me Well you know in the last couple years I've been watching a bunch of videos on investing and how to invest and you know market what does this mean and and what's a long and what's a short and why do you want to trade this and why would you hold that and and uh what's a bear and what's a bull and and all these things. It was all it was all foreign to me. I knew nothing about it. But I'm learning about it. Why? Because I have interest in it. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. You come to God's house, you know what? The the preacher doesn't have to be dynamic and be able to bring you to the edge of your seat with laughter and seat you back with tears and move you that way for you to walk out the end of the service and say, man, it was good to be in God's house today. No, he just has to talk about your Lord. Just has to get up and point and lift high the cross of Jesus Christ. He just has to point to the pages of Scripture, and you're just saying, boy, I just love hearing about Jesus. Well, I just love reading the Word of God. I just love learning lessons from the Scripture. However, they're presented. Boy, this is rich It's good. I enjoyed it. It's been good to be in God's house. Not because how dynamic the speaker was, but because of how good your God is Do you have an interest in it? Do you delight? Do you delight and long to hear about Jesus? Meditate therein day and night. Beloved, his delight is in the law of the Lord. The exciting thing is that we get to see his destiny. It's a promise from God. Everybody wants to prosper. So we have here a prosper a promise to prosper, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Shall prosper You shall prosper. A promise from God in the face of adversity, in the poorest of circumstances, in the worst of situations, you can prosper, Christian. How many of you understand prosperity is not just numerical value? There are so many ways that we prosper that's beyond the financial God is so good to us. We are so rich. Planted by the rivers of water. When I lived in El Paso, Texas, the uh Uh just this morning Brother Warrick and I were teas he's heading to Texas, so we were talking about it. But you know in El Paso it's really dry. It's a desert climate. And if you have a field of beans there that you want to grow They had large irrigation ditches that in order to flood the field with water to get because it doesn't come from the sky. You gotta run these irrigation ditches in order for there to be water. And so all along the fields they have these ditches with these big shutoff valves and man it was fun as a kid when they opened them because you could go swimming. Yeah, it wasn't very clean, but it was By the way, I'm still alive, amen. Probably was good for me. Who knows what m organisms I drank in that in That water. But that water flowing is what made those crops grow. You know one of the reasons, isn't it shocking how big the trees are out at the property? I mean if you look around this area, I don't know if you guys notice it like I do, but I see other reforestation projects that have gone in. Some of them were in before ours. And their trees are just barely out of the tubes. We've got trees over there that are probably 25-30 feet high already. Well, I believe it's God's blessing. But there's another factor. Those are all planted in the floodplain. And all the moisture, the water from the property runs down to that area. And that area is the wettest on the property. A lot of times before those were planted there, like you could be driving out in the yard with a vehicle, but if you got over into that region, you would sink down because the ground over there was mushy. There's a lot of water there. There's a lot of moisture. Beloved, when you're planted where God wants you, you're going to prosper. You're being fed what you need to grow. You need to get planted and stay there. There is way too much transplanting going on in God's kingdom today. It's way too much transplanting. People moving here and there and to and fro. Do you know it's expensive to move? It costs a lot of money to move And it takes a lot of time to recover from that. A family that doesn't have any stability and they move like that just continually They can never get ahead. They can never catch up. Because there's no stability. We got these young guys, Joseph and uh John and And Jacob that just came back from college. I I don't remember for sure if I've told all of you guys this or or when we've had a lot of conversations as they were praying about what to do. But I I've told them that listen, you guys coming back here to serve God and the church here is invaluable. Do you know why? You are years ahead of somebody that just comes in new. Why? Because you know the people of this church. You know the history of this church. You know where we've been and where we're going You know where everything is in this church. You know how we run BBS, except this year. You know how you know how the program goes. There's so much that you know in the back of your mind that you don't even know you know. Because you grew up here, because this was your church. Somebody knew coming in, it's going to take them years to get to the place where they can serve God as effectively as you. Does that make sense? And beloved, when some people they transplant from church to church and church, they never get to the place where they can see Exponential growth and fruit. Fruit that just grows. Fruit. They're seeing fruit from their ministry. Why? Because they keep starting over all the time. Get planted and stay there. And God will help you grow, and God will do things in your heart and life, and you'll be able to see exponential growth. You'll be able to make dramatic differences. The destiny that we have is that we will prosper if we do as God has asked us to do. But I want you to see the contrast it's given to us here. We see the depraved. The Bible says that the ungodly are not so, but they're like the chaff, which The wind driveth away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation are the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Beloved, don't act and live like the ungodly. Don't act and live like the depressed. We see here that to be blown about is a characteristic of the depraved. To be like the chaff which the wind driveth away. to be unstable, to not have stability in your life. And is it any wonder they don't have stability when there's no sure foundation to stand on? Isn't it mind-boggling if your head hasn't been in the sand? Isn't it mind-boggling how some of the stuff that's going on, some of the thought processes of what's going on in our country right now? I mean you look at it and you wonder how could they possibly think that way? That's because they have no foundation There's no sure footing. There's no solid place to stand. Boy, I'll tell you what, beloved, I'm thankful today for an anchor that holds. I'm thankful we have a sure foundation. Though the angry surges roll on my tempest-driven soul, I'm peaceful for I know Wildly though the winds may blow, I've got an anchor safe and sure, That can evermore endure. And it holds my anchor holds, blow the wildest then, O gale. On my bark so small and frail, by his grace, I shall not fail, for my anchor holds. My anchor holds. I'm thankful today we've got a solid foundation. We've got an anchor that holds. We've got something to bring us back to reality. A point, a source, to establish what we believe and why. Instead of it just being subjective, whoever and whatever You see, when you try and establish virtue outside of this book, it goes awry. It goes so far awry. I've read some things in recent days that just just boggle my mind They're not in control of their lives. They're not in control. Blown about. Christian, are you rooted in Christ? Why don't you say See the depraved disappointment. Verse number five, he says, Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor the sinners in the congregation of the Righteous. Have you ever had to reprove a child that was caught red-handed? I mean, you call him up and the child just gets his head down. It's like they try and get as small as they can, you know. The more you talk, the smaller they get, you know. Because they're just guilty. They're just guilty as can be and they know it. And they just mm-mm You know, they they don't want to face that, right? They don't want to deal with that. Listen, the ungodly can't stand in The day of judgment. Oh, they can stand today. And they can be boisterous and loud and talk about their wickedness and be proud of it, all that they want, but one day when they're before a thrice holy God, They won't have a leg to stand on. They won't have an argument. They can talk about science and God will say, don't talk to me about science. I created science They could give their excuses and they say your excuses don't hold any water. Don't talk to me about your good deeds. Your good deeds are as filthy rags. They've got nothing to stand on, beloved. In the day of judgment, when we when we are before a holy, thrice holy God, the only thing anyone will have to stand on is Jesus Christ. Oh, I don't have my righteousness. I don't have my excuses. I don't have the good deeds of anything that I've done, but I've got Jesus. Amen. Beloved, when the day comes, if you don't have Jesus Christ, you're gonna stand there and you'll have nothing to say, you'll have no no argument, you'll have no leg to stand on. You will stand stand in judgment because you have not Jesus Christ. And God offers Jesus Christ freely to any who will accept him. Just trust his payment for your sin. You can be forgiven of your sin and promise a home in heaven. And the Bible says that Christ's righteousness Is imputed unto you. Any man that is halfway honest with himself and with others knows that we are just sinful people. I mean the the the the better you think you're doing the more you realize you ain't doing too good. I mean it's just it's kind of you realize man the harder I try the more of a sinner I am But I praise God today that my righteousness is not based upon what I do, but it's based upon Jesus Christ. And when God the Father looks down on Caleb Batrell I I am a sinner and I'm still a sinner and I'll be a sinner when I'm accepted into heaven. And I'm accepted into heaven not because of what I've done, but because of what Jesus did, and he's perfect, sinless sacrifice for me. And God looks and sees his son. Who gave his righteousness to me? I don't I'm not gonna be perfect ever until I get to glory. But Jesus Is perfect and he paid my penalty for me. When you get to heaven, when you get to the day of judgment, beloved, you do not have to be disappointed if you'll just accept Jesus. We see here their destiny in verse number 6. He says, For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. God knows where we've told us. us where we're going to be. We're the righteous. Those that have accepted Jesus Christ's righteousness, we know we're going to be in heaven. He's gone and he's prepared a place for us. And and one day we're going to be there. Whether uh we're dead in Christ, we're gonna uh arise first, or those that alive and remain will be caught up together with him in the clouds. One way or the other, we're going up. But what does it say there? But the way of the ungodly shall perish. Beloved The way of the ungodly shall perish. John ten twenty seven and twenty-eight says, My sheep hear my voice, and that I know them, and they follow me. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man fuck them out of my hand. But beloved the ungodly, that is somebody who does not believe in God. They're going to perish. I can't imagine that end, that destiny. You see the contrast here between the devout and the depraved. The destiny of the devout heart is one Which will prosper. The destiny of the depraved is one. Man, this is rich. It just it just hit me right now. It's not in my notes, it's nothing I've thought about till this second. But ultimately, ultimately, and when you take other scriptures and put it all together, listen. You and I are going to prosper. We're going to prosper. One day we're going to be in heaven. Our destiny is to be with God. And although we look at the world sometimes and the ungodly and we say, look at how they're prospering. What is their destiny? They're gonna perish. They're gonna perish. Man, that's not prospering, is it The devout's going to prosper, and I believe it's applicable to today. And the ungodly, their destiny is to Beloved, if you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, I implore you to trust Him before it's eternally too late. Christian, consider the fate of those we come into contact with. Consider the destiny. Regardless of how much money they have in their pocket or what car they're driving down the road one day, they're going to end up somewhere. And it's based on whether they've trusted Jesus Christ or not. Well just stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. I'm going to ask the pianist to come and we'll play a moment of invitation. The devout has a delight. The delight is in the law of God. And we've got a destiny committed to us, promised to us, that we can prosper. But the depraved is going to experience disappointment, disappointment untold when they experience their destiny to perish. Where are you today? Where are you? It's possible to prosper in the face Of even the worst of poverty, because of the promise of God. Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you to be with every heart. If there's one here that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, we pray they will Would come. They wouldn't have to experience the destiny of the depraved, but would come and turn their heart to you, to trust your Son as their Lord and Savior. Lord, be with every Christian here today that maybe as they've begun to wander, maybe their heart has wandered from God, they can come back to you today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.