So 2 Samuel 23, I I preached this message out in Iowa at uh uh Burr Ferguson's church and he he he he gave me a title called Hilla Beans. Uh I I called it protect the pea patch. So uh you can take your pick, uh whichever one you know. You know, if you know Brother Ferguson if you know him. Uh I don't know why you wouldn't know him, but anyway. He's kinda hard to forget, isn't he, once you met him? And uh he he gave me a title called Hill of Beans. Well something we're fighting for. Well we're gonna be if you're in there tonight I've been waiting for my son to find uh the Old Testament here. 2 Samuel 23. If you have a Bible and you're able to stand, I'd ask you to do so. We're going to read two verses tonight. 2 Samuel 23, we're going to read. uh verse 11 and 12. We're gonna reading on about the three top men of David, the three of his mighty men. He had thirty mighty men, actually thirty-one, but the top three You read down through here, you have a Dino, Eliezer, and then this third third character here. Uh and it begins in verse 11. After him was Shema. The son of Agi, the Hererite, and the Philistines were gathered together in a troop where it was a piece of ground full of lentils. And the people fled from the Philistines. And he stood in the midst of the ground and defended it, and slew the Philistines, and the Lord wrought a great victory. Let us pray. Dear gracious Heavenly Father, as we bow before you this evening once again, Father, we just ask for your blessing. Father, we want your provision. As you wrought a great victory this day, as we read about in the scripture, Father, we wished a great victory here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Lord, they're in a struggle. They're in a fight. Lord, we pray you'll give them a great victory. Father, let it be an encouragement. I'm anxiously waiting. For the reply back from Pastor Betrell when he says we've won. So, Father, what an encouragement it is to hear how this church is remains steadfast. So Father, I pray tonight you'd meet with us. I pray, Holy Spirit, you work on our hearts, open our hearts and minds. Lord, let us push aside prejudices and thoughts and anything that would take us away from your word tonight. Let us humble ourselves before you tonight and let your word speak to our hearts. Oh Lord, I pray personally that I could be a messenger tonight, used, meet for the Master's use. Lord, I pray that tonight you'd guide my words and lips. Help me to say exactly what you'd want me to say. Let Jesus Christ be lifted and glorified. For it's in his name we pray. Amen. I want you to take a seat now if you're able to. And I want you to notice some things here. as we look at Shema. The Bible says he was a Hererite. Now, a Hererite, if you study this, I was reading this and I be one of the things, if you've ever been to Israel, uh it it opened my eyes to a lot of things. And it opened my eyes to how important they place on names and there's a reason for everything in the Bible And I began to read that and I said, Lord, why did you put these things in here? And he said, He's a Herodite. Is that important? And so I studied that out, and what I found was that the word Herorite means mountain dweller Mountain dweller, he was a hillbilly. You know, he he's like some folks from uh West Virginia. You know, he's had one leg longer than the other and said to walk around the hills, amen. And it was not falling over. He was a hillbilly, he was a redneck. He was a good old boy, a country boy. He was a mountain dweller. You know, he didn't need a degree from a place of higher learning to be told that there are a few things that are still worth fighting for. He was a nobody special. He didn't come from prestigious family with a stuffy pedigree. He was just a hillbuilding. Just dumb enough or foolish enough to say, I'm not moving. Here I stand, and here I fight. I mean I guess being a hillbuilding, he might not have wanted to run, he probably didn't have his shoes anyway, amen. Okay. But he's a Herodite, the Bible says, a mountain dweller. Well you know first of all the name. I always ask people How many of you here can name your parents? Your mother, maiden name, and your father. Most of you could. How about your grandparents? Can you name mother and father, mother and father, you know, grandparents? You got Four of those, right? Alright. Anybody can do that? Now raise your hand if you can name your great grandparents. Anybody I gotta be somebody in genealogy, gotta be somebody that studies that stuff. He doesn't want to admit it. He's kind of Okay. Great grandparents, every male m first and last, and the mu the maiden names. Oh, got the maiden name. You can't name your great grandmother's first and maiden name. Shame on you Can anybody? Think about that now. How many generations? And nobody will remember you. To me. And you. And you. Three generations, and nobody will remember you. But we remember him. Shema. Why? Because of his name. Because his name. God put his name right in scripture. Thousands of evil Years later, when we can't even name our great grandparents, we know who this guy is. Shama Shema is significant, has two meanings. One is presence, the other is desolation. Presence and desolation. Desolation, I mean, think about it. He's left by himself. It was a desolate place. Amen. There's no s there's no there's nothing in there's nothing um uh surprising that that is his name. Presence. What was he known for? Being present. He was known for his presence. He was where God had placed him. You know, there's an interesting verse in the scripture that's Ezekiel 48:35, and I will read that to you. It says, the name of the city From that day shall be the Lord is there. That phrase, the Lord is there, is Jehovah Shema Jehovah Shema, the Lord is there. By the way, the city being built, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven. Jerusalem is the name for the city of God's peace. Jerusalem, Shalom, as they would say. The city of God's peace. But we know that the Bible tells us, and we find that in Revelation 21-22, that the city is yet to be built. The name of the city the Bible says is going to be changed. According to Ezekiel. It's no longer going to be called Jerusalem. Jerusalem. It will be Jerusalem. The city, not of God's peace, but of God's presence. God's presence. Shema had a name. Can I ask you tonight, Do you have a name? The Bible tells us that the disciples were first called Christians at Antioch. They had a name. Christian. Bible also tells us that everyone that nameeth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Christian, if you're saved tonight, you have a name. You have a name. Do you live up to it? Do the people at your work know who you are? If not, why not? Do you have troubles at work because of your name? Not because of your character, not because of your laziness, not because of your tardiness, not because of bad things, but do you have a name? Shema, the presence of God. Second thing I want you to notice here is not only his name, but I want you to notice Nothing of value. Huh? This is where Jeff got hilla beans. Just a hill of beans. We use that expression. It's not worth a hill of beans. You ever heard that? It means it's not worth anything. Has no value. And here Shemel is standing, the Bible says in a ground of lentils, just beans or peas. They're kind of a bean-pea thing. I mean you studied out, some people call them peas, some people call them beans, they don't know what they are Okay? It's not worth anything. There's no value. But he stays. Because I want to tell you something. If you can get this phrase tonight, you can go ahead and go to sleep. Okay? Amen? Isn't that good? Get my permission. What is important is not what you or I think is important. What's important is what God thinks is important. Now you can go to sleep. You want to know what's important to God? Look in the Bible. I tell people all the time, you know, we we we minor, we say, oh, this is so bad when somebody does this or when this happens or or this doctrine, this is so bad. And look at the scriptures and you say, God doesn't even really mention it. You know? Now we now there's a lot of things we do that we should do, and I'm not opposed to us doing them. I'm not saying they're bad things But we get all wrapped around the axle. We get all worried about things. It's not even in the Bible. I mean, you and I b we all know that people that wear bow ties are just a little touched. Amen? It's gotta be an application somewhere. Amen? Did you know our president of Estonia the the he'd been since retired, but the president that that was there almost all the time they've got a new president, but the one that was there before, he wasn't wearing bow ties. Did you know that? So you come over come over to see us, we'll get you a bow tie We'll get you a wooden bow tie. Wouldn't that be sweet? Shouldn't wear bow ties. If I wore a bow tie tonight, could you imagine? Go walking into church with a bow tie and they go. Because that's in the Bible. Now I'm not saying we should that you should let a mission wear a bow tie. That's your decision. But it's not in the Bible. You go look at the Bible, you you look up the word abomination. And you'll be surprised what God says I hate. There are some things He says I can't stand that we don't we don't don't even bother us. It's not important. What's important is what God thinks is important. And here, Shema said, This is important! No it's not. Pew! Okay? This is the hill of beings. But it's God's hill. It's God's pea patch. It was vitally important to Shema. What do I mean by that? He was willing to risk his life for a hill of bees. God wanted his people to be present. God wanted his people to defend the land. It's important to God, it's important to us. It should be anyway. Check your Bible. I'm amazed Oh on who we're getting to I was talking to a pastor. I hope I hope I'm not getting off on too many rabbits. I hope I hope that uh we shoot these things get back on pretty quickly here Missionaries. Most of them are bums. They are. I was talking to a pastor just recently and he was declaring how many problems he'd had and I said that ain't nothing new. He should say some of the ones we've had on the field. Independent, fundamental Baptist missionaries. Got one that didn't even read his Bible. Can you imagine? Never read his Bible. He's a missionary. Got another same guy. Sat down with him and uh He don't even think the Bible teaches against consumption of alcohol. Now the thing the interesting thing about that is Saku Saku Brewery. Saku Brewery. This is the market leader for beer in Estonia. Okay? They started a campaign about two years ago. to make alcohol-free beer. Now think about that just for a minute. What are they saying? They're saying there's a problem with alcohol. The brewery. The second, the largest brewery, not the beer leader, but overall alcoholic beverage leader is Alakok. And all the coke got on the bandwagon. So now when you drive down in Tallinn, you'll have all the coke advertising alcohol free. And you'll have Saku advertising alcohol free. In other words Myself, God, and the two breweries in Estonia agreed alcohol is a bad thing. We've got a missionary who doesn't think so. It's not important. It's important to God. And there are lots of things we could bring up like that. Let me tell you something. When your pastor preaches against something, and you sit there and you think in your mind, that's not a big deal, that's not important. You need to look at what the Bible says. It may be a little thing to you, but a big thing to God. Here's a little thing, it's just a hill of beings. And Shema said, I'm not moving. Okay. People around us are fleeing. We have These missionaries, we got pastors that no longer are holding to what was vital. Thirty years ago, what the average member believes In the average Baptist church in America, we got pastors and missionaries that that that don't hold those standards. What a shame What a shame. The Bible says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Be not conformed to this world. Love not the world. Neither the junk that is in the world. That's in the Greek. Neither the things that are in this world. Amen? If any man love the world, The love of the Father is not in him. We got, we got, you want to have some fun? Go on the internet looking for Christian tattoos. I never in my life would have thought I needed to preach against tattoos Because when I grew up everybody knew that a Christian didn't wear a tattoo. Now if you got a tattoo tonight, I hope you're not promoting them. If you got saved and you had tattoos, that's fine. But don't tell me you're gonna go out and get a Christian tattoo. I've heard that. Okay? Brother Smith, you preach to get tattoos. And I got a tattoo. Hey, God still loves you. We all make mistakes, don't we? As you got a tattoo tonight and you've already asked God to forgive you for it, amen. No, don't get mad at me. Leave over that. Talk to him first, amen. Then get mad and leave. But anyway. Christian tattoos. I have fought people over this. Are you kidding me? Average church member knows more about sports and TV and movies than they do the Word of God. They're not sticking to the pee patch. They've fled it. When's the last time you've wept? Over a lost soul. When's the last time? You've actually wept over a lost soul. I remember, well, God has been so good to us I just can't stop bragging on God. How good He's been to us. Two years ago I had a chance, my mom's church was United Methodist. Oh boy. And they'd ask me to come back and I said, I can't do it. And they got it, long story short, we helped them move and become an independent church. And the pastor had to come in and teach and preach and and we were sharing with them salvation and baptism. And so long story, I was able to baptize my 80-year-old mother in a in the river that ran out past the church And my stepfather who would never allow me to talk to him got saved. Eighty-five years of age. If anybody that knew my stepfather knows my stepfather, nobody believed it. There's no way he can get saved. He got saved. People. I believe actually, you know, I want to say it's my prayers that did that. The person who latched a hole like a pit bull and was praying for him was my daughter. She'd ask me, have you talked to Grandpa lately? Have you talked to Grandpa? She she just got a hold of that. And she began to pray for him, began to witness to him. I believe, I firmly believe, that her prayers We're responsible for his change of heart. Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the judgment that something else is more important than that fear. Folks, we need we need to stick to the pea patch. We need to need to defend it, not quit. We need to realize what's important to God should be important to us. We have a name. We have nothing of value as far as the world sees. We also have a number. I want you to notice to look through this. We see first of all it was Shumah. We see it was a uh a ground of lentils. By the way, if you know if you know anything about lentils, Okay, this next next piece is important because the Bible says the Philistines were gathered together in a troop. And the people fled. One stayed. Just one. If you stand for Christ, you will find yourself in the minority. Sometimes you might be the only one Yeah. Okay? I want you to notice first of all the name. Secondly, yeah, I want you to see that nothing of value, and third, I want you to see the number. You're going to be the only one off in the stand if you stand for Christ. Get used to it. Amen. Get used to it. Don't expect to be in the minor majority here. But you see, Shemaih, he didn't care who stayed with him. Everybody else is doing it, Shama. You need to leave. I don't care. I'm going to stand. Haven't you heard what's being taught today? What's wrong with you? You need to get with the program. Well, you believe in the 80s. Get with the program. I was I was I was shocked. What's wrong with you people? This is a modern church. Get rid of those hymnals. We don't need a hymnal. Mm-hmm. I am being facetious in case you don't know. This is what's being taught. We have people that come to a church Our church in California is not the best church in the world, as the church we're members of. There's no such thing as the best church in the world, amen. Best church for us. And we have people that come because we use hymnals Southern California, you can imagine. Lentils are legumes. That's beans and peas. They were one of the original crops. Did you know that? Original crops. This is what Adam and Eve would have eaten. I don't have that for a fact, but they were around that long, according to archaeologists. By the way, there's another name for it in the Bible. It's called pulse. Ring any bells? Pulse. What did Daniel use to keep from being defiled by the king's meat? Pulse. What kind of soup did Jacob use that Esau gave up his birthright for? Lentil. Do you see how this factors into Israel's history? Lentils, though by the world standpoint of no value, were integral in the history of of Israel. And the enemy attacked because they want to take away the source, the food source for the country. And Shema said, you're not getting it. I remember that reading through uh the book of Ez uh Exodus when when when when Moses is talking to Pharaoh and and at first Pharaoh said yeah you go ahead and you mingo And he says, no, we're not going with the men, we want everything. He says, okay, fine. You can take your families. Just going back and forth. At one point, he says, I'll tell you what, you can take everybody except the flocks. And Moses comes back and says, not a hoof will be left behind. And we need to have that kind of attitude. We're not gonna give the devil up. I'm so sick of people and churches giving the devil their their families, giving the devil their time, giving the devil everything. We need somebody to stand and say, I am not giving the devil so much as a hook. I'm gonna tell you, if you do that, you're gonna be in the minority. Because the numbers are on the side that's opposed to us. They fled. Run, Shema! The Philistines are coming! I'm staying. This is ours. This is our hilla beans. But but Shema, you don't even like lentil soup. That don't make no difference. Okay? We often do what we want. We need to do what's right, whether we like it or not. You know, um we see a lot of missionaries quit. Quit. I'm not I'm not here to lift me up. I I either I sometimes I just think it's it's just sheer stupidity and sometimes I think it's sheer stubbornness. It's kept us on the field. But also the grace of God. We need people willing to stick to it Say it doesn't matter what the numbers are, it doesn't matter that there's no value as far as the world's concerned, but I want the name. Let everyone that name us the name of Christ depart. from iniquity. Church, let me ask you tonight. Are you going to stick it out? Hey this church has been through it, preacher. Through the years it's just been it's still in a battle I'm excited. I've seen some of your faces still here. Amen? I see new faces. Two things excite me. Same old faces and some new faces. Amen? They get me excited. I see young people. Wow. Are we gonna stick by it? Are we gonna defend the ground? It's just a hill of beans But it's God's Hillabeans. I think he should change the name to Hilla Beans Baptist Church. Amen Folks, let me tell you, you have no idea what it means to be on the field and see a church go through problems and stick Church family, we're not the only ones that are fighting for a hill of beans. We're not the only group. There's uh you know, churches all over America, missionaries all over the world that are doing what God's called them to do. And they're standing where God has called them to stand. And they're flourishing and growing where God's planted them. And they have a ministry, a job to do, a task that God has called them to. And some look at it and say, Hey, this Sunday school class is not that important. Why are you investing all that time? in that class. This ministry in the choir is not that important. It's just just singing. What's the big deal? Why are you giving up your Sunday afternoons for that? This bus route I mean after all there's only ten kids today. What I mean we're doing all this for for ten kids? What has God called you to do? Whatever it is, it's important. Whatever area of service that God's called you, whatever ministry he's put you in, whatever capacity he's given you, it's valuable to God. And I want to encourage you to keep on for God. Keep on for God.