You know the story of Abraham where he packed up and headed out and he didn't know where he was going. We think of the faith of Abraham in Hebrews chapter eleven. Verse 17 through 19, if you're there, the Bible says, by faith, Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. And he that had received the promise offered up his only begotten son, of whom is said that Isaac shall thy seed be called, accounting that God was able to raise him up. Up, even from the dead, from whence also he received him in a figure. Abraham is known for his faith And that Mary and I had a kind of similar situation, and it was very much like the idea of Abraham, where he said Get thee up and go to a country that you know not of. In 2006, Mary and I had a transition in our country. our ministry and didn't know where we were going to go. We packed up, we had been serving for a little over seven years at uh Heritage Baptist Church. and Lawrence, Kansas. Great time there, wonderful ministry, and and uh God was doing something in my heart. He was stirring me. prodding me and I didn't know exactly what it would be. I thought possibly God wanted me to pastor. But I thought maybe God wanted me to be in the helps ministry and and travel and help churches like we just did this last week. I thought maybe uh because God has given me some ability with my hands, that maybe God wanted me to go to the mission field and help missionaries. I didn't know what we were going to do. I didn't have complete direction. You know, God has always led me in my life one step at a time. I have never been. I I it's just the way God's led me. And listen, some people they're six years old and God calls them to preach and they know they're gonna pastor at six years old. I didn't know that. And it's just for me it was Okay, Lord. And I knew I was supposed to be here. I know exactly. That's what I was supposed to be doing. And then Okay, Lord. And I know that I was doing what I was supposed to be doing, and God's always led me one step at a time. I've never had uh you know, a vision of the end of the road and exactly what God's will would be down the road. I just knew where that I'm where God wants me right now. And God was moving us. And I didn't understand. I didn't know why. I actually was a little excited about what God might do as Mary and I and Alicia and Andrew and Timothy and two-week old Melissa loaded up in a U-Haul. I didn't know where we were going, so I didn't rent a U-Haul I bought the U-Haul. I just bought the whole truck, loaded all of our stuff in there because I didn't know how long it was gonna be in the truck. And I didn't want to load it in a truck and drive somewhere and stick it in storage and pay for storage and then load it back in the truck and drive wherever we were going to be, which I didn't know how long it was going to be till we were going to be wherever we were going to be I didn't know. So we hit the road. We were going to a country that I knew not of. And bless Mary's heart, she was with me. She supported me. For that trip we took, I could tell you some stories. We were I was driving it was a 14,000-pound truck, and I had a uh 3,000-pound trailer And total pulling it, now I bought a diesel on purpose, but we were 28,000 pounds that I was pulling down the road And I could tell you some stories about us going down the road for that trip. That was something. We were traveling just seeing where God would take us, what God would do. I had no idea where we were going to end up Of course, in hindsight we see now what God was doing. I want to talk to you this morning about proven faith. Proven. Faith. You see in our text here, he says, by faith, Abraham when he was tried. That word tried, tested. Tested. You understand that God will test your faith. How many of you ever had to take a test? Andrew, uh on Wednesday, turn sixteen. Now you know what that you know what that means, right? That means that driver's test is coming. He's ready. He's gonna want to go Wednesday morning. Let's go let's go get that test done. Let's go, I want to get my permit. You go there and they put a piece of paper in front of you and they test your knowledge to ascertain whether you have the ability to safely handle a vehicle I am not sure that that test is adequate. And what's amazing is once you take the test at 16, provided you keep your license up to date, You never have to take it again. I think there ought to be some people that take the test again. I think they might have forgotten a few things about driving and how to do it safely, amen But that test evaluates your ability. You know, God tests our faith. He proves our faith through testing. He says here that in verse number 19, accounting that God was able to raise him up The faith of Abraham, knowing that his child could be raised from the dead, if that was God's will. He said, from whence also he received him. In a figure. That figure, that likeness, Isaac is a picture of Jesus Christ. So many correlations, so many things were are very similar of Christ. Like Isaac was a promised son. The Son of God was promised to us. He says here that it was his only begotten son. Are those words familiar? It's because he was promised. It was the Son that God had given them. You know, turn over to Genesis chapter 22. Genesis 22. This is where this story. We get to see the end of the story in Hebrews. We get to see God tell us about the faith that Abraham had But in Genesis 22 is where we see the story taking place. You know, in hindsight, we can look back, like I can look back now and see what God was doing with Mary and I. But at that time for my poor wife with a two-week-old baby loading up into a U-Haul truck, hitting the road, not knowing where we were going to be, not knowing what we were going to be doing. Having no money coming in, didn't know what God was doing. In Hebrews chapter 22, We see here just start reading the beginning of chapter twenty three he says and I'm you're you know I'm an Exodus. I'm like, that is not right. Genesis. I said Hebrews, you're in Genesis, right? I'm not in Genesis. I'm in Exodus. And that's I'm like, that is not the right story. So That makes sense. Genesis 22. All right. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt. That word tempt is the same thing, is tried, tested. All the way back in Genesis 22, it was a test that God was going to give Abraham. He said, Abraham and said unto him, Abraham. And he said, Behold, here am I. Listen, Christian, we need to answer God's call. God called Abraham, and Abraham said, Hear my Lord. What do you want, Lord? What do you want me to do? What do you need, Lord? I'm here. We need to answer the call of God. Whatever God is calling you to do, whatever God is prompting you to do and telling you you should do. Listen, if you want to see Experience a proven faith, the faith that God wants you to have, it starts with answering the call that God puts on your life. He said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac. He was the promised son, whom thou lovest. You know, God the Father loved his son, his only begotten son. Jesus, the promised son. He said, Whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains. Which I will tell thee of. And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass, and took two of the younger men with him, and Isaac his son, and cleaned the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went into the place. Of which God had told them. Listen, there's something about being in the place that God wants you to be. This is your church. This is your place. It's where God's going to meet with you. It's where God's going to stir your heart, where God's going to bless you and multiply your your efforts for Him. Verse number four, he says, Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said unto his young men, abide ye herewith the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again unto you. You see the faith there of Abraham? He said, We're going to go. And we're going to come back. But God had told him, you're going to go sacrifice your son. In his heart he was going to do what God said to do, but he said on the outset, you guys stay here, we'll be back. He had faith in God. Verse number six: And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac, his son You know, the wood of the cross was laid on the back of Jesus Christ and he carried it up Golgotha Another similarity, another picture there of Christ. On Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and the knife. And they went both of them together. And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and he said, My father. And he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself. God would provide himself a lamb. There we have two things. First of all, that they went and you see the sun Questioning the Father, saying, Lord, Dad, Jesus Christ Said God, if it's your will, would you let this cup pass from me? But not my will, but thine be done. And on the cross, he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He questioned the Father, but he obeyed the Father. And Abraham says, My son, God himself will provide a lamb. God himself, he knew. God will provide Himself a lamb. You see why it's so important how things are phrased in the scriptures? That phrase right there, you turn that around, how I just said that, and I said in my mind, I said, that's not right. And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb. Do you understand? God was saying he one day would be the lamb that would take away the sins of the world. He would provide himself a lamb. Himself, the lamb of God that would take away the sins of the world. But if you turn that around and say that God would provide a lamb, That removes that out of there. In verse number 9, he says, and they came to the place where God had told them of And Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar of the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife. to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thy hand upon thy lad, neither do thou anything unto him, for now I know That thou fearest God. You understand? God's gonna send you through some tests to prove the level of your faith. How y you you have faith in God, but how much faith do you have in God? Do you have faith that would trust him through the trial, that would follow him in spite of the pain, that would do what he called you to do in spite of the hardship? And God looks down at you and you come through that and you come forth as gold, and God says, now I know that you have this kind of thing. Of faith. The test that you go through. Now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and he looked, and behold him a ram caught in the thicket by the thorns, horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering instead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jireh, which is God. That means God will provide. Jehovah Jireh. God will provide. Amen. As it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. And the angel of the Lord called unto Habraham out of heaven. A second time, and said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. That in blessing I will bless thee in multiplying, I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of the Of his enemy, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed because thou hast observed obeyed, sorry, my voice. He was blessed because he obeyed, because he had faith that was proven. You see, God's going to test your faith. The Bible tells us in James chapter 2 a very similar story where I believe it's four different characters are mentioned. In James chapter 2, where it talks about that faith without works is dead. Faith without works is dead. And just to say that you have faith is one thing. But to prove your faith by your works is another thing altogether. And there's four people there in James chapter 2 that are mentioned. One of them is Abraham. And James chapter 2, verses 21 and 24, he says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by the works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. You see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith. Alone. Your faith is going to be tested. If you and I are going to live by faith, do you understand that we're supposed to live by faith? It's not just to have some faith here and there. It's not just to experience some faith for one particular situation. But as Christians, we are to live by faith. By faith, you read your Bible day by day. I know that sometimes when you read your Bible, you get up from that and you say I'm not real sure what that did for me. I I did read it. However, there was no great stirring in my heart. There was no Lights from heaven. There was no great revelation. I mean, I read the Word of God. To be quite honest, it seemed dry. I'm not sure why I read it. I know you guys are more spiritual than that, but sometimes I've felt that. But you understand it's faith that says his word will not return void. And we believe that when we read the Word of God, this living book, that it will bring about transformation And change in our heart. And so although we do not see the change, we read it by faith. Knowing that God is going to do a work in us because of it. And listen, Christian, if you don't have that level of faith, let me just challenge you to try it out. to test it. Get in the Word of God consistently daily. That's why we have a daily Bible reading program and it's just one chapter a day. I mean you can read that in like three or four minutes. A really slow reader it might be eight minutes, but you can read a chapter pretty quick But the the principle is day by day by day, just faithfully. Do you know if you get up every single morning and do 10 push-ups? Just ten push-ups. Do you know you're going to be building structure, muscle, stability, strength in your back, strength in your abs, strength in your arms? Just a few push-ups every single day. And at first it's going to be very hard, but you know with a little bit of time it's going to get easier and easier. And pretty soon you're going to be stronger and stronger. And one day you do it and you'll get up and you'll say, man, that that didn't I didn't do anything. Now you know if you stopped doing it for about two weeks and try and do it again, you'll s you'll see what it did. It it goes away quick But you're building strength. And that's what happens, Christian, when you get out of the Word of God, when you stop spending some time in there for a week or two or three, you know it. You can feel it. In your heart and in your mind, you just feel like, man, it's just been so long since I've really been with God. I have to walk with him and talk with him. So by faith, we read the Word of God. By faith, we come to church. You know, the world looks at you and thinks you're a little goofy. Why would you go to church? Why take your your only day off, your only day to relax and do nothing, or your only day to go fishing I would rather be in church, amen. Instead of rather be golfing or rather be doing anything else, rather be fishing. No, I would rather be in church. By faith, we go to church. And God rewards that faith when He stirs your heart, challenges you, repairs things in your life, grows you. By the through in and through the ministry of the Word of God. By faith you tithe. Amen. I hope you tithe. By faith you do that. I mean why would you why would you take some of your money and drop it in a plate other than a tax deduction? Which is not really that much of a deduction Why would you do that? Because by faith we trust and understand that God will make the 90% go further than the other. And we understand that it all belongs to God anyway, and that's just a matter of obedience. And we want to experience and see God bless our lives. Doesn't make sense how 90% could go further than the hundred percent. It doesn't make sense. And you do it, and you see God bless. And you see God multiply things unto you. You sit back in awe and say, wow, ain't God good. By faith, you give to missions. Above and beyond tithe. Many of you have just committed to missions. I know last I looked, we were over 66,000 committed to missions for this coming year. To reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's no other reason to do that than by faith. We follow the Lord and say we know that God will bless. Amen. We know that we'll get treasures in heaven. We know that we are laying up treasures there where moth and rust doth not corrupt. You know, it doesn't matter what we buy on earth, it's gonna corrupt, amen. It's gonna at some point Brother Crane was telling me the other day he would really like to he he enjoyed and and and liked driving the El Camino. He's like they don't even make those anymore. And if you want one, I mean it's an antique, you gotta look around and try and find one that's been restored. Most of them are in junkyards. It's gonna corrupt. By faith you discipline your kids. You know, I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm just gonna throw this out here. This coming fall, I'm gonna teach a family class on Thursday nights. This coming fall on Thursday nights, we're going to split up into hopefully three different Bible studies. Where you'll be able to choose what topic you would like to study, and I'm going to take and deal with the fans. Husband and wife, raising kids, disciplining children, dealing with how to win the heart of a child how the transition of your of the time goes from where you're disciplining them until they're following you out of respect because they love you. There's a lot of teaching that I want to do in that this coming fall. You come to those classes. We've got some other studies that I'm really excited about that's going to be a blessing to the church family. So I'm looking forward to that. But by faith, you do what God's word doesn't make sense. You mean if I take a board of education and apply it firmly to the seat of learning, my child is going to love me more? That doesn't make sense. I think I'm they're gonna hate me. You know the opposite's true. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. By faith, you follow biblical principle and God rewards you. By faith you pray. By faith, you're a witness. By faith, you're obedient. To God. By faith, we believe the word of God. We believe in the resurrection. We believe in the creation of the world in seven days by God's spoken word. In six days, and he rested the seventh day. By faith, we go soul-winning. The just shall live by faith. It takes faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone to be saved. But that's just the beginning of our walk of faith. Just the beginning. That faith is supposed to continue. D. Al Moody said this: a little faith will bring your soul to heaven. And a lot of faith will bring heaven to your soul. It only takes the smallest faith to believe in God, and you'll go to heaven. But with a little bit more faith, you can bring heaven to your soul here on earth. The same faith that saved us is the faith that we're to live by Somebody said this is It's just unknown, as far as I know, is what I have in my notes here. But the inner question of man's heart for centuries has been: what must I do to be saved? Some think by attaining And God says by atoning. Some declare by character, but God says by the cross. Some maintain through courage, but God says through Christ. Some assert by trying. But God says, by trusting. Christ's answer is crystal clear. You must be born again You come to Jesus Christ in faith, believing that God the Father raised him, God the Son, from the dead for your salvation, and you can be saved. Your faith is going to be tested today. Remember Gideon? Okay, Lord, I'll go fight this battle for you. God said, well, you've got too many people. Wait, wait, wait, Lord, wait. You understand we are outnumbered right now. We are way-and God says, no, you got too many people. Okay, Lord. And then he goes back, Lord, we're ready. He says, no, you still got too many people. What? Lord, we were already outnumbered. It's already impossible. What do you what I guess at that point it doesn't matter, right? I mean, it's hopeless anyway, Lord, whatever you want. And he gets down to 300. God was testing. He says, okay, now you're ready And God gave him the victory. Remember Daniel in the lion's den? Prayed three times a day. Amen. That would do us some good. Pray three times a day. But then God said, okay, let's find out how committed you are, Daniel. The decree has been passed. You go to your window and pray like you did a four time, and you're going to go to the lion's den The Bible says Daniel went and prayed as he did aforetime. His faith. He followed through and he went into the lion's den. Three Hebrew children. Will you buy down? No. Our God is able to save us. But if not, we're not going to bow. But God saved them, didn't he? And when you by faith follow Jesus Christ, you will see the salvation of the Lord in your life. You'll experience it. God's going to test your faith when He calls and asks you to do something. The Inland China Missions Report from many, many years ago gave this story. One of The men who were there, who was a Christian, was asked by some other missionaries to come with them to plant and minister the Word of God to the hearts of men. And he said, Well, I haven't planted my wheat yet. And the man tells a story that immediately the Spirit of God said, Your wheat? And he yielded and he said, No God, your wheat. And he left his fields unplanted. And went to plant the gospel of Jesus Christ in the hearts and the souls of men. His neighbors that were around him laughed. They commented when they saw him in town and said, hey, your your fields are going to waste. You're not going to get any crops this year. You can't. And he says, I'm just trusting God. And they thought he was foolish They thought he was foolish, you can't do that. Well, they went for several weeks and really he missed the planting season But they had some guys come to help in this in this mission for a little bit and they said, Hey, if you want to, you can take these next few days and go plant your fields. And he said, okay, so he went home and he planted his fields. And a drought came. The ground cracked up. It was so dry. As he came home to plant his fields, He noticed these neighbors' fields were all turning brown. A lot of the wheat that they had planted that was lush and green and rising up was starting to die off. He went home and stirred that hard soil and planted it. After three days he went back to serving and planting the seed of the gospel and left its fields to the care of God. rain came, his field sprouted with fresh green wheat All those that planted during the normal planting season, the majority of their crop was lost. The next year, his neighbors came to him and said, hey, when are you you gonna plant? When are you planting? I want to plant when you plant. You see, you just trust God. Do what God says. Your faith will be proven and God will provide. God will show you. The just shall live by faith. You know, unlike the license test that you get to take once. And it's done. It would be nice if God would just say, okay, this Saturday is your test. All right, Fred, this Saturday is your test for faith. You're going to have it Saturday. Once you take it, it's done. Wouldn't that be nice? You could prepare for it, get psyched up, get ready to go, but it doesn't work that way. They just shall live by faith. And the test of our faith happens over and over again in our lives. It'd be it's one thing to trust God for one bill. It's another thing to live by faith. All through the scriptures, those that you see that God used were people who were obedient in faith. Tyler Edwards says this. When you get to the end of all the light that you have, it's time to step into the darkness of the unknown. And faith is knowing That one of two things is going to happen. Either God will give you something solid to stand on, or He's going to teach you how to fly. But having faith that it's going to happen. Your faith is built every time you're obedient to God. But you know when you're obedient to God, Satan comes to attack. Those of you that committed to give emissions, do you understand? Now that you're exercising your faith in that area, that God's going to test you, you say, oh, I can give this much. And something's going to happen in your life. That's going to put that to the test. You say, man, I thought it was going to get easier. I was trying to do what was right. But your faith hasn't been proven yet. You say, oh, I have faith to trust God. But has the faith been tested yet? Has it been proven yet? If you look in the book of Ezra, and we don't have time to turn there, but in Ezra, uh I believe it's chapter 4, the very first verse. You see, they had been back in the country for two and a half years almost. And they hadn't done anything yet about rebuilding the house of God. But in in chapter four, I think it's verse number one, they said that they began to build And then the very next line says, and the enemy came. They had been left alone for two and a half years. No problems. But when they began to build the enemy The enemy came. The attack came. Their faith was being tested. As Mary and I were serving on staff there in Kansas. We, of course, we were tithing. We were giving to missions. We were doing what God wanted us to do. We were serving God. And it felt good. We were there serving the Lord and we as a church began a giving program, a fundraising program for the building fund. of Heritage Baptist Church. The building program that we committed to give to was three years. God's good. We didn't go hungry. But you see, the test hadn't come yet. That was in two thousand five, and Mary went and got pregnant. What in the world? How are we gonna do this, Lord? How are we gonna do this, God God provided, paid every bill, and met every need. I don't even know how it all happened, but I know God did And God built our faith. But the test wasn't over. You see, I had committed to give to missions and I had committed to give to the building fund. And I believe that when you make a commitment, you keep it. I already told you as we started the message today that in 2006 God was doing something in our heart. And we were going to go out To making nothing. And I felt it was still my responsibility to meet those, meet that commitment. We loaded up in a truck and hit the road. And I we didn't know what God was gonna do. But we never missed a week. I didn't have a job. Some weeks later, I don't know how long it was, a couple of months on the road, was when I met Angie's Twin sister, Amy, and her husband, Kevin. You see, Kevin was building a house, and Kevin's builder got married And left it half done. Kevin was in a real bind. He said, I need somebody to finish this house They somehow heard of me, heard that I was free, got a hold of me, and I met Kevin and Amy for the first time. And he looked at me and he said, I'll give you twenty-five dollars an hour. If you can make this happen. I said, I can make it happen. And I for the next six weeks I worked a lot of hours. And God paid all that. I didn't have a job, but God provided. I didn't know what God was doing But God provided. You see, we still had almost two years. You know the story of it was in December of 2006. It was in September of 2006 when we left Kansas. In December of 2006, we'd been living on the road and I didn't know what I said, Lord, we need a place to stay. We need a place Place to call home. We need you to I need to have some stability for my family. Lord, what should I do? And I began praying about different situations, and God led me to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And God gave me a job where I was guaranteed $1,000 a week. God said, Okay, Caleb. You've got faith. Okay, Caleb, you'll trust me with your final finances. You'll follow me. I said, yes, God. And Mary and I were just in awe at God's goodness. God gave us our first house. But you see, God used those circumstances to bring us to hunt God Valley Baptist Church. Where God wanted us because some years later our church was going to go through a triumph time and God wanted me here for that. And ultimately God wanted me to pastor. Now I didn't know that I just said, okay, Lord, you want us to load up into a truck? We'll do it. Okay, God, we have no job, but we have some commitments that we're we've got to keep. Lord, you've got to meet the needs. And God paid it every single week. For the next almost two years, we never missed a week. We completed that commitment. And for the next eight months or whatever it was, the balance of that year missions commitment, I completed that too. But God took care of it. But you see, God is debtor to no man. God rewarded above and beyond what we could even ask or think. And to this day I'm still in awe at God's goodness. So far beyond what I deserve. Because he's a good God. But sometimes he's going to prove your faith. And then he's going to say, okay, now Now I know that I can trust you. Now I know. I ask you this morning, do you have faith To stand the test. Stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed Do you have faith in God? Faith starts with f saving faith. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, yes, the just shall live by faith, but you're saved by faith. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it's a gift of God. Not of works lest any man should boast. God wants to save you this morning. Do you have enough faith to just trust him as your Lord and Savior? Today. Before you leave here, you can know for sure that you're on your way to heaven because of having a little faith in an Almighty God. If you know that you're saved today, could I ask you? Do you have faith it will stand the test that God might bring into your life? I don't know what test you're going through, I don't know what test you might face tomorrow, but know that you're going to be tried. You have the opportunity to come forth as gold. Will you ask God for that kind of faith? If you'd say, Pastor Caleb, God spoke to my heart this morning, I I need to have that kind of faith. Would you just show me by an uplift of the hand and say, God spoke to me today? Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask you, dear God, that you would be with the church. I pray, God, that we, as we're approaching our 15th anniversary and looking back and seeing what you've done for us as a church Understanding that there's been many steps of trying and testing of faith to get us to this point, I pray God that you would be with us. Pray you'd be with each of these that raise their hand and were served this morning to walk by faith and to live daily by faith. I pray we would have that kind of faith in our life. We would trust you day by day and follow through the test of the faith that's going to come. I pray that you would stir your people and reward them with faith that will last and endure. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.