All right, Lisbon, take your Bible, please, and turn with me to Psalm 1. Psalm 1. I have been speaking to and about family issues here in the last several days. And though what I'm going to speak on this morning is not directly family-oriented, folks, it it's at the foundation of it all. And we'll see it here in Psalm chapter 1 this morning. Psalm 1, beginning in verse 1, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. Our Father, this morning, as we uh look at a very familiar portion of Scripture, I'd ask that you will give insight and wisdom today, and I ask that you will 400 years earlier, God spoke to Joshua, there in Joshua chapter 1. And God said to Joshua, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to Do all that is written therein. For then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good success. Folks, I don't know about you, but I would like to have some success in life. And I would like to see God's prospering. Well, we've just touched on a divinely inspired formula for God's blessing on our lives. God said to Joshua, Joshua wasn't a preacher. Wasn't an evangelist, wasn't a prophet. He, in fact, was a general who later became the initial political leader of that infant state of the nation of Israel three and a half thousand years ago. But he said, Joshua, this book of the law, the word of God, shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do. Now, 400 years later, approximately God led the Holy Spirit, or God through the Holy Spirit, I should say, led David to pin the words here in Psalm 1. And Psalm 1 is in fact a divinely inspired commentary on Joshua 1. The promises that God made to Joshua 3,500 years ago have not been abrogated. They still are in force to this day, if we'll just meet the simple qualifications and determinations of it. Psalm 1 is the preface to the great book of Psalms. Svurgeon called it the treasury of David. And in this short Psalm, six verses, our profound thoughts. Which pertain to the Christian life to this day. And so this morning, we are going to look at those six verses, and I'm going to give you six key words. Now, along the way, I'm going to re reduce that actually to two. I think you can go away and remember two things today. But six key words. Number one this morning is the word separation. The Bible says, come out from among them and be you separate. Now, notice here in Psalm 1, God said to David, Blessed is the man that walketh not. in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. The book of Psalms begins with three negatives. Folks say, preacher, don't you think we ought to be more positive and and and and accentuate the positive and not spend so much time on the negative? Well, folks, the fact of the matter is, uh it's a law of physics for every positive there's an equal and opposite negative. And if you don't believe that, uh before you go home today, go out and take the negative cable off the battery in your car and see what happens. The negative must be there with the positive. I don't consider separation a negative issue. It's a profoundly positive issue when we understand Nevertheless, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Now, I think we could summarize in verse one in this little thought, get out of the world. Get out of the world. Love not the world, touched on that in the men's Sunday school class this morning. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed. We used to sing a song in junior church. My wife has has done junior church for uh well over fifty years, about uh 54 or 5 years And she's a master at it. But one song we used to sing in junior church is The Places I Used to Go, Don't Go There Anymore. The things I used to do, don't do them anymore. Folks, that's what it's talking about here in Psalm 1 And notice he said, Blessed is a man that standeth not in the council. of the ungodly, nor in the way of sinner. The word way there in the underlying text, in the Hebrew text, has the idea to do with geography or place or location. There's a lot of places where a Christian ought not go. If you were to come out to Duluth now, we are in northern Minnesota, we're in forest country and in and just across the the bay in Wisconsin, it's forest country. They call it the North Country, the North Woods. And all through that area are are Indian reservations. Uh uh the in our region they all are Chipuwa or they they the the better pronunciation pronunciation is a Jibwa. Uh the the Indians themselves call it anashanabis, but which means the people. But every one of those little reservations has a casino. And some of the casinos aren't small. You can drive north from the Twin Cities on Interstate 35, and as you are approaching Duluth, you're in the woods, you're in the forest, you're in the north country, and all of a sudden here rises about a 14-story uh building it's the casino for the local tribe, the Fondelac tribe of the Chippewa. They're all over our area. And they they use various devices to entice people to come in and and uh lose their money at the casino. And you always lose. But one of them is that they have good restaurants. And uh we've had friends say, Well, let's go out to eat. Okay. You know, the casino's got really a good meal. a a a a low price. No, we're not going to the casino. Folks, you won't see Dave Sorensen in any one of those casinos. Not even to get a good meal at a low price. Buffet, by the way, my brother, the pastor wrote me and said, What kind of restaurants you'd like to go to? I said, my favorite restaurant is a buffet restaurant. And one of the casinos in our area advertises the best buffet in Minnesota. I've never been there. I wouldn't know. But blessed is a man that walketh not in the way, the place of sinners. My dad used to tell that my dad was a preacher for 50 years, a pastor, and my grandfather before that, but uh dad used to tell a story. I don't know if it was a true story. I don't think he purported it to be a true story, but it might be. But the story was uh about in the the the old west, in in in the United States, going back into the 19th century, uh a stagecoach company was advertising for employees And they had posted uh needed stagecoach drivers. And uh so a a fellow walks into the stagecoach uh office and He says, I would like to apply for the position. And the manager sits him down and says, let me ask you a question. He said, how how close to the edge of the cliff can you drive the stagecoach as you go around the side of the mountain? And the guy said, I'm really a good driver. I can drive within three feet. Driving a team of horses, six or eight horses, going around the side of the mountain. With the cliff falling off. Boss said, thank you. I'll consider your application. Next guy comes in, and among other things, he asked him the same question. How close to the side of the cliff can you drive the team of horses as you go around the mountain? Second guy said, I'm really a good teamster. By the way, that's where the word teamster came from. Driving a team of horses. He said, I'm really a good teamster. I can drive within 18 inches. of the edge of the cliff. And the boss said, thank you, I'll consider your your application. The next guy came in and Was I asked the same question? He said I'd get as far away from the edge of the cliff as I could get. He got the job. Folks, we ought to get as far away from the world as we can. We're in the world, but we ought not be part of it. It's entertainments. We talked in the the men's hour this morning about the the world's music. And we could go on and on today, but that's really not my main purpose, but that is where verse 1 is here this morning. Separation and if you want to call it, get out of the world. But notice here in verse 2, key word is this, Scripture. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. Hmm. Didn't we hear something about that with Joshua? Yes, we did. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And though the second key word here this morning is scripture, we could, uh, and as we get into verse 3 here in just a moment see the greater thought is get into the Word. Now there's two thoughts you can carry home with you today. Get out of the world and get into the word. Isn't that simple? Every one of you can remember that. And I hope you do. But notice here. His delight is in the law of the Lord. Say do you delight in God's Word? I mean, there's a lot of things we delight in. You ladies delight in shopping. You fellas delight in hunting and fishing. And there's nothing wrong with that. Some of you delight in a particular sports team. There's nothing wrong with that. But do you delight in the Word of God? Now it's it's all building a case here to the man whom God said, Whatsoever do it shall prosper. Get out of the world and get into the word. Rare is the day when I don't start the day in the Word of God. Now, we are flying out early tomorrow morning, and I don't know what time I'm getting up, I'm I'm thinking about 4 30 in the morning, something like that. But at some point between then and when I get on the airplane, I will have been on the word in the Word. Spending time in God's Word. When I'm home and on a normal schedule and even traveling this morning, Eastern time, I was up at 5. 47. I don't know why I get up at 5. 47, but that's just what I do. And when I'm home, central time, 5. 47 to get up and get into word. Seven days a week. But rare is the day that I don't begin in the Word. But occasionally there's a day. Sometimes the pastor gets called to the hospital at 5 o'clock in the morning, and your whole day is disrupted. Doc Clearwater's years ago used to talk about the ox falling in the ditch. Something goes wrong. And your schedule is turned upside down. Folks, I and I've had those days. You do too sometimes. But you know, I no, I I like to eat, I I suspect you do too. But you know what it feels like when you haven't eaten you missed a meal. Your stomach's empty and Folks, I feel that way spiritually when I'm not in the Word of God. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditation You say, preacher, does that mean that I that I'm supposed to spend all my waking hours and doing nothing but studying the Bible? No. But I will submit this. I think at the least it means start the day and end the day in the Word of God. Begin the day, end the day in the Word of God. I worked at a Christian radio station years ago when I was in seminarian. All the way from sitting behind the microphone to climbing the tower. I did it all. And uh but we had a Bible reading on the air, live in those days. Today they've recorded it, but And play it back. But we used to read the Bible live on the air at 9 o'clock in the morning, the morning Bible reading. We'd read three chapters a day in the morning and one chapter a day in the evening at 9 p. m. live. Four chapters a day, which, as I mentioned yesterday, will take you through the Word of God in one year. And that was the whole plan: to guide the listeners to read the Word of God through uh cover to cover in one year year. That took twenty minutes a day on average. Because we logged our time. I know in the morning it takes 15 minutes, at night it'd take five minutes. Folks, can you give God 20 minutes a day? Get in the Word. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. Now, I I in in the messages I think on Friday I I I dwelt a bit on this, especially with the men, on the idea of discipline. We need to discipline ourselves to be in God's Word. I've had people say to me over the years, well, you know, Brother Sornson, you know, I think we ought to be in the Word of God because we feel like it and we want to, not because we're supposed to. Oh, give me a break. The fact of the matter is there are going to be many days when you don't feel like it. And such an approach is a hit and miss approach and it's more miss than hit. Discipline yourself to be in the Word. I mean you're gonna wake up tomorrow morning with a headache. Or you're going to wake up next week with a head cold. You don't feel like getting in the word, but folks, do it anyway. And uh in in in in uh at home I have a specific time. I already told you the time. I have a specific place. uh where I sit, where the light is good. Uh you know, I I'm I'm starting to get into geezerville here. And uh eyes have just at the eye doctor this week. But I find a place where the light is good And I have a specific goal in reading. And every day, 365 days a year, by the grace of God, I get alone with the Lord each day. And folks, when we discipline ourselves to be in the Word, we grow. We talked the other night about the fruit of the Spirit. Well, that is what results. That sweet blessed fruit in our lives, and we learn to walk in the Spirit. But as a pastor, I have walked uh watched over the years, uh led people to Christ, and and And some of them just take off and grow. And others struggle and struggle and struggle. And the difference is one got in the word and the other didn't. I remember leading a guy to Christ, oh, this goes back many years ago, forty-some years ago. And uh he was the manager of the Anchor Department store at at the local mall. It wasn't Macy's, but it was a store sort of like that out in the Midwest. Led him and his uh wife to Christ on Halloween night. And she grew, and he didn't. And I said, Bob, are you in the Word every day? Well, Pastor, uh you know, I've got a I work in the store, I sit and stare at a computer all day long. I don't need to spend any more time reading each day Bob, I said you're you're you're heading to fail as a Christian. You need to be in the Word every single day That's Christianity 101. Well, get into the word. But notice now verse 3. Here's key word, number 3 this morning. Actually, it's two words: strength and stability. Strength and stability. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Wow, what a promise. As we get out of the world and get into the word. As we spend time in God's Word each day, by day and by night, is the literal sense in the original language. Morning and night, at least at the minimum. As we get into the word, it says, he shall be like a tree. Now it doesn't say he shall be like a dandelion. But a tree in the order of God's fauna, I'm sorry, God's flora, to get that correct here, and fauna is the animal, flora is the plants. In the order of God's flora, there is not a creature stronger than a tree. A tree. When we went to Duluth, Minnesota 31 years ago, we knew that we were soon going to build a home, uh build a house. We were looking for just a lot to build on and maybe an acre. And looked around and didn't find much and happened to notice a piece of ground that it's all full of birch trees. Wow, beautiful. And uh long story short, we bought that six acres of land for twelve thousand dollars. And uh we talk about hitting the market when the when the market was down. And for a number of reasons, topographical and what was under the soil and so forth, we had to place the house about 200, 250 feet in from the street. And I had to cut down, I dropped, uh I'm guessing around two hundred trees. They cut the driveway open, they cut the house side open until we and we we didn't have city sewers although we had the other city utility utilities, but uh we didn't have city sewers, so I had to cut down an area for the s the the the septic system, the septic field. And I know what it's like to cut down trees. I've cut a lot of trees over the years. But folks, there is something solid about a tree. And I take that steel chainsaw. And you cut the notch and the tree is if as you fellas know if you cut the tree and then you cut the other side and it comes down. And folks, in your feet you could feel the ground shudder as the tree hit the ground. There's something solid about a tree. And he shall be like a tree. Not a dandelion. Planted. Now, a tree is stable. You've got some beautiful trees around your property. We were walking around here the other day. Tall, straight, strong trees. They're stable. They're rooted. Not tumbleweeds. We were driving across North Dakota several years ago, uh in in the early spring, April, whatever it was, and uh maybe it was Montana. That was North Dakota. And uh tumbleweeds were blowing across the road almost to the point where we had to slow down and stop. Folks, I'd rather be a tree than a tumbleweed. He shall be like a tree, planted, rooted, stable. And I've watched Christians over the last fifty years, and some of them are like tumbleweeds. Yeah. They're up and they're down and they're back and they're forth and they're here and they're there. Well, we've got the formula right here. Get out of the world and get into the word. Discipline yourselves to be in the Word day and night. Each day and each night. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. When I was when I started college, I started in a secular university, Bradley University in Fiore, Illinois, and the engineering program there and and it was it's a long story on a time beginner to it was during that time the Lord got a hold of my heart and and directed me to Bible college but That first summer uh uh the through the university got a what they called an engineering co-op job uh th with a local light utility company that was called back then a Central Illinois Light Company, Silco And uh they had power plants along the Illinois River. Now, the Illinois River is a navigable river, not for like ocean-going ships, but for uh what they call towboats uh out on the Midwestern rivers. And the Illinois River ran roughly from Chicago to St. Louis. And of course from St. Louis to the Mississippi then goes down to New Orleans. And a lot of commerce, bulk commodities, go up and down the rivers in uh with with i if you can think of a tugboat, but the tugboat actually pushes a up to fifteen barges, they call it a tow altogether. Uh sometimes seven hundred and fifty to nine hundred feet long, and that's big for a ship. But anyway, our job was to be out on the river doing river survey. It was the year the EPA had been created, and the power company knew that the government was going to be interested in what they were doing to the river. Namely putting thermal pollution in the river. They they took cold water in to cool the steam fired boilers and uh and then discharged that hot water back into the river. We spent a good part of the summer going out there in a boat. Boy, that was a terrible job Out there in a boat with your shirt off, uh doing survey, uh, thermal measurements of the river and plotting it and so on and so forth. And uh, but our instructions were this That if a tow was coming, if a tow boat was coming, we had to get off the river. Beach the boat and sit down and watch. And we like that because we have to sit down for about a half an hour. As a as a the the the big vessel came by. But I noticed there along the levees of the Illinois River that there were trees, cottonwood trees, I think there were. They were this big around. Huge trees And why were they so big? They were planted by a river of water. Now, when we bought the land that we we uh have there in in in our home site in Minnesota. The property was predominantly birch trees when we bought it, and that's what attracted us uh to it. Just pretty But to my dismay and my disappointment, I learned that those birch trees were dying. And I talked to the DNR about it, and they said, well. There are three reasons. One, those trees are old. What came up after the forest fire of 1918. And uh they're second generation uh and and th there are several kind of trees that'll come up in that part of the world after a forest fire and b the birch came up. Two, you said there's been a birch blight running through the region and that's damaged the trees. And three, we've been in a drought for several years. And collectively those trees were stressed and and and they were dying, to my dismay And so I decided that I was going to plant little spruce trees throughout our our six acres of woods. And that we could buy like four hundred spruce trees, little seedling spruce trees from the DNR for I don't remember 50. $50 or $100, or whatever it was. And I went out and planted my 400 little spruce trees. I bought a little tool to plant them with. And I was excited we're going to have spruce trees growing up amongst the birch trees. Looks kind of pretty. And in my zeal to get the the the the the little spruce trees to grow, I went and I I bought some fertilizer and I fertilized around all those little trees and I killed about half of them And I tried something else the next year and I killed more of them. It would have been better just to leave them alone. But finally I figured out the right regimen and the right protocol and and I won't go into all of that. But it took me about five years, and today out of those forty-five trees, there's probably about 75 of them left. But those trees today are 50, 60 feet tall. But it was a lot of work and it was a lot of money to buy that specialty fertilizer to make those Little spruce trees grow, I guess they didn't like the soil they were planted in. The birch trees liked it, but the spruce trees didn't Well, if you were to come to North Star Baptist Church there in Duluth there, there is a creek that flows right in front of the church property, right along the side of the road. And the DNR has designated it as a trout stream. Now in over 30 years I never seen one fish in that, never saw one fish in that trout stream. And I could go off on a side-tangent story about how that has cost the church $80,000. But I won't get into that here today. But anyway, right where the driveway crossed the creek Uh there was a spruce tree, a little seedling tree, you know, four or five feet tall, and and I didn't fertilize it. I didn't weed around it. I didn't do anything to it. It just had sprouted up naturally. I suppose a bird dropped a seed or whatever. And in in about eight years or whatever, that tree is fifty feet tall. Now, I had spent uh a large sums of money and much work trying to get my spruce tree Trees to grow. I didn't do a thing to that tree. What's the difference? It was planted by a river of water. And it grew. And it grew. And it grew. Sadly it was cut down when again through the the the goodness of the DNR and construction constraints, I won't go into all that. He should be like a tree planted by the river of water. But then it notice it says, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. and fruitfulness. As a Christian, I would like to be fruitful. Now, there is the fruit of the Spirit. We talked about that the other night. There is also, and we might call that internal fruit, there is also what I might call external fruit, and that is leading people to Christ. Bringing others to the Savior. Jesus said, here does my Father glorify that you bear much fruit. So shall be my disciples. An apple tree produces apples which has a seed which produces more apple trees. And God has called us to win other people to Christ. Well here we read, the guy that or the gal that gets out of the world and gets into the Word, among other things, he'll be fruitful. Wow. Fruitful before our Lord. And then notice it says, his leaf also shall not wither. Now, I have watched as a pastor over the last 50 years, I have watched people come into the church and fizzle out. They come for a while and they fizzle, they wither. And I'm not implying they lost their salvation, but folks, they sure lost their faithfulness and their dedication. And their their determination to serve the Lord. His leaf also shall not wither. The front of our house is a wraparound deck. And uh in the summer I'll sit out there in a rocking chair. That's that's suitable for my advanced age. And uh just watch in the evening. the neighborhood and the trees and and uh but I have noticed that when a tree out in my front yard, the top of it, right up the top, the leaves start to die. The leaves start to wither. That tree is a goner. And within a year or so, that tree will be dead. Now again, I'm not implying that someone's going to lose their salvation, but I'm saying that if you aren't careful, folks, it's easy to fizzle out in a Christian life Get into the Word, or get out of the Word, and then get into the Word. In His law doth He meditate, day and night. And then notice the end of verse three. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now, folks, that is not from the book of Sorenson. That's from the Word of God. That promise has not been abrogated, though it was pinned 3,000 years ago. Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Well, I'm sure that means if you're a pastor or a missionary that you're going to prosper. Well, that may be. Folks, but it doesn't say that. It says whatsoever he doeth. Maybe it's your business. Your home, your family, we've talked about that here in recent days. Whatever you do, I'll prosper. I heard the story years ago of a young man who was in the Chicagoland area, failing in school and struggling in school. He was in high school and he went to his youth pastor and his youth pastor took him here to Psalm 1 and said, Look, uh here's the formula. Get out of the world, get into the Word, day and night. You said you do that, it says whatsoever you do will prosper. Your grades will come up. So the kid said, okay, I'll try it. And uh went on, and he went from a C minus average up to an A minus average. Well, he went off to college. And uh working uh a part-time job and college is generally more rigorous academically than high school, and he said to himself, I don't have time to be in the Word anymore. All of a sudden he finds himself down being a C minus student failing in college. And then he remembered the conversation he'd had with his pastor. To be in the Word of God day and night. And he went back to that, and folks, he went back up to being an A student. That's a true story, by the way. I can mention the name. It's a famous name, I won't mention it. But the Word of God says, whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now think of that. Strength, stability, fruitfulness, prospering in life. God said to Joshua, Then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good success. Again, that's not from Sorensen's book, folks. That's from God's book. And it hasn't been abrogated. It's true to this day. Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Well let's move on quickly. And the next three verses aren't going to take as long as the first three verses. But notice verse 4, the key word number 4 is stubble. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. I am not a farmer, but I've I've lived near the the the the fields in Illinois. Uh did much of my growing up formative years there and uh the cornfields and the soybean fields they plant Soybeans after they've had a year of corn because the soybeans put back into the soil what the corn took out and back and forth they go. But anyway, comes harvest time. October into early November. And the harvesting machines are going across the fields of the corn and the beans that are waiting to harvest. The sun has bleached them. And out of the back of the harvesting machine, the combine machine, comes chaff. It's being spread out with a fan. It's basically the byproduct of the harvest. It's basically not worth anything. You may have a slight residual value of fertilizer, but not much. And here we read that the ungodly are not so, but are like the stubble, like the chaff, which the wind driveth away. You were to come to Duluth Superior, we we we sit on the line between Minnesota and Wisconsin and and drive across the the Interstate 535 bridge from Minnesota to Wisconsin. Duluth, as I said earlier, is a port city And over in that area of the harbor are where the grain ships come in and load, and they go all over the world. Grain coming in from North Dakota and Montana and western Minnesota. mostly wheat. But anyway, as as the grain is is gravity loaded through shoots down in the hulls of the ship and the the the bridge there is high. The ships can go under it. And you can look right down on the ships as you're driving by. And when they're loading, there is dust coming up. Shaf. And whichever way the wind is blowing is where the chaff goes. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff. I went to my high school fiftieth anniversary here some years ago, I guess it's five years ago now And uh I hadn't been to any high school reunion, went to a big public high school uh sixty years ago. And Met some of my classmates from back then, uh hearing about their divorces. The failures in life, the problems in life. Here we read that the ungodly are like the chaff. Folks, there is great blessing in getting out of the world and getting in the world. He gives strength and stability and blessing and prospering. Whatsoever he doeth shall Prosper. And notice verse five, therefore the ungodly shall not stand. in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. The idea is that the ungodly will not prevail when they stand before God in the judgment. They'll not prevail. They'll be cast, as we know, into the lake of fire. There in Matthew we read, Depart from me, ye cursed into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. They'll not stand in that day. And finally, number six, notice, verse six. But the Lord, or for the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. He summarizes a all right there. But here's the greater thought here today, folks. Number one, get out of the world and get into the word. I don't care if you've been saved for six weeks or you've been saved for sixty years. The principle never changes. It's still the same. Stay in God's Word. And God will bless your life Whatever degree of prospering that I've experienced in my life, I believe, is predicated on Psalm 1. Forty Seven Years ago, I was challenged to be in the world And I began on the schedule reading the word in the morning, in the noon, in the evening. And maybe you can't do that. Maybe your station in life does not allow that. As a pastor, I could do that. But there's no question in my mind that whatever success and prospering that I have enjoyed in these years is because I've tried to find Psalm 1. I've tried to be separated and get out of the world and all the mess that's in the world. All the corruption through lust that's in the world. That breaks up families, by the way. And I've tried to be in God's Word daily, day and night, for these past forty-seven years Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. You say, I don't have time to do that. You don't have time to have God's blessing in your life then. But folks, what a simple opportunity here today. What a simple Simple principle here today. Get out of the world, get into the Word.