So good morning. Welcome to Hunt Valley Baptist Church here for our Sunday school hour. Good to have all of you with us. New Sunday School series. We're beginning today. Which I'm sure will be a blessing to you that you will enjoy. It's 10 lessons, but I believe that it's probably going to take me more like 15 weeks to get through it Uh we'll we'll see. There's a lot of material there. Uh when it's all said and done, I think there's around 90 pages of uh information uh that you'll be able to take with you. Uh the there is uh Um I don't have it up here, but there's a folder that was under the mirror back there. Uh if you didn't get a copy of that and would like one, could Would you raise your hand? We're going to provide them, Brother Glover, would you get a few of those? So we're going to provide them to you and And uh these are for you to keep. We want you to take notes in there. Obviously there's blanks for you to fill out, spots for you to uh put in pertinent information, uh, and then even for yourself, writing your own notes and your own thoughts, there's plenty of room you want to be able to do that. Now we talked about last week I threw out the idea that you know there might be a fee. Obviously we had to purchase all this material. Just the binders was 170 bucks or something like that. But uh what we're doing as a church, I want to just give it to you. And if you have the means and capacity and you can put five bucks in offering to help cover that, great. If you don't, don't worry about it. Nobody's going to check on it one way or the other. You just say, hey, I can help cover that. You can throw five dollars in the offering. You don't have to mark it as five dollars for Sunday school or anything like that. We're not we're just going to trust God to meet the need and provide to uh be able to take care of it. But I want to make sure that everybody's in class has the material and then also, you know, that it'll be beneficial for you for the future I know uh to add to your own personal library and study and to be able to have and so we want to do it that way. Just get it to anybody that is going to be part of the class either in here, we're taking that in here. They're doing the same class in the The uh contenders across the uh foyer there and also the teens downstairs are taking the same study. We're working and walking through this together and I believe it'll be a blessing to you. We're gonna get into it. I I told Brother Hunt this morning that I'm not gonna rush through this. I'm not gonna try and as I look through the introduction, uh I I there's no way I'm gonna get done with the introduction today. Uh you know You know, just just the material that's there. And I told him this morning, I said there's no reason for us to try and run and just cram it all in. Uh and I would rather be able to take time with the class. Teach through it and we will be traveling at different paces, whatever he decides to move at or uh the teens. I said we'll just go through it and uh just take it as we can and how the class progresses and then If we get to a point that we have to get concluded because of the next thing or something, we'll deal with that. But for now, we're just going to just take it one week at a time and walk through it. And I believe that it'll be a blessing to you Now the sessions, as I said, they you w want to get them all, they kind of build on each other. Uh it it's almost like a math class. If you if you miss one, you kind of miss some foundational truths. and and you jump in over here and grab this one and you're gonna have missed the foundation of this lesson. And so they kinda they kinda do go in order and they do build on each other. So You would the whole structure here, the whole title is putting your life in order. And you want to put it in order. You want to take what time is necessary and learn each lesson and apply it to your life and work through that. It's through consistent application of biblical principles that a difference is going to be made in your life. You can have the best financial plan in the world. But if you don't implement it, you're still gonna be broke twenty years from now. That's just the facts. You know, sometimes people listen or they go to these financial seminars and they'll listen to a big financial cinema and get cinemas You know what I'm saying. They'll do that and and they walk away, but they don't change their behavior. They don't stop using their credit cards. They don't they don't start living inside their means. They don't start saving money. They think, man, that would be awesome to have investments. You can't make investments if you're not saving any money, but they don't change their behavior, and so they say, well, that that course didn't work. Well, obviously it didn't work. You didn't use it. And so it's what we're saying this chorus is not some magical thing that all of a sudden if if you complete this ten weeks of study that there's something going to happen Monday morning after the tenth week, you're going to wake up and bam, you all of a sudden are a super Christian and it's just going to happen for you. No, you have to implement the biblical principles. And you implement those week after week after week, and God brings about great and dramatic change in your life if you're prepared and willing to do it. Don't think this is going to be some quick fix. It's going to it's you still have to implement God's plan. But we want to give you the tools to do it, and the the plan here is to encourage you and tell you that, hey, it's possible. for you to do it, okay? Now I would encourage you to prepare your heart to be receptive to change. Prepare your heart. That's not in your notes yet if you're looking. What page is he on? I'm not there. I'm still giving you some introductory thoughts. I'm trying to lay the foundation. We'll we'll we'll get there. I'll tell you when to turn in your notes there. But you want to prepare your heart. To be receptive. It's vitally important that our hearts are ready. Um Oftentimes on Sunday morning when we come into church, any time, our hearts are so overly weighted with the cares of this world, we're not ready to receive what God has for us. We're not ready to absorb it. We're not ready to to get that instruction and to let God make that difference and change in our life And so you you you roll in here and you you've been fighting in the car all the way to church and you know you you're you're mad as can you're steaming uh and you you you open the door and You put your Christian smile on and grab your Bible and boy, we love Jesus. Yes, Amen. And you sit down there and y you know, you're still st steaming at each other and and still upset and and and you know you're not ready to receive what God has for you. So ask God to help you to prepare your heart. Put some thought into it. Put some prayer into it. You can't get something different out of the same thing. If you want something different in the future, we're doing this lesson here you know on putting your life in order and you say boy this would be awesome and I've heard many of you comment on man I'm looking forward to that. Boy this is definitely something I could use. Boy this is something that'll make a difference for me. I'm excited about it. But you can't expect something different out of the same thing. So there's got to be some change that's going to need to take place and your heart has to be receptive. to that change. If you want a different result, you've got to attempt it a different way. You know, if you went to a doctor and asked the doctor for some help Maybe you have a a swollen knee and the doctor says, Oh, I've got these pills here that they they take down inflammation, and if you take these, it'll it'll fix it right up. And and you go home And you leave the pill sitting on the counter, and you say, Well, I'm never going to that doctor again. It didn't he didn't do me any good A lot of times people they they talk about the church that way, they talk about God that way, they talk about the Lord because they hear biblical truth, they hear biblical principles shared, and they they At the end of the service, they close their Bible and go home and set it on the shelf. And that's the extent of the impact or change it made in their life. And they say, yeah, Christianity doesn't work. Yeah, this whole church and God and all that, it's not helping. Well, you didn't take the medicine You didn't make the change. You didn't implement or practice the biblical principle that's going to be able to do it for you. And you've got to do that if you want to see the change. Now I would encourage you in your notebooks, I mentioned this already, but fill in the blanks. Think about what you're writing. Some of these blanks, you know, some of these questions or thoughts there, you may want to add You know, there's a little blank spot for you to write something, but you may want to add something else personally. Apply it to yourself and say, boy, I need I need this. I need to be strengthened here. I need to make a change here and and keep those notes so you that you'll have 'em And then if you need more help beyond our certain class here, we we can set you up uh in maybe a discipleship class or discipleship study, a one-on-one study with somebody. Obviously I'm available to try and help and counsel and and and guide somebody if they have questions beyond what we maybe can cover in the Sunday school class here. But I wanted to uh mention here that this series, Putting Your Life in Order, you'll see the graphic there and it's of course on your books. This whole series was put together by Pastor Townsley. It was provided to me and told to use it freely however I would like. So I did not write this material. And so trying to teach from somebody else material has been uh it's very different for me, uh, but it's very good stuff. Uh so as we're going through it, sometimes, you know, be patient with They did a great job. And uh he had this graphic designed. And the idea is that in our lives, and we're going to get into this lesson, but you'll see on the graphic there that You have the all of the red circle around the individual, and that is you it says Satan on there, Satan several different times, and it talks about Satan and who he is. He's our adversary, he's our accuser, he's our deceiver. He influences us. He's our enemy. You know, these are descriptions of Satan. Well he is on the outside and he is influencing and impacting our life as a whole from the outside. That's his objective. That's what he's trying to do. And then you have the influence of the world. The world, again, is outside, and all of those different influences of the world that are on your life. And then you'll see from the man there that there is this uh maybe like a thought bubble or something that's coming from his chest and the idea of the flesh. And that we have that flesh that's working from the inside that as well is trying to influence us and cause us to go the wrong way. And so The title here is Fighting the Good Fight and keeping in mind that we have these three enemies. So the goal for this uh study here is the same for everybody. And uh in Galatians chapter four and verse number nineteen The Apostle Paul is talking to the believers of Galatia there. And he says, man, I travailed in verse for you. He says, I travailed for you, I cried for you, I prayed for you, I sought God for you, for your soul, that you would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I labored for you. And then my goal, he's talking to them. He says, my goal for you, in verse number 19, Galatians 4. 19, he says, is that Christ would be formed in you. That literally we would become like Christ. And that's what we're supposed to be as Christians, to become like Christ. And that's the goal of this class, of this of this study is that Christ would be formed in us. We know we're supposed to live like Christ, look like Christ, act like Christ, walk like Christ, talk like Christ. He is the ultimate example, and that's what we're supposed to be. And we also know that it's a process. Some days you might do pretty well at being like Christ. But you all know, just like I know, that there's days that we fall pretty far short of that standard. And we aren't like Christ. And so we have to get back up and try and ask the Lord, hey, He's still working on me. Amen. He's still working on me. Now, in your notebooks here, we have some notes, but uh not any place for you to fill in in the beginning here, but uh you'll see paragraph there. He says, To many believers. Enjoy too many believers enjoy the blessings of being born again, but soon fall away and never establish a biblical pattern of living. Hence, many believers never experience the blessing of a victorious Christian life. How many of you have seen this? You've seen people do this? They come into church? They're on fire for God. They're excited about what's happening. They get in, you know, they're here and and they oftentimes you'll you'll see them excited. They'll come in and say, man, I'm so thrilled. Bo this morning came in and he said, man, I'm I'm excited to be here. And I praise the Lord for that. That's awesome. He says this is all he says, man, he says he told me. If I could throw a backflip, I'll do it right now. I'm excited to be in church. I'm excited to learn about God. This is exactly what I need. And I praise the Lord for that. But oftentimes people that come in with this type of a fire, with this type of an excitement, they'll come in there and they're so excited, but if something's not real inside If they don't start to implement biblical change in their life, six months down the road, people will be like, where's Bo? I thought he was on fire for God. I thought he was excited about church. I thought he was thrilled to learn the truths of the Word of God. What happened to Bo? Now I hope that doesn't happen to you. Amen. Amen. That's great. I'm glad. But uh that happens a lot. Because people will come, but they don't ever start to implement biblical pattern of living in their lives You know, the Word of God tells us very clearly how to have a happy home. Well, can I tell you one of the hardest things for people to do is have a happy home? It doesn't make sense to me why a husband and wife would want to live together and be miserable. Why they would want to hate being together. Why they want to live like that and can't stand being at home. One of the best thrills of my day is when I get to go home and be with my wife. That's God's pattern. That's what God would want us to have, that kind of a friendship. But people don't implement biblical patterns of living in their home, and their home is miserable. And they say, well, it doesn't work. It can if you'll implement it. That's what he's saying. Too many believers, they're born again. They know Jesus as their Lord and Savior, but they fall away, having never established biblical patterns of living. So this is what this course is about. Is helping you to establish some biblical patterns of living that will bring about that change in your life As we begin this journey into the scriptures together, let us all pray for God to search our hearts and to reveal any unbiblical patterns of living. You know, sometimes you might have an unbiblical pattern of living in your life and you and you don't even realize it. And you say, well, as far as I know, I'm I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing But this is where we need to have a heart open to change, open to letting God speak to us. Because you might have something in your life you say, well, uh everything's good, but then as the Word of God is revealed and the Spirit of God comes to you says boy this is something that is hurting you spiritually and you say oh I need to change that I need to change that Be open to that. As the Word of God, as the scriptures reveal the changes that need to take place. As God reveals these to us, let us seek to change our behavior. So that we can glorify God in our lives. You know, beloved, only through complete submission to his word will we find victory. Will we find victory And you can find victory in your life. God wants you to have victory. Now there's some very important questions that are listed for you there in your book. Do you see this stack of questions? All right, let's get some audience participation. Somebody tell me what's question number one. You can just say it out loud. Oh, this is foundational. Do you know for certain that you're saved? We don't want to just take for granted, beloved, that you know you've been in church for how many other years and you know how to carry your Bible and you know uh Bo, I hope you don't mind me using the illustration. You're the new guy, so we'll get to pick on you. Okay, so here's the thing. Bo's never been to Hunt Valley Baptist Church, so he doesn't know uh what's expected. You know, he came into class and he said, okay, so what is this class? What do we do here? W w how does this go? What's what w what See, sometimes after we've been in church for a little while, we know what's expected. We know how to walk and talk and and walk around and and we know how to to look and oh I'm not supposed to say that. You know Sometimes people come to church that have no church background. They don't have any idea. You know, in this room right here, I've bowed my head and prayed with somebody that in their prayer they cussed. They're praying to God and they cuss. They use foul language in their prayer. Well, they're obeying Christ. They don't know Jesus. They don't know what's expected yet. I didn't look at him and say, what are you doing? You can't talk to God that No. He needs to grow. He needs to learn. He needs to see. But God's really not in our heart. Jesus Christ hasn't forgiven you of your sin. You've never put your faith and trust in Him alone and asked Him to forgive you of your sin. take you to heaven when you die. That's foundational. So we want to be assured of that. Hopefully everybody here knows for sure, without a question, that you are saved. In 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 10, you might write this down in your notes there next to that, know for certain you're saved. Second Peter one verse ten. He says, Wherefore, the rather, brethren, give diligence to making your calling and election sure. For if you do these things, ye shall never fail. He said, this is the beginning. If you want to live life and not fail as a believer, as a Christian, it starts by making sure your calling is sure. Making sure that you've got your relationship with Jesus Christ, that He is there to help and serve you. Okay, question number two, what is it? Somebody in the back. Question number two. Do you have any habits that dishonor the Lord? Well, no. Okay, we can skip that one. We don't have any habits that you know, but let me ask you, would you be willing to ask the Lord, or is there anything in my life? I mean prayerfully, this is where I'm saying some things in our notes here is just one little line, one little question, one little thing. But do you know you could take some time in your devotions this week, maybe every other day, purpose in your heart and say, okay, I'm going to honestly contemplate and say, Lord, is there any habits in my life that are dishonoring? Over the next few weeks in in this study, would you reveal them to me? Would you show me? And just seeking and asking God, do you have any habits? Take some time and pray about it. Question number three there. Now they're not numbered. We're going to lose track here, but what's the next one? Are you addicted to a bad habit? Thank you, Bo. Are you addicted to a bad habit? No, it doesn't say sinful habit. It says bad habit. You know, some things that we do, uh, although it it doesn't have to it doesn't have to be sin to be bad habit In my mind there's some illustrations uh that are that are coming coming up. But uh you understand it doesn't have to be sin to be a bad habit. There's things that that we do that aren't good for us. There's things that you might do that uh aren't good for your relationships. There's things that you do that you're like, well, I just like doing it, you know, and so everybody else has to live with me like this because this is how I am. Well, maybe it's a bad habit. Maybe it's something that you need to let go. Now, there's some ladies in the church that are I know it comes from a place of love. They love me as their pastor. And They're trying to get me to give up Mountain Dew. Okay? They're like, Pastor, you gotta stop drinking that stuff, you know They reproved me gently, you know. Uh you gotta give that up. It's not good for you. It's gonna hurt you, and and I know And I tell 'em, just stay after me. One of these days I'll get right with God and I'll give up the Mountain Dew. You know. Um so it it it doesn't bother me. I I appreciate that they care and that they want me to be healthy. And uh, you know, I I'm working on it. I was joking with some people in the back that, you know, I haven't eaten a donut in, I don't know, months and months. You know how hard it is on Sunday morning to come in here and not eat a donut? That's very hard. So I am making progress. But do you have any bad habits? We're not talking about my bad habits. We're talking about your bad habits. Do you have any bad habits? Okay, the next one here. Do you have trouble with anger Listen, a Christian should be in control of their spirit. This is very, very important today. This is one of those Christian sins that are acceptable by many people. But you know the Bible says, make no friends with an angry man. And and a Christian should be in control of their spirit. You know, you will do more damage to your relationships through anger than just about anything else. Because you can't control this tongue right here. Because when you're mad, you're just gonna say it. You're just gonna tell her what you think, and then later you want to tell her, Well, I didn't really think that. I didn't really feel that way. I don't really think you're fat and ugly. I just said that. Well why did you say it if you didn't mean it? Yeah, you know what kind of damage you're doing? Because in anger, you're you're lashing out in anger and hurting the people that are closest to you. you and you want them to keep forgiving you for it, but you're the one that needs to change. There's an unbiblical pattern of living if you have a if you have a pattern of of anger And this is not a lesson on anger this morning, but I want you to understand this is very important. And it is an acceptable sin in many circles today But we are to be in control of our spirit. And if you have a if you have a problem with that, you've got to get some help. Get some help. Because uh getting in control of your spirit is so important. You know it it goes This anger is one way, but do you know as I look around the room here, I want you to understand that not being in control of our spirit can go the other way too. And it can lead to discouragement. and despair because we're not in control of our spirit. So I'm over here down in the dumps Just melancholy and you know, me and Eeyore are having a pity party over here because life is so hard. Do you know you end up here because you're not in control of your spirit? If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. You need to control what you're thinking about. And it'll keep you from getting here. And the same thing happens if we're going to put anger over on this other side over here. When that steam kettle starts stirring up inside of you. You need to get control of your spirit, get control of what you're thinking about so that you don't end up over here yelling and screaming and kicking things. I've told you before I had a temper when I was a kid. Terrible temper. I would get mad and fly off the handle and do whatever I could whatever I could and as a little kid you can't do much So I, you know, the strongest thing on your body is your legs. So I had a pretty good habit of kicking stuff when I was a kid. And uh my dad beat it out of me. You say, Oh aren't you mad and bitter because your dad spanked you? No, I'm glad. Because I'm able to have a right relationship with many people now. It takes a lot to get me mad. Just yesterday I was telling somebody they called in to apologize because they did something that that offended me, but it didn't offend me. I didn't even remember what they did. But uh they said, you know, I just wanted to make sure you weren't offended. I said, listen, it takes a lot to get to get me offended. Uh don't worry about it at all. You did nothing. Appreciate your sensitivity, appreciate your calling, but you did nothing wrong. No problem. I'm not upset. But you know, if I was still given to that, I would have split this church a long time ago You know, anger is important. You gotta be in control of that. Uh nextly, because we don't have any numbers. Uh is your home a peaceful and quiet haven? Christian, your home should be a place of peace. Any Christ-honoring home is going to be a place of peace. Are your kids hiding in the bedroom because mom and dad are fighting again? Should never be that way. And it should never be that way. Do you know in uh Forty-eight years, I have never one time heard my father raise his voice to my mom. Not one time did he ever raise his voice. Did they ever have a disagreement? I'm sure they did. But as a kid, I never saw it. Mom and dad were a teen. They were together. If they had something they needed to discuss, and I say discuss, because you ought to be able to talk things through. You shouldn't be yelling and screaming. Your home should be a place of peace and rest. That's what God has for you. If it's not, you've got some unbiblical patterns in your life you need to find and deal with. Let's see, are you serving the Lord in ministry? Where are you using God's gifts to you in service to Him? I believe personally that God gives every single person that comes to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ that God has given you at least one gift, maybe many gifts. There's big debate on whether you get one or many. To me it doesn't really matter. That principle is you're supposed to be using whatever God's given you for His honor and glory. And uh so are you using that for God's honor and glory? Are you serving God in some capacity, in some way? We'll say, no. Well then you have an unbiblical pattern of living. You're not fulfilling God's plan for you. You're not serving God. You're not doing something with what He has given you. So are you serving the Lord? Are you faithfully witnessing? Are you being a witness, sharing the gospel Can somebody here tell me this week? We want to get class participation. Uh somebody tell me this week where you were a witness, where you shared the gospel. Somebody in here. There's got to be somebody in here that in some way was Can we say in the last month? Yes. Alright, yesterday you gave a gospel tract to somebody uh that's being a witness. Do you know as Christians we're all called to do that? If I said to you, Where where are you being a witness? If next Sunday I said, Hey, where were you a witness this week? And you say, um Well, we need to be asking the Lord for opportunities. We need to be looking for places to open that door and allow us to present the gospel. Even a simple gospel tract. It doesn't mean you have to get somebody and and say, hey, let me teach you the five points of Calvinism. Okay? Uh it doesn't mean you have to get somebody and and uh go through a Bible study. It just means you you say, hey, can I tell you what the Lord did for me? The Lord saved my soul. He he he changed my life. Uh made a difference in my life. That's being a witness. Just pointing people to Christ. So being a witness. Then um Do you have secret sins that haunt you? Listen, secret sins will destroy you. They're things that nobody else knows about but you. You've been hiding them really, really well. But secret sins, they'll destroy you from the inside out. You'll never be successful and you'll never be satisfied and you will never have joy as a Christian as long as you're hiding those secret sins. You're trading the abundant Christian life and the joy that God wants you to have so that you can have this whatever small thing it is over here in secret. It's not very good trade, is it? It's really not. But Satan sells it that way. He says, man, you don't want to give that up But you can't even see all what you're what you are giving up by not giving that over to God. Um Do you have bitterness toward God or any other person? Listen, bitterness has to be dealt with. Bitterness will eat you up You say, uh, well, I'm not bitter. Well, is there somebody, doesn't matter who or where, but let's say I said a person's name. And when I say their name, you get mad. Not mad at me, but just you remembering. You going over in your heart and mind. You can't talk about them without bringing up that thing they did. Then you're bitter. Okay, you you you see you can't see them without it causing a problem, then you're bitter. You ought to be able to walk up to anybody and say, hey, good morning. Have no ill will towards them, no problems Be gracious and glad to see them. Do you want to be best friends with them? Maybe not. You know, but you shouldn't be harboring bitterness and anger towards them So if you do, you need to recognize it. Have you become lazy in your spiritual life? This is very, very important. Do you know you can be a very, very hard worker And be lazy spiritually. Be lazy spiritually. Um Just not doing what you know you should do spiritually, not reading the Bible, not being a witness, not spending time in prayer, not praying for your family, for your loved ones, for your relationship. for for your own for your own self. Just lazy spiritually. You know, the old principle you get out of something what you put into it. Well, your Christianity is going to be pretty weak and anemic if you're lazy spiritually. You know, I I really need to start doing some exercise. That would be good for me. I talked to Jake last week. He goes to the gym four nights a week. Talk to him, I says, Hey, what when do you go to the gym? I want to meet you there. We wanna I want to go to But you know every night this week there was something came up and I just couldn't make it. I just I just was lazy. But it boils right down to it. And you know, the lazier you are physically, the weaker you get. You don't have the strength to do anything. You can literally get to the place where you can't walk up some steps. The same thing happens to us spiritually. We're lazy spiritually, and we wonder why the Christian life is so hard. Because you're trying to go into battle and fight a battle and have had no preparation and you've got no strength to do what you're what you're asking to be able to do How many of you here could do fifty push-ups right now? Both things he can. Maybe I don't I don't need you to. We don't have time. I'm supposed to be done in about four minutes. But you know, anybody in here could do fifty push-ups given enough time to build up to that. But the problem is, is we don't do that, we don't exercise that way, and we become weak in that way And uh, you know, my kids and I some years ago we were doing push-ups every day just for fun. We would my boys and we'd, you know, be doing push-ups. And at that time I could drop and do fifty push-ups. Right now I'd probably be lucky to get twenty-five. I mean for the sake of my pride I might really work hard and get twenty-five, you know? But I would be hard. I could I know that because I haven't done any push-ups in about two years Say, man, Pastor, I know. But but what about you? When's the last time you spent time in the Word of God? When's the last time you spent time praying? When's the last time you did a Bible study? Looked up some words you didn't know or understand. If you're lazy spiritually, you're going to be weak spiritually. That's just the facts. Now, do you struggle with besetting sin? Okay, you want to lay aside, the Bible says lay aside every weight and every sin that does so easily beset us. Are you plagued with generational iniquities? Sometimes there's things that that are passed on from generation to generation you might have to watch out for And we can get into that more later. Do you believe, here's a question, do you believe that you can experience victory? A lot of times Satan has come and sold you the lie that you can't be victorious. Well, I tried that before and I couldn't do it. But you can do it. You can do it. If you get serious about it and determine that you're going to, you can do it. In and through the power of God. It's God's work, but it starts with you making the decision to say, I'm going to do this. You know, last September I decided I was going to lose some weight. And I'm shocked at how hard it is. It's mind-boggling at 48 years old how hard. First time in my life I ever really tried to lose weight. But you know what, I lost 28 pounds So you can do it. But you have to stop eating donuts. And that's hard. That's hard. But you can you can experience victory If you want it, if you really want it. Um and then have you experienced any personal hurt that you need to let go over that leads to bitter bitterness? Now, I'm supposed to be done here, literally right now We didn't even really get you guys didn't even fill in any blanks yet, did you? Terrible. I'm not a very good teacher. Uh putting your life in order. Alright, let me give you a couple things here. Let's get through this. The reality of the bat of the battle Now, do you realize that we're in a battle? Every one of us need to keep in mind that we're in a battle. We need to acknowledge this fact. We need to Deal with it. You know, the fact of the matter we're laying out here this by the introduction, this lesson one is the lure of the world, the lust of the flesh, the lies of the devil, and the loss of mansoul. These lessons are descriptive of the three primary enemies that we have. They're really establishing the fact that here's the battle, here's the war, this is what we're fighting. Okay, now how do we deal with that? And then we get into the defense of the believer and how we overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil. And then part number three, the decisions that bring about those great change. We have two uh Offensive weapons, the sword and the prayer. We can through prayer, the power of prayer and the word of God, uh bring uh victory in our life and then victory through unity, uh Christian unity, brothers and sisters in Christ, and and going into battle together. brings victory. And then lesson three, we ultimately become a fruit bearing cr Christian. Those are the three categories. Okay, uh part one here, the the reality of the battle. I'm trying to get to one point where you can I'm not gonna get there. Uh we live in uncertain and changing times. Uh this is for sure. Or the signs of the time are everywhere. We know that. These are uncertain and very fast-changing times. But we know that our redemption draweth nigh. Amen. It's close. And so in these unchanging times, we need to be prepared and ready. Let me give you something you can fill out here, the last uh little group here. We have the Apostle Paul. is an example of a victorious Christian. He's an example of a victorious Christian. At the end of his life, he wrote Timothy stating, I have fought a good fight, and here you must learn How to experience victory over the world, the flesh, and the devil. So Paul says, I fought a good fight, I've finished my course, I've kept the faith. And we want to talk a little bit about that next week. How do we do that? How that how does this example that's been given to us and how important these things are of fighting a good fight, finishing our course and keeping in our faith. That's where we're going to pick up next week. And uh listen, we're not going to be in a hurry. And if you've got any questions as we're going through this, I want you to uh uh communicate with me, talk to me. I want to try and answer those