This morning I want to speak to this matter about what the Bible says about tithing. And you see, I already know that and I'm already doing that. But I want to make sure that you've got some other areas that you're mentioning too sure about. And after 38 years of doing this ministry, I've heard all kinds of concoctions of how people tithe. And I thought, how could you take something so simple and make it so complicated? And then, because there's about as many different views about tithing as there's people who are giving them. Yeah, and and and and I wonder where do they get this idea? So I just took just a couple of verses out of the Bible and say, what does the Bible say about tithing? First of all, the tithe, and you can pass those around. First of all, the tithe, what is the tithe? The tithe is the first 10%. The first 10%, and people stop there. The 10%. No, that's baby giving. If you really want to grow, If you really want to grow in your Christian life, don't tithe in what you make. Tie them what you'd like to make. Amen. Hello? That'll get somebody in trouble. Tie them what you like to make. See if God doesn't turn the blue light special on for just for you Because God can do that. You ever had one of those, the Blue Light special? I walked I was driving down the interstate with my wife and she said, Did you pack your shoes? I thought, I thought you packed those today So then we got this stop the car. Stop the car. Wait, we're on the interstate. Well pull off the next exit. So we pull off the next exit, get out, look in the trunk, and sure enough it impacts my dress shoes. I just got my tennis shoes. That's gonna be great tomorrow morning in that church wearing tennis shoes with your suit on. Yeah. You look like a clown in uniform. So anyways We got to find a Walmart. We got to the top of the ramp, and there's the Walmart. I went in there with my son and I went to the shoe department and there was a pair of black shoes Right? Brand new shoes. And one was $29. 95 and was four and the other and so my son says this is the one you like? And I said, Yeah. And I had one in my hand, it was twenty-nine ninety-five. The one he had, the exact same shoe was four ninety-five I don't know who put the tags on there, but I went to the cashier and I said, You gotta take these off. These are $4. 95. She you don't want those? I said, I'd love to get them for $4. 95. She said, that's the price. I said, well, these are the same shoes for $29. 95. She said, which one do you want to pay for? I walked out with 495 just like that. I've had stuff like that happen. It it just goes on. When you do tithe, God has the blue light special just for you. Yeah. I walked in one time with travel a Pennsylvania Turnpike. I went in to go pay my gas. I filled up my tank. Thirty dollars or so. And the the lady said, what tank what what number? And I said, number seven or so, and she said, No, that one's thirty dollars. And I said, Yeah, that's mine. She said, no, I just charge the other guy 30 bucks. Yours is five dollars. She got the wrong number and the guy drove off. She said, which one is he gonna pay the five bucks or not? I'm trying to tell you when you do tithe, God has a blue light special just for you. God does make it up and and so there the the What is a tithe? It's the first 10% in the New Testament tithe and offerings are combined together. So don't just stop at the tenth. You really want to grow, give beyond the tenth. We'll get in a lot of more questions here. Give beyond the 10% if you really want to see God's blessing. Number two, is tithing part of the law that does not apply to today? Some people would think that the tiding was only Old Testament Well, when you look over here in Matthew in the New Testament, in Genesis, in Matthew 23, 23, or over in Luke, Jesus says, these things ought you have done And he lists tithing on the things you ought to have done. And some people have got this idea the Old Testament doesn't apply to today. Why well if it doesn't apply, we why do we have it in our Bible today? It does apply today. And and the same thing, the New Testament, the Old Testament Complements the New Testament and New Testament complements the Old Testament. And so the is tithing part of the law that doesn't apply to No, no. Some people got that idea. No, it was affirmed by Christ in the New Testament. And I just gave you one verse, but there are several verses there regarding that. Now, what is the real purpose of the tithe? What's the real purpose of the tithe? It's to show how great God is. When you do tithe, it seems like God just does some things for you and blesses you. You know, and it some people said when I started tithing, I seem to have more money left over. You know what it did is when you started tithing subliminally it made you less selfish such that you do have money left over. Yeah, God has a way of helping you to become less selfish and concern more about others. And then when you learn to be more concerned about others than yourself, you don't need the I hope I'm not hitting anyone's head, but you don't need the seventy-five thousand dollar pickup truck jacked ten feet in the air so it can blow smoke in someone else's face at the stoplight. You all laughing 'cause you had that happen to you. I look at the guys in the truck like that and I said, he's got a security problem He wants to show you somebody. Well, you know, when I do tithe, I don't need something like that to impress somebody at a stop sign. The real purpose of the tithe is the practical function of supporting the vital ministries of the local church. However, the underlying purpose of the tithe is to learn to fear the Lord. And you find that in Deuteronomy. Uh and then here's a one I get this one. Where should I give my tithe? We had a laid in our church seat. She said, I want to talk to you about something here. She said, I don't I I I already did this. What'd you do? And this dear sweet elderly lady, she said, I'm going to listen to this guy on the radio And his name is Gardner Ted Armstrong. The World Tomorrow Church. And I looked that guy up and I thought, whoa, that's really out there. And she said, I wrote him a check for $10,000. Wait a minute, where's the tithe to be given? Can I make it very practical? My father said to me when I was a kid, my dad was a career military. And uh we're kind of a military family. And um dad said, you eat in this house, you sleep in this house, you pay a role and board in this house. Well I figured that this is this is my church. This is my house. So I'm going to give my tithe to my house. That's pretty simple right there. God, the tithe of the money is to be given to the support, the local church. And God had designed the local church to carry out the vital functions about uh uh the uh functions among Christians as well as getting the gospel out. If the church fails its responsibilities, then it becomes despised by the world. So this is your church, this is where you attend. This is where you get fed, this is where you tithe. And uh it I don't think tithing has very little to do with membership. as per se, just because you're member um doesn't make make it a whole lot of difference is the fact that this is where you have joined yourself together because we've got a lot of people down where I live that are not members but they're there for nine months of the year going to college. So we tell them, look, while you're here, you tithe here, and when you go home, you tithe there. We get people who I don't know some of you have this prejud privilege to abandon this section of the country in the winter and go to Florida So you'd like to do that, but I see people who come down to Florida and they'll come there from October to March, five months or so. And do this for year in and year out for 20 years in a row and haven't given a nickel to the local church. Because my membership is up in Michigan. Look, you're down here, we give you an extended membership. You want the membership, you have an extended membership. But this is where you you joined up with them for five months of the year. You tithe where you're being fed. That doesn't now someone else are going to say, well I didn't get fed last Sunday so I'm not tithing. We're laughing, but that's some people's thought. Just because you didn't come to church and churches were shut down, I'm glad across the country, many people kept on giving. In some churches they had more because of online giving. So where's the tithe to be given to the local church And when should the tithe be paid? Well, on the first day of the week. On the first day of the week. Look and look at 1 Corinthians 16, 2. The tithes to you paid on the first day of the week. Let everyone lay aside in store as God prosper. And so, what's the first day of the week? Sunday. Sunday. Not Saturday, Sunday. And so on the first day of the week, when should the time you paid? Er the first what happens if you get paid every two weeks or military people every week? every once a month or something like that. I still want to put something, I make it a habit when the plate comes pie, put something in And can I say something a little bit further? I'm going out here, a little risky. Do a clothesline offering. What's that? If you can't hang it on a clothesline, it ain't worth putting it in. Ten cents. I can under give kids some money, but mom and dad. This is your church. This building here is not cheap. And having all this that you have here. It's an oasis from the work that you do all week long to come here. And so the tithe should be paid to the first day of the week. Does the tithe include more than money? Well the Bible teaches that they first gave themselves. So if you haven't given yourself, maybe that's why you're having a problem with tithing. Ooh, yeah. If you're having a problem with tithing, you've got to look and say, have I really given my heart Totally to this work and this ministry here? Have I given my heart to what we represent, the Lord Jesus Christ, and we want to give his message out? Have I given my heart to that? And so the Bible, does the when should when should the tithe be paid? The first day of the week? And does the tie include more money? Yeah, they gave the first fruits. He and then this means that we first gave ourselves to the Lord, then when we've given ourselves, we also give our pocketbook with the Lord. The first they first gave themselves 2 Corinthians 8, 5. However, we must not tithe and then neglect such matters of love. Some people do it out of duty. I guess I got to do it this week. Tithe because you love the Lord. Not because you have to. Some people you know I've heard preachers preach this if you don't tithe, God's gonna bong you over the head or something. You'll get sick. And that's not true I don't want to preach fear. I want to just say, because I love the Lord, I really love the Lord, then I want to give. And I don't want to stop at just the 10%. Like I said, if you really want to grow in your Christian life, don't tithe in what you make, tithe in what you'd like to make. Yeah, then you really see how far you can grow with that one. I think the tenth is the beginning part. That's where we ought to start. Should a man tithe if he's in debt? The debt itself is often a witness that the man has not been tithing. That's what it is. A lot of people get into debt because they haven't been faithful to the Lord and they're spending money that doesn't belong to them. Practically this is the case. Arrangements with creditors should be made so they continue to receive payments and the promise for more funds. We ought to keep paying our debt, but we don't stop tithing. As always, I said many times, reduce your standard of living, you'll increase the quality of your life. Yeah. And tithing is one of those areas that God can bless. Here's one. Should a wife tithe if her husband says no? I've heard ladies say, I sneak it in there. He doesn't know it's my money. Wait a minute. It's not his money and her money. It's our money. We're one flesh. So if the wife is being told by the unsaved husband, don't tithe, she's under the authority of her husband And God's going to hold the husband accountable. And if she doesn't submit herself to the authority of her husband, then she may find it even harder for him to win him to the Lord. And some churches would disagree with me, I'm going to say, no, a wife should not tithe if her husband says no, but God's going to hold that husband accountable. Because she is being subjected subjected to the authority that God put in the home. The husband's the head of the home. And if the husband says no, God's going to hold him accountable. And someone had this idea, it's his money and my money. No, it's one flesh. It belongs, all of it belongs to God, anyways. So wife decision accepts salvation or under the authority of her husband. Number eight. Number nine. Let's go do the next number nine and Should a husband tithe if his wife doesn't want him to? Now they got more problems than tithing right here. Okay. Gertrude and Hecliff. And uh Gertrude tells Hecliffe, Don't dive. You know who's the boss in that family. Her objections should be a sign that there's something else missing in their life. And it should be a signal to him that he may not be meeting her needs, either materially or spiritually. If either have neglected, then the husband should fulfill them and then discuss this scriptural commandment to tithe You ought to talk it over. When the wife says no and the husband says yes, hey, maybe you ought to work together in the finances together and say, here's what we got and here's what we believe God wants it to do And yeah, sometimes you've got to reduce your standard of living a little bit. Maybe that's why some people are not tithing, because their standard of living is higher than they should be. God holds the man responsible in the household. And I think the man is going to be held responsible to God in the household. as well. Number 10. This one's a tough one. You haven't tithed in a long time. Let's just say that you just got saved. Should a person pay back tithes on income received in the past? I won't name some preacher, but he said God charges a 20% penalty when you don't tithe. That amount sounds good if you're with a credit card of the IRS. So should a person pay back tithe? Each Christian needs to come to his own decision about how far back. But I like to say, if it's under the blood before I got saved, I'm not going all the way back to there. But since I've got saved, God's held me accountable. And then I'm going to try to make up that catching up on past tithe will give us a clear conscience. And you can't buy a clear conscience. So yeah, I think we ought to tithe and make up some of that back tithe, but I'm not going to go back with before the time I got saved. Number 11. Should a person tithe on a designated gift? Should a person tithe on a designated gift? What's a designated gift? Okay. My pastor says, hey, I want to send my kids to the wilds, but you know, 400 bucks a week, five kids, I can't afford it. So, Joe Smoe over here, he's got a little gas station and God's blessing has a little tiny business, and he says, You know, preacher, Here's $2,000. I want you to send all five of your kids to the wilds. Should that pastor who just got the $2,000 tithe on that two thousand dollars. I put and this I you may disagree with me this. But if he did tithe on the two thousand thousand, then he couldn't send all the five kids. So when you accept a restricted gift, like here, we take a restricted gift in this church. And we've got to give it toever. You took an offering up to the missionary, and here by law, we've got to give that money to them. It was it was suggested that the money was all going to go to that missionary, so we put it in a plate and gave it to them And so if the person gets a designated gift, it is an implied trust. And if you don't carry out that implied trust, then what are you a thief? It should be used for the purpose intended, and the receiver should report back to the giver that the gift was given. However, this does not mean that the receiver cannot give other monies. to express gratefulness, but when someone gives you money to send your kids to camp or whatever, pay your doctor bill, you pay the doctor bill Otherwise you you took the money under the wrong precepts. I say, first of all, pay the bill, and over and above that money, that money wasn't given to you. to do whatever. It was given for only one purpose, to send your kids to camp. So I would say no, a person has to carry out the restraint Restricted purpose of that gift, and if you didn't care, if you did tithe on it, then you probably wouldn't be able to carry out the gift, and you'd have to refuse the gift altogether. So I would take the position a person should does not have to tithe on a restricted gift that you're going to give me money to fix my car and I don't fix it. then I'm a thief. And and we can go look in more scripture on that, but I've been sure we'll go get a lot more conversation about that later. So the tithe should we tithe on our gross or should we tithe on our net? I want to be sarcastic here. Do you want a gross blessing or you want a net blessing? Which one do you want? I want the gross blessing, not the half a blessing, I want the whole blessing. And Sometimes we make things really, really complicated. But you know, I read over in Proverbs 3. 9, they gave a tithe of all. All means all. And so do you want a gross blessing or you want a net blessing? So I believe here the Bible is very clear we ought to give a tithe of all the increase. Proverbs 3. 9. And gross is determined before taxes, not the leftovers. I know when I was over in Heidelberg and the and the w working with some of the Army guys there, they would have these allotments. So you got In military peoples, you know what those allotments are, right? Yeah, you got them, right? Gus, you got it? Yeah. So here a guy gets you know maybe getting eighteen hundred a month Young guy just joined up, maybe he's got one or two stripes now. He's getting eighteen hundred dollars a month. Then he has an allotment for his pickup truck back here in the States and he's over there and he's paying $900 a month for this truck and that comes out of his pay And then he has this allotment for a savings plan, an allotment over here for some other thing, and he ends up with $400. And he said, I'm going to tithe on my $400. Well if you want to take that logic, let's pay all your bills and see what's left over and we'll give that. No, I I really believe that we ought to tithe on the gross, not the leftovers after you paid everything The Bible is very clear they gave a tithe of all the increase. And just because you had an allotment money coming out of your paycheck for your 401k plan, And have that taken out doesn't mean you don't tithe on a gross amount. You could conceivably have so many things taken out of your paycheck that you have nothing left. One says I I never saw paint my paycheck. It went right to the bank and then I had all these things automatically taken out so I don't have the time I want a gross blessing, not a net blessing. Should we tithe on income that was gotten from selling harmful idols? Here's a guy who comes to me and he said I've been a drug dealer. Should I tithe on that? Ill gotten gain I think is cursed money. Any more than if you if you want to take it, these rioters are in looters and burning everything down come to say, I'm gonna tithe on what I s I sold that colored TV because that's more No, no, we don't do that. If in the past you've gotten something, like before you got saved, I would take that money and go fund some organization that will do help to get people out of that kind of situation. In other words, here I I I I'm I I tie because I was a gambler. Never had have. All right. Or let's put let's go this way so everybody can identify with this. The lottery last year, last year, Simpsonville, South Carolina, some lady down there got one point five billion. Know what that is? 1,500 million. One of the biggest lotteries ever. And I've heard many a preacher say, I sure wish he was in my church. You know what the tithe on that one? That'd be a $150 million tithe. And I thought, that's cursed money. It's taken advantage of those who have all kinds of other problems and have this elusive dream that they're going to get it and everybody else is trying to put it money into it. I suggest that not and not dealing with that dollar figure, but whatever the dollar figure is. And if you've gotten some money from that kind of thing or ill gotten gain, harmful uh items Why don't you take the money and go fund something like Alcoholic Anonymous, Gamblers Anonymous to keep people from going and wasting their money? Just remember when that lady won one billion five hundred million How many people lost to get that? Money was taken out of people's mouth. mouths, babies mouths and fed and so on. Child support wasn't paid. They all have this elusive dream that if I could win this much money, my life would be better. Look, money doesn't necessarily make your life better. It's an elusive dream that more money will make your life better. I deal with people every day who I manage $55 million a day. That's a lot of money, and people think if I if you had that kind of money, I would be happy. No, money cannot buy happiness. And you get this elusive dream that you can go out there and sell drugs and make this money, and you're going to be happy Just divert here a minute. I know someone who is out there on illegal drugs. Pain pills. He's addicted to pain pills. Sad to say it it's it's a deacon I know in a church and his son is the pain pills. So the dad had his son arrested. Call the police and look, this is what he's doing. I want him to be in jail. And they they put him in for 30 days in jail. And uh the dad said, I'm not paying one cent bell, son, you're gonna learn not to do this anymore So what does they do? What do they do in jail? Well, they send them to a halfway house afterwards for a couple of months. When along came COVID We can't keep them in this halfway house. So what they did is they let everybody out of the halfway house and gave them $800 a week to go to a hotel. That ain't all. So this kid he's in his early twenties. Then this kid decides to go down to Dunkin' Donuts and gets a job. Then they laid him off, so now he gets six hundred dollars a week. Did you get the math? This is insane. Paying some drug kid 1400 bucks a week to do nothing. What in the world's going on here? And then someone says trinity tithe on it? That's ill-gut and gain. I pray that he would use that to go help other people get off the drugs that he got on. She retithed on money that was gotten from harmful items No, can go use it for something else, but that's cursed money. Sure, the person tied from his social security check. Oh. This is a good one. How many I don't want to ask how many hurt sixty five, I'm gonna raise my end, I don't take social security, I don't want social security, I opted out of social security It's a Ponzi scheme and so and many of them have it. But the reality is I could do a whole lot better on my own if I would had the discipline to invest fifteen percent of my income year after year after year. I could do quite well. And And so anyways, uh I got these I've had people say, well, you know, the Bible says we're to tithe on our gross. We're clear we're gonna tithe on our gross. Well we already tithe on our gross check for forty years until we retired. So we get this Social Security check and say the husband gets a thousand, the wife gets a thousand, so they get two thousand a month. And they say we don't tithe on that Why don't you tithe on that? Well, we tithe on the gross back then, so we already paid tithe on it So should that person tithe now? Well, I said, let's let's go back and do some math here If you look at the way the Social Security System designed, you paid all this money in a lifetime in for 40 years as you worked. And the reality is within the first 36 to 42 months, you'll get back in principle the amount that you paid in. So if you really want to cut the mustard seed and split pairs here, maybe the first 42 months after you take Social Security, you shouldn't tie it on because you already tie it on the growths But if someone's got that attitude, they got something else problem down here too. I'm not trying to I I'm just excited. I someone we're gonna get this other stimulus check. I can't believe they govern Gotta wipe my mouth and think of something else real quick. Yes, you ought to tithe on that because you gave a tithe of all the increase. And for some of us here, you weren't expecting. I told my wife, she's not a hundred percent wrong just yet. But I said, we're gonna get another check. And I know Pastor So and so over here. He can't pastor anymore and he does if he's he'll be good if he lives another year. Cancer. And I said, there's another preacher over here, he's got a pretty good setup financially wise, and he said, anyone who gives money to the This pastor, I will match it. I said to my wife, take that $2,400 and send it to this preacher over here. And then this pastor We'll send another 24 to match it so that this preacher can get the medical help while he's dying with cancer. And then I'm also going to tithe on that whole thing, even though I sent the hand To this preacher over here, because the tithe goes to the local church, not to your favorite best friend or some pastoral friend. And I said I'm still going to tithe in that $2,400. And I'm sure that this preacher will tithe on that 2400 plus the 2400 this pastor is going to match. And you know, let's see if we can't multiply and multiply that. Um I I can't say I need the $2,400. It's truthfully pre-truth, this is one of the busiest years I've ever had. Ever since COVID came in, people are calling me like crazy. Where's my stimulus check? I even started to go, where's my second stimulus check? I have nothing to do with your stimulus check. Nothing. Zero with a ring rubbed out. Nothing. And for w when they first started this in March or so, I was getting five to ten calls a day How do I get it? I haven't got mine. I've heard that one. I haven't got my check yet. Well, there's a website. If you haven't got your check, go look it up. So the guy looks it up and he says, My name's not in there. You must not file my tax return. It's not based on whether your tax return was filed or not last year. It's based on it they got your name somewhere. You're getting Social Security, they already have your name. I told this lady last week, you get social security check every month, yeah. And she says, but I haven't got my stimulus. I said, well they have your name, they have your social security number, go to this website and file that. Yeah. Then I found out there's a real mess going on. When you do file for that stimless check and you didn't get it through the mail or through the um you didn't get yours and you went and filed and you didn't get it. Now if you e filed your taxes It messed the whole thing up and now the e-file is canceled out. Now they send you a letter for not filing your income tax, even though you e-filed it. And there's something with their computer, one canceled out the other. It's a total mess out there. Don't you're going to call the IRS you better call the Mendel Hospital first Nobody answers the phone. They're all working from home. So the person tithe from a social security check, yes. And can the tithe be used to pay the Christian school bill? That's a That's a duly wick here because many people have Christian kids in Christian school and they have this attitude of like paved this over here to the Christian school so I don't need a tithe on that Or my tithe is the money, you know. You've got a product or you got a service, and because you receive the service, that money you pay for that is not your tithe. You're getting a service you purchased. Next thing you're going to say, well I have cable television. That's my time. Let's take the logic all the way out there and see what you're going to come up with. You'll come up with a whole lot of heresy And some people said, I have one guy in our church, it irritated me because I said, you haven't paid your Christian school bill. And he pulled out all these checks and paid to the church. He said I did pay it. But he put it in the offering plate. And he said, I paid it. Yeah, it matched what its bill was But that's illegal. If you like pinstriped suits, keep it up. So no, a tithe is not paying your Christian school bill That doesn't account for a tithe. This is contrary to spiritual giving because the personal benefits derive from this. The tithe is the Lord's. It's not a product you're buying. It's not a membership, but a club. So yes. Can a tithe be used to pay the Christian school bill? No. And yes, you should tithe in addition to that Christian school bill. Because you're buying a product. Some people, I bought a candy bar. Those candy bars are getting skinnier and skinnier. But I bought a candy bar from the Christmas school. That was my type. No, it isn't. May God bless you as much as that candy bar will take it to. It it's not that's not a tithe. I trust this has been a blessing for some of you this morning. If you've got some of these other questions I can add love to add to the list, but there's so many of these That we've got to get straightened out. I said someone said to me years ago, if you give God your heart, He'll comb the kinks out of your head Let's get some biblical thinking. Let's put it back to the Word of God. That's the answer this morning. What the Bible says. And uh study these things. That's why I gave you the papers this morning. Go research these out, that you may be persuaded in your own heart and your own mind that the truth of the Word of God is higher than anyone else's opinion. Let's pray. Thank you, Lord.