Alright, if you can take your Bibles, please. And uh if you would turn with me please to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11. Did anything get real excited right there? You thought for a minute, really? This is going to be great. I dashed your host, I'm sorry. Again, it's been a joy to be here and get to know some of you. God bless you. A great number of men at the at the prayer meeting there at uh 430. What a blessing, man. Amen. And um I don't know if the ladies pray did they pray afterwards or something? Did I hear about that? Yeah, wonderful. God will not miss that in in such a messed up world, people getting together and praying. for yourselves and for this area and for your church. Hebrews chapter number eleven. And before before I read this passage, I just Um want to say that um We the the message the Lord has put on my heart tonight has to do with what I call raising children who make it. Raising children who make it. And if you are someone who already has raised your children, then this can still be a help to you because these attributes need to be in everybody's life here. If your children are already raised or, you know, and then of course if you have grandchildren or something, this could um also apply about how to be an influence in the right area in their life. Uh but um it's really important that we uh in this day and age that we are personally holy people and that we that we learn what it takes to Raise a family who will make it. Now, if you already have, of course, as I mentioned, children who have already been raised, then I want you to think of this as how to have a marriage that will make it. And if you are an individual who is not yet married, then this is just great because I'm telling you this is some things you need for if God would allow you sometime to have a family or to influence uh children how to influence them in the right way so that they'll make it spiritually. Recently We've had some discussions in in my own family and with others about the number of people who grow up in a church like this and then about the time they graduate, they leave. And they turn out to be, they begin to be totally different than what they were a few years before that. And then they begin to actually sometimes flaunt it online. Yeah. Anyone know what I'm talking about? They begin to, you know, they they begin to actually actively work against ministries like that they were raised in. And or say kind of have a new birth of freedom to quote Abraham Lincoln. And um and they they start doing things that they they did not believe that you should do uh apparently a few years before that. And so we wanna we wanna stop the bleeding. and uh and out of our our own circles. And that we should have the strongest kids that come out of our circles, not the weakest Christians that uh as they get out that they become very weak and just kinda uh worldly. So raising children to make it. I want you to look at Hebrews chapter number eleven. Verse number 7. You may have heard a text verse on this preached at some point, but we'll use it anyway. By faith, Noah, being warned of God, of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark. to the saving of his house by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness righteousness which is by faith. But just that phrase there He prepared an ark to the saving of his house. If you would like, if you could turn with me back to the last book of the Old Testament, Malachi. Malachi chapter number two. And look at another well known verse. Verse 14, yet ye say, wherefore, because the Lord hath been witness between these, Malachi two, verse fourteen. Because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion and the wife of thy covenant. And did not he, speaking of God, make one talking about the marriage union Yet had he the residue of the Spirit, and and wherefore one, or why one? Okay, why did he make of two people the that union of marriage? And it says that he might seek a godly Seed. So God is interested in a godly seed. Is that true? He's not just interested in us having children and them not being godly. He's interested in a godly seed. And Noah according to Hebrews eleven seven. He moved with fear and he prepared an ark for the saving of his house. So he was interested in preserving his family. And isn't it interesting in in Noah's life that his kids made it? In the sense that he was building the ark for many years. How many? A hundred or something? And his kids were there throughout the whole thing. And his sons' wives. And you would have thought it's such a godless world. Talk about the odds. There's only eight of them against all the inhabited world. And so your dad goes to a building, this thing for rain that had never ever yet happened, and all the mockery and all the uh rejection and all the unbelief And his kids were right there beside him the whole time and their wives. They made it. They made it. And they God destroyed the world, but they made it. So we have to raise our children to make it, if you obviously what I mean by making it spiritually, not financially Not professionally, that's not our goal. But what we want is God-following and fruit-bearing children. Not pew-sitting. So in some cases, God has to just do a miracle because the easy thing is we would like to be few sitters, actually, if we could be. But in order to have children that make it, we're going to have to be have to be thinking down the road when making decisions and when making plans. for our family, what we allow, what we don't allow. And so tonight we'll look at three things that must be in place to raise children Who make it. Before I get into that, can I just tell you though that I trust this message will be a help, but let me tell you about a professor, a man who's telling a story about his professor. He said, The professor of mine tells a story about preaching in a mental institution. About three minutes into his message, one of the inmates stood up, and can you imagine this? The inmates said, This is the most boring speech I've ever heard. Speaking of his sermon, he called a speech. He said, that ruffled my professor a bit, but the inmate sat down, so the professor continued on. A few minutes later, the inmate was back on his feet. This is definitely, he said, the most boring speech I've ever heard anywhere, anytime. He sat back down and the writer says here, my professor winced, but he couldn't quit in the middle. So he kept pouring out his gems. And finally the inmate stood for the third time and said, This is far and away the most boring speech that has ever been given in history. This time my professor was mortified. He almost stopped right there, but preachers listen, no preacher ever stopped in the middle of a sermon, no matter how dull and uninspiring. So he finished. At the end, one of the doctors walked up to him, his professor, and said, extended his hand, and said, I hope you weren't discouraged by what that inmate said during your speech. And the professor said, well actually, I was a little bit discouraged by what he said. And the doctor said, well don't be, because we're very encouraged. This is the first time that man has ever made any sense. So trust that. All right, trust that tonight go a little better than that. All right. Let's pray and ask the Lord. Would you ask the Lord to to help you to get something out of these three points tonight? And uh or or or if you if you pretty much Know that you know the things we're gonna say 'cause you you've been walking right and all this sort of stuff. Um maybe pray for just the Holy Spirit to be here And speak to our hearts. Do you do that? Father, help us now. We need you to work. Thank you for your word. Thank you for this wonderful church, Lord. What a privilege to be here. And to get to know these people and see the sincerity of the men and the young people and the women. Lord, just thank you and the hard work that goes in here day in and day out, the beautiful grounds you've given them here. and the bright prospects of a church that will just keep you first. Thank you, Lord. Do great and mighty things tonight and encourage hearts. And if anyone here is tired, probably some people tired, Lord, give them a little burst of energy and may they And may they be able to be awake. And if someone is just kinda listening, Lord, may they right now just ask you to touch their heart and may they realize Why does God have to pass me by? Is there not a blessing for me, Lord? Maybe you should really speak to their heart. And I just pray you would. Do great and mighty things. We're looking for you to do it. We have no ability to do it. It's impossible for us to to uh change anybody's life. That's your job and we're trusting you to do it. We get out of the way. We die now to this our our part in this and allow you to work through Through human instruments, Lord. Help us reward the prayer life of the individuals here who are praying for you to do something great. Start that greatness tonight, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen So if we're going to raise children that make it, there are three things that we'll give, and the first one is this. We must have, our homes must be a place where love is displayed. Love is displayed. Now, I want you to go with me to 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. I want to just look at a few things about this matter of love. It's interesting that today this actually came up at lunch. about the matter of love. But 1 Corinthians 13 is, as you know, the love chapter. And it it says a number of important things here. But um 1 Corinthians 13 is going to show us what love looks like in the home. And it's going to tell us how important love is. Look at verse number one. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, and if you study the language of the New Testament, that's the word agape. Okay, this is uh or or the the word the word that would come from agape is we call agape love, uh which is God's type love, right? I am become a sounding brass. So though I speak of the tongue, Paul says, of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling thymbol. Something that kind of clangs. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. In fact, he says, verse 3, and though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity? It profiteth me nothing, or I am helped nothing. And it goes on and mentions some character traits of love. And I guess that I would say this, and this this is something that might um help us a little bit, it does say at the end of verse 13. Now by the space, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is is charity, or again, agape love. And it seems to be that God is interested in love. You know, when when he's asked, when Jesus asked, what is the greatest commandment? Jesus has an open-ended question there, right? And he can say anything he wants to say at that point. And what he says is, the greatest command is to what? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind, right? Another passage throws in another one like strength, this type of thing. And then he says, What? And the second is like unto it. And what's the second one about? Love. Love your neighbors. Love your neighbor, which is means anybody around you. Could be your spouse, could be your children, could be your neighbor, your real neighbor. Love your neighbor as yourself. On these two hang all the law And the prophets. But I just want to bring this to you. When Jesus has an open-ended question, what is the greatest of all the commands? And there are hundreds of commands in the Old Testament. Notice he doesn't say the greatest command is to obey me. He says the greatest command is to love me. And you say, oh really? Well what's that mean? Well, because if you love the Lord, what will you do? He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, Jesus says in another place, he it is that loveth me So love is to come before obedience, and it's higher at some point than obedience because you can have obedience and the heart's cut out of it But God wants us to have an obedience that that has our heart in it. Not just because this is what we do with this church, or this is what we do with our family, or this is you know what God expects, so I'm going to do it. No, He wants us to do what we do out of a heart of love for him, but then a love for other people. Now, if we're not careful, what we do in our independent fundamental Baptist home. Is we tend to downplay love in priority. We tend to think And we say things like, you know, you can be too loving, or, you know, and I believe you need to be very, you know, if children should obey the first time I say it and and this type of thing. Okay, I agree. But obedience is not the greatest. And one way you can get your on the path to your children making it is if they understand that you are a conduit of God's love. Not just a conduit of, you're not Moses, the giver of the law. You're Jesus. You want to be a person who's Christ-like. And let me say this: if we downplay the importance of love as a priority, We run into passages like this, and Paul says, verse number one, even if I spoke with the tongues of men and of angels and didn't have charity or love, I would be like clinging Pots and pans or clinging brass instruments. So he says, If you ev even if you had great eloquence But didn't have love. That's not what God's looking for. So this could this could apply to uh to we preachers. Now I'm not gonna at all think I'm a person with great eloquence, but if I were, and I didn't show Christ-like love to my to my wife See, well I'm not just talking about showing love to my children, I'm talking about showing love to my wife, which my children will see. So man, let me ask you, how do you talk to your wife? Are you an angry man? You know the opposite of love is anger. I'm just gonna deal with that here in just a minute. You say, well, okay, but if things were done better, well, God's not God's not letting us off the hook. If things were done better, I would be more loving. No. God wants you to be loving no matter what's going on. That's going to be the greatest thing that your children need to see. The greatest of these is love. So then verse number two You could have great spiritual insight. Verse 2, and though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge Okay, so you could have great spiritual insight and still not be where God wants you to be because he's looking for love. You can have great spiritual gifting. In the standard of the gift of prophecy, you can have tremendous spiritual gifts. That's not what God's looking for. God's the giver of these things. But Paul says, even if I had all these things going for me, didn't have love, not going to be where I need to be. You can have powerful faith. Even if I had faith so that I could remove mountains. Well, that's a lot of faith, amen. But you can do that and not have charity, not have love. You say, well, I do love my family, I provide for them, and and they need to be thankful for that. Well, even if you're a great provider, that's not the love he's talking about, because look at verse three. And though I bestow all my g goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, you you can be a great giver of monetary things and even your own self. But somehow you can do it without love. Mom, let me ask you, do you do you show love to your children when the day gets really hard and long and the children continue to cry or gripe or you know you know, they break something at three in the afternoon, you've already had a long day and you're on your last nerve And you know, I I read a uh article one time or at least the heading, it's by a well-known Christian lady writer, and the thing was about why I scream at my kids. And this lady, if I mention her name, many of you would know her name because she's been very popular over the years in um Christian radio and stuff like this. I mean she's not in our camp necessarily, but I'm just saying you would never think this lady who's got the these these Christian books and and and she has a problem with screaming at her kids. Moms But sadly there will be people who will emphasize other things, prioritize other things besides love. And they'll look down on people who prioritize love. And what Paul is telling us here is don't lower down love in the matter of priority. Keep it up there. It's the greatest thing. In fact, I have a note here that even if you say love can be overblown, you know, even if you were the very definition of love, That wouldn't be going too far because the Bible says in 1 John, God is love. So he tends to he tends to kind of emphasize the fact that even if you were the very definition of love Love is what God is into. Love is what got you into the family. Love is going to be a thing that's going to pull off God's will in your life and in your family's life. It's a big deal. And sure, we need balance. But we have to be careful. Here's some enemies of love. Look at verse number four. An enemy of love is impatient. Are you impatient? Verse 4 says, charity suffereth long. So an enemy of love is impatience. It's the opposite of love. Anger abuses other people. And anger, as I mentioned, is the opposite of what matters most, which is love. Another enemy of love is unkindness. The second part of the display of love is charity suffereth long and is kind. Ephesians 4. 32 says, be kind one to another, tender-hearted Forgiving. So husbands, wives, are you unkind in your words to your spouses? And young people listening to my voice right now just realize that no matter what you have learned in your family, if there's been unkindness there, there is no excuse not to be kind. There's no excuse for unkindness. This is what we want to work for. I had a um I I'm familiar with a situation of a person who got themselves in moral trouble. And um had a child And so things happen like that and so she's moving on with her life in a good way and growing in the Lord and but In the situation I'm familiar with, a few months after getting to know her, and our family getting to know her, her parents came to visit. And her dad is a military man. And he's like far up in the military, far up. He's been a lifelong military man. He's so far up, very soon here, if things keep playing out, he's going to be a general. But he's very, very You know, he has presence and he has leadership skill and he's kind of got that sternness to him. And and I could be way off, but I just wonder were there was there a lot of love in their relationship? Or does the military attitude kind of filter into the way he might have raised his children? And you just kind of wondered if if there's lack of love between a dad and his daughter, might the daughter go find love somewhere else? And maybe you're a dad that emphasizes obedience and doing it things that are right and doing it the right way and I think we ought to do things the right way. But also know that's not what's gonna make my kids make it I don't have any biblical evidence that I'm supposed to just be this man who enforces obedience or Screams and hollers and etcetera, you know, and and disciplines and all this just because of that, without the love. I can discipline love. But love is not what I think it is. Love is, are they, do they, do they see me as loving? See this passage is not, it's not talking about the fact of because every man here loves his family in general, right? You love your family. But do you do loving things? That's what these verses are telling us. Charity actually suffers long. It actually is patient. Yeah. So it's not just that do I love my family, do I love my kids? Yes. Is that enough? Well, no. Not if I'm not doing loving things. Are you with me? Because it doesn't just say the grace bees is love. It says here's what love, here's how love is displayed. And it's not talking in these verses about love for God. Because I don't need to be patient with God. I don't need to be kind to God. I do need to be kind to my wife when she's having a bad day. I do need to be kind to my children and not just when I'm on church property. So dads, right now, can you read through this 1 Corinthians 13? Verse number seven or verse number five, the middle part is not easily provoked. This morning I was going to catch Brother McDonald outside. He was getting ready to leave. And it was just interesting, he o he opened up the back of his his truck and you know they have all this luggage in there and a bunch fell out. And I felt really bad it for him. But um you know, I went over there and and he was not mad. But he didn't know I was watching. Hopefully he's not watching tonight. Saying you're telling everybody about what happened? It was interesting though, but what we do when no one's watching or we think no one's watching. And had I gone over there to to to say hi to him, you know, I would have known if he were he was mad. He was just like, Yeah, all this stuff, you know. But Dad, when you're at home and you can get away with it Are you the definition of love? Moms? Young people? You might say, yeah, it's really important, but do you already see yourself being an impatient person? Do you know that it's really important to God the very first product of walking with the Lord is love? The fruit of the Spirit is what's the first one? You wonder why that's mentioned first? It's the greatest. And so if I'm not a loving person, if I say, well that's just not my nature, I'm just kind of more straightforward, I'm more kind of gruff, I just kind of tell it how it is and all this sort of stuff. Okay. But if I say I'm just not very loving, I do love, I'm just not very loving in my responses, but I do love my family, I'm just not very loving, and this sort of stuff. Maybe that speaks to have I been walking in the spirit? If I say I'm not very good at love, it's just not me. I'm more of a you know cut to the chase and tell how it is and But if I were walking the Spirit, the very first trait of that would be that there would be a display of love. And not just we're like, yeah, in principle I love. You know, I work really hard, I do all this sort of thing. Of course I love my family. We're not looking for, of course, we love our family. We're looking for our kids to say, my dad is like God. He knows the right balance. He's like Christ. He loves. There's a verse in the Bible Jesus says, He loved them to the uttermost. So love, we'll move on, but just some thoughts. Parents, make sure That what you may call tough love or hidden love does not make your child go looking for someone who will actually demonstrate love Romans thirteen eight. Owe no man anything but to love one another. For he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. So race yourself, mom, dad, on a scale of one to ten. Rate yourself on your love to your family. You might say, well, I'm pretty far up there. I love my family a lot. Then rate yourself on how you're doing on practicing demonstrating that love in the ways that we looked at here. All right, number two. The place where kids are going to make it is where protection is escalated. Where protection is escalated. Now this is a lot about, I mean this kind of speaks to the manner of keeping our kids pure. But the word escalation means to increase in intensity, extent. Or amount. So the home where children are going to make it in this day and age is not just about having the display of love through the Holy Spirit. But where I'm escalating protection. Now we do protect our kids from a lot of things, but I think in this day and age we need to escalate it. So this is about talking about what is on the outside. Love is about what goes on in the inside. In this wicked world that we live in, protecting our children must be of first importance. Satan will use spiritual opposition to us, and what he will do is If he can't directly assault us, he'll use what he's very good at using. So this is where I just want you to think with me a little bit, just kind of kind of teaching some things tonight. The devil likes to come after us, but if he showed up at my door and knock In the form of the wrong kind of woman, our family's going to reject that. We're gonna say if someone shows up who who's the wrong kind of woman, a woman of of sin, a woman that's uh working for money, this type of stuff, you know what I'm talking about, would show up Then I'm going to shut the door on that and I'm not going to let my children have anything to do with it and we're done. We're not going to we're not if if there's a proposition going on here, we're not going to uh have a conversation, we're not going to discuss anything, I'm not going to try to witness to her in a sense of at length, you know, it's gonna if I realize, oh, I'm getting this assault here, that's over. Would that be a good idea? Flea useful us. But the devil knows he can't get into our families that way. So what he does is he knows he can't take that flat-out frontal assault. So what he wants to do is he's going to come in the back door. And what he does is he uses this. Two words, he uses the world system. So what he does to snag my children's hearts Regardless if I have love, Christ love like love or not, I still have to watch out for sin. We're not diminishing the fact that you have to you have to fight against those inroads. But what the l the the devil does is he uses the world or the world system. So therefore what I have to protect my children from and myself from is the world system. I have to protect myself from the world. Now you know that in the Bible, if you're a Bible student, or maybe this will encourage you to be a Bible student, the word world is used in different ways in the Bible. For instance, John 3 16, for God so loved the world. Okay? Now that would mean that it's not talking about the globe. It's not talking about like he loved the the sphere that has all these continents and water and things on it. It's talking about what? The inhabitants of the world, right? People. God so loved me and you. Is that true? I mean it theologically it lines up. Yes. So God so loved the world, the people in the world that he gave his only begotten son. So we know that it doesn't mean the sphere because it wasn't that he just loved the globe and gave his own son to like you know, to save the environment. Can I get an amen on that? Yeah. Um carbon emissions and this type of thing, okay? He died for people. Amen? So the word world there means the inhabitants of this sphere. But then in another place, 1 John 2, he says, love not the world. Isn't that interesting? So then we know, just because he gives gives the brain also, that oh okay, so there are different words that mean world, translated world in our English language, in our English translation in King James Version. It's translated world, but I have to understand what it means. Sometimes it means the people of the world, sometimes it means the age. I am with you, he says in the Great Commission. Even until the end of the world. Talking about to the end of the age, when he's gonna bring in a new a new dispensation, a new way of doing things, after the rapture or the millennial period, all those sort of things. But he's going to be with us till then. But then he says in 1 John, love not the world. So what John 3. 16 says, I love the world enough to give the only thing I have, but then in 1 John 2, you're not supposed to love the world. Well what he's talking about there is he's talking about things that are worldly. Talking about the world system. So let me give you a definition of the world system. The world system is the sphere of things which stir desires not of God. Entice you away from God and are obstacles to the work of God. So there's a guy named Strong. Have you ever heard of the guy named Strong? He wrote a concordance one time and now they call it Strong's Concordance. I don't know why they call it that. And so Strong and he got together over lunch the other day. And we came up with this. The sphere of things which stir desires not of God, entice you away from God, and are obstacles to the work of God. And this is what God tells us to not to love. Now, parents, we've got to guard our children's hearts and protect them. And escalator protection from them in the matter of the world system. Ephesians 2. Can you go with me to Ephesians chapter 2? Just over a couple books? And look at verses 1 to 3. And you have to quicken who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, in the lust of our flesh. And here's what goes on in the world. Fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And he says, we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. So what goes on in the world system is this: where in verse 2, we used to walk in it before we were saved And it was in accordance with the devil. This is a network. This is the way he works. According to the Prince of the Power of the Air. And this is what unsaved people do. It's the spirits are now working the children of disobedience. So this worldly spirit, they love the world. And we used to love the world before we were saved. We used to have our own conversation in times past. In this world, doing what? The fulfilling the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind And were by nature the children of wrath. When you go to 1 John 2, 15-17, it talks about all that is of the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the what? The pride of life are not of the Father, but are of the world. So all this playing, this amusing playing field that we could potenti uh potentially play in, there's some wor Terrible elements out there. In fact, James chapter 4 says this. Ye adulterers and adulteresses. Remember this verse? Know ye not, he's speaking to say people, know ye not that friendship with the world is what? Enmity with God. It means that in opposition to God Therefore, if you will be an enemy, if you will be a friend of the world, you are what? An enemy of God. Now, parents, we've got to keep our kids protected, not just from that direct assault, but from the worldly elements that are going to steal their hearts. In a minute here, I'll give you a couple suggestions about that. But this is the devil's controlled playing field. It's an environment he has set up. It's called the world system. And I know the definition of it is a system completely hostile to God. It's invisible, but it's hostile to God. And where all of life revolves around the people and things of this life and not God. So the devil works against you and your family, not directly, but by using this controlled playing field, this environment set up by him to keep people distracted from the realities of God. So what is he going to use in your family to keep people distracted from the realities of God, even while going to a good church? Well a couple things I'm going to give you some thoughts here and you can use them if they're helpful. Parents, this is very clear, and I'm just going to be direct. We live in a very undressed world. Now does that shock anybody? Then he's like, uh never no. No, we're kind of like back in the Puritan days where everybody is from head to toe, you know? No, we all know we live in a very undressed world, right? So what are we doing to keep our families from the undressed, mostly undressed world? Do you know if I'm gonna keep their hearts, I'm gonna have to realize that Men, young men, boys, have a weakness that is going to be challenged by an undressed world. God has given us a certain desire set And the devil is going to challenge that because there's a weakness to that, because we are attracted in certain directions, and the world's going to come along and hijack that if it can. And now it's just part of the air we breathe. We live in an undressed world. That's true? And so fathers and mothers, we have to be very careful that we don't allow our children to see anymore then what is going to be incidental that they may see when they go to the store with you or when they're you know getting gas in their car or whatever is they they are going to see that world. But it doesn't mean we have to let it come in through every screen that we have in our home. Sexuality is bleeding through the screens in our homes. And for some that's going to be lethal because some of these young men are going to see a little bit and the hook is there. And I can't say that I won't say that you can keep that hook from happening, but you don't have to be watching movies that have you know, I I mentioned this to our men this weekend. Dr. Diane Levin, who's not a Christian as far as I know, she's written a book, and she says seven out of ten programs on TV have sexual content. Now, what is that going to tell us about how much TV we ought to be watching? So we can say, well we're only going to watch the 30% that doesn't have it. Well, if you can find a way to find the 30% that doesn't have it, let's have a conversation. But the devil doesn't let you know when the thirty percent is going to be there. He's just gonna have you watch it and then 70% of the content on TV is gonna be sexual. Now if you're watching like You know, the home shopping network or something, it might not be seventy percent. But if you're watching the home shopping network, you got bigger problems than when I'm talking to me, you're talking, okay, all right. But the point is, we live in an undressed world and men are and boys, young men are going to be challenged because they have a weakness in an undressed world, that's period. And then, because they have a flesh. But also women and girls have a weakness that is challenged by a sexually attractive world. And we've just got to be aware of this, and we are aware of it, but we've got to realize that this day is different. This today is different than when I was a teenager and when Pastor Caleb was a teenager. We are 20, 30 years down the road, at least I am, he stays the same at, you know, 22 But though it's a different place. And if we say, well I I grew up with you know movies and T V and I came out okay by the grace of God Now I just want to tell you this has nothing to do with where my wife and I are at in a in like that we're something spiritual, but we just have decided we're not going to have a TV in our home. Now you have to decide what you're going to do. But TV never feeds a spiritual side of me. And I just want to ask you, when's the last time network programming fed something spiritual of you on you? Let me take it one step further. Today it's not so much the TV because we're streaming, you know, this is the world that we're in now, the streaming, you know, Hulu and Amazon Prime and Netflix. So let me ask you, are you a Netflix family? Because that's going to be a weakness that the devil's going to because who's producing much of Netflix? Is it our Baptist colleges? You say, well there's a lot of good stuff out there. Okay Uh we we can talk about it in the sense of if we want to just kind of end the discussion with there's a other there's good stuff out there, period. But we're in the world system, aren't we? And the devil controls the world system and the people making the movies and the videos are by and large in the world system. Although there are Christian producers out there, but the fact is A Netflix family is not overdosing on just faith-based films. There's stuff that sneaks in, but even if there wasn't stuff that sneaks in in my wife and I's uh life, my kids Are they getting am I helping them at all? This will be our next point we'll look at this, but am I helping them at all to realize we can't be Netflix Christians Watching three movies a week is not going to be God's will if I'm going to be the kind of Christian He wants me to be. Now you may have other thoughts, and I and I can't tell you you're wrong, but I want you to ask God about it. 1 Corinthians 1031, whether therefore you eat or drink, or whatsoever you do to all the glory of God, when is the last time any of us in this room watched a movie with the stated purpose that it was going to bring glory to God as we watched it? It's not set up for that. It's an entertainment format where we just let come at us what comes at us and we are passive. But doing all for the glory of God is actually active. Now I'm not up here to act like I've got it all together and and and you know and I'm the all I'm saying is this. I have realized that I have a weakness for the world's movies. And the world's videos. And I told them in this weekend, and if you can come up here and try it afterwards, you cannot get YouTube on my phone. Now without my wife's password. Because I have found that unlimited, unfiltered access to even YouTube videos, that can be and challenge a real weakness that all men have. And I've seen it my own life. I'm here to say, parents, watch out for the world system. We live in an undressed world. Be very careful Be careful about the magazines you have in your home. Even the you know, just the the the shopping magazines. We're not talking about obviously evil magazines, but the the women's magazines, you know, the the different things that you would I think for the most part are not that bad. Couple thoughts here, have a vision. For what you want. Do you want them just to be nominal or do you want them to be spiritual? We can't be spiritual for watching that which is nominal. We have to be very careful. We have to be vigilant. There's an adversary of the devil, 1 Peter 5. 8. We have to be very brave in setting up protections. So the protections that I will have in my family right now will probably not be the protections my son will need to have when he's a parent. Because the world's just gonna get worse. But am I having protections that's protecting him? I only have one son, and I have to protect him. There's a saying that said it's better to prepare boys than repair men. And what we're doing these days is my ministry is repairing a lot of men. I know I know one man that that I I'm aware of and have some connection with. And he grew up in a very strong home, as it were, at least as I knew it. But he was a he's a he's a smart guy. And they had internet coming into their home, but only on their parents' computer. And he knew he couldn't find anything there, so he found ways to just plug in another computer after everybody was in bed right into the Ethernet cable. So nothing ever came across the computer he was on uh the parents were on or that was there, that was used primarily for home uh you know the home doing things online. And there have been major repercussions because of that. I know another family who I was preaching at a youth rally a couple years ago, staying with the pastor and his family. And he had a family of very nice, very nice kids. And I went to preach at the youth conference, and at the end of that youth conference, somebody came up to me and said Something has just come out that the pastor's son and one of the kids from these other churches that came to the youth conference, they've been involved sexually over the last couple years. Not just like kissing, but big time. So and I'm like living with this family. And this kid, the very nice kid, and I was impressed outwardly with what's going on. See, you you we can be fooled, right? The devil's smart. He steals our heart. He stealed the heart of this young man and this man found this other girl in the another youth group And they were texting back and forth, and I'm like, well how come there's you didn't see the text? He said, Well they weren't using the text on here. They're using the texting features within WhatsApp. So They weren't using the one that would be obvious and it just was beyond the parents even realizing that all this was going on underneath the scenes through an app that they didn't even weren't maybe even aware would work that way, and there was no trail of it if you would just pick up the phone, you'd have to go into the app And see it. Now, in my ministry we actually recommend filters and we recommend software that can help track this stuff. But parents, you've got to realize it's going to cost a little bit of money and you've got to be willing to pay the money. You've got to be willing to pay the money to to get these things, even on your own phones. Because your kids do pick up your phones, don't they? And eighty percent of first pornography viewing happens in the home. There's an enemy out there, and there's an enemy behind every technology. So we just we don't have TV and we believe in accountability software, etc. We also, it's already known in our family, we've already talked about it, there will never be any sleepovers with our kids. Now what I mean by that is I'm not talking about if a you know the the youth program does something and there's I'm talking about like a birthday party sleepover. Where my kids just go away and they're there all night long and and the kids are all upstairs and the parents are downstairs and everything's fine. Now you can make your own decisions about what you're going to do. But I'm telling you Have a discussion with my wife. Bad things can happen in sleepovers. Because sometimes I could send my girl to like, oh I know these you know, I know the family, there are good people in the church and they would never allow this thing. But the thing is, do you know that you can guard your kid all day long and some of the stuff they'll see is on their friend's phone? Because your their friends, that family may not have the same standards that you have. And they go off there and they see stuff, or somebody's there. You didn't know it was going to be there. Now you've got to decide what you're going to do, but all I'm saying is the devil's not stupid, is he? So I have to escalate protection. And I can't just be like, well, I grew up with sleepovers, there was no problem. In the nineteen eighties? Are we still in the nineteen eighties? So we have to be careful. Can I say to parents one more practical thing and then we'll be done and you can all kind of settle down and because your your back's getting strained because you're on you're all nervous what I'm gonna say next. You're all sitting forward on your seat like Pastor Caleb, do you know he was going to say that? Nope. We actually care about giving devices to our children for gifts. And parents we have to go as far as to tell our parents, don't give technology to my kids for Christmas and their birthdays. And if they think you have four heads and you're the weirdest person, just say, No, we just don't do it. Parents, you be the one that give them and make sure whenever you give it, it's got the proper Technology on there to tell you actually what's going on when you're not around. The accountability software and we have some stuff back there. As we close it to the last point. Not only do we need have to make sure a place where love is displayed, and secondly, a place where protection is escalated. Thirdly and finally, It has to be a place where disciples are made. Where disciples are made. So just a couple things here. The home was given to produce godly children. Malachi 2. 15, the verse we looked at, produce a godly seed. A godly seed. And in order to make godly children who have to have children godly children who make it, then you're gonna have to have some certain th certain things in line. Not just love and not just protection, but you're gonna have to actively work toward Making disciples in your own home. So we have to teach and model holiness 2 Corinthians 6, 17 to 7. 1 talks about wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate. And it talks about 7-1, perfecting holiness. We have to work toward a real holiness. Of the heart in the body. 2 Peter 3, 11 says, seeing then that all these things must be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be? In all holy conversation and godliness. We have to realize that these things are all going to be destroyed and saying that all things will be dissolved, what manner persons ought we to be in all holy conversation? Are your kids holy? Do they have those holy impulses? Verse 14 says, Seeing that you look for such things, be diligent to be found of him in peace and without spot and blameless. We don't just want good kids, we want holy kids. So we must teach our kids to be holy. Secondly, we must teach our kids why we believe what we believe. Not just what we believe. But why we believe what we believe. And thirdly, we must work to get them to know God. We must work to get them to actually know God. I want to read you a letter. They have right here, if you want to know a little more information about this letter. This is a real letter. How many of you are familiar with the Ministry of your former Jananimus? Can you raise your hand? Reform of Jananimus, do you have that here? Reform of Jananimus is a is a worldwide redictions program. I know these people have been there to their ministry. These they help people and it's a big ministry. all around the world. And I've taken this from the book of the man who's the international director named Benjamin Burks. And he got a letter written to another pastor, and this is what it says from this girl. I'm a junior at a well-known Christian college, so bear with me as we read this. I am a junior at a well-known Christian college. I grew up in highly respected, fundamental, independent Baptist churches. Okay, this is this is the letter. From this girl written to a pastor who gave this letter to the head of RU. And I went to excellent Christian schools. My father has been a Christian worker since before I was born. One would think that my testimony would go something like this. I was saved when I was about five, and I had dedicated my life to God, and I have been growing a lot and serving him, and now I'm studying to serve him full-time. But this isn't my story. That isn't my story. Actually, though I did make a profession of faith when I was very young, I didn't get saved until I was seventeen. Since I was twelve since I was twelve and now on into college, I have struggled with serious issues. And I found out when I went to college that I'm not the only good kid who is or has struggled with or is struggling with serious stuff. Again, this is a a junior at one of our Christian colleges. Colleges, if I mentioned a college, you would know exactly what I'm talking about. We struggle with issues like eating disorders. Depression and suicide, cutting, pornography, gender identific uh identity, homosexuality, drugs, drinking, immorality, and the list could go on. We listen to wild music. We idolize pop culture's heroes. We watch dirty sitcoms. We have no discrimination in our entertainment, dress, or any aspect of our lifestyle. Obviously, I'm generalizing our problems. You would not find that every Christian young person from a conservative background struggles with all these issues, and praise God, some of us do not struggle with any of these issues. My point is that the problems that are supposed to be bad kids problems belong to us too. Unfortunately, our parents and youth workers don't know that we struggle with these things. And they don't know what to do with us when they find out. Quite frankly, I believe that if you grab the average Christian school teacher or youth worker and ask them, what would you do if you found out that one of the kids you worked with was a homosexual, they wouldn't know what to say My point is not simply they don't know what we struggle with or how to deal with it. I think there is a pretty good simple reason why good kids struggle. In other words, why good kids sometimes don't make it Why they struggle with such serious stuff, and that there is a solution, she says, at the risk of being blunt, I'm going to be blunt. Our parents did not spend time teaching us to love God. Our parents put us in Sunday school since K-4. Our parents took us to church every time the doors opened and sent us to every youth activity. They made sure we went to good Christian colleges. They had us sing in the choir, help in the nursery, be usherers, go soul winning. We did teen devotionals and prayed over every meal. We did everything right, and they made sure that we did But they forgot about our hearts. They forgot that the Bible never commanded the church to teach children about God and His ways. That responsibility was laid at the feet of our fathers. Unfortunately, our followers don't have time for us. They put us where we were surrounded by the Bible, but they didn't take time to show us that God was important enough to them to tell us personally about Him. So to us, Christianity has become a religion of externals. This is our Christianity day, folks. Do all the right stuff, and you're a good Christian. So, some of us walk away from church. In other words, they don't make it. Some of us stay in church and fill a pew. Many of us struggle with stuff that our own parents have no idea about because they hardly know us. I think these problems stem from first our detachment from our parents, and second, from our misunderstandings about the essence of Christianity. That it's a relationship, not a list of rules I worry that many young people like me are not even saved because they're misunderstanding about Christianity. Ben Burke says this then. Over the years we have seen that for every one person we help in our homes, there there have homes that help people with drugs and alcohol. For every one person we help in our homes who did not grow up in church, we help seven who are from good Bible-believing church backgrounds. And he goes on. So we're done. Parents, I wonder if God challenged you at all with the fact that the most important thing in your home is not that you go to a good church. The most important thing in your home, because God never had the church, the church's job is not to raise my kids. That job is mine. The church has other things that they're supposed to be doing that I don't do as my mission. But my mission is to raise my kids that make it. So three things. Do you have a home where love is displayed? Dads? When you don't display love, do you go apologize? Do you say, I I'm I I blew it. I'm sorry that I said those things. The second thing is a place where protection has escalated. What kind of protections do you have in your home? What part of the world system are you letting in just through every screen? Because the worldview of the unsaved world is based on sex. If you watch very much at all, then you're in a very short time you're going to see something sensual. This is not a surprise to any of us, but we're just calling it out tonight And the third thing is a place where disciples are made. We have to be helping our kids about not just what we believe and that see that they do it. We have to get to their heart to find out do they understand why we believe what we believe. And is this being internalized in them? How about your home? I appreciate being with you this weekend. And I hope that even on this last message it will challenge you to see in your home what's the status of love. What's the status of protection? And what's the status of actually making the next generation of disciples a godly seed?