Alright, so we'll take our Bibles and move to Acts chapter 17. We're in the book of Acts in our reading. And uh one of the things that I mentioned, I think uh I think it was this morning's devotional, uh was the action packed events that happen in the book of Acts that sometimes we we lose sight of. There's so much that happens, so many amazing things. This morning uh we read about the uh uh Peter uh coming out of prison and uh that's kind of that's an exciting story uh just to think about. And uh uh what uh this week we'll be reading Acts 17 which is kind of one of what we're gonna dissect today And really just kind of reviewing some of the uh lessons uh over the years, uh it's amazing how this this was prepared many, many years ago, uh but it seems like it's even more relevant today. And uh uh just considering that. And so the the thought that we'll we'll dissect this morning uh is reaction to God's Word. And that's kind of what I've I've the way I've titled it, the reaction to God's Word In that, we'll look at the book of Acts and chapter seventeen, and we'll kind of walk through these different events that happen uh in the life of the apostle, in the life of the Apostle Paul. And the Apostle Paul goes to a couple different places. And I think the the real big takeaway that I that I'd like to uh look at this morning and and somewhat share with you all is the different ways that the Bible spells out that Paul uh used to witness to share the word of God with these different peoples, the things that we can uh learn from that and and how we can also uh you know the reaction to God's word is really sometimes what what frustrates us or makes it difficult for us to open up. and to share the word of God with other people. And uh, you know, we we do it to the best of our ability, but I think that we can learn a lot uh from Paul's uh manner, from Paul's uh method, if you will, and it wasn't just the cookie cutter, right? Uh there's there's a aspect of of when you're speaking with people, uh Knowing your audience, knowing who it is that you're speaking to, and where they're coming from, and the perspective, and that's something that we do really have to analyze, especially as we go out to witness. Uh you know sometimes when you go to a door, uh there may be a e if a person is has the door barely open, just kind of putting their head out and you can barely talk to them, uh they're not open They they're very guarded, alright, and they're ready to just close that door in your face. Alright? And uh but there's other people who you will knock on their door And from the get go they'll say, Oh, thank you for for coming, and they'll open the door wide, they'll even invite you in, and at times you're like, Oh, okay, uh what's going on here? And so so Again, it's a matter of reading and knowing your audience and and really just kind of seeing uh how Paul did that is pretty amazing to me So we'll go through and we'll begin here in the book of Acts and in chapter 17. And the first section that we'll look at is the section between verses one through ten, where we see that in Thessalonica, uh Paul uh faces a riot. Alright, Paul faces a riot. So when we look at that and we look at the the passage, we'll just read it together there, or we'll read along. It says now When they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was the synagogue of the Jews. And Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three Sabbath days reasoned with them out of the Scriptures. Opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and risen again from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preached unto you is Christ. And some of them believed and consorted with Paul and Silas, and of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a few. But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason and sought to bring them out to the people. And when they had found not, and when they had found when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also, whom Jason hath received, and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, one Jesus. And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city when they heard these things, and when they had taken security of Jason and of the other, they let him go. And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea, who coming thither went unto the synagogue of the Jews. So we see here in Thessalonica, Paul faced a riot, but how did that riot come about? When you look at the passage, if you focus in on verse 2, We see that the Bible says that he reasoned with them out of the scriptures. He reasoned with them. So one of the options that we should have in our arsenal is to reason with people. to communicate with them. So what does that mean? It means that they spoke with them through questions and answers, through dispute and discourse And so this is something that as Christians we ought to be able to do. We should not be so prickly that we are angry at people and we dispute with them and argue with them. In an angry way. There's a proper way to discuss and to have a discourse, have a dialogue, have a back and forth conversation, and a lot of that has to do with questions and answers Asking people questions, the position from where they're coming from. And it's so important for us just to uh uh one thing I'll say is to stop and get on the same playing field. in terms of your terminology. It's very difficult at times because, okay, a good example is when We went to the fair ministry here at the state fair. We did that several years ago, and we had a board that talked about the three things that God cannot do. Alright, and one of those things was God will not accept anyone into heaven, allow anyone to enter heaven unless they've been born again. So that term born again is a term that actually for us here that believe the Bible We have a certain perspective on that word. It means in the same way that Nicodemus was talking with Jesus to be born again, to be born in the spirit, the spiritual rebirth. However, to a Catholic person, that term born again is very specific to their infant baptism. And it's such a linchpin in their belief that if you talk to two people, one being a person with a very strong Catholic background and one pe being a person that believes the Bible, and you say and th they'll both agree that yeah you need to be born again to get into heaven, but they're talking about two different things. And so that's where I say, okay, when you're having a dialogue with something someone, when you reason, when you're talking with them, when you're witnessing, you want to get on the same playing field and you want to Learn and make sure that you're in agreement on your terms. Make sure that you're on the same terms, that you understand where each other's coming from Another suggestion that I've heard, and this is just kind of in the secular realm, something that Pastor Derek and I have discussed in the past, is that you need to learn what your weakest argument is. Many times we look at our belief system and a lot of times we'll run into this where someone's like, well, I believe this because this is what my pastor said. Okay? That's a good step. Alright? But you need to go beyond that as a Christian and grow to the point where you're saying, I believe that this, because this is what I've read in the Word of God. And I'm convinced that this is what the Bible says that I ought to do in this way. And it's so important for us. And how what does that involve? That involves reason. That involves us thinking. God made us thinking beings. God made us with the ability to reason, and that's something that we ought to use and uh to to to speak with people. And Again, we want to make sure that we're doing that to learn our weakest argument because there's going to be someone that points to that. What is the weakest argument that we have. A lot of it is that there's not that tangible physical God that we can see We know that, alright? We know that that only occurs and that's only in our minds or something that we believe through faith. A a large aspect of that. is faith. Now we also know that the Bible says that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. The Bible tells us that there's going to be that gap, but faith fills that gap. So what we need to make sure is that we're learning our weakest argument so that we can stand against it, so that we can, again, not attack somebody, but have that conversation with them. Alright, so that we can uh only bolster our position. And again, we we we the the the great aspect is that we stand on a on the promises of God's word that we know are true. That we know that the Bible says that God cannot lie. He is incapable of lying. And so when we stop and we think about that, we know we're on the side of right. We just shouldn't be a jerk about it, right? And so we need to make sure that we're we're we're considering, that we're reasoning. We need to know how to have a discourse with people. Again, I prepared this lesson years ago And so much is gone with a person being able to uh uh have a discourse, have a discussion with somebody. We need to be able to to be civil and to communicate with people. and have that discussion where it's not it's not making us angry. All right? Now we'll we'll go into uh uh in in a different location where some of that comes from because that's actually in the Bible as well and and and as I was preparing It was amazing to me to see that. But there's other people that were in a similar way, the same way that we are that people are today. And so we'll we'll we'll walk in that in a few moments. But Paul reasoned with them, the Bible says, out of the scriptures. It wasn't his own ideas, it wasn't his own philosophy. He reasoned with them and he discussed things out of the scriptures. And so we need to make sure that our arsenal is full of scripture And so we need to be prepared. That means we need to be studying it. We need to be understanding it. We need to be taking it in for ourselves in order to reason. Now a lot of times, why do we get angry? Why do we we we uh have those confrontations? To be honest, it's because a lot of times, and I've felt this way too, is that we're not prepared. We're ill ill-prepared for the argument. We're ill-prepared for the discussion. Why? Because we don't know the Bible the way we ought to. And and we we we feel like we're lacking in that area. And so we have to be careful with that. And how do we fix that? Get into the word. Learn the word and prepare yourself. Prepare so that you understand what it is that you believe and why you believe it. Next, we also see, look in verse 3. Another thing that Paul did is it says he opened, opening. Alright? This is very much the idea of explaining the scriptures And here especially it was explaining the scriptures. If you remember in the passage where Jesus was walking with the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, the Bible says that He opened their understanding. It's that same idea, especially how the what Paul was saying related to the Old Testament It's that comparison where he's opening the scriptures and saying, hey, this is what the Old Testament says, this is how it has come to fruition. uh today. And so there's this opening to the point where th those people understood. Their understanding was opened. Their eyes were open. It was a cause that they understood what it is that Paul was saying, especially as it comes to salvation. So he was opening to them the understanding of what it means to be saved. So we also see that next word over in verse 3, opening and alleging. Alright, alleging this word, the way it explains is that to set something down, to set before. So Paul would put something in front of them. and allege something, make a a point on it, and then he would go on to provide the supporting evidence for that. And so he put something down, and hopefully those people that are listening will understand and will pick that up, and their understanding would be open. But what it is that he proved, and as you see in the discussion, and as you see Paul the way he did it before, he put down before them that Jesus was the Messiah. And he put that allegation in front of them, and then he went on to provide supporting evidence and saying, why is this the case? It's an amazing thing, and we want to make sure that in our discussion, as we talk with people, and this is not just something that's going to happen within five minutes. This is something that takes time. And we can't be so much in a hurry to just say, well, uh this is what the Bible says and uh you need to believe it or else you're gonna go to hell. And we have to have that time to really uh invest and discuss with people. And the we we you get to a point where we're saying, okay, well, here's Jesus. He's the Messiah for these reasons. And again, this was so relevant to them. It was right before them. There was uh uh a time beforehand where there were people that had witnessed what was going on in the world at that time and so he put down that evidence and supported it uh to give them an understanding uh about who Christ was and uh uh what he accomplished for them. And then also as you go along in verse 3, he says that he preached, whom I preach unto you you. There was a preaching. The preaching gives the idea of proclaiming uh uh the truth, heralding the truth, uh uh shouting the truth from from uh uh to to let people know. And what was he preaching to them? uh that he uh he was preaching the resurrection, he was preaching Christ. Alright? And so when we see that again, this is a a a method that that Paul took in Thessalonica And what happened, the people responded. Alright, the Bible says in verse 4 that some believed. The Bible says there of the devout Greeks a great multitude. Uh of the chief women, not a few. But there were some, especially the the the Jews, that and a lot of times in the scriptures when you see a reference to the Jews, a lot of times this is the the religious leaders. The religious leaders, they believed not. And they were envious. And when we look at that We don't understand exactly why they were envious. Maybe it was because of Paul's success. Maybe because the there were influential people in the city that were leaving the synagogue and and Here was Paul coming into the synagogue three weeks in a row and proclaiming these things and causing some concern among the establishment, among the people that were already there. And the people got riled up, a mob got together, and the Bible says that they set all the city on an uproar for the purpose of getting them out. But understand that the problem did not hinder the Thessalonian ministry. So when you look at these people, I was thinking a lot about this the other week when we were talking about the Philippian church. And when the Philippian church started in the book of Acts, as pastor was talking about, I just visualized. The first church there at Philippi was made up of a woman who was literally possessed of a demon A seller of purple who was a lady who was probably very well to do. Church together And then you have this jailer that also is a part, and I'm sure there were other members and there were other people, but these were the people that we know of and that were part of that first church there at Philippi, and it's amazing how God can put that together And see that and see how God uses uh the Philippian church. But if you look at First Thessalonians uh in verse uh chapter one uh verses six through eight Paul is talking to the Philippian church or excuse me, the Thessalonian church, as he wrote a letter to them and talking about their establishment. And in verse 6 through 8 it says And ye became followers of us, so he's talking to the Thessalonians, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction. So there he's talking about these problems and this uproar and this riot that was going on there in Thessalonica as this church was getting established. And then he continues, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. so that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia, for from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achaea, but also in every place your faith to God word is spread abro abroad. so that we need not to speak anything. So we see that the Thessalonian church was a testimony to the surrounding areas, and yes, it was established in this crazy time of a riot going on there in Thessalonica, but it expanded and the word was spread out to Macedonia and Achaia, and they heard about the Thessalonian church that was uh an amazing church that was uh had received the the the word of God in in in trials but with joy. And so what an example that church was. And so again understanding that there may be times where you face uh uh opposition and you face trials and and Communicating with people and and but here especially in in Thessalonica you see this wide reaction to God's word And you see that all throughout the book of Acts. And so we should be prepared. We should be uh understand that there's uh not everyone's going to be welcoming us with open arms. Uh there's going to be some that will that will uh uh grab onto it and as the Bible says there in Acts 17 that they They they got together with Paul and Silas and that they they they became part of the crew and that they they they spent time with them uh uh and others obviously uh would cause uh would cause uh problems and a riot. and and things like that. And so we need to be careful. But again, understand the method in which uh uh Paul approached all all these people in a in a very interesting way. So then we learn some lessons as we go on to the next place. We move on from verse 10 to verse 15, and we see here that Paul goes into Berea. And in Berea, Paul faced what we'll say of receiving. Alright? And in verse 10 through 15, there were many things that were pointed out about the Bereans. Something that we highlight and consider that in verse uh we've already read verse 10. If you look at verse 11, he's he's referring to the Bereans here. It says, these were more noble than those in Thessalonica. In that they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. Women which were But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word was preached of Paul Ephereah, they came hit thither also and stirred up the people. And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go, as it were, to the sea, but Silas and Timotheus abode there still. So understand that Berea is about forty-five miles west of Thessalonica. So the jer journey took Paul from uh Thessalonica over to Berea, and the Bible says, points out that these Bereans were more noble. What does this mean? It means that they were more noble-minded, that the the it gives us the idea of almost a higher rank. All right? And that's what the scriptures kind of elucidate for us. They were uh stronger Christians than those in Thessalonica. And why is that? Well, the Bible says there that they they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily. So so let's let's break that down. Alright? They received the word. They weren't skeptical of the word. Alright? uh the the the different discussions that are happening secularly secularly today. The There's an element of criticism, and even an element within the teachings of communism that is extreme criticism, which is Be critical of everything. Question everything. And that is at the root of what Communism is, and I don't want to get off on a rabbit trail about that, but it's there you question everything, why to break things down, to break down institutions, to destroy. Why? Well how do we do it? If we're talking to a Jehovah's Witness, if we're talking to a Mormon, and if I'm teaching someone how to witness to these people, what do I say to them? I say, you want to learn how to break down their argument And that's exactly what this extreme criticism is trying to do. It's trying to break things down. And when we go there, when we understand that, we see that the modern day has taught us to be skeptics, approach everything out of skepticism. And That's a problem when we walk into church and if we're going to approach things as a skeptic, again, I'm not saying, you know, don't have questions. I'm not saying you know, swallow everything hook, line, and sinker. But we need to be this is the exact same example of what we need to do, which is listen, take it in, and search the scriptures That's the process. And it's not that as it's being spoken, you're nacing in your mind. Because I there's plenty of people that will do that. And uh we'll even in different reasons, all right. You could listen to a person maybe uh that is of uh different political ideology. And when you listen to a person that disagrees with you, you're criticizing every word that they say. And you're thinking and you're evaluating your life, well that what does that mean? All right, well he he said this, but this means that But the same is true if you're listening to someone that agrees with your political ide ideology, you take it in and you're like, oh, and you're very accepting and you look at everything from the rosiest glasses And we're very susceptible to do that, but what do we need to do? We need to evaluate, and we need to take time to in the case we we ought not be that way with the scriptures We need to make sure that we're taking in, receiving the word, what does it say, with all readiness of mind, eager, willing to understand, being eager to understand. what it is to that the word says so that we can accept it and do it. Alright? That's what the when the Bible talks about readiness of mind, it's you're listening to it because if God said it and you un you see it in the scriptures I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna obey what God says. And that's w what the Bereans did. That's how they uh that's how they That's the reason that they were evaluated or seen as as greater, if you will, more noble than the Thessalonicans. And that's not to say anything negative about the Thessalonians. It was something that the Bible points out for us to understand. So we search, search the scriptures, examining, scrutinizing the scriptures. Now one thing that I've learned over the years is that there's a difference between scrutinizing and criticizing. And so we need to learn that difference. We need to scrutinize and understand, and that means that we unpack it, that we uh examine it. But it's not that we criticize. Alright? And what did they do? They did that against the Old Testament, confirming what it is that Paul preached, how it is that it lined up with the Old Testament. The same thing is what you and I need to do. Examine. Ask the question. Not waiting for someone to say something wrong so that you can jump on him. This is a problem very much that I've seen in, you know, today. You know, someone will, you know, even in text, all right, people are so. . cautious to not spell anything wrong or correct their spelling in their text. Why? The reason, to be honest, is because They don't want the other person to to pile on them and be like, oh you spelled that wrong. You're an idiot. Alright? And that's what people do nowadays And I find myself, and you know, sometimes I tell like my kids that say, hey, you know, I know you just spell it, that's okay, I can figure out what it is that you're trying to communicate You know, and sometimes those corrections are necessary, like if there's causes confusion. But there's so much now that can be that just gets Uh uh people just jump on people for for uh just a silly argument, so we have to be careful with that. What else did the Bereans do? They searched daily. So that's the question for us. How often do you examine the scriptures? How often do you discern and search the truth of God's Word? The Bible says the Bereans did it daily. And and that made them better Christians. And that's something, a lesson that we need to learn that how we need to approach the scriptures to do so. So the Bible says many of them believed, not a few. And so we need to make sure that we're we're we're looking at that and making sure that we're understanding uh uh how it is that We can share the word of God and and really focus in and understand what it says. We'll move along to the last place where in Athens, Paul in that we're talking about in Acts 17, in Athens, Paul faced ridicule. Alright. We won't go into the the uh examining the entire is about 250 Roman miles or about a 12 days journey uh from where he was at before, which was Berea And so Paul moved along to Athens and there got in a discussion with uh with many people at a place known as Aropagus. Alright, and this is a a a familiar passage, one that I enjoy reading, where he gives this uh amazing speech to the to the Greeks and he talks to so many of them. And uh I want to just break down here a couple of the people that were there. Alright? We had within uh the within the book of Acts there people that were at Athens, there at Mars Hill, uh people who were st superstitious, people that were there, and the Bible says in verse 18 that some of them were philosophers. So we know a lot about Greek uh philosophy and and there's a lot of teaching on it and something that that that is m much uh read about and much written about And so there were these philosophers there, people that followed uh Greek philosophy, and a lot of that just to to to be there's some aspect of it where they were there there they had um somewhat of a moral compass, but understand that also it was very much uh rooted in paganism, rooted in uh in in in superstition and things like that. Uh so understand that they they weren't necessarily coming from a place that was uh biblically established But then there was other people here that were Epicureans. Alright? What do we know about the Epicureans? The Bible talks about them there in verse 18. But when you look at these people, their belief they were seekers of pleasure. Their belief was based on experience, not reason. And this is what I was talking about before, where there's so much similarity to to even uh how people think today in terms of they're more about their feelings than they are about what's going on and actually thinking things out. And these are Epicureans. This led to hedonism, which it which if it feels good, do it. But for Epicureans, pleasure is the principal thing It says to that the ultimate pleasure is living pleasantly. So I need no indulgences. I need balance. And and when you really look break down kind of what the Epicureans believe To me, it sounds a lot like Buddhism. And so again, this is not anything new. This is something that's been there and that's been there for a long time. Who were other people there? There were people who were Stoics. Alright, the Bible there talks about Stoics and the Stoics understanding kind of what they believed, they believed in self-discipline and self-control. Not removing their emotions, but channeling them in the right direction. And the most important thing for the Stoics were to follow one's reason and to be self-sufficient. If you go back through those different things that I've mentioned, it's self-sufficient, self-discipline, self-control. What does that remind us of? To me, that reminds me of humanism. So again, this is not a new philosophy. All right. There's Stoics even around us today. They may not call themselves Stoics. But they have that same b uh belief, that same ideology which is humanistic in its in its uh uh understanding They loved their own thinking. These people here that were at Mars Hill, they loved their own thinking. They were fascinated with what man could come up with in his mind. And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, the Bible says that some mocked. And this is another reaction that we may have to face. Alright, and that's something that we have to accept as the truth that we may talk to somebody about Christ and talk to them about what he teaches and what the Bible says, and there is going to be times where people will mock us. for that. But these people, these philosophers, they they they only believe in this life. They're only living for this life. And and the problem is that we we are Created in a different way where we have to keep in mind what is going to happen in the next life as well. So when we look at that and we look at these different approaches that that the Apostle Paul had, we also find ourselves in different places. We find ourselves talking to different people. We see different responses to God's word, but in spite of the negative, I want to encourage you that there were people that responded In in Thessalonica, the Bible there we mentioned already, there was a of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a few. The same thing is said in Berea that therefore many of them believe also of honorable women which were Greeks, and of men not a few And in verse even in Athens, if you look at verse thirty-two, it says, When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. And others said, We will hear thee again of this matter. Verse 33, so Paul departed from among them, howbeit, certain men clave unto him and believed, among the which was Dionysius the Aropagite, and a woman named Domaris, and others with them. And so we need to continue to proclaim God's word. We need to witness all we can, even those who we don't feel like reaching. Even those who we look at our mind and say, you know what, that person's not going to care. But we need to continue Because God can still use those situations even when the devil stirs up trouble. And you see that in all these different places that Paul was Alright, there was a there there there may have been problems. There may have been again understanding even when he went to Berea, there was uh uh there there was people that were in Thessalonica, there were some of those religious leaders that said, man, they went over there We got to go over there and cause trouble. All these problems uh that the devil threw uh uh threw at them, but understand that there was a purpose in it And understanding at the end of the day, Thessalonica was a very key city. There was a lot of trade, there was a center for business there, and it was a very important s uh uh port city and the fact of the matter is is that that church established there. Uh we know that it was established there. We know that they had uh a lot of good things going at the church of Thessalonica And God used that church to reach many, many people. And so the same thing is true. All right? We may just face difficult situations. We we need to learn and understand how to approach and how to talk to people. We need to be prepared. We need to make sure that we're studying the scriptures. All these things that Paul did are for us, especially in this day where there's so much skepticism. where there's so much uh contrarianism, what we'll what we'll call. There's so many things that that are working against us, but it's still the command, the great commission for us to go and to witness the people. So hopefully we you can find encouragement in this that the Apostle Paul faced the same things that we will likely face as we go out into Hunt Valley as we go out further into Baltimore. Wherever we go, we're going to face these things. And so hopefully we can take encouragement that we are treading the same road of the Apostle.