Reach out to those around us uh as our mission statement as a church uh which was part of our welcome video that we haven't shown in a great time but to reach those uh nearest our neighbors and all nations. We want to reach out. And so tonight we're going to look at that from Acts chapter 8. Begin reading or following along in verse number 26. We'll read down here a little ways. The whole of the context is twenty-six through forty. We're going to conclude where Philip preaches unto him Jesus, but beginning in verse number twenty-six. And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go. That is our theme. You see in the reaching out banner that's up on the screen that the go is highlighted. Go is part of the Great Commission. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. It is in fact God's passion and our purpose to go. He said, Go ye Go ye. And this is what the angel of the Lord came and spake unto Philip, and said, Arise and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem And he arose and he went and beheld a man of Ethiopia and a eunuch of great authority. Understand this, the queen of Ethiopians who had the charge of all her treasures and had come to Jerusalem to worship, was returning and sitting in his chariot, reading Isaiah the prophet Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to this chariot. And Philip ran thither to him. And he heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and he said, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. The place of the scriptures which he read was thus. And he was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb before his shears, so opened he not his mouth. In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and Who shall declare his generation? For his life is taken from the earth. And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? Of himself or of some other man. Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. This was the goal, this was the plan. God, through the Holy Spirit, directing this man to go. Philip, a church member. A man who was full of the Holy Ghost. We know that because that was a requirement for those that are of the Church of Jerusalem To seek out from among them men that were full of the Holy Ghost, men that were led by the Spirit of God to serve in the office of deacon there. And here this man as a church member, as a godly individual, desiring to fulfill God's will and purpose in his life, not the pastor of the church, not the missionary going to the foreign field, but a man who, under normal circumstances, would be sitting in the pew But was led by the Spirit of God to go and reach out to this individual. Every single Bible-believing Christian has the command to go, the commission to preach the gospel to every creature. And it's our duty and our goal this year to try and focus on that idea of reaching out. Philip was sensitive to the Lord, and he allowed the Lord to direct his steps. If you know the story or you back up to earlier in this chapter, you'll see that Philip was used of God. He was told to go down to Samaria to preach, and he went there and he was preaching unto them and a a a great uh movement of God was taking place. Of course you go back up a little further and you read about Saul and how Saul was creating a great uproar in the church, yet the church was still moving forward for God. Many times it is persecution that we don't like, but persecution that causes the church to move forward. Because it weeds out those who really aren't committed, those who really aren't ready to stand up and do what God wants them to do. I don't look forward to or desire persecution, but I believe we're not too far from it in our country. There is right now, actually today. uh churches all over the country taking today to preach on the sin of homosexuality, preach against same-sex marriage preaching against uh the transgender movement because there are documents or um laws that are being passed in certain states right now Which would make it a crime for pastors to preach on that. Where they could imprison you if you in any way Just preach the truth of the Word of God and what it says, but if you in any way discourage somebody from seeking out that kind of lifestyle Then you can be thrown in jail. Now you could stand up and promote it all you want. You could stand up and talk about it and encourage people to be involved in it and go after that lifestyle as much as you want. But if you said anything against that lifestyle, well then you could be thrown in jail. We're not far from persecution in this country. And we better be ready. We better be committed to God. But the Church of Jerusalem is moving forward by leaps and bounds, even though they were under great persecution. God was moving in a great way. I believe in God's church today, he'll move in a great way. This man, Philip, went preached in Samaria, great movement of God was taking place. They're seeing revival, people. The Bible says that all of them in one accord Believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. All of them believed what he was preaching. In one accord, there was great movement, and everybody following along and being moved and spoken to by the Spirit of God. He, of course, is involved in this great revival and what's going on there. And God chose to send him on an errand. God said there's an individual down here in Gaza, an Ethiopian, who needs Christ. He sent him out to reach that individual. God told him to rise and go. With all that he was already doing, he could have chosen not to go. But he was ready and willing to go wherever the Lord leads. I want you to understand tonight that there is an expectation that as God's people we would go. This theme of reaching out, there's an expectation that we as a church are going to be involved in this. All of us participating in some aspect, some level of reaching out. Whatever that may be. There's a lot of different opportunities. We've talked about those things last week with the with the track club that's going to begin the first Sunday of February. And that passing our tracks. We're going to be doing some mail outs. We're going to be doing John of Romans. We've got the the Get a Bible uh get a free Bible and and a Bible program for the community and trying to get people who have an interest in it and Get them to call in or get on the website and sign up for a free Bible and somebody's got to go deliver that Bible and reach that person with the gospel. There's going to be a lot of opportunities, but everybody should be involved in some way. There's an expectation here. The angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go. Beloved God is in the saving business. He is just concerned about the individual today as he ever has been. He's just concerned about that one, that one who is looking, that one who would say, yeah, I need a Bible And they might not even know or understand why. They might want a Bible and and they might not even know where to look in the Bible or what chapter to read. Or even if they get the Bible, they start reading it, and they would be just like this man Understandest what thou readest? How can I? Except somebody show me. And that's what we want to do with this gift Bible program where we can take from the Bible and say, hey You know, is do you understand this? Do you know what this says? Can can we show you? Can we teach you some of the Word of God You know, God just might send you out somewhere, not just to get gas But he might send you out because there's somebody that needs a track. There's somebody that needs a gospel witness It would be God's plan to send you by that way or to open that opportunity for you to be able to be that witness, for you to reach out to that individual. There's an expectation that you're going to go, not just from me or from our church as a mission and a goal for this year, but there's an expectation from God that you would go. The world hasn't changed much from that time till now. There's still people all over the world that for the most part do not know who God is. You don't have to go across the world, you can just go around the corner. And you find people that don't know who God is. You find people that don't understand what Jesus came for. Most of the world has no concept of the gospel and what it actually means. They may have heard the terms, but to know what it means to be forgiven. The Great Commission is just as valid today as it was the day it was first pinned. We're still commanded to go. If God thought it was good to send a willing vessel to reach out to this one. If he thought it was worth the effort and the time to send Philip to go reach one, I think he would do the same thing today. You know, God doesn't change. I'm the same yesterday, today, and forever. And if God at that time was able to see there's one individual over here that's ready, that needs a gospel witness, that needs somebody to present the truth to them. And I've got a man over here that can do that. I'm going to send Philip to reach out and get that man. I think God wants to do the same thing today through the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Oh, I know it's uncomfortable. I know that going to people you haven't talked to and people you don't know And and you know, we go both ways. We say on one hand, man, go talk to somebody you've never talked to, you don't know them from anybody. And then on the other hand, we say, man, the hardest people in the world to witness to is your family The people you know the best. And so it goes both ways. It's all hard, but we've got a command to go. We've got the job. There's an expectation that we're going to do it God is calling. The question is, are you willing to answer? I wonder how many mission fields are still unreached because people refuse to answer the call to go. How many bus routes haven't been started? How many kids haven't been brought into God's house because people refuse to answer the call to go? How many soul-winning opportunities have been missed? How many tracks haven't been given to a soul that was ready to read it and to accept Christ, except the track wasn't given? We've got to go to the house. I'm going to take the couple of services in the near future and talk about our finances and uh try and encourage wisdom in how we handle and deal with our finances. You know one of the reasons sometimes people can't go maybe to the mission field as God would want them to? Or even they even can't go to church or can't go soul winning. Because they haven't handled their finances very well and they don't have money to stick in a gas tank to get to church. They don't have money to be able to go minister like that. They've overextended themselves and put themselves in a position, a situation where they can't go. Even though they know God wants them to, and maybe in their heart they want to. But because of misuse of what God's given us, we restrict our ability to go. Would you be willing and ready to go tonight if God called you? I believe there's an expectation that we're going to go. There's an urgency. For the need to go. Verse number 27, he says, and he arose and went. He responded immediately. He responded immediately. He was able, and so he was obedient, and he went. You know, Philip could have offered a lot of excuses. Not the least of which is, hey, God, God's already using me right here. God's already using me right here to do this. I don't need to go down there. Sometimes we use an excuse of our participation or our involvement in a good thing to keep us from what we know God wants us to do It's like me when I was in school. You know I don't like the classroom. I don't like studying. And I'll tell you what, I would work like a dog out in the heat in the sun for ten hours to not have to be in the classroom for three. That was fine with me. I did not want to be in the classroom. And I would gladly go work with dad for ten hours out in the heat, do whatever. Didn't matter to me. If I could get out of classroom, I was in. Let's go do it. Some of us are that way with this aspect of going. I'll participate, I'll do whatever, I'll get involved in whatever, as long as I don't have to go. You're doing good things. But what does the Great Commission not apply to you? Does the Great Commission not apply to me? Can I just forego that and let somebody else fill that call because I would rather do something else? Beloved, I just implore you tonight to hear the call of God and submit and say, okay, Lord, I'm not comfortable doing it. It is hard for me. I struggle with what to say and how to say, but I know there's a need, there's an urgency, there's people dying and going to hell. And Lord, I'll submit. I'll be a witness for you You know, he had family that needed him. According to Acts 21, you had at least four daughters, and you know daughters are a heap of trouble. Daughters think lots of time, you know. You know, he had family. And a lot of times We use our families as an excuse. Well, I was going to, but you know, I gotta do this with my family, or I gotta do that with my family. I don't think that's what God intended when He gave you that family. That gift from God was not meant to be an excuse for you to avoid doing what God wants you to do. You know, several times in the Word of God he uses the word where he says, God repented. Of something. I wonder if God doesn't look sometimes at Christians who are using the family that God gave them as an excuse not to serve Him. And if he doesn't repent in his mind for giving that to you. Say if that's keeping you from doing what you're supposed to be doing, maybe I shouldn't have given you that family. I wonder. It's never meant to be an excuse. Never meant to be a means or a way through which we might avoid what God wants us to do There's an urgency to the call. Philip just trusted that that's what God wanted to do, and God would lead, and God would provide what he needed, and God would give him the words to say he got up and he went. We're supposed to trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Can you trust God today? Can you trust him that he knows what he's doing? And that he can and will direct your way, direct your path, that you can be the witness God wants you to be this year. Beloved, I can't think of anything else where the urgency is more important than the presentation of the gospel to a lost and dying world. this Bible program that we're going to do this year, the church through which we we received the idea. uh shared with us some of the things that they learned as they've been doing it. They've learned some things and this works and we that doesn't and we've seen challenges here. Do you know what the number one thing was over and over again in their email to us? The urgency to respond immediately. A call comes in, somebody wants a Bible. He says, You gotta get there right then. You gotta get there as soon as possible because their desire, their window, the the time when their heart is tender could be so very brief And they've seen where somebody called and said they wanted a Bible and then they delayed and they didn't go and they didn't deliver it and it didn't get there and then and then they called and said, hey, we're going to come out, and they're like, uh, no, we don't r I don't really need it Don't bother. They miss the opportunity. They miss the window. There is urgency, beloved, many times The opportunity for somebody to change their eternal destiny from hell to heaven is such a brief time where God has reached down into their life and hit their heart or hit their soul with something that drives them to a point where they're ready to accept Christ. And if that That fruit is not plucked while it's ripe and ready where somebody doesn't go right then and see them or be used of God to present the gospel to them, that seed may fall by the side We'll miss the opportunity, Christian. I want to remind you that God is concerned about the individual. We are in a church. We gather and meet in a church and everybody comes and it is corporate worship. It is a time where we're all together. But we cannot lose focus on the individual. God sees the individual. I'm glad tonight that God sees me. I'm glad tonight that God sees what's going on in the heart of Caleb Batrell and what he needs and where he needs to be challenged and where he needs to be challenged I'm glad that God is willing to minister to my heart and soul, and He sees every individual's need. And we've got to be careful we don't lose sight of the individual. God saw this Ethiopian eunuch out here all by himself, and he was willing to send somebody to reach that one. I want you to know that our desire and goal to reach the world The world is one, one person at a time. We've got to reach them one at a time. The individual. You look at the job of reaching the world and we say, it's insurmountable, it's impossible, we can't reach them all. But you can reach one. You can reach one. And we reach them one at a time. Many times we have the opportunity here in church to preach to a group. There might be three, four, five, six, ten people in the group that are that are lost that don't know Jesus. But you know most of the time, those people are one individually. Individually. We see here in this story that it's not about class. It's not about race. This Ethiopian was a completely different race, different nationality. Philip. He didn't look at it and say, Oh, I I I can't minister to them. I mean he was already down there in Samaria. You know they they they didn't really like the Samaritans too much. He's already down there, and then he says, Oh, I want you to go over here and reach this Ethiopian eunuch, this Gentile. Who could take the gospel from there back to his people, to the Gentile nations? It's not about race Doesn't matter who it is or where they are. God loves them. We need to give them the truth of the gospel. It's not about class. Everybody needs Christ, this Ethiopian eunuch had a position. It describes and talks about the authority that he had and the position that he had, probably some means of wealth. But you know God loves the rich man and he loves the poor man. He loves the powerful man and he loves the meek man and we're all equal at the foot of the cross and we all need Jesus Christ. Are you willing to go and talk to just one? People are saved one at a time, and we must focus on the individual. As Christ did. Reaching one. One track at a time. One John of Romans. One opportunity to present the truth It'll take some understanding of the scriptures. And he said, How can I except some man should guide me? He said, hey Philip, can you come here? Can you come sit with me? Look, look, here's where I'm reading. What is he saying here? What is he talking about? I think one of the reasons a lot of times Christians don't want to go is because they are so In out with the word. They're afraid. What if they ask me a question I can't understand and I can't answer? That's possible. Listen, this is the inexhaustible word of God. You're never going to know it all, you're never going to understand it all. But we are supposed to study to show ourselves approved under God, a workman that Rightly, that needeth not to be ashamed, but rightly divideth the word of truth. We're supposed to have a working knowledge of the Word of God. What if somebody came to you and said, What must I do to be saved? Could you tell them? Or would you have to say, well, let me bring you down to my church? So you can talk to one of the pastors or you can talk to listen, every born-again Bible-believing Christian ought to be able to take the Word of God and present the truth of the gospel to a lost and dying individual. If you can't, it's not that hard. You start with the very basic. Start with a very simple one, two, three that you know, you fact of the matter is is you've got to understand all that sinned and The verses for that. And then the fact that there's penalty for sin. And obviously we understand there's a penalty for sin. You transgress the law. What is the penalty? The penalty is death. But Jesus paid the penalty for us when he came and he died And he rose again. And his blood was shed to cover that penalty for us. How do we accept that payment? And putting our faith and trust in Christ, confessing our sins and believing of our heart, every Christian ought to know how to, at least in a simple format, give the most basic plan of salvation. But you know you need to be led by the Spirit of God. You need to be prepared and ready to witness it. You need to be able to read the situation, Christian. We see here that Philip was led by the Spirit of God. He was passing this man reading the scriptures And the Spirit said unto him, Go to this chariot. He was led by the Spirit of God. We need to be led by the Spirit of God. We need to be able to read the situation. Listen, if somebody is not interested at all, don't shove it down their throat. Be observant. Be conscious. of if they're trying to get away from you without saying, would you just leave me alone? I mean if they're trying to be kind but trying to get away, don't just because they're they're being kind. You don't shove it down their throat. You need to be able to read the situation Listen, beloved, God will take you. If you goeth forth weeping, you will doubtless come again, rejoicing, bringing your sheaves with you, because that's a promise from the Word of God. Don't shove it down the throat of somebody that doesn't want it. Let God give you a divine opportunity like he did here in this place. He put Philip with the Ethiopian eunuch who was ready. And if you're looking to be a witness, God will direct you and take you to somebody who is ready to hear the truth. Be able to read the situation. Jesus talked to the woman at the well and he started discussing with her the need that we have to drink. The fact that we're thirsty and we need to take water to quench that thirst. And understanding the thirst of the soul of man, he brought it around to the fact that she needed Jesus And she could never reach a point where she would never thirst again. You start out basic so you at least can present the gospel. But then as you grow and mature, you should be able to start learning a little bit. You know, you deal with somebody that let's say they're religious, but lost. You would deal with them completely different than you would deal with somebody that's completely secular, that has no Christian background, that doesn't understand that you see with this secular person you might have to start back with creation and talk about how God created us. You gotta be able to use some discernment and realize this man has no functioning working knowledge of God. We've got to give back to establishing that, who God is. And our fact that we're accountable to Him. This religious person, he knows who God is, he wants to serve God. He's full of religion, but he doesn't have Christ. So you deal with him like with the rich young ruler or you talk to him. Um Mine just went like who's the um It'll come to me in a minute. Nicodemus? Yes, Nicodemus. A religious man. Using the story of Nicodemus and show him how, look, you're just like Nicodemus. Teaching them these things, but learn how to do that. Ultimately, I want you to understand that Philip preached unto him Jesus And anytime you give people the gospel of Jesus Christ, we've got a promise in the Word of God, His Word will not return void. Just preach Jesus. If you can't do anything else, you can tell them about what Jesus did for you. Just tell them about what Jesus did for you How he saved your soul, how he changed your life, how he gave you hope. And plant that seed in their heart. It preached unto him, Jesus. You can go all the way down to verse number 40, and you'll see that when all this was done and the Ethiopian eunuch believed on Christ, and they actually went and he got baptized and Philip had gone from a revival all the way out here to reach the Ethiopian eunuch. And so he was all done. He got to go home and and hang up his his gospel hat and kind of just sit in the pew, right? You see that in verse number 40, if you've got your Bibles out there at home, we see that Philip was found in As Toas, and passing through, he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea See, we're never done, Christian. We're never done until the Lord calls us home or the world's reached. We've got to keep on going. We've got to keep on going. Christian, church member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We've got a job to do. An important job. And this year as a church, we're taking time to focus on it. Really, it's the most important job on earth. There is nothing, beloved, that we will commit our time to that could be a more valuable investment of the treasure of time that you have. Than being a witness to somebody, than sharing the gospel, fulfilling that call of God on our lives. Beloved, there are people that only you can reach. Only you are you going to reach them? Are you gonna reach out this year and get those people for Christ Like Philip did in obedience to God. You can pray for him. But are you gonna go get them? Are you gonna reach out? Oh, I'm praying he'll get saved. I'm praying God will do something. I'm praying God will send somebody. Maybe God wants to send you to reach out to them before it's eternally too late.