Uh in the future. Turn your Bibles to the book of Galatians tonight. Galatians. Galatians chapter number six. We as a church have been in the study of Galatians. I started in the beginning in uh January, the first Sunday in January, started studying the book of Galatians. We're closing in on this concluding chapter. We've got two more uh messages after tonight. Uh Lord willing, that's what I believe this last chapter is going to break up into. We began last week by looking at the restoration of the fallen. The first six verses here give us the restoration of the fallen and that ministry that we as God's people are to be involved in and restoring the fallen, bringing them back. It's a sad day when God's people uh kick somebody when they're down instead of reach down and try and pick them up. And that's what the ministry of the church is supposed to be. We looked at that last week. Tonight we're going to look at uh reaping for the faithful Reaping for the faithful, we see in our text verses here, beginning in Galatians chapter six, verse number seven through verse number ten. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap For he that sow to the flesh shall the flesh reap corruption, but he that sow it to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. And let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we Have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially to them that are of the household of faith. Now this feels very different for me, and I'm a little bit, I feel like I'm I'm Not in the same place because the pulpit's gone and things are different set up for the wedding here. So bear with me if I get a little distracted. We're going to try and stay on course tonight. We've got a lot of ground to cover. Obviously these verses lend themselves to preaching And uh I'm gonna try and stay on track. But I hope you came to get in, not to get out. Amen. I hope you're here and that you're blessed. And if you're here tonight and say Pastor Caleb's preaching on me or preaching at me, I want you to know we don't preach at people, we preach for them, amen Uh but this is not the case because first of all, I didn't know you were going to be here. Secondly, uh we started this back in January and we have gone one week verse by verse through the book of Galatians, and this happens to be Tonight, where we're at. So uh you can say, listen, God had it planned. Whatever it was, it was for you. You're here for this message. Amen. So I want you to see first of all the declaration of the law given to us in verse number seven, the declaration of the law. He says, Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap There is, first of all, here in the Declaration of Law, there's a recognition of falsehood. He says, be not deceived. Do you understand, beloved, that Satan is in the in the ministry or in the job or of deceiving people. This is what his goal is. He is uh the liar and the father of it. His goal and desire is to deceive people He in 2 Peter 3, verse number 17, he says, Ye therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things before, beware lest ye also being led away with error of the wicked. Fall from your own steadfastness. He says, hey, there's a chance, there's an opportunity, you're going to be led away. You're going to be deceived. And of course, Paul, in this entire letter, has been dealing with the people of Galatia. in the deception regarding going back to the law and not resting in the grace that God has given us, in the finished work of Jesus Christ. So he says here, listen, be not deceived. You understand, beloved, that uh many are deceived by Satan. They're deceived tonight that there is no reward in heaven. They're deceived that there is no punishment in hell. Men are living their lives and doing what they want to do regardless, and they think there's no reaping. There's no reward in the end. There's no punishment in the end. It just is what it is. And when it when the end comes, I'm going to be stuck in the ground and it's all over, but that's not what the book says The Bible says that there is going to be some reaping, that there is reward in heaven, and there is punishment in hell. They're deceived, beloved, that God is too loving to send someone to everlasting punishment. But the fact of the matter is, is God was so loving he delivered a way in which you could miss that punishment. God doesn't send men to everlasting punishment. Men choose to reject a loving God who provided an escape for them. They're deceived tonight that people think as long as I'm sincere, I'm okay. You know, it doesn't matter, you can be as sincere as the day is long, and it won't help you if you're wrong. How many of you have ever reached for something that in your heart and minds you were sure it wasn't hot? And you grabbed it and you were, whoa, that's hot. Okay, the other day I was cooking some grilled cheese and uh you know it's one of these pans without much of a handle and I stuck it on there, turned it on. and I I went to go get the butter out and the bread out and the cheese out and I'm thinking, well that pan's gonna be getting too hot, I'm gonna move it. But it had already gotten too hot. In my mind I thought, well it's only been on there, you know, a few seconds. I'm I'm just gonna move the pan and it I found out it was hot. It doesn't matter how sincere you are, it won't help you if you're wrong. He says, be not deceived, beloved. We see also there it needs to be respect for the Father He says, God is not mocked. We need to get back to some old-fashioned heaven-cent fear of God. Some respect for the Father. Doesn't it just grit you the wrong way? Doesn't it just burn you up how this world mocks and laughs at God How they make fun and tell jokes and think, Oh, the big man upstairs does this or I'm gonna live the way I want to, ill regardless of the fact that you say there's a God. Listen, God is not mocked He tells us here that there is going to be a payday someday. It's coming. God is not there needs to be some respect for the Father. The world can shake their fist at God, but God sees it. The son of God, the child, can ignore the chastening hand of his father, but God sees them. And beloved, God is not going to put up with your continued foolishness. He said God is not mocked. You're not going to get to live that way forever and just act like God doesn't know. Because he does. We see thirdly in this verse that there is reaping for the there is reaping forthcoming. He says, For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Beloved, this can be good news and it can be bad news. I love it that it can be good news. Oh hey, we preach it and the facts are true, and it is the fact that you're going to reap what you sow, but the word there says, whatsoever Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. That means it can be good news if you reap good things, you if you sow good things, you reap good things. If you sow bad things, you reap bad things. It's whatsoever a man soweth. Boy. Proverbs 10, verse number 16 says, the labor of the righteous tendeth to life, but the fruit of the wicked is to sin. Mark it down, beloved, it's a promise from God. You're gonna reap. And that can be good news That can be good news. That can be a promise. That should be an encouragement to every one of you tonight. Oh, to the sinner, it should be as scary as being in a glasshouse in a tornado But to the believer, it should be an encouragement. Beloved, you're going to reap if you just stay faithful. You're going to reap if you keep going down the firing line and do what God wants you to do. There comes a day when you're going to reap. There's a large group of people here that are gathered together for one reason, and that's because there's a wedding. The wedding tomorrow, you've all come and you've brought here Can I tell you something that down through the years that Mr. and Mrs. Gunzenhauser reached some places in their life where they thought, I'm not sure it's worth all this work I'm not sure I should stay steadfast to church. I don't know if it's worth being discommitted to God. We ought to just let the standards go. And why are we pushing so hard? It's such a struggle, but blessed, praise God that they kept on going and doing what God wanted to do, and tomorrow they get to reap. They get to reap because their son comes down to the altar pure and clean and in submission to his mom and dad with a loving relationship for them because they did what was right. You're gonna read some day if you just keep on going. Oh Satan wants you to throw in the towel, Satan wants you to quit, wants you to give up And just just let him be the victor. But if you'll keep going, it's a promise you're gonna reap whatsoever a man soweth. Man, sometimes we feel like somebody has done us wrong. We feel like the world has been unkind. Maybe even a brother or sister in Christ has been disrespectful to you. And we feel like we need to get them back. Listen, beloved, the scales of justice level out. God is in control. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. The fact of the matter is, is you don't have to worry about it because God has said that whatever they've sown, they're going to reap. I think they say what goes around comes around. The fact of the matter is if somebody's been unkind to you, somebody's been unjust to you, somebody somehow hurts your feelings, you know what? Just get over it and let it go and go on for God, because God's going to take care of them. They're gonna reap whatever they're gonna reap, and you may even want to pray for them because you know it's coming. They're gonna you you see Bible principles over it. I mean think about Jacob Think about his deceitful, distrustful, conniving ways, and how he was over and over again deceived and connived against. The Bible is true, friend. Whatsoever a man soweth. We see in verse number eight the description of the law He says, For he that sow it to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, but he that sowh to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. He breaks it down a little bit. He gives us a little deeper insight. The contrast is drawn between the man that sows to self and the man that sows to the spirit. Beloved, the farmer not only knows the law of sowing, the law of reaping, but he depends on it. The farmer depends on it. It is a principle that in the law of nature he understands that. You know, there is a law of increase that's part of sowing and reaping. Some thirtyfold, some sixtyfold, some a hundredfold. The farmer relies on that. He wouldn't plant three grains of corn if all he got out of it was three grains of corn. The law of increases is part of reaping. The law of nature given to us in the book of Genesis is part of reaping. The book of Genesis says, and each brought forth after its kind. after its kind. Everybody, everybody's going to reap that which they plant. I mean he sows beans and he expects to get beans. Why is it, beloved, we feel like we can sow to the flesh and think we're going to reap a spiritual life? Why is it we can in our homes be sowing to the flesh and doing what our flesh enjoys and giving in to that and then think somehow we're going to have a spiritual home? That doesn't work that way. You're going to reap after its kind. What you've sown is what you're going to reap. We see, first of all, the rot in the flesh. He says, for he soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap. What's the word? Corruption. Understand, beloved, sin in the flesh eats away at the body and the soul. It eats away at you. One night after a service, Mel Trotter and J. Vernon McGee went out with some people, some fellow church members, and they stopped at a local ice cream shop and Everybody, of course all the young people, they're getting banana splits and milkshakes and big bowls of ice cream and Mel Trotter ordered a small iced tea. And some of the people were giving them a hard time. Oh, are you too old to uh have a big ice cream this late at night? You know, they're joking with them. And and he says, well the fact of the matter is, he said, before I got saved, I was a heavy drinker. I drank and he said, you know, when God saved me, he gave me a new heart. But he didn't give me a new stomach. And he said, I'm reaping today for all those years of drinking. But I want to tell you, you sow the flesh, it begins to rot. It begins to eat away at you. That's by nature. That's what happens. The man given to sinful lust soon finds himself eaten up. With disease, his mind becomes bent towards all things perverted. One man given to temper is consumed with his anger and strife. Soon is eaten up with the corruption in his relationships. The corruption in his life may even lead to murder or to death. Because he's eaten up with that. A man given to uncontrolled appetites is consumed by addictions What I'm saying, beloved, is clear the Bible teaches that if you sow to the flesh, you will of the flesh reap corruption. When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is free, it bringeth forth Death. For to be carnally minded is flesh. To be fleshly minded, carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die, but if ye, through the spirit, do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Even as I have seen they that plow iniquity and sow wickedness reap the same. The Bible is full of this principle, and it is unavoidable. If this is what you're sowing, you may feel like you've got the world by the tail right now, you may feel like everything's okay And God is not aware. Beloved uh he tells us in the book of Ecclesiastes, because the punishment is not executed speedily, the wicked think they got away with it But the reaping day is coming. Would you heed the Holy Spirit of God as He calls to you and says, stop reaping to the flesh, stop sowing to the flesh because reaping day is coming? Don't forget, beloved, the heartache that you see all around you every day in this world. Those that are given to addiction and depression and loneliness and despondency It is one story after another of a people that are given to sowing to the flesh, and their lives are wrecked with havoc, torn up. They don't know which way to go. They don't even understand which way is up. And they're crying out if somebody would just help them. You've got the truth tonight. Would you respond to it? Not only do we see here the rotten of flesh, but we see here the riches of faithfulness. He said, But he that soweth to the Spirit, shall the Spirit reap life everlasting. Beloved, we have the opportunity, the privilege to sow to the Spirit. It's a choice that you and I make on a daily basis as we get out of bed and begin our day and walk through. We decide whether we're going to walk in the Spirit or whether we're going to walk in the flesh. The Holy Spirit that resides inside your soul is imparting unto you the very nature of God And if you would yield to that very nature of God, you would have the strength to live the life that God wants you to live. Sow to yourself in righteousness and reap in mercy, Hosea 10:12. Beloved, we need to be sowing to the Spirit. We need to be sowing for souls. Oh, the Bible says, he that goeth forth and weep is bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again rejoicing, bringing his sheeds with him. You say, boy, witnessing the sowing is so hard. Well, the more you sow, the more you reap. One of the reasons you haven't seen somebody saved in a year or two years or three years is because you haven't been doing much sowing. You gotta sow. You gotta sow, you gotta sow, you gotta sow. And the Bible says very clearly, if you sow, you'll reap. We need to be sowing our substance. 2 Corinthians 9. 6 says, Those who sow sparingly shall reap also sparingly. Those who sow bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Oh beloved, we need to be ever so careful to sow as sparingly as we can to the flesh. But we need to sow as bountifully as we can to the spirit. As bountifully as we can. We see thirdly here in verse number nine the dedication to the law. Dedication to the law. Don't quit. He says, and let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Notice, first of all, the reality of fatigue. There is weariness. As magnificent as serving God is. And I've often said it's my greatest privilege to be able to serve the Lord with my life. I often say it's kind of unfair because all of us are supposed to be servants of God. Amen? I mean n nobody said church members get a pass on serving the Lord or being righteous, right? We're all supposed to be missionaries, right? I say it was kind of unfair because I get paid to do that. You guys all have to do it and work another job. I mean that's that doesn't even seem right. Like God left me here to be a soul winner, God left me here to minister to people, and you guys pay me to do it. That's a pretty good gig. I mean that's that's nice. I mean that's what God but we're all supposed to be doing that and he says there the reality of fatigue it doesn't matter how marvelous it is we all get tired at times We get weary in the battle. Boy. We get weary because of our human limitations. Even Christ, when he was clothed in flesh, was weary. This body brings us to a point where we're weary. We're weary. Try and go quickly here, but we're weary, beloved, because of steady persecution. You know, when your brother or sister Quit. Quit. Quit it. Mom! You know, I mean, it's just steady persecution. It just makes you weary You just get sick of it. It doesn't matter how small of a thing it is, and beloved, the truth of the matter is, is we don't know persecution here in this country. I believe it's coming. I believe the day's coming. It'll probably be in my lifetime that we'll see men in prison for standing for biblical truth. And we're going to experience persecution, but I want you to know regardless of how small it is when it's steady, when it just keeps on and keeps on and keeps on and you just don't feel like you can get a break. Don't you get weary of it? We get weary because of steady persecution, get weary because of slow progress Anytime you're doing something and it's just taking forever, you just get weary. I mean when you can get in there and knock a job out, that's what's fun about laboring together. Many hands make light work, you know, isn't that fun? You know, I got a four-wheeler that I've been working on for about three years. This thing, this thing Uh oh, you talk about a nightmare. I I can't I don't have time to tell you the processes that I've gone through to try and fix this thing. The last one was I took the entire motor out, broke it all the way down, every single nut and bolt, took the motor all the way, every piece replaced everything that they said to replace, put it all back together, stuck it back in the four-wheeler, and it still has a problem. You're talking about weeks worth of work. And you say, man, I'm ready to drive it off a cliff. I mean, you just say, I'm fed up. It's just slow progress sometimes, but listen, don't be weary in well-doing. Keep going. Even though progress with your children is slow, even you're not seeing the change that you would like to see. Keep being faithful. Keep doing what you're supposed to be doing. Even though you're trying to memorize Scripture and it's such a battle and a struggle and you can't seem to get it to stick in this old brain of yours. Don't give up. Keep studying. Because you'll reap if you faint not We get weary because uh slow progress. We get weary because of struggling partnerships. Sometimes it's just hard to work with people. Amen. Can we be honest tonight? Can we be real for a second? Sometimes you're just like, Okay. Yeah, I've had enough Like they say in the South, bless your heart. Like okay. I mean struggling partnerships just sometimes you're like, oh why is this so difficult? But beloved, that's what the ministry is. It's God's people working together with God's people to accomplish God's purpose here on earth while we still have chance So don't get weary of that. I know sometimes laboring together with others can be a struggle, but you know what's a harder struggle than that is solo pursuits. I can't tell you how many times when my kids were growing up, and they're gonna laugh at this because they love it when I use them for illustrations, when to growing up, they're work they're doing a job together, maybe they're stacking like four cords of wood. And they're bickering at each other. One of them's giving the other ones a hard time. And I say, well, since you don't like the way that all of them are doing it, you get to do it all by yourself. Oh, oh. I didn't I didn't uh not they're not that bad. I mean I know they're a nuisance, but I can put up with them to help get this job done. You know, I mean yeah, how many times that happened to you guys? Several. A few. So that that type of thing, listen, sometimes you get weary because of solo pursuits, it's just boy. If anybody knows how to fix a four-wheeler, please come and see me. Sometimes you get weary, beloved, because of strong passions. Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And sin which does so easily beset us and let us run with patience. The race that is set before us. Sometimes, beloved, the reason you're struggling so hard in this Christian life, the reason it's such a battle for you, is because you're carrying around too much weight. Go on a diet, amen. Oh, not that kind of weight. I'm talking about, you know, the sin, the the the things that are that are slowing you down. It gets too hard to carry it We get weary of the reality of the fatigue, beloved. The admonition to us tonight is to don't quit. Far too many have thrown in the towel. It's almost depressing. You know, I I really appreciate a family like this, whose son I can hardly recommend and is gonna stand here tomorrow and marry my daughter, but a family that I've known for many years. Has been faithful. There's far too many of 'em that I went to college with the throne and the towel and they stopped walking with God. Acting like they never had a relationship with God, acting like they never knew what was right, living like the devil, posting it all on Facebook like hit like heathens. What a heartbreak that is. Oh, more and more, how more and more thankful I am the older I get for those that stuck by the stuff who decided, bless God, I've got to hang on because the day's coming when I'm going to reap. And if it's not this side of glory, it'll be in heaven when I stand before my Savior and He says, Well done, because then it will be worth it all. Oh, this world can laugh and mock and make fun all they want to. I've had a good life. Standing with God, there's been struggles, but boy, I've been rewarded and it is worth it Don't quit. Don't be weary in well doing. We see that the reward comes in the future. There's a reward in the future, he says, for in due season ye shall reap. Beloved, that due season means an appointed time Just as though you had an appointment, it's an appointed time maybe for a doctor's visit, or an appointed time for an assignment to get done for school, or you've got an appointed time to be at church. You've got this, it's an appointed time. God says there's an appointed time you're going to reap. You might not know what it is, but God does Many years ago there was a pastor of a small country church. He was on his way home from church one evening and needed a little bit of gas, and it was many years ago he pulled into the gas station and this was when the This was long before I was born. But ten t you know, the the tenant the gas tenants they they would come out and fill your car up and wash your window, you know, and a bunch of other stuff for about a quarter. Uh I hear no, I don't know what it They would come out and do that. What was it like, brother? So uh Amen. He he would he he pulled up there and he opened his wallet and he saw he's like, Oh man, I only got a few dollars and so he told him just put two bucks in, which actually bought you something back then He said just put two bucks in. So he gives it this in it. And then one of the church members was driving by and he he hopped out of the car and went over to the road and was talking to him and he said, Hey, good night, you know, and he went back, got in his car, drove home. The next day he was going to go out and he realized Oh no, I don't have my wallet. And he looked around, he looked in the car, he looked all he couldn't find his wallet. He thought, man, I must have dropped it at the gas station So he drove back to the gas station and he asked the tenant and the tenant said, no, I've never never seen it. And he looked all over by the gas pumps and didn't see it. And he said, well surely it's gone. Well, to his surprise, later that day, a lady came with a little boy up to the door, knocked on his door, and said, Mr. Stone, would this be your wallet? He says, it sure is. Where'd you find it? He says, well, my husband works nights, and he was walking home last night and walked through the gas station, and he saw your wallet laying there on the ground in the gas station. And he picked it up. We wanted to bring it to you. And he says, Oh, I'll tell you what, uh let me give you a reward. Give me just a minute. And she's like, No, I don't want a reward. And he says, No, no, let me let me at least get something small for your son. And she's like, No. We don't want a reward. I just want this young boy one day to be honest. Just want him to be honest. You understand, beloved, reaping comes. I don't need a reward right now because the day's gonna come when this young lad learns what it means to be honest. We see in verse number 10 the demonstration of the law. He says, And we have, as we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith. So we see, first of all, a realization of the feasibility. You see, beloved, as we have therefore opportunity. There are opportunities. We have opportunities to do good. They're all around us. God brings them into our lives and he says, hey, if you have an opportunity, do good. As it comes up in your life, as it presents itself, do good. I was encouraged yesterday by the number of the Hunt Valley Baptist Church who were at the funeral and showing their love and support for their brother or sister in Christ, the the the Crane family. Can I tell you that's a good thing to do? That's what what the Bible says, rejoice with those that rejoice and weep with those that weep. It's it's kind of sad today that it's almost a bygone thing that people bother to go to funerals anymore. You'll see people passing away and there's a couple of family members. Some of the family don't even show up. Listen, that's what a church is for. We call it a church family. That means if one of the family are hurting, we weep with them. We show our love and support to them. When one of the family is rejoicing, we rejoice with them. That's what the church family does. We have opportunities to do good all around us. And what that brings is a revelation of the fruit that should be in us. He said, Let us do good. You understand, beloved, that is a fruit of the Spirit? That is a fruit of the Spirit that should be evident in our lives. It's only been a few weeks ago that we talked about the fruit of the Spirit as we're walking through this book of Galatians And as we walk in the Spirit, the production and the revelation of fruit to those around us is going to be undeniable. It is not something that we have to work to try and accomplish. It is something that comes as a byproduct of us walking in the Spirit. The fruit is present. You don't step to think, boy, I need to do good, I need to do good, I need to do good, I need to do good. No, you need to think, I need to walk in the spirit. I need to walk in The Spirit. I need to yield to the Spirit And the fruit of the Spirit will come out and be evident in your life. Too many are working and striving very hard to do all the good they can. When if what they would strive to do is walk in the spirit, good would be a byproduct. It says here, do good to all men, but especially those that are of the household of faith. So we see here, lastly, the responsibility to our family. The responsibility to our family He says, especially unto those that are of the household of faith, beloved, as you have opportunity to do something all around, whatever it might be, do good. But if there's any opportunity that you should just be sure you don't miss, it's an opportunity of those that are of the household of faith. He says, don't let an opportunity pass you by. You know, an opportunity might not present itself again. You guys know that well the church family here knows that I invest my millions of dollars. Yeah. I I uh you know put it in the stock market and you know back in twenty eighteen I began watching a particular stock at that time it was fourteen dollars a share. Today, right now, it's $1,348 a share. It has gone up 7,445% A $1,000 investment in 2018 would be worth $75,000 today. I knew it was a good investment. I told other people to invest in it. Probably ten other people over the last four or five years I said, you ought to invest in this company. But I never did. Yeah. I feel like I missed a huge opportunity. And you know what, beloved? If the law of sowing and reaping is real, and it is, Then when we have an opportunity to do good, why would we possibly let it go by? We should look at it and say, Man, I can't miss that opportunity because boy, down the road I'm going to reap for having done that good thing. Because the law of sowing and reaping is real, and God is a debtor to no man. Don't miss the opportunity to do good. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed. The reaping for the faithful. Reaping for the faithful