We're going to zero in on one of those chapters. I don't think it's normally considered a revival chapter or passage or text. But the Lord laid it on my heart. Preacher, it's different yet from anything I had texted the preacher that we uh discussed There are two books in the Bible that are, I want to use the word, they're almost twins. They are they are a couplet The one complements the other. And rather than drawing it out in Old Testament Oh, I need to make an announcement. The Old Testament is the Word of God too. So often it's forgotten. Ezra Nehemiah. Ezra dash Nehemiah. In general terms, that's where we're going to be. Each of these, if you count Sunday school, six services. Ezra, Nehemiah. To talk about the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, it's probably a good idea to set the history of the books I'll start here. I think it's a good beginning place, and I'll take an amen if anybody believes it. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. Good place to start. And God created a man named Adam. Out of his side, a woman named Eve. They had children, Cain and Abel and Seth. And God looked forward to enjoying fellowship. He went down, you know, in the cool of every evening, talked with Adam and Eve. But then came sin. I'm amazed at how many places now no longer even believe in sin I heard someone the other day define sin. This was their word for sin. They could not bring themselves to say sin. Abnormal social development That's pathetic, isn't it? Sin entered the world. And death by sin. And uh God's plan didn't catch God by surprise, but God's plan to redeem fallen man. Involved, I'm going to need another amen at the end of the sentence, sending his darling son Jesus to this world. Where he would live sinlessly. Die vicariously, the word means in our state. Shed his blood, literally. Be buried for three days and three nights, help me, and be raised victoriously. God's solution to sin. But how is God going to get his son into this world? Eve has sinned By virtue of that sin has disqualified herself. God announced in the book of Genesis, chapter 3, that the Redeemer, the Deliverer, the Savior would come. Get this. Through the seed of the woman. It will be a woman who will bear God's Son. world. Wasn't Eve. Nor was it oh oh long story short, I need to talk about Ezra Nehemiah God ended up raising up a man. His name's Abraham. And a woman. Her name is Sarah, and miraculously giving them a son. His name is Isaac. And through Abraham and Isaac and his son Jacob and his son Judah, see if I get an amen. God began to build a nation. He began to build a people. We know them as Israel. The Jews And this will save me ten minutes if you'll say a good amen. Through Israel, through Israel, God brought Jesus into the world. God's excited about his nation, his people. Uh and he wanted to be their leader. Wanted to be their ruler. Every good king, every good leader, every good ruler has a platform. My political parties today run on their platform. God had a platform. Gave it to Moses. A Jew on top of the mountain. And Israel said, We will obey, we will follow God's will. But they didn't They began to associate with wicked nations around them. And they decided, we'd like to have a ruler, we'd like to have a king as they do. I may get three amens, I may not. I don't think it was God's perfect will for Israel to have a key. He wanted to be key. He wanted to be their leader. I guess the word today is theocracy, God ruling By his power. But Israel wouldn't have it. Wanted a king. They wanted a king. They wanted the king. They couldn't keep quit talking about it. They wanted the king. And by the way, if you keep on and on and on and on and on and on and on, God just might let you have what you want. And he gave them a key. I'm thinking of the verse in Psalm 106, and he gave them their desire, but sent lameness to their soul. Saul didn't work out too well, did he? Disney failure. David, thank God for David, but uh David sure has his blots. I don't deny he's a man after God's own heart. I don't deny he's the sweet psalmist of Israel, but oh, how he brought shame on the name of his Lord. Solomon started out well, a wise man. Didn't end up so well, did he? And then at the end of Solomon's rule, I'm leading up to Ezra and Nehemiah. Stay with me The kingdom split. The kingdom was divided into the northern kingdom. And the southern kingdom. How how do Israel and Judah Sometimes the prophets called them by the name of their capital cities, Samaria and Jerusalem. In both cases, the end result is not encouraging. The Northern Kingdom Led by a rebel named Jeroboam, never once in their history had a good king. Never once. Had a godly leader. They rebelled and they sinned egregiously. God sent them one prophet after another, warned them Does anybody in this room believe God will whip his erring people? And God sent Israel into scattered Israel into, here's the word, Assyrian captivity. Happened in 721 BC The Jews were deported, taken from their land and assimilated throughout the vast Assyrian Empire. Wow. When the Assyrians bought transplants into the land, that's how the Samaritans uh came to be in the land. He mixed, breed both uh genetically and spiritually. And so Didn't turn out so good with Israel. Judah, now that might be a little different story. Let's investigate. Rehoboam, son of Solomon, is their first king, didn't do so well. But Judah did have some good kings. Hezekiah comes to mind, Josiah comes to mind. But still it's a downward progression. And boy, if anybody ever got good preaching. Judah did. Isaiah. Jeremiah. Ezekiel, Daniel, but I've gone too far in my illustrations. Because of their sin, God too Just to judge Judah. Jeremiah even told them what nation God would use to overrun them. Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar. Jeremiah even told them how long their weeping, can I use that word, their chastisement would last? Seventy years That's a miracle. Knowing that in advance, if I get an amen. That's called Bible prophecy. I sure do thank God for it, don't you? And so Jerusalem is sacked and Jerusalem is destroyed 586 BC. In 606 BC, it's finally And uh Judah is carried as slaves to Babylon Boy, we don't have much to smile about yet, do we? It's a downhill. It's a digression. And uh the seventy years pass and God uh oh boy, does anybody believe our God's big enough to put one king in power and take a king out of power? The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, isn't it? Babylon falls and the Persians Come to the throne. First thing the king of Persia did, the time's up, the timing's right, signs a decree and lets the Jews go back home. And some of them do. Preacher, there's something I'll never be able to understand, never be able to comprehend it. The whole nation of Judah in Babylon They're given their liberty. They're emancipated. And only about 50,000 of them are willing to go back to Jerusalem. They got used to the world. They got settled in that lifestyle. So easy to do. God warned them again and again. Okay. Once Judah is released from captivity and goes back to her homeland. We now begin to discuss, listen to this word, the post-captivity books of Scripture Books that were written later in the New Old Testament rather timeline, but describe that little handful of people Going back to their land and finally getting where I need to be. Ezra and Nehemiah. Those books tell what it was like for a remnant. Well we're going to have to learn to use that word for a remnant to return. Ezra first, and then Nehemiah Did I say this yet? If not, I'll go ahead and say it. We're going to focus on Nehemiah rather than Ezra. A few months ago I preached a revival meeting and concentrated solely on Ezra. I like him. What a great student of the word he is. Pretty good preacher too, I might add. The only time in all of our Bible where the word pulpit is used. Yes, who's standing behind it, proclaiming the Word of God. That would be Ezra. Ezra the scribe, diligent student of the law of God Somebody's got to lead that crowd from Babylon back down to what we call, I guess, the Holy Land, to Jerusalem. There are two different groups who initially come and Edgar is involved in the second of those two groups. Oh boy, I gotta tell you this. As soon as they get back, 50,000 folks in total, as soon as they get back, instead of beginning to work on their homes, Instead of work what's the word they use today? In instead of beginning to work on the infrastructure They say we need to, hope I get a roaring amen here. We need to rebuild God's house. We need to rebuild the temple. Worship Almighty God needs to come first place. And uh That's the story. Oh, preacher. They started building. There was opposition. Anytime you're going to build a work for God, there will be opposition. In fact, the work was hindered, delayed, stopped for a while. But oh, somebody still had the burden, somebody still had the passion. Rebuilding God's house. Well, that that clock keeps moving back there. And uh finally, praise God, the temple is complete. So we've got a completed place of worship, but the city around it, I don't know what word to use, is in shambles. I mean the walls have been demolished, and the gates, and you have to have the gates for the walls to function are in disarray Somebody's got to get a burden about that now. Temple first. The city next. And that involves the walls, the city, the gates. That's going to involve the man we know as Nehemiah. Nehemiah. Not a big book, is it? Before Esther, and obviously following Ezra Nehemiah Who is he? Probably one of the less known main characters of scripture, Nehemiah. Well, let me tell you what his name means. Nehemiah. Any Old Testament name that ends with that sound uh A H N E H E M M-I-A-H. That is one of God's names. It is God's name the way we would stab at it or say it is Jehovah. They would abbreviate it off what our King James Bible does, Yah. Jehovah. Yah. Y H. That's the ending of Nehemiah's name. But what is the first part of it, Nehum? Nehemiah. It is actually the name, Hebrew, of a little minor prophet, Nahum. Nahum. Nehemiah. Nahum. Yah. And what does it mean? When you put Nehemiah together, I'm going to tell you what it means, and I hope you'll smile at me and I hope two or three of you will say amen. You can't help it. Here's what it means: God is my comfort. God is my wonderful name for somebody rebuilding the city. God is my comfort. Have you found that to be true in your life? Oh, I hate to tell you this Nehemiah is not a preacher. Not really. I'm bad about this. I have to ask the Lord to help me. I'm interested in studying the preachers of Scripture. I want to learn about the men of God. What is me a mind, Brother Bagwell? I don't know the best word to use. Today's parlance, he's a bureaucrat. Did somebody moan He works for the government. He's in the king's employee, King of Persia. He is uh oh, I've got to say this just to see how you react. God uses people in his work besides preachers. Aren't you glad for Christian businessmen? For ladies who are school teachers and witness for the Lord everywhere they go. Nehemiah was the king's, here's the word, cup bearer What? Cut bearer. In those days, I'll tell you what it is loosely spent, it's part of the secret service of the king of Persia Oh my, the ancient Near East is notorious for assassinating their leaders. When Israel, the northern kingdom, further fell into degradation and apostasy that became reprobates. They couldn't keep a king on the throne. Murder. Murder. Assassination. Well, the kings lised up to that Oh, the favorite method of murder other than a sword in the side was poison. They'd just slip a little poison in the king's drink. So the kings figured out how to solve that. You have someone by you who tastes your drink. Just before they give it to you. Do you see the logic? If he doesn't drop dead immediately You can go ahead and enjoy. See it. Nehemiah's the king's cup bearer There were a few rules about this cutbearer business. You could never enter the king's presence with anything other than a joyful, happy attitude. They didn't care for pessimism. They didn't want anybody grieving in their midst. And we're talking about autocrats. We're talking about dictators here. We're talking about people have you executed just like that. They don't need a jury. They don't need a judge. They don't they've never heard of habeas corpus. No, no. Right And so that's Nehemiah's John. He'd be in the king's presence, he'd have a smile on his face, he'd always know what to say to the king, and he would Sample the king's we'll say tea before the king imbipes. But one day Nehemiah got some distressing news. They said the people who've gone back to Jerusalem remember Israel's day. There were two groups that went back The people have gone back say the city is absolutely in ruins. Oh, I didn't tell you this, I should have. When the Babylonian army, 70 years earlier in round figures, when the Babylonian army laid siege to Jerusalem, they lay there, they cut the city off from all food supplies and water. for eighteen months. You know, eighteen months. No food It got so bad, I don't know if I'd even bring it up. Mothers who were starving to death. Killed and cooked their own babies and ate their flesh to live a few days longer Oh, I gotta quote a verse. The way of the transgressor is hard. Oh, I need to quote another verse. I only got two. Amen. Be sure your sin will find you out. When Nehemiah heard of the terrible condition back home, he got a, hope I get an amen here, he got a burden. Couldn't get it off his heart And if your burden is heavy enough, it'll take the smile off your face. Even when you're in the presence of the king. I'm in Nehemiah chapter one. That's not the chapter for the week, but I'm telling you the story. What's wrong with you, Nehemiah? Oh, my Lord, that's what you said to him. My home city is in disarray. The walls are broken down. Long story short, the king, oh, Nehemiah didn't talk to the king about God. Until he talked to God about the king. That's a good way to do it. God had touched his heart The king is going to give Nehemiah, here's the word we would use, a leave of absence. He's going to allow him to go home. And work on that building project. And try to turn that city around to restore that city for the glory of God. Oh boy. Does anybody here believe that God, as we pray, get ready now, can do exceeding abundantly above all we ask or think? The king not only gave Nehemiah permission to go, he's going to give him the lumber to rebuild the walls. He's going to give him a contingent for safe passage as he travels. He's going to allow him some cash. To help when he arrives, it's amazing. God is in this matter. Nehemiah sets out on His journey. Y'all okay? It is the story of rebuilding things that have fallen to pieces. I I just gotta watch it now. I think that's about where America is today. I've got to say it again. Oh, how we need to rebuild some things. That have obviously fallen apart. For the morning service, I'll get, of course, a little further into it again tonight, as I said, and Monday night and Tuesday night and Wednesday night We're going to watch Nehemiah as he works. I saw something studying yesterday morning. Honey, I didn't told you about it. I was reading. I came across an article that was published in a in a Bible study journal. I don't even remember the exact name of the journal. It was about the book of Nehemiah because that's where my focus, my studies have been. And it compared, get this. The songs of degrees to the book of Nehemiah. Never had that thought in my life. And I have not forgotten we're talking Ezra Nehemiah. But I just brought up something that's worth I can't say where the big hand is. I gotta work Time flies up here, don't man. I need to talk a few minutes about those songs of degrees. There are fifteen of them. That's rare. Usually the Psalms Number one, are are not organized in tandem. The songs of praise are scattered throughout the whole collection, all 150 chapters The psalms that are specifically prayers scattered. You can name any categories of psalms. Holy Ghost does not choose to oh oh, this is not going to work unless you believe this. God is not only the author of the Bible, He is the arranger of the Bible. He not only wrote it, He edited it. So why would the Holy Spirit of God, who is God, put fifteen chapters of the Psalms together? label them Psalms of degrees that starts at Psalm 120, 121, 122, 123, goes all the way up to 133, 134. Psalms of degrees. And we at least know that the word degrees has the idea of stair steps. They're increments. of some kind. I read that article. I hope I can come back to this as the week unfolds. That the Psalms of Degrees may have a direct link to the book of Nehemiah, the whole book of Nehemiah. Not just my one chapter, the whole book of Nehemiah. And they may have been written. They're obviously worship Psalms. They may have been written. Under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. And I don't know the date they were written, but they may have been written in commemoration or in anticipation. Of Nehemiah's great ministry. We'll talk about that, the Lord willing, a little later. Are y'all okay? Now, I have uh only a few minutes. I got five minutes left. We're going to dismiss just on time so everything will work smoothly. I'm going to use these last five minutes to go ahead and tell you the chapter. I'll be telling you anyway, morning service. How many fingers am I holding up? Nehemiah chapter three Uh we're going to spend our time in one chapter. Oh, I'll be talking about the whole book. Relating it and discussing it, but Nehemiah 3, I hear pages turning Preacher, somebody tell me, is it thirty-one verses, Nehemiah three, or is it uh thirty thirty-two versus how many? Thirty-two verses. What's it about? Nehemiah rebuilding the city of Jerusalem. Rebuilding the walls and very key word the gates Well you have strongest laws in the world, but if the gates are not operational, you're no more safe than you were when you began. And the gates. Around those walls. And preacher, I hope what I'm going to do is hermeneutically acceptable. We're going to look at those gates and their message. And we're going to try to apply them. To our lives as brothers and sisters, our lives as children of God. Oh, let me say this. Hope I get some amens. I want to grow in the Lord this week. We're gonna come together, we're gonna invest this time together. Let's make it count. To the glory of God. So I'm going to ask you, and the break is very short, I realize that you might even get it in once. I'm going to ask you to join me in reading. Nehemiah 3 this week. And and I don't mean just reading it once. See if I can You'll get more out of it the second time than you did the first time I went to a Christian printer in our city. And I asked him, I said, can you put Nehemiah 3 in a little booklet for me? I said, put me a Jewish man building the walls on the front of it. That's what he came up with. I thought he did pretty good. You see? That's Nehemiah. There were crews gathered around him. It's a massive wall being rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. I call this a Bible portion. That's not the whole Bible. It's a portion. One chapter. And if you, no, no, forget the if, as soon as you have read Nehemiah 3 ten times Ten times. Doesn't it take that long to read? Thirty-two verses. As soon as you've read it ten times. I'm going to give you one of these. Now do I have enough to give everybody one just up front? I do. But I don't want to do it that way. I want you to show me you want it. You couldn't buy it, you couldn't buy it, you can't buy it for ten dollars. A hundred that might be a different story, I don't know. You couldn't buy it But if you read Nehemiah three ten times, just keep up with 'em. Or or hear it read. If mom or dad wants to read it going home in the car, to everybody, count it when you hear it read. Download it on your phone and and uh King James Bible and get it free and they'll read it for you. It's like blue letter Bible. We'll read it baby, isn't it, seven times? You just hit a little button, you'll read it seven times. Won't quit. You do that while you're driving to work. Get it ten times and you get a book. That doesn't mean we're going to quit reading a chapter at ten. I want us to read it all week. I want to learn that chapter like the back of my hand. I want to be able to know those gates and what those gates represent. Then I want to be able to pray, Holy Spirit, build those truths into my life. As a child of God. Are y'all okay? Ezra Nehemiah Focusing on the book of Nehemiah and particularly, I need somebody to answer chapter number three, The Gates of Jerusalem.