Go back just for a moment and not recap or review too much text in front of us to do that. But let me read verse one nonetheless. Nehemiah chapter three. Then Eliasheb, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, who also were priests. And they builded the sheep gate. The sheep gate. And they sanctified it. Oh, I didn't tell you this earlier. The Sheikh Gate is the only gate of which it is specifically said they sanctified it. It is not said of the old gate or the valley gate. It is not said of the fish gate or the gate mythcat or the east gate Only the sheep gate, they sanctified. The word that is used, Hebrew verb that means sanctified, carries the idea of made holy. set apart, consecrated to God. If you've not been through the sheepgate If I have not had the experience of the saving grace of God, I hope I'll get an amen here, none of the other gates really matter. They're null and void. Thank God for the sheep gate. See if you'll say this, thank God we know the lamb tonight. John one verse twenty-nine. Be sure you are saved. Hey, hey, help me. We can know that we're saved. First John five thirteen. Anyway, in verse one they builded the sheep gate, they sanctified it, they set up the doors of it even to the tower of Mia. A specific place in Jerusalem, the Tower of Mia. This is not theory. This is not make-believe. This is not fiction. This is absolute Bible history. It is verifiable to the Tower of Miah. They sanctified it under the Tower of Hananil. Each of these words deserves some recognition. A little bit of discussion. I can't do it. I wouldn't have time. But I am particularly wanting to say something about that word power. Jerusalem is a city, has a number of towers. They are watch towers It is where men will go, sentries, they're on duty, they have weapons, and they're watching for the enemy. Any movement that would be harmful to the city and to the inhabit. The Hebrew word is Migdal. Let me spell it. M-I-G-G-O-L MYGAL TOW Merely the tower of Miah. The word Miyah means a hundred, maybe a hundred feet. Further on, we don't know. Miah, Migdal, tower. Oh boy, this is interesting. The word tower, Migdal, and that's the general way the King James translators handle the word, but one time. One time. One time only. In all the Bible. One time only, and it happens to occur in the book of Nehemiah. It's in Nehemiah chapter 8, M-I-G-D-O-L, McDowell. The word for tower is translated. I'll give you a hint. It is translated pulpit. Only once in all of Scripture in our King James Bible is the word pulpit used Megdaw. A tower. Probably called the tower because they built it up on a hey, hey, hey, a platform. A little bit raised, elevated in front of the people Not that the preacher is of paramount importance, help me out, but the word of God is of paramount importance. It's a tower. It's a tower. Oh, gonna say this and see how you respond. Long live preaching. Amen You know it's being downplayed in America now. We're we're more in I fear we're getting more into entertainment than we are preaching. I'm not against uh uh an Easter drama, a Christmas against that. Don't misunderstand me But God's house ought to be a place. It's not a drum, it's not a stage. It's not for entertainment. It is for help me. It is for the proclamation of the Word of God Oh my preacher, mount the tower, stand in the pulpit, and proclaim, Thus saith the Lord God Almighty. I couldn't let that opportunity pass. I just had to mention that word pulpit. I love it. Verse two. Next unto him, Elisha, the high priest, next unto him builded the men of Jericho, and next unto them Zachar the son of Imra. That's verse 2. I I know I don't need to be in verse 2. I need to be further on in my text, but I have to say this. It's so I think significant. The men of Jericho. Did you see that phrase against? The men of Jericho What are they doing building the walls of Jerusalem? They do not live in Jerusalem. Jericho, as the crow flies by air, is fifteen miles from Jerusalem. That's almost a day's walk. In those times. But fifteen miles by air to traverse it, very curvy road. Forty-five miles. You're going up. To Jericho from down, I'm sorry, you're going up to Jerusalem from down at Jericho, 45-mile walk. And yet They laid aside their duties. They left behind their homes or what would become their homes. And they went to Jerusalem to help build the walls Around that city to the glory of God. It's not just the people who live there. It's not just the inhabitants of the capital city. Other people have come in to join and to help in the work. I'm going to make a statement. See if you'll amen or agree with me. When it comes to the work of God, it takes us all to get it done. The preacher can't do it all, but the derek can't do it all, the staff can't do it all. But if we'll all work together, we can get a lot more of it done to the praise of our Savior. The men of Jericho, you know what Jericho means? It means moon or lunar. And uh it is a picture in the Bible of the world. It's a type of the world. And uh God put a curse. on Jericho and the inhabitants of Jericho. They've turned on that and they've left that and they've gone to the place where the boy, aren't you glad we don't have to live in the world Well, I'm in verse two and uh uh I'm I'm hurt oh oh yeah. And next to them verse two builded Zachar, the son of Imra. I can't do this all night, but Zachar Z-A-C-H-U-R, that is a direct Hebrew verb that means to remember, to recall. Zachar, the name the boy. Remembrance or rememberer or one who recalls. Gotta say this, and it's almost gonna come up tonight when we get to the old gate. There's some things we as Christians you're going to need a little help. There's some things that that we as Christians need to remember. There's some tape. One of the key words in the book of Deuteronomy is just that. Remember. Remember Do not forget. Help me. There's some we need to remember where he brought us from. We need to remember the great verses of the Word of God. This boy's name You know what I'm saying? They named their children after Bible things. They named their children after the great truths of the Word of God. I'll get in trouble here, more than likely, but I'm gonna say it. You can tell a lot about a mama and a daddy by the names they give their children. We are living in a day when kids are named no mind. Kids are named to everything imaginable. I got a question What happened to those old Jewish names, those old Bible names, those old names that carried some meaning and some significance? I want to say to every young couple in the house Pray about the name you give your little boy or your little girl. Zakir means to remember Oh, one more thing in verse 2. I just didn't get to it this morning. He is the son of Imra. Zachar's daddy is named Imra. What does Mri mean? Oh preacher, I saw it again a minute ago, I couldn't get over it. M Rhine It is the Hebrew verb amar-a-m-ar, and it just means this. I hope somebody will smile to talk. To speak. They name this young man the talker. I believe it was the Baptist, the talker. And I began to ponder that and to thought about that a little bit. The talker. The talker. He is talking. I mean that at least is what his name implies. But he's not only talking. We need about two amen. He is working as well as talking. Oh, he's busy rebuilding the wall. He is busy uh working on the gates of the city of Jerusalem. Verse three. Where I'd need to be ten minutes ago, verse number three. But the fish gate did the sons of Hesannah build. They laid the beans thereof and they set up the doors thereof. And the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. We have now left the area of the seat gate And we have gone to the fistgate. The fist gate. Now, why is it called the fistgate? We're working our way around the city of Jerusalem, ten gates. Why is it called the fish gate? Well, duh, it's because the fish they were caught down at the Sea of Galilee. Some of them might have been brought in from the coast from the May. It's where the fish entered the city. Archaeologists tell us there are a number of fish markets. That have been found around the fish gate. It's where the fish come into the city. Fair enough. Logical enough, I would think. The Hebrew noun for fish is spelled D-A-G. Dog. Dog. I'll give you a little memory prop. There is a heathen dog He is a Philistine persuasion. Dagon. D. A. G. O. Dagon is half fish And half man. That's the way they portray. Half it dagon. That was their human slash beast, God, and the Philistines worshiped him. Don't know why, what's into me tonight. I accused her one. He's sinless. Came from heaven, virgin born, and he is God. Oh, forget an amen and man. You say, preacher, you're Satan is half God and half man. No, no, no. That won't work. He's not fifty percent God and fifty percent man. He is a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man That won't work in the math class, but it'll work in theology, thank God. All God, all man, sure does beat Dagon. Hallelujah The fish gate. I've told you why it's called the fish gate, giving you a little bit of the background of the fish gate, but what does it mean? What can the fish gate imply in our lives? It's Matthew chapter 4, and it's verse number 19. Jesus said this, some of you'll get it more quickly than others. So if you'll nod as it dawns on you, it'll be a help. Follow me, talking about the fish gate. Follow me, and I'll make you to become fish here. They know the verse Fishers of men. You know what I think the fish gate implies? I think that it implies going out and being the witness Well, I'm glad I can use this word around here. I'm pretty sure I can. Going out and being the sole winner for the honor and the glory of our Savior. The fish gate follows the sheep gate. Now I want you to notice the logic, the sequence of these gates. I told you this morning and you agreed with me, the Holy Ghost wrote it, but he also erased it. Edited it Put these gates in the order to give us the order in Jerusalem, to give us the significance to apply in our lives. As soon as you got saved, somebody will agree, you've not been born again but a few hours automatically Inerrantly. It's a work of the Holy Ghost of God. Let me tell you what you wanted to do. Help me out. You wanted to go tell somebody you met Jesus Oh my. You wanted to go and share the good news of the Savior. You wanted to go tell him you're not the man you used to be. Old things have passed away. All things have become new. Thank God. Hope I get an amen. Thank God for this business of soul-winning. But you know what, preacher? It's a forgotten truth in so many of our churches anymore. I'm thinking of Proverbs 11:30. Solomon wrote it, but the Holy Ghost told him to. The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life. Now get your ameners ready now. And he that wineth souls is wise. You know what that means? He that wineth not souls is dumb Is not wise. I wanna say stupid, but my wife she does uh we teach the little children not to say that word a lot. So I guess we preachers, but uh if you don't win souls, you don't have the wisdom of God reflected. you. He that win his souls is what I gotta say, this ought to be easy to preach. Are you being a witness for Jesus Christ? Are you trying to be a soul winner for the honor and glory of our Heavenly Father? I'm gonna say something y'all just respond. I wanna be. Oh, I need more I want to be the soul winner for my Savior. He that winneth souls is wise. I think I'll say this. You're looking at a preacher who believes Jesus died for everybody. Would you have ever dreamed that would need to be said? I grew up being taught Jesus died for everybody. But there is a theological persuasion, and it is overtaking our land in way too many places. That denies that the atonement is unlimited. Let me tell you what they say. They say Jesus died for a few A pre selected four ordained few that God in eternity past chose this one and that one and one over here to redeem them by the grace of God. I like the way I'm saying some negative I don't believe that. I don't believe that. I believe he is the propitiation for our sins, but not for our sins only, but for the sins of the whole world. Oh, I'm glad I can stand up here tonight. I can look across this congregation and I can say to you, I don't know who the visitors are and the members, I can say to you, it might be your first time in the building. You may not know. I can say to you, He loves you, He died for you, and if you'll believe on Him, if you'll trust Him, He will save your soul from hell Oh, to be a soul winner for the glory of God. His name was John Hyde. H Y G E. You ever heard of it? Some of you have. I don't need to take the time, but uh Just got to tell you, he's British. Lived in England. Early 1900s, 1902 comes to mind. God called him to be a missionary. God called him to be a missionary. God laid upon his heart the country of India. That vast subcontinent, India. He went and he began to learn the language. To tell sinners to be saved. Anybody believe this? All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Anybody believe there is an unrighteous and no not one? Anybody believe the wages of sin is death? Anybody believe but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord But John Hyde witnessed. But it seemed like this witness he met with some success. But it was blunted. Didn't seem like the power of God was upon him. And John Hyatt began to pray. In fact, he picked up and history knows him this way, praying high. Praying high. I gotta tell you what he did. He asked God for one soul a day in his ministry. He and a group of missionaries to one soul a day. Now I know that's criticized. I guess that's called an emphasis on numbers. I don't know. That's no John Hyde asked for. One soul a day. By the way, God's not against that word numbers He named the book in the Bible after it. And God begin to save one soul a day. I said it this morning. If we'll talk to God about men Before we talk to men about God, we might get more done in our soul-winning endeavors. They had 400 about born again that year. It was a turn in their ministry in India. You're not going to believe this. How many fingers am I on? He upped it to two souls a day in their witnessing, in their preaching. In their knocking on doors. And God gave them two souls a day. Is anybody listening to me? Everybody's not a John Hyde and I'm not saying that's got to be oh oh oh I I I gotta close my story, but how many? Four souls a day. And God was uh said if a day would end and there was not a report of souls being saved. That old gentleman would go to his room Close his door. He'd forget about supper. He'd forget about sleep. And he would beg God. Here was his prayer taken from the book of Genesis. Oh God, give me children. Or I die, wouldn't it, Rachel? Oh God, give me souls, or I die hungry for souls to be saved. I'm gonna say this. Help me if you will. We need a little bit more of that in our lives. The fish gate. The fish gate. I'm pretty sure I don't need to ask this question. It's almost asked and answered. But be sure you know how to bring somebody to Jesus Now don't misunderstand me. I believe in the Holy Spirit. He must convict. He must woo. He must put someone under conviction. But my goodness, if Jesus died for everybody, don't you think the Holy Ghost is interested in speaking to everybody who listened to his voice? And uh and uh Learn how to win a soul. Have you ever taught them the Roman rogue? I I presume you have. Just stay in the book of Romans. I nearly went down it a minute ago. Just stay in the book of Romans And get a sinner saved. Old Dr. John Rice, years and years ago, before he died, he used the John, the gospel of there's enough gospel in John to get the whole world saved if they would believe. I heard the fellow who used the Revelation road. Isn't the book of Revelation? Oh yeah, there uh the blood of the Lamb, of the Son of God. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. Find some way. Get you a gospel track. Leave it where you go. Let's be soul winners for the glory of this game. Now what have we said so far? You be sure the sheet gate is builded and sanctified in your life. Be sure you're washed in the blood of the Lamb. And visit the cross of Calvary often to be the kind of Christian you ought to be. Paul never got over the cross. Oh, I don't have time to say what I'm about to say, and I I wish I knew how to delay things and defer them to another night. Uncrucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ. You know what some of us ought to do, and the cross is empty. Jesus has been buried, raised, and ascended back there. But we need to nail ourselves to that old rugged cross, died or our stinking old fleshly sins. Paul said, mortify, mortify these sins of our bodies. Oh, how we need to hang around the sick jade in our lives. And then comes the feast gate being a soul. He that wineth souls is wise. I don't know why I can't get off the the feast gate wineth Preacher, if they listen to you all the time, like they're listening to me right now, I'm impressed. You're a blessed Man of God. He that went itself. Here's the Hebrew verb. L-A-Q-A-C-H, La Kwa. He that wineth souls is wise. I'm going to tell you what it means. I'm going to show you what it means. Here's my handkerchief, and I'm merely illustrating now. The clock means this. Go over there and get it. Go over there and pick it up. Go over there, I don't know how southern y'all are, and face it. Go over there and face it And that's the word for winning souls. It is the same word a fisherman would use on the banks of the river, casting the lure, casting the bait, waiting for the fish. He has gone Fish catch it. Same word, he, that when it's uh they're out there, some of them are hungry for the gospel and need an amen. Let's go get them. Hallelujah. I heard Doctor Rice years ago. I'm still talking about the fish gate. Take that off of it, it looks like It's an illustration, don't know how wise this is, of the Civil War. And uh Is this soldier? He's raw recruit, he's new, hadn't been in the army hardly any time at all And he'd fought all day for his side and and shot his musket and and uh it got dark And they quit fighting. He didn't understand that. Enemy's still out there. Why aren't we fighting? He said, No, it's dark. Have our campfire, eat our supper, we'll fight some more tomorrow. It's just the way it worked in those days. Said all of a sudden that soldier disappeared They shouldn't find him. Wasn't in his place to go to bed. And uh where is he? Where is he And about an hour later, hour and a half later, there's a rustling out in the woods, and here comes that soldier. He's got his gun and his bayonet And he brings in a bunch of enemy soldiers. I mean, he went out there, he found them, he wrestled them out of their bed And that bayonet point, he brought them to their commander. And they said, What are you doing? He said, We're at war. Said there at said, said I hope you'll smile. He looked at his commander and he said, Go get you some Go get you some. Listen to me. The woods are full of them. Did I make an announcement? The woods are full of them Their souls lost, dying and going to hell, to get an Amen, let's go get some. Hallelujah The fish gate, being a witness and winning souls for our Savior Let's go to verse four. Boy, we're tearing into this text, aren't we? 32 verses. And we're on four. Next unto them repaired Mirimoth, the son of Eurijah, the son of Kos. Oh, I want to talk about these names. Eurisha, Ur or Or is the Hebrew word for light And you know from this morning, the J-A-H, the J, the Yah part, that's God's name. Let me tell you what your righteous name means. I'll need a little amen if I get it. God is my light. God is my light. Psalm 36, 6, near the end of the Psalm, says to God, In thy light we shall see light. If you get any help out of the Word of God tonight, if the Holy Spirit gives to you information that'll help you, y'all were talking about God changing our first prayer that was prayed tonight. How wise The gentlemen pray, God give us something that'll change our lives. That'll change our lives as we gather around your word. Oh if I got in thy light we shall see light. If you get any light out of the Word of God tonight, it'll be because of the light of an Almighty God. Raja, ever name could be preached. Uh and and and I well now uh and next to him Mushalem the son of Barekiah, the son of Meshah, Zebel, next to them, Zadok, the son of Banah, Zadok, That is the Hebrew word Zadeh. It's the word for righteousness. They name their boy righteousness. That's not my name But thank God I'm enjoying the righteousness of God in my life tonight. The little that there's the in Vana. It is a Hebrew word that means depressed under fire, going through hardship, difficulty, persecution. Aren't you glad God's not just the God of the mountain? Aren't you glad he's the God in the valley too? When we're going through those low times. Don't let me get sidetracked unto him. Verse 5. Verse 5. Next unto them Can y'all say it's one group right next to another? Next to another, next to another. Five times in this chapter, and next to them. Next to them. And then the latter half of the chapter, you noticed it probably when you were reading this afternoon, after him. After him. After him. These are groups and teams working together to rebuild that wall. Probably you've done a series on it, Pastor. And if not, then it'd be good for the youth. Study the one another's The one another of the New Testament. Sixteen or eighteen. Things we are to do as brothers and sisters One to another. Let me throw out a few of them. You can say amen to them. Love one another. Encourage our King James word. Exhort one another. Here's a different one, a little bit of an unusual. Admonish one another. It means warn each other if we see us about to make a mistake of some kind. Pray one for another. Thank you. I got on to that because next unto him, next unto him, the Hebrew is Od Yod I, I'm sorry. Al A-L. Al-Yod. It means, it means, well, it means next unto him, but it means it means it in this sense, the word Yod. In Hebrew is the word hand, yod The word for praise in Hebrew is Yadal. That's Judah. Let the wife become a J when we bring it in. Judah. Yada. It's the word for praise. I gotta say something real quick. God took the Hebrew word for hand, God. And used it in his word for praise, Yad. Go figure. How can the word for hand End up meaning praise. Don't know the definitive answer, but I got an idea. Watch me. I don't think all of you can see me yet. Anybody here saved and thankful for it? Anybody here know that great big God they sang to us about tonight? Anybody glad you're not going to hell? Anybody glad you've been to the seat gate? Anybody glad we can go to the feast gate and become witnesses? All lifting our hands in prayer. Now All yard. It means next to him. You help me. Next to him. You're willing to reach out your hand. You're willing to extend your hand and help your neighbor build his section of the wall. Reach out your hand and help your neighbor build his section of the wall. Isn't that part of helping one another? Oh my On our website or write a daily lesson every morning. We're in Galatians. A few days ago, Galatians chapter 6, verse 1, listen up Brethren, if any of you be overtaken in a fault, that word fault is slipped down. You've stumbled. You've fallen. And by the way, we all have, or we all do, to some degree, in our Christian, which are spiritual restoring Restore. Reach out that hand. Encourage him. Lift him up. Try to rectify the situation. Restore. And the Lord, considering thyself. Bestoright in the spirit of meekness, considering that we're supposed to help one another. Next to him. Next to him. Next to him. What verse am I in? Somebody tell me. Five. I think I finished four Bonnois persecuted. Verse five. Verse five. Next unto them the Tecowites repaired. I think I said that right. The Tecowites repaired. But But their nobles put not their necks to the work of their Lord. Preacher, I think that's the only negative statement In the whole chapter. Everybody's helping. Everybody's serving. Everybody. But of the Techolites Their nobles, their leaders, their their big brass, their bosses, their death Would not bend, would not put their work next to the work of God. Too good to work, too good to serve Too good to be involved in lowly manual labor. I gotta say something about that. Not willing to serve the Lord. Boy, you're quiet. And I appreciate it. I sure don't want to be like that. I want to go further. God deliver us from lazy people who won't do the work. Their nobles put not their necks to the work. To put your neck to the work, if you'll just look at it, it implies, like an ox with a yoke, it implies that you're laboring under the load. To put not your neck to the work implies you're just a little bit too proud, just a little bit too vain. Some of y'all use this word just a little bit too self-conceited, a little bit too self-centered to do the work of the Lord. You know what that person needs? Now smile at me, they need a trip to the valley gate And we'll see that in time, God willing. I don't want to be vain and I want to be proud. I want to humble myself and be busy for Jesus. Oh the Tekkoas. It's the city of Tekoa It's not far from Jerusalem to Koa. It is the city where Amos, the great preacher, country preacher, a farmer that God called a preacher Amos Hailed from the city of Tokoa. It's got a great past. It's got a great heritage. It's got a great history But now their nobles, their leaders, are not willing to do the work. Can I make an announcement? I think you probably already know. There's been a lot of great colleges There have been a lot of great churches. There have been a lot of great Christian services that used to get the job done, used to serve God and made an amen, a sad one, but they're not doing it anymore They're no longer so many a school used to stand on that King James Version of the Bible, but no longer is it the case. Many of school used to believe in the blood atonement, and by blood atonement they meant the literal blood of Jesus Now they they have made a metaphor out of the blood. It is the blood, it is the blood that washes away our sins Oh I don't know if this is the best time to tell you or not. We'll cover it later. Because the leaders From the city of Tokoah did not work. Their regular workers. The people under them, and I'll show it later in the week. Not now. I'm out of time or I'm pushing time They had to do double work. They had to do double work. I'll show you. If you don't do your share, Well, I get an amen. Somebody else probably gonna have to double up and do it for you. Oh, how we ought to share the load, how we ought to be busy. For our Savior. That is the fish gate. Verse number six. Wait a minute, time out. Forty one minutes and twenty-one seconds. Are y'all okay? Before the time changed, I'd sort of gauged by when it got dark. I I'd know how late it was. It was dark when it started The only way I know to gauge it now is when it gets daylight again, saying You better hope I'm kidding. Verse number six. Let's at least cover it. Moreover, moreover, the O gate repaired Zoada The son of Haza Meshalam, the son of Mosadiah, they laid the beams, set up the doors and the locks And the bars of the uh what in the world's all that about? The beams and the doors and the locks and the bars. I'll tell you what I think it means, and I might preach it for about 90 seconds If it's worth doing, if God's work's worth doing, it's worth doing right. It's worth doing it completely They're covering every area of this work. They want to have gates that are strong. They want to have gates that are impenetrable. And by the way, if you're going to go to church, it's just worth going ahead and doing it right. If you're going to go to church and you're going to go ahead and do it right, uh I think that probably means just starting out going to Sunday school. And then you'd certainly want to be in the morning worship service. Now y'all just enjoy it because you're bragging on yourselves. And you'd want to come back Sunday night too. And now let me be an evangelist a minute. And you want to be there on Monday night of the revival and Tuesday And we see if it's worth doing, what did Solomon say? Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might Do it heartily, heartily, Paul said, as unto the Lord you'll say, Amen. He's worth our best. He's worth our best Back to verse six. The old gate. The old gate. I looked up the word old This particular Hebrew word is only used five times in the Old Testament, this particular word. And it means something that is in storage. It is in storage in this sense. It is valuable. It's a treasure. It's the old gate. Why is it called the old gate? This one is not as easily discernible as the sheep gate where the lambs come in. Or the fish gate or the fresh catch of the day in the city, the old gate. But I do know the spiritual implications of the old gate You say, what's old? Now I hope you'll smile at me. Well it ain't new. The old gate. The old game. Well, Jeremiah I think says it best. Seek ye the way to walk therein. I'll need an amen. Seek the old path Seek the old paths. Would you give me about five minutes to preach on the old gate? You see, I've got them all listed here. The sheep gate, the fish gate, and now number three. the old gate. We're gonna get 'em all, God willing, uh by uh by Wednesday night, the old gate. The old pass. Listen to me I do not deny the fact that a new car might be better than the old car you are currently driving. I do not deny the fact that a new suit of clothes. I've got clothes I've probably preached in hundreds of times. They're still doing well. I'm enjoying them. New clothes might at times, not yet for me, but might at times be better than old clothes You'll learn about it before the week's out. I have a condition called a hammer toe. H-A-M-M Hammer. Toe. T-O-E. I don't know if it's A R or A R, but it's a hammer toe. Look. See it sticking up there. It's bad. My doctor says there's nothing they can do outside of surgery, and I'd have to be off my feet for six weeks. I keep doing that And so uh I I have to uh Oscar the shoeman in our hometown knows me by name. I I go in with every pair of shoes and he's got some way of stretching it Making it bigger right there where that toe sticks up like a hammer. Thank God for Oscar. Right now, if I got to thinking about it, my toe's hurting throbbing a little bit as I'm preaching to keep it off my mind. Just want to declare the word of God. Let me tell you something. See if you get it. I like my old shoes I've got shoes the thread is worn off the bottom. Honey, you didn't throw them away, did you? Did you? Oh man, I'm learning something terrible right here for you Get them broke in. It's a little road. Old is not always a bad thing. I like my old cheers. Now get ready, 'cause I said five minutes is going to take more like seven or eight. I can tell that already. I like that old timey preacher. Yes, sir, I'm heading there. I like that old fashioned book right there. It's called the King James Version. And I'm not ashamed of it either. Free statement. Somebody said said they didn't like it because it had all the D's And the thou's and the verbs end with t-h, say it, and do it. And and and all that. As far as I'm concerned, that adds to the beauty, it is not a weakness of the King James Verse of the that beautiful Elizabethan English. Never, never been a more lovely tongue spoken. And yet I'm gonna say something about that precious Bible. The THs, verbs, these and the vows If your rich uncle died, presupposing you have one If your rich uncle died, and the lawyer contacted you and said, we'll have the reading of the wheel Tuesday at two. Heads up. That wheel is going to have some THs in it and some D's and some Dows And to hear two force and the afterward mentions, hereafter known, it's gonna have all kinds, but I guarantee you you're gonna be interested in hearing You're going to want that wheel read because thank God help me out. There's something in it for you. I'm reading the wheel. I've been reading God's will for my life. I'm an heir of God. I'm a joint heir, see it, I'm a joint heir of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank God I don't I like that old Bible. I know how to solve this. We're at forty-nine minutes and holding, ladies and gentlemen I like that old-time religion. I like that old-timey way of having church. I like going to church where we don't move and watch the clock and y'all certainly don't apparently. I like that church where I go to get in, I don't go to get out. I like that church where they tell me what God says in his word. I like that kind of church where they sang the old psalms of Zion and some of the new Psalms, but they're still talking about the old great God of all of history. Amen. Either somebody back here saying something or the Lord is I've got a direct connection with the Lord tonight And I'll just tell you so far he's on my side. He's helping me out and I'm I'm grateful to him. I like it. I like it when they tell me about the blood of the Lamb of the Son of God. the empty tomb. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Anybody with me? I like it when they told me he's coming again to get me one of these. That's called the rapture. Amen. It's old timing preacher, but I love it and I appreciate it. Have you all heard, I don't know if you even use this word up here down home, they call it the megachurch Super church. You can go and blend into the crowd and they'll never know if you miss. They don't have to have you tithe. You're just one among many. And you knew what what a lot of them say? I've heard them say it. They say, now if you come here, we won't emphasize doctrine. We don't hammer away on what we believe. Here's what they say. We're all about love down here. We just want you to come as you are. Enjoying our great big happy family. I gotta stand up here. I hope that don't bother y'all. I try to be very careful. I hadn't fallen yet. It is not dull preaching in Maryland. Instead of the new fangles religion. Give me that old way. Give me that old way where we come in. They'll miss me if I'm not there. They'll call and ask about me if I'm not there. Give me that old-fashioned place where I can make a little bit of a difference to the glory of God Give me that old fashioned place where I know my preacher will need and he knows me. He knows me by name, can pray for me when I have a next Give me that old-fashioned place where they don't count the minutes on the sermon, where they'll sing the old songs of Zion, where they'll tell sinners how to be sad. Give me the old ways. Hallelujah to God A lot of folks need to revisit the old again. And it would not surprise me that tonight, oh, how deceptive is the devil Give me two more minutes. It would not surprise me tonight that there's somebody in this congregation Maybe you've gone through a difficult time. Maybe the devil's just got you discouraged. And he has suggested to you, why don't you just leave Hunt Valley? Why don't you just find you an easier place where it's more fun, more enjoyable, where it's more, what's the word they like to use, contemporary Just sort of blend in there. I got four words of advice. Don't you do it. Well, I'm going to advise you again. Don't you do it. Stay where you are. Remain under the sound of the Word of God. Stick to that old-fashioned place Still preaches about that old fashioned Savior. Let's rebuild the old gate. I learned this word a long time ago. It has fallen on hard times. I am a, listen up, I am a fundamentalist. That's one of them crazy people. It watch him, he'll kill me. No, no. I am a fundamentalist in this sense. The word comes from Latin funder It means the foundation, the basics. I am not going to depart from God willing. I'm not going to depart from the faith. I'm not going to be blown by every new wind of doctrine. I want to stay with the Word of God And the things of God want to stay around that old gate. The good amen, and I'm done till Jesus calls us home. Let's stand with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, if you will please.