Paul was thankful. The Apostle Paul was thankful God had put him into the ministry also. Your pastor echoed the words of that great man of God. It's an honor to serve the Lord, isn't it? And they sang it's not in vain. My favorite verse of scripture. I write it every time I sign the Bible Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor, I'll need an amen, is not in vain. It is not in vain. Nehemiah chapter three, the word of God again tonight. Nehemiah chapter three. If you go to Esther and Job, you've gone too far. Nestled in the end of the historical books of the Old Testament, Nehemiah chapter 3. We are journeying around the city, and over three dozen work crews are rebuilding the walls More specifically, rebuilding the gates of the city of Jerusalem. We have been looking at each gate and applying some spiritual truth to that gate. Now this evening, Lord willing, we're going to talk about the fountain gate. More precisely, the gate of the fountain. We're going to talk about the and I think it's interesting the water gate. I mentioned last night, I think it's my favorite, though you would have your own choice there maybe Then we're going to end up with a discussion, the Lord willing, with a discussion of the horse gate. Each of those gates, so named the fountain gate, probably near the pool of Siloam. You'll recall that in Jesus' ministry. The Watergate, because it is closest to what is believed to have been Jerusalem's water source in that day. And the horse gate. Because contrary to God's will, that's where the military, the horses of war. would have been housed in that area. Each of the gates has a logical reason for the name that is given uh to it Fountain gate, water gate, and then the horse gate. Verse number 15, if you'll go there with me in the Word of God. My timer has a magnet on the back. I didn't know that till last night. Listen. Never had a metal pulpit before. Holds it in place. Verse 15. But the gate of the fountain repaired Shalom, the son of Kohose, the ruler of part of Mizpah. He built it, the gate of the fountain, and he covered it, and he set up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof. And the pool of Siloa, Siloam in the New Testament, by the King's Garden, under the stairs that go down from the city of David I want to try to get right into our discussion of the fountain gate tonight Rather than caring for some of the little details, we may get some of those in, but we've got to concentrate on these three gates. The fountain gate I guess, I think the word is hermeneutics, Bible interpretation. I guess we're going to have to establish the symbolism, the typology of the fountain gate. Years ago, near where we live In Georgia. There was a godly evangelist. He's with the Lord now, has been for several years. I heard him make this statement. I'm going to quote him and it it'll help me. And some of you might want to remember it or write it down. He said in Bible typology Water, almost without exception, water has a significant meaning, a deeper meaning. And then, preacher, he subdivides that thought. Listen to this. I always find it holding true as I study the Bible. If it is moving water, If it's water in motion, it is probably a picture of the Holy Spirit of God. I'll revisit that thought in a moment. However, if it is still water, S-T-I-L-L, deep water Water that doesn't appear to be in rapid motion. It is probably a picture of the Word of God, of the scriptures of truth. I'm going to use that little rule of thumb tonight as I talk to you about the fountain gate. Did you hear that? The fountain gate. That implies to me, and I hope I get a little bit of this as I talk about it, that implies to me the water is moving. It is bubbly. It is the fountain gate. Jerusalem is a unique city in many ways. Here's one of those ways. It does not have a major river flowing through its environs. Jerusalem is one of the few great cities of the world without a river. being its very lifeline. Egypt and its cities have the Nile. Um city after city could be mentioned. There's no need to go into that. It it will take time. No river. And so their fountains and their springs were of vital importance. Want to talk a little bit about the fountain gate? And I'm going to use it, let me just say if I can get any amen, so you don't have to respond. I'm going to use it as a picture of God the Holy Spirit. The fountain gate. Always bubbling. Always moving. Now let's see if we can do that and be biblical. Let's see if we can get proof texts. To validate what Brother Bagwell gets the fountain gate, implying God, the Holy Spirit It was in John chapter 4. Jesus is on a journey. He's wearied. He's tired. It's about noon. It looks to me like, and he sits down by a well, not just any well, Jacob's well. The disciples are quite hungry. Never met a group of Baptist preachers that weren't. So they're going on to town to get some food to eat near the town of Siphar. If you look it up, Sikar literally means the town of the drunks. The town of the drunks. They're going to get something to eat, nothing out of order in that, I'm not implying it. And Jesus sits and only one amen. Here comes a woman. I want a little better amen than that. Here comes a woman. At noon of all times, rather I'd to be gathering the day's water at noon Probably she wants a little bit of seclusion, wants to be a lot. Long story short, Jesus see, he doesn't have a bucket He doesn't have a dipper. He doesn't have a way of getting. But the lady has come and she's well prepared. And Jesus asked her. for a drink of water. I don't want to get way late telling the story, but uh oh my uh uh she's astounded You, sir, being a Jew would speak to me, being in class of warfare, uh uh being a Samaritan A and before it was over, that lady and you don't have to agree, but I'm gonna that lady got born again by the grace of God. Jesus said, she said, You're asking me for water? Jesus said, if you knew to whom you were speaking, need a little help, you'd be asking me for water. And Jesus was not talking about water from the bottom of the well. He's talking about living water. Everlasting water. He's talking about water that springs up out need an amen unto everlasting life. See if you'll amen this and this is a good amen night. I feel it coming on Hey, you'll never get saved without the bubbling water of the good Holy Ghost of God. Amen Then Jesus is preaching in John chapter 7. It is the great day of the feast. We'll not go into the culture of the backgrounds now and Jesus stood and said, He that believeth on me He that believeth on me, out of this valley shall flow rivers of living water. It's moving rivers. of living water. And then John, as he's so accustomed to do, says, This spake Jesus of the Holy Ghost. Moving water in John 4, moving water in John 7, both telling us about the Holy Spirit of God. Now I want to say this. You don't have to agree, but I'm pretty sure of it. Too many times we Baptists have about become afraid of the Holy Ghost. He is almost the neglected member of the Godhead There's reason for that. There are some who probably have overemphasized him. There are some, you do notice I'm calling the Holy Spirit Him, don't you? There are some who have perverted and exaggerated aspects of his ministry, and so maybe we have backed off. I want to say something tonight And I want to say it to the glory of God. I want to spend about ten minutes, mm, maybe fifteen, talking about the Holy Spirit. And I'll just tell you right now, I'm pretty well confident He's my best friend. He's very God of very God. I like this. Started to say, do you know the Holy Spirit? But that's sort of a moot question. If you're saved, you know the Holy Spirit. He's the one who found me. Oh don't don't misunderstand me. You look into the preacher and believes, Whosoever will may come. You're looking at a preacher that believes Jesus died for everybody on that whole rugged cross. But nonetheless, it's the Holy Spirit of God that that comes to us makes Jesus lovely, makes our sin ugly, wooes us and draws us and summons us to the foot of the old rugged cross. The Holy Spirit did his work And by grace through faith, I believed on Jesus. I got saved. I know the Holy Ghost is the one who drew me to my Savior. The Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit. Can I say this and be alright? If you're here tonight and you're saved, the Holy Spirit is indwelling you this very second. He's living inside of you. I can't get over the fact Paul wrote this to the Corinthians, the most carnal. I think of all of his churches. What? To them, know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, which ye have of God. God gave us the Holy Spirit. Ye are not your own. You're bought with the price. Therefore, glorify God. You know that in your body, in your spirit. The Holy Ghost indwells us. Thank God. Thank God. Meet an amen. For his presence tonight. I'm just going to go ahead and say this. I uh I know it because I sense it in my heart, I feel it in my soul, but those are inferior reasons. The Holy Spirit is here tonight. How in the world do you know he's here? Well Jesus said if two or three are gathered together in my name, there will I be in the midst. So I know he's here by virtue of that promise of the Lord Jesus. But I know he's here for another reason. I hope you'll smile because I brought him And then I want to say this to you. If you're saved, you brought him to. Thank God. He's here. By virtue of uh of our congregating together as a body of brothers and sisters in the Lord, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. But I want to go further, talking about the gate of the fountain. You're saved, you are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, but I want to ask you this. Y'all are really helping me tonight, encourage my prayer. Are you filled with the Holy Spirit? Are you filled with the Holy Spirit? Now here things get a little cloudy Even among our good brethren, there is some divergence of opinion on this business of being filled with the Holy Ghost. Dr. Schofield, he didn't see it just exactly like, for example, Dr. John R. Rice before he went to like T. Sower. Dr. John Rice looks at the filling of the Holy Spirit is more and more of the Spirit of God in me. Dr. Schofield said, no, no, it's not that you have more of the Holy Ghost. It's does the Holy Ghost have more and more of you. There are and uh and uh either of these uh opinions perhaps can be I I've not come to uh uh d demand that you too. I just know this If I'm gonna have power with God, if I'm gonna have the joy of the Lord in my heart, if I'm gonna have the peace that passes understanding It's gonna have to happen. It's gonna have to come, hopefully get an amen, through more and more and more of the Holy Ghost in my heart and in my I don't have any trouble praying, Lord. Fill me with thy Holy Spirit. And yet last year I preached for a dear brother in Florida in a given city. He's of like mind uh uh as we are. Oh he he would uh he would disagree with me up one side and down the other right And I've never cladd it down your throat. I'll say this if there's more of the Holy Ghost available, I want him. I need him. Oh how I want to be hungry for him I want to try this. It's a crude illustration. It might not be a good idea. I've heard that being filled with the Holy Spirit, the verb that is used there, it means something like this, to the brim. Filled with the Holy Spirit, not half full, not thirty to the broom. And it could be It could be that you as a Christian have a certain capacity for the fullness of the Holy Ghost And there could be another Christian here tonight who's grown more, been saved longer, loves the Bible more dearly, and you might have a different capacity of the Holy Spirit as far as the fullness is concerned. Boy it's quiet in here. I'm getting scared. Are y'all following me? You don't have to agree with me, just follow me. That's the Lord again. I don't know if you picked up on that. There may be some folks in here like Brother Bagwell, and I'm I'm merely illustrating. Now this is arbitrary. Maybe I've got a temple full capacity for the Holy Spirit of God in my life And if that oh, if you say, my goodness, you're sure selling yourself short, could I make an announcement? It don't take a lot of faith to get saved. What do you mean it doesn't take a lot of faith? Aspect uh uh thimble full of faith I spec that take you directly to heaven if that faith in the shed blood of Jesus. I'm gonna cut it down inside. I think a half a thimble full will get you saved. All right, I'm setting you up for the kill here. What about a mustard seed? Then I will say this, a fifty-five-gallon drum of faith in Buddha will send you to hell. Are y'all okay? I'm saying it's not how much faith you've got. It's in whom you're placed in that faith that'll make the difference for all of eternity. All right. Having said that Uh-uh. I'm taking too long again, I'm upset at myself. Having said that, let me get back to my thimble full of the Holy Ghost By the way, if you're a thimble-sized Christian here tonight in the terms of the fullness of the Holy Ghost, it'd be a sin, it'd be a sin, you'll need a little help, for you to be a half thimble full of the Holy Spirit. I'm a thimble size, I want my thimble full of the Spirit of God. But don't know this, but it wouldn't surprise me. There's some pant-sized Christians. in this building tonight. And I'm just going to tell you right now, I'll stand up here and salute you. I admire you. I thank God for you. But I got some advice for you. You sure had better be a pant full of the Holy Ghost, kind of Christ. I'm gonna go further. Gallon? Guess I ought to go to court, but I I don't have the time. Gallon Wouldn't doubt it. Probably some giant sin of faith to whom I'm preaching tonight and I love every one of you Just want you to know that. But if you're a jelly-sized Christian, God's not going to be pleased. If you've got a court full of the Holy Ghost, you need to be absolutely full also And where'd he come up with that hairbrain kind of an illustration? Where'd he get that? Oh, John is talking about Jesus. And so, and this is what he says, oh John the Baptist. He says the Holy Ghost was given to Jesus. Listen to this, without measure. Do you all remember the verse? Without measure. Absolutely without measure. Jesus Christ in his earthly ministry, you can forget the thimble. You can forget the pine You'd forget the gallons. You'd forget that 55 gallon drum. He had an immeasurable, unending, glorious supply of the whole. We need to be filled with the Holy Spirit. That's all I'm trying to say. The fullness of the Spirit of God. Are you a preacher? He's in heaven now. Got to hear him preach in person a number of times and and and and and looked up to him. I mean say I heard him preach this sermon, pray for power, is on praying for the power of God in his life. Agree or disagree? I'm preaching on the fountain gate for the battery. He said I get up in the morning and I ask God to give me power He said, when it's noon and when I'm eating my sandwich, I ask God to give me power. He said, fellas talking to a group of creatures. I don't know. He just said this out in public. He said I don't I wouldn't be surprised if I pray for power, ten, fifteen, twenty. He said I expect I pray for the power of God sometimes Forty, fifty, sixty times a day. And I'll just tell you this when he stepped in the pulpit and preached so forget and that boy did he have power. Now I don't know. I'm just sort of thinking this. Power. That's an ye shall receive power after that. The Holy Ghost is coming on you. The fullness of the Spirit of God. Y'all alright? If I had time Say I'm 20 minutes into this thing. Two more gates have got to be discussed. If I have time, I'll tell you about the indwelling of the Spirit the filling of the Spirit, the testing that will come your way if you're filled with the Spirit, how to resist in the Holy Ghost And after Jesus was sorted days in the wilderness after and he was filled with the Spirit of God. And he of course he was tested and of course he resisted. Dr. Luke says Jesus came back out of the wilderness. I need about three amen. In the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. Didn't you say, well, Prince Sir Bagelum? Uh-uh. Oh I gotta say this, man y'all are listening well I wouldn't be surprised you can talk to the Holy Spirit. Debbie and I were somewhere. We're in a revival every week, so had to be a preacher. He informed me you cannot talk to the Holy Ghost. That's what he told me. He said, You cannot talk to the Holy Ghost. Now he's a good man. I have not come to criticize him. But I'm telling you what, I've been talking to the Holy Ghost a long time. Well, can you come up with a verse for that? I wouldn't even be talking to you about it if I didn't have a verse for it. I'm not that dumb. Paul ends his epistle to 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 13. The last verse, it's verse 14. He said, He's praying for the believers in that city that they'll grow and grab. And he's praying that they will know the communion Of the Holy Ghost. The communion of the Holy Ghost. Let me tell you what that word communion means. It means sharing things in common. Hey, hey, there's a song that goes with that. Maybe I can say this more quickly. And he walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me I am his own And the joy we share as we carry there, I think none other has ever known. Aren't you glad for the command companion? Aren't you glad for the communion of the Holy Spirit of God? The man was a Puritan. He's been in heaven centuries now. I'll give you his name afterward if anybody's interested in it. I have to put a disclaimer with his name. I don't agree with everything he thought and preached, but wrote a book on Here's the name of it. Communion with God. I don't know why I'm telling you this. I'll lose a friend over this First third of the book is communion with God the Father. The middle third of the book is communion with God the Son. Anybody want to take a stab at the last there? Communion with God the Holy Spirit. Preacher, there's a wealth of scripture invested in those chapters. And that great old giant of the past believes you can talk to God the Father. Come to think of it and do it every day. He believes you can talk to God the Son Oh my, oh my, I'm glad I can pray to my Savior, but I'm anxious to tell you right now you can talk to God, the Holy Spirit, as you live day by day on this earth. All I'm saying is this. The fountain gate says, don't forget the Holy Ghost. Make more of the Holy Ghost. Learn to fellowship and commune with the Holy Ghost of God. What will be the result? I'm not sure. But I guarantee you this much will be the result The more you love him, the more you'll begin to develop love and joy and peace and long suffering and gentleness and goodness and faith and meekness and temperance in your life. Praise the Lord. Amen. The dear Holy Spirit of Almighty God. This, and I'll have to go on to the next step. Jesus' favorite name for the Holy Spirit is Comforter. Calls in the comforter again and again and again. Let me give you the Greek for that beautiful King James word comforter. Parikletos. What'd you say? Perikletos. What in the world does it mean Hera, the prefix, it's a preposition and it means alongside Alongside. Can y'all see me? I I drift back and I need to stay up here. Alongside Parakletas, it's cleo. It is a verb that means called or summoned or commissioned. Let me tell you what happened the moment I got saved. God Almighty called and summoned and commissioned the good Holy Ghost to come right by my side. And the Holy Ghost has been, will he get an amen? He's been right by my side ever since. And when I need guidance, he's there to supply it. When I need warning, he is there to give it Don't ignore, don't fail to emphasize the presence of that paraclete in your life, ladies and gentlemen. I said it was going right on, but comforter. Let's look at that English word, comforter. It's a Latin background. C-O-M, it's a preposition. It also means By your side or with. Comforter. F-O-R-T, it's the Latin fortis F-O-R-T-I-S. Derek, it gives us the word fortitude. It gives me the word gumption. It gives me the word stamina. We think that when the Holy Ghost is up Comforter can I just touch her hair just in illustration. We think he's the comforter like oh you sweet little thing. Everything's gonna be all right. That's not the word comforter. The word means with strength, with fortitude, with determination. Holy Ghost comes by my side. He don't pet me. Holy Ghost comes by my side and says, let's go get them. Charves. Let's go win souls. Let's go fight the devil. Let's go and serve Jesus till he comes again. Oh, to have a growing, ever-deepening row. Oh, oh, oh, oh. The Holy Spirit, you've already amended, is not an it. He is a person of the Godhead. See, I had to say that to say this. That means you can hurt his feelings. Well that was a slow one coming it finally got here, but it was slow. You can't hurt his faith. Paul said, grieve not The Holy Spirit of God. That verb grieve, it's the luffe word. It means don't offend, don't hurt his feelings, don't cause him any pain. Boy I sure don't want to cause pain to the Holy Ghost of God Quench not. Quench not the Holy Spirit. That that implies the Holy Spirit's a little candle giving light, giving warmth in my heart. To quench is to do this. Listen, what? Don't you live a cold life? Don't you let the winds of doctrine, don't you let this wild world quench? that warmth and that light of the good Holy Ghost. Guard yourself. Protect yourself. I'll meet an amen. I'm back at the Dungate. Abstain from the very appearance of evil, ladies and gentlemen. So we have discussed, at least to some degree, the gate of the fountain, talking about the Holy Spirit of God. Are y'all okay? I don't know that fountain gate's growing on me I sure did like the way the Lord pointed it out to a seraph. Amen. But we've got oh oh so many of these gates have been very close together. If you'll uh r remember last night that we were at the valley gate And then in the later in the same verse, it's 13. We were at the dung gate. Verse 14 continues to talk about the dung gate. Verse 15, we're at the gate of the fountain. They're fairly close together as the work crews work. But I've got to show you this. It's not the most important part of the message, but let me show you. We had to gather the fountain at verse 15. And there is not another gate mentioned, not in 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 or 20, not until you get to verse 26. That implies there is some distance between the gate of the fountain and the water gate. We're now over on the east side, the gate of the fountain and the water gate. And remember, the water gate is near. Best I can tell the source of water for the city of Jerusalem, it would be deep water, well water, still water, and I'm gonna preach it this way. And need about three amen. It's gonna be a picture of the Word of God. Can you do that? Water as a picture of the word. Oh yes Oh yes, Paul in Ephesians 5, 25 and 26, talking to his uh converts there in the city of Ephraim, he said, now y'all Ye means y'all, ye are clean through the word. I'm quoting John 15, 3. Let me let me get in my mind In Ephesians 25 and 26. You're clean through the washing of water. Hear me, through the washing Of water by the Word of God. He uses water as an emblem, as the picture of the Word. Now to John chapter 15, verse 3, except Jesus is talking. And he said to his disciples, ye are clean. Ye are clean. Boy, I want to be clean. Ye are clean through the word. that I have spoken unto you. There's water and the word again. Help me. I want to preach about ten minutes. It might go fifteen the way of my feeling. I want to preach about the word of God tonight I want to preach about the water death. Amen. Uh let me look. I mentioned this verse 26. Moreover, the Nathonims, oh I wish I could preach about the Nathonims. They are temple servants. The word means it comes from Hebrew Nathine, to give. They are God's gift. To the Israelites, the Nathanehs. Let me tell you who the Nathaneims are. They're descendants of the Gibeonites. Way back in Joshua 9. Who are the Gibeonites? a bunch of fellows that lied and deceived and and and and showed uh uh deceit to to Joshua. Joshua failed for their pack of lies. They should have been slaughtered They were dirty Canaanites. Joshua gave him his word he wouldn't. Joshua will keep his word. God told him to the Gibbeanites were a bunch of crooks There are a bunch of liars, they're a bunch of uh inconsistent hypocrites, and yet God, God took them God changed them. I just said God saved them. God turned their lives around. Now they're methanim, serving God with all of their heart. Over here, near the water gate of all places. Now, my brother Baik will go into that too many times right about about the Nathanaeams and and about the uh Gideon Old crooks and liars and deceivers. Lead an amen. And now they're serving the Lord. Did you imagine that? Aren't you glad? Aren't you glad he changed your life? We're not what we used to be, by the grace of an Almighty God. It would not surprise me at Hunt Valley Baptist Church right now, under the sound of my voice There's an old drunkard. I'm sorry. Ex-drunkard has been saved by the grace of God. Some old dope addict used to shoot that stuff up into your body and now And nah, hadn't seen it, hadn't touched it, don't want it. Thank God all things have passed away and all things have become new That's the Nethonims. I thought I was going to say that about them. Verse 26, more over the Nathonims dwelt in Ofel. It just means a little hill in Jerusalem. Jerusalem's a hilly place. The Nephonims dwelt in Ofel Under the place over against they tell me over against the what? Oh. Watergate Maybe I missed it. Do you see where the Nathaneims were repairing the water gate? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to quit saying that. Brothers and sisters, the word repaired is not used in verse 26 of the water gate. Hey, hey, hey, listen to Brother Bagwell, and you're looking down and I appreciate that. Check me out, be sure The only one of the ten gates. The only one of the ten gates that was not repaired is the water gate. And I checked it out. In the next verse it says, after this, on down the piece. They're back to repairing again. Hey, we gotta figure this out. Why is it that the water gate didn't need repairing? Oh my my daddy used to say this If it ain't broke, let it alone. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Can I tell you something about the Word of God? Can I tell you something about the water of the Word of God? Excuse my background. It ain't broke. It don't need fixed. Leave it alone, Helen. Over there at the Watergate. The Watergate. If we do not get to the horse gate tonight, hold your horses We'll get to it. The Lord willing tomorrow night. I gotta talk. Few minutes about the water gate. I'm at 37 minutes. And 21 seconds of preaching. And I want to be mindful of our time. And uh I don't know if y'all say this or not. Probably my longest sermon will be Wednesday my longest sermon will be Wednesday night. Well why would it be Wednesday night? See if I preach too long tonight, y'all ain't coming back. I got you figured out. I'm no Baptist So buddy, I'll tell you what, if I preach too long on Wednesday night, don't worry about that video on Thursday night anywhere you want to. And it's important, I'm not minimizing it at all But for tonight, we'll talk a little bit about the water game. I want to ask this. How many preachers or young men called to preach or in the building? But you put your hand up. I just want a show of hands. I don't see any over here. Pastor. God bless you, son. Yes. Derek, there's the preacher. Oh, yes, right here. Here's a gentleman. I'm sorry, I'd overlooked you. I didn't mean to neglect you. I want to say something to each of you. Want the rest of you to listen. I believe this Watergate is the secret to a successful ministry. To a fruitful ministry for the glory of God. The Word Preacher, it doesn't happen every week, but nearly every week. A young, we call them preacher boys. Is that all right with y'all? We met a fellow the other day, he reacted and said, Preacher boy. He said, God ain't got no preacher boys. We ain't going back The mo it's what I tell every one of them. The more emphasis you'll put on the Word of God. The more deeply you'll immerse yourself in the Word of God, the more diligently you will apply yourself to the Word of God. In direct proportion. I hope I get one. Amen. Will God bless your ministry? Will God bless your ministry? The water gate. God's word. I guess the place to start, I'm coming back to that talk. I guess the place to start, you're clean through the washing of water by the word. Now you're clean through the words I've spoken unto you. I guess the first place to start, if you hang around the Bible long, it will clean you up. Oh, that wasn't a good amen at all. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee, said the son. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to thy word. God's word will help us live plain lives for his glory But here's what I'm going for, oh Lord willing. It's Psalm one. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, he's quoting it with me, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. See if I get an Amen. That's the dung gate. That's the dung gate. But his delight Is in the law of the Lord. Son, may I use your Bible just a moment and I'll bring it back? His delight Is in the law of the Lord. The word means his desire, his thrill, his excitement, his his I'm not I'm not conveying like I want to. The word of God is to his spirit. I don't even know if y'all lead it up here. What banana pudding is to his stomach Y'all have banana pudding? And if it's not banana pudding, come up with your favorite dessert. Oh, it's delicious. Oh, it's Oh, it's a delight to me. Oh, oh, his delight is a that's sweeter than any banana pudding that's ever been made. It's sweeter. Hey, I'll give you Skipster. It's sweeter than honey in the honeycomb. Is delight, preacher, do we delight in the Word of God? Do I delight in it like I ought to Is this the very thrill of my soul like it should be? Does it mean more to me than like, oh my thy words were found and I did eat them, says the great patriarch. And God's word is like a hammer. It'll work on our soul more than my necessary food, said another giant. And Bill His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in God's law does he all know the word. Meditate, meditate, meditate day and night. Don't lose me. Stay with me, please. That is Hagah. It's a Hebrew verb and it means this To mumble, to mutter, to talk, to speak quietly, to say something under your breath It means every day you get you a verse of scripture, you get you a chunk of God's Word, you think about it all day, you talk about it all day, you mutter it Mumble it down in your heart all day. And if you'll do it day and night, day and night, or y'all still listen to me If you'll do it day and night, God will make you like a tree planted by the rivers of water, you'll bring forth your fruit in season, your leaf will never wither. Here's the part I like. And everything you do, whatsoever you do, will prosper. It will explode with God's hand of success all over it, thank God. Loving The word of God to that extent. I'm taking to Psalm 138, verse number 2. Psalm 138, verse 2. Says, God has exalted his word. Above his name. Wow. Who who wowed, I heard a wow. God has exalted his word. Above this I was preaching one night on the Word of God. After the service, this little smart elliot came up. Do y'all have smart elliots up here? He let me know in a heartbeat, sir, that I put way too much emphasis On the Word of God. He called me a name. He called me a biblioliter. On my soul, I'd never heard the word. I went home to the medical dictionary. I thought it's something you could catch, maybe. Bibliolatry. You know what it means? And he said, you're a Bible worshiper. You're a Bible worshiper. Making too much of the Word of God. I've got to stand up here and I'll be real careful. I don't worship the Bible. I worship the God of the Bible, but I wouldn't know a thing about that great God if it hadn't been for the Bible. Amen. And when I found Psalm, I didn't know Psalm 138, too, when he hit me with that. Boy, I wish I had. I'd have clobbered him good. Others say, Hey buddy, you say I'm putting the word of God too high, my heavenly father has exalted it above his name, you can't put the word of God too high. Love it, study it, enjoy it, meditate on it, learn every way you can Mumble the talk it all day long. Day and night. That's the wonder day. It's not broke, doesn't need to be fixed, just hang around it and enjoy it. Forty six minutes. Boy, time flies in Maryland. Come to think of it, it flies every state I go to. I don't know. How sweet. I'm gonna close with this. Y'all know it. It's old school, too. If you were to read a chapter in Proverbs every day, every day, you will read through the book of Proverbs once a month. Now that little morsel of advice is as old as the hills, but oh, it's still worth sharing. Well Brother Bank hadn't been saved too long. I didn't know that. Read the chapter in what's today's date. You would read Proverbs 13. Guess what you'd read tomorrow? And day after tomorrow. I knew y'all were brilliant. You'll read through it once a month, twelve times a year. I said a church and challenge folks to do that. God let me go back often but ten or twelve years later As a man came up with tears in his eyes, he said, Preacher, I've been through Proverbs ten years later, said I've been through Proverbs 120 times He said, I don't know that I'm wise, but he said I learn things every time. It's the book of wisdom. We need God's wisdom in our life. And you know what'll happen? You're hanging around the water gate. You're living the water day. God will bless you for that, ladies and here's the other thing. I'm closing If you were to read five Psalms a day, you say, good nine. None of them, they're short, wouldn't take long. Till you hit 119. I knew y'all were thinking it so I'll bring it up. You budget that day, you plan ahead that day If you read five Psalms a day, thirty days a month, thirty times five equals Well you're not as bright as I thought you were. Bright too soon, it equals 150. That's exactly how many songs Or in the book. Why would I read Proverbs consistently, you get wisdom? Why would I read Psalms consistently, you get joy, you get praise, you get worship. How many doors y'all gonna try to knock on next year? Fifteen thousand doors. Telling them about Jesus. Leaving the gospel inside that home. I got me a new book I'm gonna add. How about the book of Acts? Let me think. How many chapters are in the book of Acts? Don't look twenty-eight. Now that doesn't exactly match a month, but it's pretty close. If you were to begin now in anticipation of that campaign next year. Isn't it next year? Well, it's gotta be the end of the year. Next year You, if you were to read the book of Acts every month, you'd be twelve times through the book. Why would I read the book of Acts? Help me. Because it's about soul winning. It's about evangelism. It's about evangelism. Sharing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and the uttermost part of the earth I gotta quit. Y'all didn't say amen real well. I knew a preacher who did this He said, I read a chapter in Proverbs every day, I want wisdom. I read a chapter in Psalms every day, I want praise. I read a chapter in Acts every day. I want that soul-winning spirit down in my life. Uh that sounds like pretty good advice to me. One thought and I'm done. Preaching about the Watergate. There are two hundred and sixty chapters in the New Testament. Derek's nodding his head. He's probably heard me share this before. 260 chapters in the New Testament. Listen up. If you were to study one chapter in the New Testament every week. Andrew, one chapter a week. And by the way, you can get into some depth if you're studying just one chapter a week. That'd be 52 chapters a year. Now get ready. And 5 times 52 equals. You have to work it out. It'll be all right. 5 times 52 equals. Two hundred and sixty. Two hundred and sixty. Anybody remember how many chapters there are in the New Testament? Two hundred and sixty. Study a chapter a week Five years later, you will have gone from Matthew 1 to Revelation 22. You would have pitched your tent at the water gate and God a good amen and I'm done. God would be blessing the daylights out of you. If you try to grow in his marvelous grace, the gator, the fountain, the Holy Spirit The water gate, the precious word of an Almighty God. Stand with you, with us if you will, heads are bowed, and eyes are closed.