Nehemiah in the Word of God, the book of Nehemiah. And I point your attention to chapter number three. Nehemiah chapter 3. It's a technical chapter. Lots of detail And as you read the chapter in the Sunday school hour, I ask that we begin that little program reading Nehemiah 3, familiarizing ourselves with ourselves with that passage of scripture, you're going to encounter lots of names, Jewish names, Old Testament names. It's a challenge reading it, and yet it's good discipline as far as our becoming more familiar with the Word of God. And you always, uh I do, you can't help but wonder, am I saying this name right? Am I pronouncing it correctly? The only advice I know to give you is to do your best, take the best, make your best effort at it. Sometimes the listening to the chapter can be a great aid uh in that effect. But here's what I always tell folks. Pronounce it the best you can. Hope I'll get an amen. They're not around to correct you. So who's to say that you're wrong? Just enjoy the chapter The reason I say there are a number of names in the chapter, it is a very meticulous description, listen to this, of the building program. Oh, I need to tweak that. A rebuilding program. The walls of Jerusalem have been torn down. Demolished. destroyed by an enemy army, the Babylonians, their, I guess, best known king, Nebuchadnezzar. And the city has been virtually leveled, along with the destruction of the walls, the gates For the most part, the gates have also been torn to pieces. And somebody God burdened one of his men, Nehemiah by name, to go back and to do all that was possible to rebuild The walls of Jerusalem. It's history. We're going to study Bible history this week. But it's history that has a practical application. I'll explain that as we get a little further into our text. Just keep in mind, Nehemiah chapter number three. Now, preacher, I was thrilled to learn this chapter is so precise. It is so exact. It is so accurate that archaeologists, those who study history by means of a shovel and a pick, Archaeologists yet go back to Nehemiah three as they dig as they Investigate the topography of the city of Jerusalem to this day. Nehemiah 3 is the most accurate description. of the geography of Jerusalem in existence today in all of literature. Including all of ancient literature, non-Jewish literature, non-biblical biblical literature. Nehemiah 3 is the go-to text. For the walls and the gates around the city of Jerusalem. But let's face facts We are here today for more than a simple history lesson. We are here to study, I need a good amen, to study the Word of God. I want to leave this morning with something practical. I want to leave today with a challenge in my heart, and somehow a challenge to better live for God. A challenge to grow in the grace of God, but a challenge that is based on the Word of God On Nehemiah chapter number three. It's a work project. The reason there's so many names In Nehemiah chapter 3 is that there are numerous work crews involved in rebuilding these walls. I can't guarantee it's exactly this number, but it's close. Forty-five different groups working together. To rebuild the city of Jerusalem. Did you hear that number? 45 different groups. And they're working in harmony. They're working with the spirit of fellowship and love. I'm going to say something and see if you say amen. I wish we could learn that lesson. Of working together in harmony, in one mind, in one accord, rebuilding the things that have so fallen into disrepair in our land. In our nation, and in many instances in our churches, and in our lives. So, enough said, let me show you. A little more precisely, at least, or an attempt, about the third chapter of Nehemiah. It concentrates on the walls, I've already said that or tried to make it clear, but particularly on the gates The gates that are opened in the morning and closed in the when Jerusalem is back again functioning As a healthy city, as an ancient Near East metropolis. The gates around the wall. Could I get a nod from somebody? Wouldn't do any good to rebuild the walls. If you don't reconstruct the gates, because still the enemy would have access to your city. Now I want you to watch my fingers. Just like we're going to spend literally the week this morning. Again tonight, and the Lord willing Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights in Nehemiah. Chapter 3. We will be studying, watch my fingers. Tell me how many. Tell me again. There are ten different gates mentioned. In the rebuilding of the wall around the city. Ten different gates. It is in my heart to show you this morning those ten gates. Will I get to preach on all ten gates? I will not. It will take from now until Wednesday night to be able to discuss Learn, I need to learn, teach, I want to share it, and then apply, apply. These ten gates, the lessons, the messages of these ten gates in our hearts and in our lives. Let me show you. Jerusalem in the day of Nehemiah is a sort of an oblong city. It is not simply circular. Just trace the end of my finger. Sort of an oblong city. It has grown to greater proportions than it was in the day of Nehemiah. We begin our rebuilding project in the northern section of the city Almost northeast. That's where the first gate is. Watch my finger. And we work counterclockwise. We will go to the west. We will drift down to the south. We will rebuild the south walls. Then we go back, obviously, up the east side, and we end. Naturally, right where we began. I'm simply in a crude way trying to give you an idea of the building uh that rebuilding uh that must be done. Forty-five work crews, get this. It's gonna sound like a very insignificant task. Probably, according to the archaeologist, a mile and a half. That's all it is. A mile and a half, the circumference Around that oblong shape of the city of Jerusalem. Doesn't sound like a lot, but it is. They don't have the mechanized equipment. They're doing this by hand, rebuilding. the walls of Jerusalem. Now talk to me. Are y'all okay? Yes, sir. Let's begin Let's begin our journey around the city. Nehemiah 3, verse number 1. And I wish I could read the whole chapter. 32 verses. But I'm opting not to read the whole chapter, but rather to ask you to read the chapter. This afternoon, I'll say more about this later, and as the week. Ensues. But I am going to read the first two verses. Notice them with me, please. Then That's a temporal marker. It lets me know the story of Nehemiah continues. Then Eliashib, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, the priests And they build it, they builded the, I'm going to need you to help me. They builded what does it say they builded? Tell me, please. The sheep gate If you mark your Bibles, or if you're taking notes today, would you please either underline or write down the sheath gate? That's the place the construction begins. The sheep gate. I continue reading in verse one. They sanctified it They set up the doors of it. Even under the tower of Meop, they sanctified it under the tower of Henanil Verse 2. Next unto him builded the men of Jericho, and next unto them builded Zachor The son of Imai. Thus begin the names. And there are a lot of them. I've read the first two verses. Notice verse number three. I will not read it in its entirety. But the, but the, I'm going to need your help again, but the tell me. Fish gate. The fish gate did the sons of Hesanow build. Would you either underline or make a note? The fish gate. There is the sheep gate. And there is the fish gate. Would you now go down with me to verse 6, please? Verse number six. I'm going to ask for your help yet a third time. Moreover, the moreover, tell me please, moreover, the Old gate. Repair Jehoiada, the son of Pesha, and Meshelem, the son of Bosadia. They laid the beams there. The old gate. I'm going to need some time in these services to preach about the sheep gate and to preach about the in order to preach about the feast gate. and to preach about the old gate. Would you go down to verse 13, please? And I realize we're skipping the paragraph. We will not skip it as I preach through the chapter. Verse thirteen, get ready to help me. And the in the and the tell me please. Valley Gate. And the Valley Gate. Underline it or note it, if you will. Repaired Hanan. of the inhabitants of Zenoah. They built it and they set up the doors thereof. We need to stay in verse number 13, down at the end. And they repaired a thousand cubits on the wall unto the, at the end of verse thirteen, help me, unto the what? Dumb D-U-N-G unto the dumb gate. We're simply going in order through the gates of the city of Jerusalem. Glance with me at verse 15, if you will. This one, it's worded a little differently in our beautiful King James Bibles. But the, but the, you tell me, but the gate of the what M more loudly, the gate of the fountain repairs Shalon, the son of Kohezah, the ruler of part of Mizpah the gate of the fountain. I will shorten that the night I'll teach it probably and we'll just call it the fountain. gate. And by the way, I haven't got to it yet, but these gates have their names for a reason. There is a logic uh behind uh the naming of these individual places. Oh my goodness. I'm standing through verses 16 and 17 and 18, 19, and 20, and 21 and 20. I see no gates. Verse 22. 23, 24, 25. There's a great space here between. Oh, oh, verse 26. Moreover, the Nathaneims dwelt in Ofel under the place, help me, under the place over against the Watergate. The Watergate. Mark it somehow please. Toward the east. And the tower that lieth without. We're up to the water gate. Go with me to verse number 28, if you will. From above the, y'all know the procedure, you know how I'm going about the from above the what? Horse gate. Tell me again. I like the way it sounded. The what? The horse gate repaired the priests. Every one over against his house. The horse-gate will need to be analyzed. Verse 29. After them repaired Zadok, the son of Emmer, over against his house. After him repaired also Shemiah. the son of Sekaniah, the keeper of, help me, the keeper of the what? The East Gate. We're all the way, obviously, over to the east side of the city now, heading back north. And then verse 31. After him repaired Malachiah, the goldsmith's son, unto the place of the Nath-Nims. and of the merchants over against the gay, maybe I better help you with this one, over against the gay Memphad. See it? M-I-P-H-K-A-D. MIFK. Preacher, that's not even an English word. That's not an attempt. That's not a translation of an English word. It is a, get this, it is a transliteration. The King James translators merely spelled it in English. Precisely as it appears in Hebrew. M-I-P-H-K-A-D, the gate mipad We'll need to define it. We'll need to discuss it. And then I want a little bit of time to preach about it, the Lord willing, on books like Wednesday night That should be, unless I've missed, a total of ten gates. And remember I mentioned ten gates in the chapter, but that's a little bit inaccurate. Because really there are eleven gates mentioned in the chapter Well, Brother Bagel, you should have been honest and told us. Oh, wait a minute. There are eleven gates mentioned in the chapter. That means the last mention of a gate is in verse 32 Would you look please with me at verse 32? And between the going up of the corner unto the, unto the give me the name, please, which gate unto the Sheep gates. Technically, it's eleven gates that are mentioned, but precisely it's only ten Different gates because we end right where we started at the seat gate. Oh, gotta say that again, at the seat gate. one more time, at the sheet gate. I'm taking it by the law of frequency of mission, the sheet gate must be of paramount importance in the overall scheme of rebuilding the city Now, I've read my text, what I'm going to read of it this morning. Talk to me. Are you all still okay? I'm not careful this is gonna sound too teachy, too regimented Too technical. Preacher said revival slash Bible conference. I love those kinds of meetings. But I need a little while now to preach. From verses 1 and 2 of Nehemiah chapter 3. I guess you would say my text this morning will be that. Verses 1 and 2. of our chapter. You will learn this about uh Brother Bagwell. I if I don't watch myself, I tend to get a little bit, here's the word, long-winded. I can say you're familiar with the word. It it so much to talk about So little time. And especially when you try to do an exposition of the Word of God, it just takes a while. I said that to say this. I carry with me, and I have for many years a little timer. There it is. I started it when I went to the pulpit. Well, pretty close to when I went to the pulpit. I'd actually been talking two or three minutes before I remembered. I've been trying to preach, or at least read the scripture, for 18 minutes and 49 seconds. I now need some time to preach. About those first two verses. Y'all will stay with me, won't you? I appreciate that. And they are em amending real well. I do that sometimes. It just means I'm asking for an Amen. And then I'll tell you this, it you may or may not, I preach faster when you say Amen real good. So for what it's worth. Chapter three, verse number one. Then Eliasheb, the high priest, rose up with his brethren. Of course, they're priests. And they builded the Sheep Gate. They builded The sheepgate. I want a while this morning to talk to you about the sheepgate and about the message. It should bring to our hearts and our lives. First question I've got, actually, son, I have it on each of these gates. I'm not always able to give myself a sufficient answer. Why is it called the sheepgate? Wouldn't you wonder? Why? I mean, for centuries It's called the sheet gate. And this one is pretty easy, this question to answer, almost without doubt. It is called the Sheet Gate. Oh, did I tell you this? It's fairly near the temple. Fairly near the temple. And it is believed that the shoot gate is the point of access at which the little lambs L-A-M-B-S. The little lambs were brought into the city. The little lambs that will be, get this word, slain. Sacrificed, killed in the Jewish worship Jewish worship by the law is prescribed, laid out long ago by God on Mount Sinai as Moses, his prophet. Took down the word. That's where these little lambs, these sheep, will enter into the city. Makes sense to me? They bring them in through this opening. We will call it The sheep gate. Now, what does that word sheep mean? The sheep gate. Oh, oh, I gotta say this. Nod or say amen if you're with me. I miss don't quote a verse of scripture. The Lord is my shepherd. The sheep gate. He's the shepherd. Don't forget it, Amen. We're the sheep. We're the sheep of his pasture. He drew down there his zone Sort of T Z O N E. They don't spell it that way in Hebrew, but for pronunciation Zone Sheep What in the world does it mean, keep the noun in Hebrew? It comes from a verbal root that means this. You note takers get it to migrate To migrate. What in the world's that got to do with sheep? Sheep are led to some green pastures. They'll enjoy the nourishment. And then a good shepherd leads them on to other pastures. And then to other pastures. Sheep, I need about two amen, need to be led. Sheep need someone to shepherd them. in order to live a good, healthy existence. Oh boy, I gotta stop and preach a minute. We're God's sheep. We're God's lambs and need an amen. If you agree, we're on a journey We're migrating. Hey, am I right or wrong? We're not at home here. I don't belong. Peter said we're strangers. And we're pilgrims here on this earth. Anybody want to amen? We're heading for a city. Hallelujah. Oh my That's at least the etymology behind the word for sheep gate. What do we say sometimes this world is not my home. I'm just uh passing through. Thank God we are gonna anybody believe there's a mansion awaiting over yonder thank God The sheep gate, the sheep gate, we are on a journey. Oh. But uh and and thank you for where do I lay my Bibles? Right here. Help me keep up with my Bibles I lay it down as I travel about. First one, then Elisha, the high priest Rose up with his brethren and they builded the sheep gate. Who is this building the sheep gate? The high priest and his brethren, who would be the priests, belong to his family of his ten. That's the way God dealt with and thank you, preacher. It says Saint the choir right here on my position I was expecting, sir, we would see Jesus or something, and I get Satan wire Priests are working at the seat gate. Isn't that amazing? Who is it that will take these little lambs, inspect these little lambs Sacrifice these little lambs, shed the blood of these little lambs. Who is it that will lay the pieces of these little lambs on the altar and they will be burnt God's man. That would be the priest. And my high priest is involved. Oh, I gotta say something. I hope I get some amen. Thank God for preachers, thank God for his men who still believe in salvation, in the blood, who still believe in the cross of Calvary. I'm afraid the tribe of preachers who believe, and I'll say more about, I'm afraid we're becoming fewer and further between these are priests and they're interested in building the seat gate. Oh, oh Across the way in Sunday school this morning, we learned that the book of Nehemiah has a companion volume. That would be the book of Ezra. And we learned that in the book of Ezra there were some returnees from the Babylonian captivity who were intent on rebuilding the temple. The temple, I'll need about three amens. Put God's house first. Put God's house first. And uh Hegeh, Hagiah, little old Binny, preacher is the minor prophet, nestled over here in the inn. of the Old Testament. You know what his message was? His mess because the Jews had gotten a little lax rebuilding God's house. They had begun to turn toward their own homes instead of building God's And Haggai said, you better keep the emphasis on the house of God. He said, it's laying in shambles, and you're building your nice fancy homes. He said, God will judge you. God will deal with you. I'll need a good amen. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these other things. Keep God's house first, is what he said. We built the temple first. And now as we're rebuilding the gates, which gate is mission first? Which gate is re-emphasized again at the end. It's the sheep gate near the temple. It deals with worshiping God. in spirit and in truth, ladies and gentlemen. Somebody may have a leaky roof at home. Somebody may have a car that's Got some problems gonna have to be. Somebody may have a dozen other issues in your life, but I commend you today, you come to God's house Looks like you want him to be first meets them. Amen. That's the right thing to do. Hallelujah. The high priest and his fellow priests are booming at the sheep gate. Oh, I'm having a thought. I want to give you just a minute or two about that word priest. The high priest And his brethren, the priests. The Hebrew word is Kohen It's C-H, but it's a K-O-H-E-N. Co-in. I mean that's just the word for priest in the language that Nehemiah would have written. What does it mean? I want you to listen very carefully. The word means, or it is believed that it means to mediate. Well spell that if I can. M-E-D-I-A-T-E to mediate. What in the world is the mediator in in Southern English? A go-between. A go-between, someone who can introduce this party to this party, alienated parties, and bring them together again, the priests Around the sheet gate, mediator, mediator, or a go between Have y'all heard and uh the Catholic Church right now is going through a crisis. I mean, we we're not Catholics and not prone to be not sympathetic going through a crisis They have elected a relatively new pope. And uh the new Pope is overturning much of traditional Old-fashioned Catholic dogma. He he is even questioning the idea of the priesthood. Because you see, to them A priest is a mediator, I mean to this day. But when you can't go to God on your own, you need a priest. To mediate between you and God. Amen. I'll do some amen and I believe. And preacher I'm gonna do something and I hope it's okay. I'm gonna stand right here. Oh, don't get upset. I'll probably be up here again before the week's out There is one God and one mediator between God and man, and that would be to the Git an Amen Christ Jesus, our Lord. Aren't you glad you know the mediator? Here's what I'm trying to say. These priests who were mediators, Jesus had not yet come. His blood had not yet been shed. These priests representing God and they're working at the sheet gate. They're working at the sheep gate. Oh boy, have I got some good news I may have jumped a rabbit right here in my sermon. Let me teach you that expression. When a preacher jumps a rabbit, something has come to his mind that is not exactly, precisely in his text. And I'm being tempted to chase that rabbit. Instead of staying with verse one, we get right back to verse one. I had a professor in school theology class. Dr. John V. Ray was a brilliant man biblically. Dr. Ray told us his preacher boys, he said, don't jump rabbits. And he said, if you ever jump one, do not chase it. Then he smiled, yeah just a little smile. And then he said, Don't chase it, hope you get it, unless it's got some meat on it So I'm going I'm going after a rabbit here just for a minute, and I hope it's got some meat on it. Do you know what I can do today? Does anybody here believe God the Father answers the prayers of God the Son? I think I sneaked up on you with that question. It's coming again. Does anybody believe God the Father hears and answers the prayers of God the Son? I'll guarantee you he does. Jesus said, Gospel of John, that's where you said Father, he's raising Lazarus from the grave. Father, I thank thee that thou always hearest me. Thou always hearest me. If Jesus asked it, forget an amen. God's gonna grant it in his I just figured that's part of my rabbit. I just figured out one day if I could somehow get my request known to Jesus. And Jesus could ask the Father for me. I'm pretty sure it's called logic. I'm pretty sure I get my prayers answered. Oh boy. I feel the front bench calling again. I'm glad I can get on my knees. I'm glad I can go to my priest, not Eliashim. I'm glad I can go to my priest, and it's not Pope Francis. I'm glad I can go to my priest and it's not father someone here only. I'm glad I can go to the Son of God. I'm glad I can go to my Savior. I'm glad I can express my needs And he is my mediator. He will speak to the Father. And he who always is heard by his father, will I get it? Ask and it'll be given Seek and ye shall find. Not and it'll be a He will grant my request. Thank you All I'm trying to say is these men, Elijah, and his fellow priests. We're building the gate we call the Sikh Gate. And they were building it to the glory of God. Elias Him. Wonder what that name means. Hey, hey. This is a little queers. Someone tell me what the name Nehemiah means. You got it. One person so far. Y'all aren't doing good. You say, Preacher Bagel, I've never heard that. All of you who had the privilege of being in Sunday school, Nehemiah It's the word Nahum and God's name, Yah, Jehovah. And it means God comforts. God is my comfort. That's a good name to have But I brought up Nehemiah again, so I could define Eliaship What does the name Elisheb mean? I better get my Bible open. Right there to verse 1. Elisheb. It's the second word in my verse. This is going to be interesting. This one begins with E L. L. That's God's other main name in the Old Testament. He's Jehovah God. Use 6,519 times. Jehovah God, Old Testament. He is also, no, now some of you already nodded, so you can go ahead and say amen. He's also Elohim God. He's what? Elohim God. Elohim God is based upon a a Hebrew word El. El And what does L mean? It means strength. It means might. It means power. Can I preach this and get some Amen? God is the God of strength, He is the God of might, He is the God of power, and I sure am glad I know Him today. Eliashib means God, El, the powerful God, and then Shib. It is the Hebrew word S-H-U-B, Shub. And what does S-H-U-B mean? And we'll show you. It means to turn. T U R. It means to turn. As you're going this direction All of a sudden you turn and now you're going this direction. Preacher, it is the Old Testament verb for repentance. For repentance. Elisha means, oh boy, I hope I get some amen. He is the God who turned me. I need a few more. I'm going to do that again. He is the God who came where I was, but me under Holy Ghost conviction I by grace through faith trusted Jesus He's the God who turned me around in my life. That's what his name means. What a testimony it is. Hold on, I gotta look at my timer. Oh, go ahead, Peter. Thirty-nine minutes? Twenty-six seconds. Are y'all okay? Yes, sir. I forgot to ask the preacher what time you usually get out. I hope he's long-winded myself The Lion Sheb, the high priest, they build at the sheep gate. Oh The sheep gate. Did I talk about the sheep gate yet? Oh yeah. I told you what it meant. Zone. Sheep. Lambs. Migrating on a journey. But but I have to say some more. And I've got to be mindful of the time. I realize that. But uh I thought you didn't have a clock. But you do. In fact, it's a big one. Here's the verse I'm going for. The sheep gate. I've already mentioned we're God's lambs, we're in God's family, he's a but the sheep gate. It's John chapter 1, it's verse number 29. Let me see if you're going to go here with me. John the Baptist lifted that old bony finger, pointed to the hill up there. Someone's just cristed the hill and he said, Behold! Behold the Lamb of God. There he is, the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Oh my do you know what I believe the sheepgate's talking about? What the sheepgate's representing, and why it's gate number one It is a picture of the coming Lord Jesus. He hasn't arrived yet, but he's promised. He's on the way. The Messiah of Israel. The Savior of the Gentiles Jesus is the Lamb of God, and I believe the sheep cake is the picture of the Lord in his soul-saving capacity. Hallelujah Uh well preacher, so what? What's the message? Do you know how many churches Preacher, it's astounding and it's heartbreaking. Do you know how many churches today the congregations will assemble? The choir will sing its anthems, the preacher, he or she will give the eulogy, homily, sermon it, what I call them, and uh and uh not one time. Will the blood of Jesus be mentioned? Not one time will the plan of salvation be given Not one time will the cross of Calvary and salvation by grace be raised. Oh my Oh my, how we need an America to rebuild the seat gate. How we need an America, I'm not gonna do like this I'm not going to do like this. If you amen it, you're going to have to do it on your own. How we need in America a generation of churches that'll get back to preaching the blood, the cross. Calvary and our Savior mighty to save, our Savior sinless, our Savior dying for us, our Savior still washing away sin. Hallelujah. By the way, I'm gonna say this, see how you act. I wouldn't belong to a church that didn't preach the salvation. Debbie and I well I preach a lot in the South, Southeast North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, yes sir. Uh down in that area. Last week we're in Illinois, but And and and soon, two weeks I guess we're going to Michigan. Well maybe I don't preach in this afternoon, which is an older day But mostly in the Southeast. And uh we don't y we're in the Metropolitan Would you say Baltimore area and not that all far? Apparently out of Washington DC, the preacher mentioned Bible uh music. Could I make an announcement No matter what part of the country we're in, no matter north, south, east, or west, we can't ever run the risk of getting away from preaching the blood of Jesus Christ. Oh, forget an amen. The blood of Jesus Christ. That's the only way to heaven. Hallelujah It's not good works, it's not human ability, it's not baptism, it's by grace through faith in the shed blood of the Lion. The sheep gate. Make it paramount in your life. All right, Brother Bagel, you've preached that, get off of it. And I need to, but I can't. Brother Backwell have been saved eight years, twelve years, been saved thirty-seven years. Hallelujah. Praise God for your faithfulness. I'm gonna say something No matter how long you've been saved, no matter how long you've been saved, don't ever get away from the old rugged cross. Don't ever get away from the old rugby. It's been some time back now. A man came to me and criticized his preacher. Came to the evangelist and criticized his preacher. Let me stop and say that's about the dumbest thing to do I've ever heard of He said, I'm sick and tired. He said, all we fear is salvation. He said, all we get is Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. The old rugged cross, cross, cross, and blood, blood, blood. And he's criticized. I don't know how you're gonna handle this. I think he ought to have been praising God. I say I think he ought to be rejoicing that I know we must grow. I know we have to go further on the maturity, but oh my In this day where there's such a sparse mention of the cross of Calvary, stay around the seat gate. It wouldn't hurt us to get up every morning Slide down on our knees, take a visit to the seat gate, take a visit to the foot of the cross of Calvary, and say, Lord, thank you for saving my soul from a devil's hell. Rebuild. Keep it strong. That sheep gate in your life. You know what I'm having the thought As fine a looking congregation as you are. God knows as attentively as you've been listening to me As many of you as are taking notes, as many of you seem to be, you're into it, and I'm so grateful. There could be here today somebody Who's never been to the seat gate? Could be somebody who does not know Jesus as their Lord, their Savior In the Redeemer. I'm getting ready to close in case you hadn't figured it out. Well, I didn't think you was gonna laugh I said that once and a fellow quoted a verse of scripture to me. Finally brethren. That's what he quoted them. Finally brethren. You may not have been to the sheet gate. Here's why I need some help. But you could go there this morning. You may not know him, but you can meet him. The Savior, the Redeemer, the Mediator. He'll reach down where you are, where I was in my trespasses and my sins. And he'll touch you Introduce you to his love. You by grace through faith can trust him. And he'll bring you into relationship. The word is atonement. He'll bring you into harmony. He'll bring you into friendship and need an amen with Almighty God. Are you saved? And if you're not, you can't. A good amen and I'm done. Whoa, whoa, whoa, what let me say it first You are eager beavers all of a sudden. Let's don't ever get away from the sheep. Okay. Would you stand with us? Our heads are bowed.