The fountain gate. And did you hear what the teens just saying to us? Jesus is coming again It's got to do with the East Gate. We hadn't got there yet, but somebody knew. And I am grateful for that cooperation. Nehemiah chapter 3, verse number 28. Nehemiah three, verse twenty-eight. And from above the horse gate. Do notice that. From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one over against his house. They're just working their way around the city. It began Sunday morning at the sheet gate. Tonight we're down to the horse gate. It was on the eastern side of Jerusalem. Named the Horse Gate, because that's where the horses, usually with a military connotation, would come into and go out of the city, the horse gate. It's got to have something to do with battle. It's got a militant theme If I didn't know better, I would think maybe the Lord's telling us, and some amens are in order here, that we are at war. That's the way I feel impressed. Feel led to preach it, the horse gate. How do we sing it? Onward, Christian, marching as toward the horse gate. It would not hurt us to brush up on our battle technique. Now there's a better way to put that. It would not hurt us to be sure we put on the whole armor of God in our Christian lives. The horse gate. David had them, and Solomon kept even David's collection of horses, hundreds and ultimately thousands. Infantrymen and soldiers who would ride with bows and arrows. A horse was a formidable weapon. In that day, the horse gate. But you know what? Israel got to where they were trusting their horses They're horsemen, their infantrymen, their cavalrymen, and that did not please God In fact, in Deuteronomy chapter 17, listen to what God said to the kings of Israel. There were some things they could not collect. They could not collect silver and gold. God never wants us to be a lover of money for money's sake. They could not collect wives. I don't know if you're gonna smile or not. One is enough. And I mean that in the highest sense of the word. They could not collect horses. God wanted Israel to depend on him for their military strength. And they're mine. I'd rather have God than ten thousand horsemen on my side. That's the idea. But the kings did not abide. By that prohibition on horses, nor collecting wives, nor finances or money for that matter. The horse gate. First time the word we learn, all of us that study the Bible, a one major principle of hermeneutics, Bible interpretation. It's called the law of first mention. You want to know what something really means in the Bible. Go back to the first time the Holy Spirit used that word or that concept. It it it'll unlock a treasure trove of information First time the word horse is used in the Bible. Didn't deal with Israel, dealt with Egypt. Dealt with Pharaoh, dealt with his army. You know they had come chasing after Israel, gonna bring them back to Egypt or destroy them And uh God parted the Red Sea, Israel went across dry sky, and Pharaoh and his army didn't fare so well. The horses and the riders of Pharaoh's army drowned. Law of first mention drowned. God does not look upon horses in that sense. Favorably. Now I've really dug a hole for myself. I've given you negative information about horses, and I want to try to take the idea a and and give it what it has to at least mean, uh the militancy, the battle thing, and tell us that we are to be, I'm going to use Paul's words. I hope I get an amen. Good soldiers of Jesus Christ How many of you believe we are at war tonight? Well we w we wrestle not necessarily against flesh and blood, but principalities and power we're at war against the devil in his crowd tonight. Wouldn't hurt to go by and strengthen and rebuild the horse gate In our lives. How in the world are you going to do that? What do I have that would be a formidable form of a that would be a significant weapon against the devil? His fallen angels that hoard of iniquity. I'm just going to quote a verse from Revelation chapter 12. And they overcame him. And they overcame the devil, needs the main men's, by the blood of the Lamb. Well, I'm thankful for the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ and its power to defeat the devil tonight. Amen. In my days of pastoring, I used it Derek as a counseling tool, really. Somebody seemed like the devil's working them over. It seemed like the uh the devil is hounding and harassing them a and they're falling victim way, way, way too often. I just remind them of the power of the blood of uh you you may not agree. I don't think the devil can stand around the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh learn to I I don't know if this is the best way to put learn to plead the blood. Learn to Uh make much of the blood, learn to remind the devil you're washed in the blood of the Lamb. Memorizing some blood verses and sing some blood songs along the way. We are at war. I mentioned it a minute ago. I want to uh address it if I can. Uh preacher, and by the way, did you know Somebody joins the Marines or the Navy or the Army, whatever, br Air Force. Did you know they don't have to buy their own uniforms? Amen. Don't play along with me. They don't have to buy their own guns or their own ammunition. It's provided by the one for whom you're fighting. Oh, I want to develop that thought just a minute. I'm in the Lord's army tonight I don't have to provide my own armor. I don't have to provide my own weaponry. I'm so glad. I'm so glad. I'm so thankful. He provides it for me. Put on the whole armor of God. It's command. It's an impairment. I was reading, and he's a pretty good preacher. His book on Ephesians 6 is entitled, What to Wear to the War. Isn't that catchy? What to wear to the war? What will I wear? The whole armor of God put on, oh boy That is a Greek verb. It means watch my coat. It means to wrap up in. It becomes the English word endued. Put on the whole armor of God. Wrap up in the whole armor of God. Dress yourself. This preacher whom I I gave reference a moment ago What to wear to the war. He says, if Gary, he says, every morning when he gets up, shave him. He says, I mentally put on the armor of God. He says, I talked to myself about the seal to faith. And I say, Lord, give me faith for the day. Help me to be a faithful servant. Talks about the uh uh the the belt or uh or the girdle of truth. Lord don't let me tell a lie today. Don't let me misrepresent anything today. Lord, remind me thy word is truth in my heart today. And he went through the faith, the helmet of salvation. Boy, I'm glad I'm saved tonight, but I'm glad I know I'm saved tonight. I'm glad I've got the knowledge of my salvation tonight. Helmet of salvation. Sword of the Spirit. That be the word of God Feet shot with the preparation of the gospel of the peace of the Lord Jesus Christ, put on the whole, oh, how we need to dress for the battle in hand. It's the idea of the horse gate. I began discussing the horse gate negatively. Now I want to describe it positively. It's in the book of Job, chapter 39. One of these days when God gives me liberty, I want to preach on the animals of the book of Job. And I plan to design a little booklet, much like the booklet you hold in your hands, Nehemiah III. It's going to have the animals. In the book of Job. Here's my favorite. Comes from Job 39. No doubt whatsoever. It is a description, listen to me, of a war horse. A what war horse. A war horse, yes, thank you. He's big. He's bold. He's strong. Not a scared bone in his body. He is trained for battle. I'm going to need an amen. And he can't wait till the war begins. And here old Lester roll off preaching on it to hurt him uh in Indiana preach this message. He called it, it's a quote right out of our King James Bible, Paul and in the valley Here's that horse. The battle is raging. And he hears it approaching. And he's down there ready to go. He is anxious. He is pawing in the valley. He is ready to attack the enemy. He won't turn around. He won't kick an out. He won't be afraid. He is ready. Oh boy. He is ready to take on the devil to take on him. Oh, the war horse. The war horse. I want to be a war horse for the Lord Jesus Don't y'all know that the first time you're not going to be able to do that. Carries the idea of a battle that must be fought and a battle that is a if a if the church Is ever gonna have to be the church militant? That means the church at war is going to be in these last days. Does anybody agree with me? Oh my, on every hand they're departing from the faith. On every hand. You better thank God you're part of a church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church That'll stand in the face of opposition. That'll stand I'm back to the old gate, I think, that'll stand on those fundamental truths of the path. Hallelujah for a church that'll stand right. Hawn in the valley, ready to go. Oh my. Now my mind's in Isaiah 50. Jesus. If the war horse is a picture of conquering the devil, the greatest war horse that ever lived, is Jesus Christ, the darling Son of God. Let me tell you something. And boy, you're listening well. We need to back this up a little. I'm afraid that we preachers have given a misrepresentation of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Heard somebody say it again the other day. They said here was Jesus, bold as he could be, but they said when it got down near the cross, Jesus got cold feet And that in the garden of Gethsemane he's thinking, Oh God, oh God, no, no, I I I don't know if I can do this. Uh let this cut pass from me. And I don't know precise I'm not the expert on how to handle Gethsemane. I'm not saying I know all the answer, but I'm telling you what, that's not the answer to it. My Savior is no coward, ladies and gentlemen. You will never convince me he got cold feet. You will never convince me he was trying to back that. In fact, that's why he came down here to die for the sins of the world. Now that's how Isaiah fifty came to my mind. Oh what a chapter. I have a booklet on it. I preached it in a revival. Isaiah fifty it's unique God the Father talks a little while. God the Son talks a little while. And then God the Holy Spirit talks a little while. It is a training laden chapter. And when Jesus speaks among many of the I gave my back to the snygers. That's when they beat him, right prior to the cross of Calvary. And he describes And then he says this, I'm going to the cross. It's gonna be war Who will contend with me? Who is it that's going to confront and fight Jesus on the cross of Calvary? I answer that. It's the devil. It's the devil who would do anything he could to thwart God's great plan of salvation. And by the way, the devil lost that day. Hallelujah. Who will contend with me? And then Jesus says, Let him come near. Let him come. Let me tell you Jesus at the cross just looked at the devil and said, I hope somebody will smile Bring it on, buddy. I'll meet you there. We'll see who comes out on top, who comes out of here. My Savior for the good. Oh my I wanna I wanna have the horse gauge in my life. Strong and in good condition. Oh, there's so much more that I'd like to say. Paul's lifelong desire as a Christian. He said it way back in Acts 20 when he was talking to the elders of the Ephesian church. He said, here's my goal. I want to finish my course with joy. I want to finish this thing. And I want to do so, not a bitter old man. I want to finish it with joy Oh Dr. Vance Habner, preached he's in heaven, has been. He preached a sermon called Home Before Dark Told about how his mama would let him go down to the creek and play out in the woods and play. And she said, But Vance, you be home before dark. I don't want to be worried about you. You be home before dark He made that into a parable and he said, God's given me a good mind. I still believe the book just like it's written. And he said before I'd compromise before I'd backslide, before I'd turn on the faith, said I hope God will call me home for dark. I hope God will call me home before I misrepresent His word, I love the sound of that. Thank God I want to be home before dark too. Paul did. He wanted to finish the course with joy And guess what? 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses 6 and 7 and 8. Y'all know it. Let me tell you to you, though I enjoy the verses I believe he said the time of my departure is in hand. But then I believe he said I fought a good fight. I finished the course. And I have kept the faith. That's what I want to be. I wanna be, I wanna fight a good fight. I wanna I wanna I wanna do what God sent me down here to do Now uh that's enough on the force gate. It can't go much further time-wise. My challenge to you tonight, decide you want to be a better warrior. For the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to say something that's uncharacteristic, I don't know why, it's coming out of my mouth. Don't you sit there at work and let them tear your Savior to pieces. Don't you sit there at work and let them take God's name in vain. Don't you sit there at work and let them tell their filthy uh smuddy old job You stand up, uh rebuild the horse gate, become a good soldier of Jesus Christ, you just brag on God a little bit while they're doing Good soldier of Jesus Christ. No horse gate. Oh, I want to say more. Go with me the verse With me to verse number twenty-nine. Oh, oh, oh, look at the end of verse twenty-eight. From above the horse gate prepared the priest everyone over against his I need that word against his house We learned earlier this week there were people who came from Jericho and helped build those walls, a 45-mile walk. I admired them. But here's some folks. They're building the wall right at their house. We know from the book of uh uh Joshua, we know from Rahab, there were people that lived on the ancient city walls, or at least they did uh uh in in Jericho, Rahab city These fellows live right there at the wall and they're rebuilding near their home. Near their home. I don't have long to preach this. Mike can do it in two minutes Of all the places you want that wall to be strong. It ought to be the place where you live. Amen. All my I want to say something. I don't even know to whom I'm saying it. I saw those young people singing there again tonight. And then singing a song that had a bit of difficulty to it, I would say. The words had been memorized Everything seemed to be on key, at least to my perceptive ability, and they're singing about Jesus coming again. Uh I need some amen. Somebody has been building the wall around the home where they live. Oh, I thank God for that. What was it Joshua saying? It's for me and my house. We will serve the Lord, building their at home. You know what a wall does. Two things. That's not gonna be in the two-minute parameter, I'm sorry, I thought it was. First thing the wall does, it keeps the wrong people out. It keeps the wrong people out. One reason that I enjoy the Book of Proverbs, there's several, is that the Book of Proverbs gives you two dozen, in fact, over two dozen kinds of people you don't want to associate with. You want to stay away from them. You don't want anything to do with a lazy man. You don't want anything to do with an immoral man. You don't want anything to do with a liar, you don't want anything to do with a prostitute, you don't want anything to do with a thief to get some Amen's right there. Hey, make the Proverbs, make no friendship with an angry man and with a furious man thou shalt not don't hang around him. Lest thou learn his ways And he become a snare to yourself. Hey, build some walls and keep that crowd away. There's the second reason you build a wall. First is to keep the wrong crowd out. The second reason is to keep the right crowd in. Yeah ma'am. I think of uh what was her name, Dinah. Jacob's daughter Dinah. And one day she decides she'll go for a And oh what a mistake it was. Ended up in trouble, ended up leading to warfare, ended up leading to needless death and bloodshed because a little girl didn't stay at home where she ought to stay at home. Build the walls at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You're doing a good job, it looks like Keep these precious, innocent young people from getting out there in the world is message. Are y'all okay with that? Boy, I got attacked one night after saying something along that line. That man was he's hot under the collar. That means Southern dog. He was upset at me. He said, all that keeping them away from sin is a said, I don't believe it. He said, I'm gonna take my boy I'm going to carry him to a nightclub, one I can get him into. He said, I I'm going to carry him to a filthy movie. He said, I'm going to expose him to this, that let me give you the end of that story. The man who told me that is out of church Been out of church a long time and he lost his boy in the process of abstain from the very appearance of evil, ladies and build a wall and keep him home. Now I realize there's a time we'll interact with the world, but interacting with the world is one thing. Pitching your tent towards Sodom is another thing altogether. Well, uh we need to go to the next verse. Whoever is praying that I have liberty, you might ought to back off that prayer a little bit. We're gonna be here pretty good spell this evening. My my my verse verse number twenty-nine After them repaired Zadok. And I told you earlier that name is righteousness. Zodek, it's righteousness in Hebrew, the son of Imr, over against his house. After him repaired Shemiah, the son of Shechaniah, the keeper. The keeper of the You Tell Me East Gate. The East Gate. Oh, let me talk a little bit about the Eastgate. Guess which direction it faced? Oh, Brother Bagel, we know about that one. It faces east. Or need to tell you something. I don't know what we can make of it. Tonight in Jerusalem is closed. Absolutely blocked, and the Muslims have put a cemetery right in front of it. They don't they don't like that idea of the East Gate ever being opened up for uh egress and access or uh the Jewish people. Man, we gotta try to figure out what the East Gates about. Comes from a word that means the rising of the sun. The rising of the sun, which would be, wouldn't it, east. We were After church last night went and ate a bite with Derek, his wife, and the boys. Good meal. Could I get an Amen? Barbecue And uh could I get another amen cornbread? Amen. Hallelujah. I don't know how I got on the food, but nonetheless. Derek was talking, told me about the acreage the church owned and the ultimate goal maybe of relocating, you know, and that was just wonderful and encouraging For this is not a bad location if you can find it, but boy, that's a good location. Uh uh over over there, not far off The interstate and uh and I thank God for that. And he said well i it's right here to the east Dumb me. I thought, where is the east? My phone I can get out my utilities and find out where the east is, but I wasn't going to do that in front. Where is the east? That was not the situation in Jerusalem. They faced that gate to why why would they do that? Don't let me forget. It's blocked up. I need to tell you when it's gonna be open someday. MIFCAD, bring me back to the East Gate, fellas, if you will Eastgate probably represents, see if anybody's ahead of me, somebody is, or they probably wouldn't have sung that tonight. It's symbolic of the second coming of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Can I talk to you about that a little bit? Well, where in the world you get that idea? From Jesus. He was talking one day, his disciples had questioned him about the coming of the Lord, the end times, Bible prophecy. He said, Fellas, this is the way it's going to be. As the lightning shineth out of the east, so shall the coming of the Son of Man be. I don't guess he can be dogmatic or hard-headed about that, but to me that sounds an awful lot like one of these days Jesus is coming. He's gonna split open the eastern sky and he's a coming together. Hallelujah. Are y'all okay with that? Old Dr. Harold Sattler years and years ago on his radio program every morning. Here was the song he loved. They came on there thing song. Sung old in daybreak. I can hear them now. Some golden daybreak Jesus will come. Oh my you say, is that all you got, brother? Oh no, Malachi. That's the end of the little book of Malachi. He said one of these days the sun Of righteousness is going to rise. And that's not S-U-N, son. That's S-O-M. God's coming back God's Son, the Son of righteousness is going to arise with healing in his wings, in his rays, in his radiance, and guess where the sun rises? That the east game. Jesus is coming again. But you know what? Though He's coming again, and though everybody I'm preaching to the choir, everybody in this house says, I believe it, I know it, you're amen in what We don't think of it. We don't make enough of his second coming in our lives. Oh, how I need to revisit that East Gate again and again and again. He's one of my heroes. Old Dr. M. R. Dehan, Sr. You gotta say Sr. He was a medical doctor who got saved and called to preach. Oh, I wish you could hear his voice. I can't do sort of a rough, raspy voice. The radio Bible class, that was the ministry. Has anybody remembered it? Has anybody heard it? Goes back years. Every Sunday afternoon he taught the Word of God. Radio Bible class is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Every December I get to preach in a little place called Nuego, Michigan. And guess what? You have to go through Grand Rapids to get there. Boy, it don't mean to you what it did to me. One year, it's forty-five minutes I guess north of Grand Rapids, I rode back down into town. And I went out there and it's changed so much. I don't want to give a bad report, but it's to me it's probably bigger, but it's not the ministry it once was. I read his biography. Dr. De Hunt. Oh, time out. Learn to enjoy Christian biography. Now that was a semi good amen. Whether you read it or not, you still could agree with me. Learn to enjoy Christian biography. I'd rather read the biography of Paul the Apostle. I'd rather read the biography of David Livingston I'd rather read the biography of Dr. John Rice than Dr. Martin Luther King or or or for that matter Donald Trump or for that matter uh uh anybody for that matter some sports figure or for that matter I'm telling you you can't beat the biography of great men and great women who live for God. Amen. Are y'all okay? Amen. Making too much sense. You say, Brother Michael, you're you're messing up. No, no, no. Proverbs He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. More than why am I thinking old brother Scott Hanks while I'm trying to quote Proverbs? That young man he pastors out in Kansas. Memorize the whole book. The whole book of Proverbs. I feel honored When I'm in his presence. And that's one of the verses of Proverbs. You know what you're doing when you're reading Christian biography? You're walking with wise men and wise women. Learn to read Christian biography. Be that as it may, and I don't even know exactly how I got on that. I'm trying to preach it. Oh. Dr. Dehan. In his office years ago before he died, watch. Any time a visitor came, salesman or whatever He'd go over to his little blind while they were there, and he would lift the slant. I was being sure that wasn't a real fire right there And he would look toward the heavens. Invariably. You're gonna draw this question What are you looking for, sir? And here's what he would say. Hope I get a name out. I'm looking for Jesus to come. His biographer says that he had on his desk a little plaque, only two words on it. It was there all the years he preached the word of God. Here are the two words, see if you can figure it out. Perhaps today some of you got it. Let's try it again. Perhaps today. They don't talk a lot about Dr. DeHons Sr. anymore, but they're in the lobby. They've got a little chest with some curios in it. And guess what's there? That little perhaps. Today, I don't have a little plaque like that, but it wouldn't hurt me to go by the east gate every now and then It wouldn't hurt me to go by the East Gate every day and say to Brother Bagwell, gotta get an Amen. Perhaps today, perhaps today my Lord is coming again. Amen. Somebody said the other day, not not refuting you, I'm I agree, we're looking, but said, I've start I I've stopped looking for signs and I've started listening for sounds. The trump of God is going to sound. I got a don't don't got the picture. You you see what I'm saying. Uh the East Gate Uh that great passage I quoted Paul to Goodfire kept. Henceforth there is laid up for me, get this son, a crown of righteousness. Crowns for faithful service. Which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me It that day. Notice that Did. He had stood before Nero, who's a crooked judge. He said, One of these days I'm going to stand before a righteous judge. Give me that crown of righteousness. But not to me only. Not to me only. Somebody smile at me undo all those that love his appearing. That love his appearing. Is anybody here looking forward to Jesus coming? Oh, I want to. I am in my heart. But I want to be in ever increasing measure looking forward to the Savior's return. If I had time, let me look It just so happens I do. If I had time, and I'll do this quick the major words of the New Testament On the coming of Jesus. Listen to this one: Apocalypsis Apocalypse, it becomes our English word, apocalypse. But what in the world does it mean, apocalypse? A valid concept of the coming of our Savior. I'm doing something, I'm illustrating it. My wife ironed my handkerchief. There it is. I've used it to cover up, and it's obvious, my hand. Apocalypse means this. Will I get an amen? To remove the veil. Let's do it again. Boys, I'm sorry. To remove the veil. Hey, hey! And I I hope you won't think less of me after I tell you, I've never seen Jesus. I've never seen him face to face. I said that one night and the lady stood up and told me she had seen him face to face. Notice I didn't ask you if you ever have. I just told you I hadn't. Bless her hearts. I've never seen him. I don't know how tall he is. Can't tell you how much he weighed. All we know is he's a Jewish gentleman But oh one of these days. One of these days heaven's gonna open. One of these days I'm gonna you know what's gonna happen? I'm gonna see him, I'm gonna see him as he is and oh Say amen when it happens. A great unveiling is going to us. Jesus is coming again. Parasia. Parasia. It's another word for the second coming of our Lord. What does it mean? Parasia. Parai, we learned it in Paraclete, let's say, means right by my side. Parasia, the suffix, it means to be or to come. Oh, one of these days Jesus is coming again, and he's not coming just for my brother here. Or this little family here, or the men of God that are sitting over here. He is coming for me. He is coming for you. And when he does, he's going to baker to get an amen. Right by my side. Oh, even so come, dear Lord Jesus. Why don't every morning when you wake up, you look toward the sunrise? You say, I don't know, Brother Bagwell. I I believe he's coming and I think everything you said is pretty much accurate, but but I I don't know about last prayer in the Bible Last prayer in the Bible. Even so come Lord Jesus. That's a prayer God's going to answer one of these days. And oh to be eager. Oh to be ready. I've got to get to that gate, Miss Cad. But I want to say this, and it's simply review for most of you. It may be all of you. Jesus' coming is in two phases. Can I say that? Amen. What do you mean it's in two phases? He is coming. In the air to catch us away into his presence. Are y'all all right with that? It is called I'm gonna give you the word, it is called the rapture of the church. I go to some wonderful places to preach, but there's some Strange people that come sometimes and I'd preach one night on the rapture. There's a fella loudmouth, and it came right there And he was praying it for my benefit. He said, Lord, help some of us to learn the word rapture is not in the Bible. He said, Help some of us to learn that it's an erroneous doctrine to be and I mean there he is bellowing it out right there by my face. I just want to make an announcement. The word rapture is not in the Bible, but the truth of the rapture sure is in the Bible. The word Trinity's not in the Bible neither, but I believe it, don't you? You want to meet him in the air. Oh, at the rapture, if I understand it, he does not come all the way to the earth. In the air, we're caught up together with the dead in Christ. Somebody asked me the other day, they said, why did the dead in Christ rise first? Then we who are alive and remain. And I'm not real smart, but I can answer that. They got six feet further to go. I'm looking for that day. That's the message of the East Gate. Praise the dear Lord. He'll reward you. There's a crown if you love his appearance. Second phase of the Lord's coming again. Oh, oh, oh. I gotta tell you this Once he comes to catch us away into his presence, Paul says, and then we shall ever be with the Lord. We shall ever be with the Lord. From that moment forward, Parosia, I will always be with my Savior. I said that because now the second phase of his coming, John gives us an eyewitness account. It's in Revelation 19. Looks And there a door is open in heaven. And he sees a white horse. Boy, I just want to preach and preach and preach on this, and I cannot Mip Ted is waiting. It's a white horse. Always in Roman culture, the general rode the white horse. And not just any general, the victorious general, the conquering general, rode the white horse. He's riding the white horse. I don't think John immediately identifies him. He says He said all I can tell you, he's got many crowns on his head. He said his vesture is dipped in blood. He said he's got a shirt two edge sword associated with him. And he said, he said, wait a minute, I'm making it out. His name is emblazoned on his side. King of Kings and Lord of Lords, I know him. And he comes back all the way to earth. Could he get an amen? All the way to earth. Zechariah 14 says his feet So stand in that day on the Mount of Olive, and guess what? We're coming with him. Hallelujah. And he's gonna set up his kingship, his kingdom, he's gonna rule and reign for a millennium. Amen. Are y'all okay? Oh Lord come. The message of the East Gate. Was there something y'all supposed to remind me about? Preacher, it's blocked up today. No access. We owe this little nugget of truth to Ezekiel When the Lord comes again, when he enters, all the old rabbis say if the triumph and entry in Matthew 21, well Mark, Luke, and John record it too The Lord entered through the east gate. The east gate. To go toward the temple. The east gate They gotta block it. Ezekiel says this, said when he comes again, just smile at me. He is going through that east gate. I got a feeling he knows how to get that thing open. I'd say if you've got an empty tomb somehow, you come out of there and they come and roll the stuff, you won't have any trouble with the Eastgate, thank God Oh, our Savior, the East Gate. He's coming again. Then let's go. Lastly. To the gate. Oh yeah, verse 31. I wish I had time now. Verse 30. Barekiah is repairing over against his chamber. Chamber. I don't have time to preach it. The word chamber means a little cube. This boy lives in one room, not a house. One room. And yet his one room, his resources were meager. His one room was Mighty important to him. I'll need an Amen. It might be an insignificant, but it'll work. It'll help me. His one room was important enough to be sure the wall was strong around him. One little room. And he's working diligently. Verse number uh thirty-one after him repaired Malkaiah the goldsmith's son, well, under the place of the Nethanims and of the merchants over against the gate. Metcat to the going up of the corner The gate Mythcad. I want to commend you all as a church God makes me do this every week. Not this text, but preach a revival. A lot of weeks, preacher, I preach through Wednesday night And then I give the little preacher boys somewhere Thursday and Friday night. And go and preach. If it's where I'm beginning Sunday morning within reasonable driving distance, I'll give them Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night. I get to do this a lot. And oh, do I enjoy what God's letting me do in his work? But you all amaze me. All the white don't let this get out, it'll ruin an evangelist. Forty-seven minutes and twelve seconds. I hadn't seen anybody yawn yet. And please don't start. You've given me undivided attention. A remarkable number of you are taking notes. And to this couple right here. While I've referred to the scripture, mentioned the gates, their heads are down, reading their Bibles Taking their notes. I like to be around people. It's all right to say amen that love the Word of God. Oh boy, we're back at the Watergate, aren't we? Thank God. The gate miftah. Hebrew word. What does it mean? Listen. It's military again. Fourth gate was military. And uh east gate, second cut Mifkat means uh the gathering place. It means more than that. The place of review. It's a place where they lined the soldiers up for dress inspection. The general's coming back. He's going to look over the troops And see how they presented themselves, how prepared they are for battle. That's the gate mythcat. No doubt about that. Even the liberals will give you that on the gate myth. It is the inspection place Well now, Brother Bagel, bless your heart. You've done fairly well on these gates, but I don't see how in the world you're going to apply in station gates. Uh it follows the East Gate. You all been amen and all night, and I love you for it. He's coming again, he's coming to get us. There is such a thing as the rapture on the way. Oh, I gotta tell you this. There is a lady who teaches in the Midwest in a seminary of all in the Midwest. In the last few years, she has written a book that she claims demolishes the rapture. It is funny. It really is. Pathetic as well. Uh uh uh. I bought it, I probably shouldn't have. I read it. I wanted to see what kind of ammunition she had. But if that was a ceasefire, say amen. Didn't have any. But she had her little theories. About how the rapture was not going to take place. I'm back on the East Gate. I gotta get to Miss Kat. I know where that seminary is. I preached there a few weeks ago And I know we don't get our brothers. But if I get to be alive when the rapture occurs, and I hope so. I've already told the Lord I wouldn't mind being near that seminary when the rapture occurs. I wouldn't mind you to be. And if I am, and I know it's gonna be quick in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, if I'm able, I'm gonna look down there and I'm gonna go All the way to glory. Hallelujah. Gaunting. A clear Bible doctrine. The rapture of the church. But something happens after the rapture. I'm just going to say it and we're going to run out of time. It's called, I need some eight minutes, the judgment seat of Christ. Let me tell you what the judgment sees of Christ is the Lord lines up his troops. Sounds like a horse-gate material to me. He lines up his truth and he inspects us. I'm going to use the stronger word. Will they get an amen? He judges us. The judgment seat of Christ. I got some good news for you. You'll never go to the great white throne judgment and be judged there, thank you. That's for the wicked, that's for the unknown, but I am answerable to my Savior on how I've lived my life to the glory of Jesus. That's where that rewards business comes in. The crowns of her faithful service comes in. And uh and uh Oh my oh my it's required required of the steward of a worker that a man be found faithful. I want my motive I wanna oh my when I'm judged, when I'm analyzed, I wanna I wanna end up with some gold and silver and precious stones, not wood and hay and stubble. Are y'all okay with that? I believe it's the judgment of our motives. Of our motives. If I stood here tonight and preached this sermon for acclaim, it'll be not one I owed of a reward. If I preach this sermon tonight, those the preacher mentioned the love offering, zealt zero in eternity But if I brought this message tonight with a burden heart, wanting to remind you to put on the whole armor of God and to pray for Jesus' return And to prepare for the if I've done it, thank God over there, there will be some reward for that. Y'all okay then? Live today in light of the judgment seat of Christ that's coming on down the road. Are y'all alright? Well, preacher, how would I do that? Paul put it this way. I got a glance. Paul put it this way. If we would judge ourselves We would not be judged. We can save ourselves a whole lot of trouble if we'll shape our lives up instead of him having to shape our lives. Well that what uh I appreciate the amen, but it didn't knock me over, I'll tell you that. Just like we humble ourselves, we can discipline ourselves. Amen. We can discipline ourselves. There's some things I can do, there's some things I ought to do, but there's some things I cannot do and serve the Lord. Paul lived his life under the light, under the examination of the thought of the judgment seat of Christ. What was it? Study to show thyselves. Study to show thyselves a magnetum lore eight. No. Study to show thyselves preeminent among the rest. No. Steady to show thyselves thy need to name them. These three words approved unto God to live our lives. Approved unto God. And if I had time, I do not Neither am I going to take it. I'd love to discuss what I believe are five mentioned in the New Testament crowns. That can be earned. I'll not hesitate to use that word for faithful Christian service. I know you're taking notes. It's the crown of glory The incorruptible crown, the crown of righteousness, the crown of rejoicing. And the crown of life. Each can be earned for specific areas, I think, of duty. In fact, let me just go ahead and tell you this. If you'll smile, there's a soul winner's crown. I say there's a soul winner's crown. I believe there's a martyr's crown. I believe there's a crown for being a faithful shepherd to a flock of God's believers. I just want to hear this one day. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Hallelujah, I do. That's enough. Preaching isn't it? One night. How sweet. Wish I had a picture of that little head shaking. Darling. The gate mist that were at war, but on the whole armor of God. The East Gate, he is coming. Let him know you can't well let him know you're anxious to see. And then the gate myth head line up. We're going to be judged one of these days. Be faithful to our Lord. Amen. If you're here tonight and you'd say, boy, he did all that preaching and not a bit of it hit me. I am in good shape. You might ought to visit the valley gate again. Because honestly, from the preacher to everybody else who's listened so respectfully There's some areas of our lives that need improvement. Oh God, help me. Help me. It is fifty-seven minutes into this sermon. I wish I hadn't told you that. I need just a few more minutes. Will you let me have it? Let's see. Let's see how well you listen. Uh it is the last night. But uh that last verse thirty-two, between the going up of the corner under the sheet gate repaired the goldsmith Back at the sheep gate once more. The sheep gate. What's that? I'm gonna put it in one word, that'd be Jesus, wouldn't it? Starts with Jesus, ends with Jesus. He's the Alpha, He's the Omega, He's the Olaf, He's the Tall. Thank God for the Shi It's not apparent in the Old Testament, Derek, not in Hebrew, but it is in Greek. When Jesus is referenced as the Lamb of God, It always uses the diminutive form. What does that mean? There's a word for this great big grown-up lamb, sheep, ram. It's still a clean animal. He can be sacrificed at times. But when the Holy Spirit, when the Word of God references the Lord Jesus The diminity form means this, and it's a term of endearment. See if you get it. He is God's little lamb. He is God's little Lamb, as in only begotten Son, as in the one in whom He is well pleased. I'm glad I know God's little Lamb. And then I've been waiting all week to tell you this. Gate, gate, gate, ten of them, gate, and back around to the seat, gate, gate. What does the word gait mean? Shaar. Hebrew is S-H-A-A-R. Shaar. What does it mean? Oh boy. It means to knock a hole through something It means to rip it apart. It means to pierce it violently. I want to preach about 90 seconds about the sheet game. About the Savior, the darling Lamb of God. Do you know why I had access to the sheet gate Do you know why I could walk through believing in the shed blood of the Lamb and be born again? Do you know why someday I'll set foot on the streets of gold in heaven forevermore? I'll tell you why. Because Jesus had a hole knocked through him. Because Jesus was violently pierced. Because Jesus' body was broken and his body was torn. Remember that spear and mount flow, blood, and water. What can wash away my sin? Nothing Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Hallelujah. Thank God for the sheep, Kate. Amen. I'm done. But Derek said it last night. Did somebody ever have a thought and you say, now why didn't I have that thought? He said, Brother Bagel said, let me tell you something about the gate. He didn't word it that way, sir. There's something significant about the gates. Y'all ever heard that saying about a chain? It's only as strong as it's Well you have ninety-nine lengths that are perfect. You've got one, you you're not gonna tow anything or pull anything. Only as strong as its weakest link. I'm going to tell you something about the gates. Your life, your home, your city is only as strong as the weakest gate. Does that make sense? I think it's profound. It's only as strong as the weakest gate. As we close tonight, and we are closing. Would you review in your minds the sheep gate and the fish gate, the old gate and the valley gate and the dung? Would you review those and say, Holy Spirit, where am I weak? Holy Spirit, where do I need to concentrate some effort and then be Christian gentleman enough, and you are, Christian lady enough to do something about it. It's not a quick one-time decision. It will take weeks and months and it will take the rest of our lives to live balanced. Christianity. All these gates strengthen like they really should be. Would you stand with us? Our heads are bowed. And our eyes are closed