Here in Ephesians chapter number five, we are not uh going to deal with uh with the subject which we dealt with in Sunday school, husbands and wives, and uh their relationship, although that of course is in this passage of scripture as well. But uh Today is uh daylight saving time. This practice of putting your clock back in the fall and forward in the spring. Contrary to popular opinion uh this was not enacted uh or put into place for the farmers. Um that's what many people believe, but that's not what happened. Actually it was in an effort To conserve the consumption of energy was the reason that they did it, is uh they wanted to try and in a massive scale reduce energy consumption. Actually, Benjamin Franklin wrote an essay The economic project projection for diminishing the cost of light. An economic projection for diminishing the cost of light, which was a essay on daylight saving time. And uh that was published in 1784. Uh now it was probably 150 years or so after that that actually uh it kind of took on. Germany was the first to on a national scale adopt the practice of daylight savings. And they did it during World War One. Uh because the consumption of coal was so great there was a great shortage and they needed the coal for the production. of uh military equipment and such and so in an effort to reduce the consumption of coal they enacted daylight saving time. And uh much of the world followed thereafter. There's been different times in history where it was uh repealed and changed and to put back and and so on come coming and going. But uh that reminds me of a story that uh I heard, uh that I read about a young lady who was uh just a little girl, but she was watching her mom there work in the kitchen and she was baking some of delicious treats, you know. And she stood there watching her mom bake these treats and in fascination at all what mom was doing. But one thing that really grabbed her attention is mom would use a old fashioned hourglass timer. And mom would do what she's doing and the little girl sat and watched the sands fall through the timer and then mom would flip the timer over and she would say, Oh, I got another three minutes. And so then mom would go on and do what the next task and the time that it needed to be done and let it bake for this long or turn for this long or simmer, whatever she was doing. And and then she would flip the timer again. Well some weeks later this young lady uh had one of her friends over at the house and she went into the kitchen and she got a chair and she pushed it all the way over to the counter, up against the counter, and she climbed up on the chair and got up on the counter and opened the cupboard and pulled out that little hourglass timer. She brought it down and her and her friend were in rapt attention as they were watching every sand. Fall through the hourglass timer. At the conclusion of the very last grain of sand falling through, the young girl grabbed the timer, flipped it over, and she said, There, you get your three minutes back. Not quite understanding how it worked, but wouldn't that be an amazing thing? If in fact you could uh uh uh have some type of device that would give you three minutes back if you had something that would would would would allow you to recapture to regain just a minute of your time If we could just say, oh, that didn't come out right, let me back up. I mean, how many books have been written and how many films have been produced around the idea of somehow going back in time? somehow doing it over, uh getting a second chance, you know, this idea of turning back time if it were possible. But you know as well as I That is not possible. There is no way. For what is your life? It is a vapor that appeareth for a little time. And then vanisheth away. Once that vapor has vanished, there's no way to say, oh no, no, let me collect that back. It's gone. It appears for a little time, then vanisheth away. Beloved, when the day is gone, there is no getting it back. When the hour has passed, you can no longer do anything but ponder what might have been Or maybe rejoice in what was. But you cannot relive that time again, no matter what you do with the clock. Would you allow me to this morning for a few minutes? Use the word of God and I hope stir your heart. Stir your heart. To follow the biblical admission, admonition to redeem the time. To redeem the time. Look in Ephesians chapter number five. Verse 15 and 16. These familiar verses say to us, see then that you walk circumspectly. Not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. The fool wastes his time. The wise man redeems his time. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. I ask you, Lord, that you would give me liberty to preach, that you would give me clarity of thought, that you would be with each and every heart that is here and with Would you touch them at their very deepest need? Lord, would you draw them into yourself? Would you challenge the complacent? Would you stir the cold heart, Lord, would you draw the lost soul to you that they might see their need of a Savior this hour before it's eternally too late. Lord, we'll praise you for what's done. I stand as a humble servant on my best day, not qualified to stand and preach your word, but privileged to do so. Here this morning. I pray that you would use this message. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Every young life is filled with hopes and dreams and ambitions. Their list could be a mile long as they stand in front of the blank pages of all their tomorrows yet to be filled. They stand today on the brink of those tomorrows, and it seems as if the sky is the limit. For we as adults and parents, we instill that into them. We encourage them to dream and we tell them about the possibilities. And we instill in them the passion to pursue those things, yea, to even reach for the stars. Only the days come and go so fast. And the task of living has caused some dreams to fade Even further into the distance. The days turn into weeks and the weeks into months, and the months into years, until now in the twilight of their life. They look back on all the seasons of life, some painful and some Bring the greatest joy, but now all past. When as a child I laughed and wept, Time crept. When as a youth I dreamt and talked, time walked. When I became a full-grown man. Time ran. When older still I daily grew, time began to flu. Soon shall I find in traveling on, time is gone Beloved, this week I turned forty five years old Yes, yes, I know. For some here that is so old. For some years, it's my goodness. I mean, I used to I used to think about my parents and my grandparents. I sat in amazement. I wondered, how in the world is it possible for them to remember what happened when they were kids. Because that was so long ago But how many of you can attest that it really wasn't that long ago? It really wasn't that long ago And I know for others of you here, 45, you're looking at me and saying, Pastor, you haven't even earned the gray hair you got. You're you're you're still a kid, preacher. You you you uh you know y forty five man But you know, if God is good to me and I get to live Four score years, a reason of strength, God blesses me with good health, and I get to live until I'm 80. I'm over half done I could look back on all my yesterdays and say, what have I done with my time? What have I done that matters for eternity? What difference have I made? How many days have I squandered and wasted? What have I done with the bygone time? But you know, friend, there's nothing that I can do with my yesterdays. But I do today stand on the brink of all my tomorrows, and I stand here with all those blank pages yet to be written on. And I can purpose today to make those pages that are yet to come be something of value, something of worth. Tomorrow is yet to be. Will I redeem the time? Will I make it something that lasts for eternity or will I squander and waste the time I have? I want to for a couple of minutes talk to you about this picture of redemption of redemption that's given. To us in the scriptures. I want to talk to you about the portion of the resource that we have given to us by God, and I want to talk to you about the process of fulfilling that responsibility to redeem the time. This picture that is given to us, the picture of redemption that's given to us, this idea of redeeming the time. This is for us the most poignant and powerful description possible. For this is a truth that's given to us that's central to the message of the entirety of the Bible. That is the message of salvation. For this word is a term that is tied forever in with salvation. For to redeem is literally to buy back. Literally to buy back, to reclaim by price that which has been lost or alienated. Could I tell you this morning that you and I have been redeemed? We've been brought back by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. He went to the cross for you and I, and He, by the price that He paid, He redeemed us Hey, we were created in the image of God. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. God fashioned you in the womb and made you who you are. And listen, God don't make no junk. God made you. But do you understand that sin and that sin nature that dwells inside of every single boy and girl that's ever been born separates us from God? And no matter how good we live day by day in this life, there is a separation between us and God. But God knew that that separation was there, and God said that He commendeth His love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God's love, the very story that Brother Taylor was talking about, of the sacrificial love of Christ, who paid the debt that I couldn't pay. Jesus became sin so that I could be made clean. He did it for me. He paid that price Oh, what an illustration to do push-up after push-up for sacrifice so that somebody can enjoy a donut. So somebody could be part of a party. But the sacrifice that was paid by Jesus Christ and given his life on the cross, whether you accept it or not, he paid your debt. He gave his life for you. He shed his blood. He paid that price to buy back you, his very creation. He created you and he brought you back. We were redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. My Redeemed. How I love to proclaim it. Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Redeemed through his infinite mercy. His child, and forever I am. Redeemed. Redeemed. Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb His child and forever I am. Can I ask you this morning, have you been redeemed? Are you thankful for the redemption? At great cost to himself, he bought me back. I was lost and undone, without any hope of forgiveness, with no way of restoring that fellowship between me and God. No possible way for me to do it on my own. I had a debt I could not pay. But he paid a debt he didn't know for me. What a beautiful picture we see. In this term of redemption. But we are to redeem the time. We are to redeem the time. We are to buy back that which is already ours. You see, God has given to you and I a measure of time, but some would steal away our time. Some would waste the time that was given to them. Psalms 90 and verse 9 through 12 says, we spend our years. We spend our years as a tale that is told. You are spending your time. Verse number 12 says, so teach us to number our days, realizing that our days are numbered. And we have to redeem, buy back the time. Are you wasting your time? Are you letting your time be stolen from you? Or are you paying the price to buy back, to redeem the time that you have? Each of us have been given a portion of this resource. This greatest of all resources you understand when you spend money. You're losing some coin. But when you spend time, you're losing your life. You're you're giving away that which you could never get back. When you spend your time, that time is gone. It is not a renewable resource. And you know what? This morning the exciting thing is is that As we consider the portion of this resource that we've all been allotted, I want you to know that every one of us have been given the same amount of time in a day. We've been given the same amount of time in a day. It does not matter if you have a high position or a low position It does not matter where in the world you came from. It does not matter whether you're popular or whether you've got power or whether you've got uh lots of potential financially. None of these things matter. Every single one of us have twenty-four hours in a day. You have just as much time available to you today as anybody else in the room. Every single one of us have the hours from right now. Until the clock turns over to the next day. Exactly the same. Everyone's got twenty-five twenty-four hours. But listen Everyone has today, but not everyone is guaranteed tomorrow. I should say no one is guaranteed tomorrow. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. No one here is guaranteed tomorrow. The clock of life is wound but once. And no man has the power to tell just when the hand will stop. At late or early hour, now is the only time you own. So live, love, toil, and will. Do not depend on tomorrow, for tomorrow the clock may stand still. We don't have tomorrow. All that you have is today. As the hands of the clock turn past that midnight hour. And the dawn of a new day begins. Every single one of us here are given 24 golden nuggets of time that we have available to us to spend as we will. What we should do is spend it as God wills. God's gift to us each and every day is twenty-four golden nuggets of time. And our gift to God is how we use those 24 hours. How we use them. We understand that it's appointed unto men once to die. And after this, the judgment. Our life is appointed. Our days are numbered. We don't know how much time, how many days we have left. Are you going to redeem the time you have? The past is history. The future is a mystery. God has given us this moment. This moment that we call the present. That old saying that there's no time like the present. On the wall in a shop in Switzerland, there hung a sign. Where they took that phrase and turned it on end and said, there's no present like the time. Ponder that for a minute. There is no present like the time. And of course they were selling watches. But God has given you a present, a gift of time. You have it to spend as you will, and you can take that time and redeem it. You can use that time and give it as a present to others to show your love and compassion for them Some buy back and use the time that they have in valuable ways, and others let it drift away day by day until they look back and are amazed at how much is gone. You are right now in a place in your life, in a position that you will never be again. Each and every one of you here In different stages of your life, in different scenarios, in different places, but I want you to know where you are right now, in the stage of life you're in right now, the conditions that you have right now, they'll never be the same. When today is gone, it's gone. I want to encourage you as parents, if your little children want to climb into your lap. Let them because the day will come when they'll be too big and they won't be looking to climb in your lap anymore. If the little ones come and they want to play catch or they want to play ball in the yard or play a game there in the living room floor, don't be too busy because the day will come when you'll sit In a quiet living room looking around them, just wonder, would there be somebody that would want to play a game? Because you allowed the opportunity and the time that you're in right now to pass And you didn't redeem it, you didn't seize it, you didn't accomplish all that you could. You've got a friend or family member that has a question, or somebody that has a need. Take the time. Show that love to them because you don't know how long you'll have them to show the love to. You've got a mate that just wants to spend a few minutes holding hands. You've got a mate who needs to just talk to you for a little while. Would you take the time before it drifts away? The nuggets of time are yours to spend. And in today's world everything is pulling for your time. In this digital age, it is nonstop, everything grabbing for your attention and pulling you away and giving you opportunities to fitter away and uselessly spend hour after hour after hour of your life. To look back and see what did I spend it on. I've spent all this time and accomplished what? The devil would love to distract you from that which is most important in life. Sometimes it's just the enticement of what we're going to do tomorrow that keeps us from living today. Seize the day. Maximize the time. Enjoy the hour that you have right now. Self-pity will steal your time. Covetous pursuits will steal your time. Dreams of things that will never be. Worldly entertainments will steal your time. Diversions that may be even innocent. But do you understand they are taking from you the most valuable commodity you have? It's just a diversion, it's just a distraction, but it is stealing from you. It's stealing from you. That which you can never get back. Christian, we need to redeem the time. We need to buy back that time. We need to be willing to pay the price. You look at me and you say, Pastor, I understand, and I hear the motivation, and I'm stirred in my heart to do so But it it seems like ha how do we do that? I mean I see the correlation, but what do you mean to to buy back to to to pay the price? We're not dealing with You know, things that we can barter where don't have something in my hand. I'm not exchanging something like that. Well, let me give you some of the processes for this responsibility that we face. How do we buy back this time? You buy back the time that would have been lost doing other things. Let's say, for example, You have a tendency to enjoy the pillow. Especially this time of year and when it's cold in the house and the blankets are warm and You know, it was chilly in our home last night. We haven't started the fire yet. Our goal is to get to Thanksgiving, so Lord give us warm weather. I it's just a goal. We usually don't make it to Thanksgiving, but uh it doesn't cost anything. We just throw wood in the fire and start it up. But uh uh listen, maybe you enjoy laying in them covers. You enjoy sleeping You understand? You can buy back some of that time. Now, listen, if you need rest, God has given us a day of rest. God encourages us to rest. We need rest, so don't think I'm saying don't get sleep. Some of you need some sleep. You'd be healthier if you spent some time sleeping. I'm not saying don't sleep, but I'm saying if you've had enough sleep, don't stay in bed just because you're lazy. Buy back that time. You know, if you took just one hour a night, just one less hour a night in your bed In a year, that's 365 days. 365 days, let's put a monetary value on that. Some of you don't make this, some of you make considerably more than that, but let's let's say it's $20 an hour. If you put $20 an hour on that, you've just bought back $7,300 of your time. Just by getting out of bed an hour earlier. Now, if you need rest, get some rest But you know whether you're wasting that time. You see, you can buy that time back from that which would steal it from you. Think about the Apostle Paul when he was thrown in jail. Most of us in jail, we would be, oh man! Now I can't do anything. Now I'm in jail, and all these days are going to be wasted. This is all for nothing. Well, when Paul was in jail, he didn't lose that time. He gave that time to prayer. He gave that time to praise. And the jailer got saved. He gave that time to being a witness. When he was in prison in Rome, he said, Bring me the parchments. He gave that time to studying the Word of God. And then he was able to write what we still use today in the prison epistles. He redeemed the time. He could have just sat and In jail moping and it's justn't fair and I'm trying to serve God and why why is this happening to me and life is so hard. But he redeemed the time from that. He he could have done that, but he said, no, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to capture that time back. I'm going to buy that back. Maybe you're on your back right now. Maybe you can only look up. Maybe you're sick and you're in bed. Maybe you can't get out like you would like to. Maybe you're at home streaming and you can't Go where you want to go. And sometimes our tendency is to look and say, Well, I've lost these days, or this is time that's wasted. It could be, but it doesn't have to be. You can redeem that time because there's lots of prayer that needs to be done. There's lots of praise that needs to be done. You can fellowship with your Lord and have sweet time with him during that time instead of letting it be wasted. You buy back your time with the currency of planning You buy back your time with the currency of planning. You're like a merchant, a trader of goods. You buy the time bit by bit by trading that which accomplishes nothing. For that which accomplices everything. You let go of that which is wasteful and grab a hold of that which is beneficial. It is going to cost you to redeem the time. The definition I gave you is being willing to pay the price. What does it mean to redeem? To pay the price. To buy back that which has been lost or alienated. Jesus Christ paid the price for us. We've got to pay a price to buy back our time. We might have to give up a little time in bed. We might have to give up some of the things that we enjoy doing for leisure time. Because we're we're we're spending too much time just doing those things that we enjoy. And God help us. We're gonna give an account. For the time we've wasted. That does not matter for anything. You might have to give up reading that novel that you've come to enjoy. You might have to turn the television off once in a while You might have to give up some of those things. You know, time waiting doesn't have to be time wasted, especially in today's world. I know many times we look at well I've got to go to the doctor's office, and you go to the doctor's office, and you're sitting in the doctor's office, and well, I've got to wait here for an hour, and uh that's just wasted time. It could be. You could sit there looking at People Magazine. That would be a waste. You could sit there looking at popular mechanics or whatever. You could just waste and flutter away that time and lose that hour. Playing what's the game they play now? Yeah, playing games on your phone. YouTube, now you're getting on me. Leave YouTube alone Man, you're stepping on my toes, Greg. Come on. Hey, listen, this can be a big waste of time. God help us. God I'm asking you, Lord, would you speak to our hearts? Would you touch us and say you're wasting your time? This also can be a tremendous help. You know, I've got the Word of God on here in many formats. I could listen to it, I could read it, I could read commentaries about it. I've got it right here at my fingertips. I'm stuck in the doctor's office, I could look at that. I've got a prayer list on here. I could stop and begin to pray for pray for the church family and walk through and talk and look at them. I could stop for a minute and send a text of encouragement to a brother or sister in Christ. What I'm saying is I could redeem that time in the doctor's office. Or I could or I could sit there watching YouTube. You see we gotta give up sometime some things. In order to redeem the time. What I'm saying is when the hour is gone, we've lost it and you'll never get it back. You give up that which matters nothing for that which is of utmost importance. What is important? Well that means you've got to establish some priorities. I haven't given much thought to it, Pastor. That's where it's going to start. You've got to establish some priorities. What is it that's most important in your life? Let me give you a couple of thoughts. I think your faith. is important. Your faith should be important. God first, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. God should come first in our life, not just verbally, but in our actions and what we do. That means we give time to studying the Word of God, to spend time in prayer and our relationship with Him, spend time praising God, lifting Him up and extoling His immense virtues. Spend time walking with God. Spend time in church. Getting to church. You know, the day may come. The day may come when We can no longer gather freely here in America. I and I I I'll be a prophet. It would not surprise me if in my lifetime, if God does not send a revival, if we do not experience a revival, an awakening, an awakening of our presence of God in this country It wouldn't surprise me if in our in my lifetime we lose that freedom. All that's necessary for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing. Then we'll look back and say, man, remember when we could go to church? Just freely And we could gather down at the church house and lift up our voices and sing out and not worry about who was hearing. Remember those days, and they'll be gone. But they're not gone yet. Right? The opportunities you have to serve God will be gone. Your faith is important. Beloved, I believe your family is important. Biblically, the family doesn't come before God, but biblically the family is important. You're to love one another. The job is not of utmost importance. The job is a necessary evil to do that which you must do. And that's to serve your Lord and love your family. You just do the job to do what you have to do to earn the money to take care of life because it's necessary. So your faith is important, your family's important, spend time with them. You know, people are important, not things. In our world we turn it upside down and we've put such an extreme value and importance on things. One of the interns this summer crashed our four wheeler. I I mean damaged it. Good. Listen, if you don't have the right perception of of value of of of things in people you'd be worried about the machine. The machine can be replaced. The machine is nothing. God could have the machine I just wanted to make sure she was okay. People are important. Do you understand that God, Jesus Christ, when he was here on earth, he spent His days with people. And although everywhere he went, he drew a crowd. But do you know why there was a crowd there with him? Christ was never concerned about the crowd. Christ was always concerned about the individual. And church family, we need to be concerned about the individual. The one. God can draw and build a crowd, but we as a people and me as your pastor need to have a heart of compassion for every individual. It's not about the crowd. It's about you. Each and every one of you. That God would meet your need. Through the ministry of the Word, and through the love and compassion of your pastor, God would love the people individually. People are important. We need to take time with people. Be less consumed about things. You can develop your own list, but let me close this down. Listen, this picture of redemption, beautiful, beautiful picture. We buy back our time. If you're here this morning and you've never experienced the redemption of Jesus Christ, the forgiveness of your sin. You can Jesus wants you to be forgiven today. You can be redeemed today by the blood of the Lamb. Do it before it's eternally too late. Every one of us has the same amount of time available to us this day, each and every day, but we're not guaranteed another day, so we've got to redeem the time we have right now. The process which we redeem the time is we let those things that are of no value go. We pay the price and spend the effort and the energy. To buy back, to redeem the time, and do those things that are important. If you've got work to do. Do it now. If you've got a witness to give, give it now. If you've got a soul to win, win it now. If you've got an obligation to discharge, discharge it today. If you've got a debt that must be paid, pay it now. If you've got a wrong that must be written, write it now. If you've got a confession that must be made, make it now. If you have preparations or planning that must be done, plan it now. If you've got children to raise and to train, train them now because the days will come and they'll be too late. Remember, time is passing you by. And when it's gone, it's gone. So have every head bowed and every eye closed. Lord, we come to you right now and we ask you, dear God, you'd be with every heart present. Lord, we extend the opportunity for anyone here today who hasn't trusted you as their Lord and Savior, haven't experienced the redeeming power of the blood of the Lamb. I pray God that they would come and seek to be redeemed today, Lord, through you the shed blood of Jesus. Lord, I pray you'd be with each and every Christian here. They know you as Lord and Savior. They understand what you've done for them. And the gift of 24 golden nuggets of time you give us day by day. And I pray, God, doesn't matter what we do with the clock. We don't get any time back. I pray you would help us to maximize, utilize every moment, realizing how important it is. Help us to redeem the time, buy it back from those things that would steal it from us, that would cause us to waste it and use it frivolously and carelessly. That we might be all that we can be for you. Spend time doing those things that are of utmost importance. Lord, we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.