Chapter number twelve as uh I told you this morning we would be looking at the next section of this message that uh I began to study for and prepare for and I knew it was getting a little bit too long to try and get into to uh one uh one message and so I broke it up into three. Each point became its own message. And uh so this morning we dealt with our relationship with God as we look at our relationships according to Romans given to us by the Holy Spirit through the hand of Paul We see relationships, and the first one was our relationship with God. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable. unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove that what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. We attacked those two verses this morning and talked about how our relationship to God should be one that's dedicated, one that's separated, and one that's transforming. Transformated. No, just kidding me. That's not a word. I was trying to make it one though, because it would sound the same, but uh we oughta have a relationship that's transformed. But Tonight, as we talk about our second point here this evening, I want to talk about our relationship to the brethren. That takes place in verses 3 through 15. Verses 3 through 15. Let's uh just follow along with me as we read these verses at first, and then we'll come back. And again, we're just going to dissect the scripture. and see what God has for us here. He says, for I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you. Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. So we being many are one body in Christ, and every one member one of another Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecies let us prophesy according to the apportion of faith, or ministry, let us wait on our ministering. Or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, and he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. But love be without dissimilation. Abor that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. Be kindly, affectionate one to another, with brotherly love and honor, preferring one another Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation, continuing, instant in prayer. Distributing to the necessity of saints, given to hospitality. Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. These verses here talk to us about our relationship with our brethren. This very first verse starts out and just kind of nails us all right between the eyes Right at the beginning, on the onset of all this, he gives us lots of other truths, but I mean right from the beginning here in verse number three, he tells us that we should not think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. I'll tell you what, a lot of problems could be solved if we just didn't think so highly of ourselves. If we just didn't have such a high estimation. Most have an overinflated estimation of their own worth. Here the scriptures tell us to be careful about that. There are many other scriptures. I'm going to read a few of those for you, just the references. You can write them down, but Proverbs 3, verse number 7, 11 and verse number 12, 16 and verse number 18, 20 and verse number 23. 26 and verse number 12, all references in Proverbs about our over inflated egos. First Corinthians 8, verse number 2, James chapter 4, verse number 10, 1 Peter 5, 5. You know, God cannot and will not use a proud man. We must understand that all we have is from God. And all we are is because of God. Dr. CN Barlett said this. A great many men look at themselves through a magnifying glass. They see their own powers vastly enlarged as they gaze into their magic mirrors of conceit When we exalt ourselves more highly than we ought to, we are very likely to think of others less highly than we ought to. You see, that is a direct opposite or a direct uh not application. It's it's what happens, even without even thinking about it, is when we think highly of ourselves and we lift ourselves up It's just the natural process is we begin to think less highly of others. We begin to think they don't measure up or they are not quite as smart or as good or as fast or as strong. It is impossible for the proud man to be truly happy because no matter what he has, he will always feel he deserves a little more. Because pride will never be satisfied. C. H. Virgin said this: it is not humility to underrate yourself Humility is to think of yourself as God thinks of you. It is to feel that if we have been given talents, God has given them to us. And let it be seen that, like the freight in a vessel that tends to sink it low, the more we have The lower we should lie. If God has blessed you Given talents to you, given abilities to you. Those abilities should weigh on you, those abilities should be given to you by God. should like the freight in a vessel that causes it to lie low in the water should allow us to lie low in humility because realizing that it all came from God We should not think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. As we're dealing with our relationship with our brethren, it starts at that point that we should be humble. Because everything we have came from God. We need to develop the gifts that God has given us God has given us many gifts and talents, and those gifts should be developed and used for the edification of the brethren. He says here in the church, first of all, that there is diversity in the body. You see, for as many we have many members in one body, and all the members have not the same office. There's diversity in the body. There's many members, and not every member does the same thing. Now I think Brother Lawrence is a great guy. He's done a phenomenal job here as an intern this summer. He's served well. He's jumped in. I've been very pleased with him overall. But I'm glad that we're not all like Lawrence. I mean we could go around the room and some people have different strengths or they have different uh areas that might be weaknesses, but when we put us together, God uses all of us together to accomplish His will in the church. And there's diversity in the church. I'm excited about the church that we have and the great diversity we have of nationalities and and different backgrounds and different places and nations that that we have come from. And it's a thrill to me to be in a church like that. But even though there's great diversity, there should be great unity. He says, you have not the same office, so we being many are one body in Christ. And every one members one of another. Although there's great diversity and we're all different and we all have different personalities, and some of us are cleric, and some of us are sanguine, and some of us are what's the other personality types? Melancholy and phlegmatic. You know, these are personality types. And so all of us have a little bit of these different types in in our in our self and we've got those some sometimes those personalities rub against each other, you know. Uh they they just the sanguine. I mean they're fun to be around, aren't they? Just all energy and excited about everything and fun. But you know what? They're probably gonna leave some stuff undone because they're just so excited about it they just forgot what that was and that needed done and and so e everybody has strengths. We need the excitement and we need the energy, but then you gotta get somebody that's a little more analytical and they're gonna think systematically and they're gonna be sure the details get done. But they aren't very fun to be around So each one of us are different. And although everybody's a little bit different, there should still be. We're all part of one body. And there still should be great unity in the church. We have many members in every one, one of another. Each one of us should be concerned for the well-being of others. You see, when we're humble, a humble man remembers that all he has came from God. A humble man recognizes that the gifts that God has given to others, he recognizes the gifts God has given to others And encourages them to be used in cooperation with his own to fulfill the will of God. You remember the gifts you have are from God. You recognize the gifts that other people have and encourage them to use them and you do it together. And a humble man rejoices. When God's will is accomplished and does not desire the glory for himself. It's about accomplishing the will of God And doing it together as a church, not seeking for personal glory. We need to develop the gifts There are many gifts, and there are few listed here. This is not a complete list. You would have to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 to get a complete list of the gifts that God gives. to his people, but here is a few of them that are list that are listed for us. He says, first of all, a gift of prophecy. That is preaching. That is not uh prophecy like a prophet, and some people feel they're prophets today, and I'm a prophet, or I'm a prophetess, and I can uh t tell the future or I can do this or that. There is a man uh somewhere in Africa that claims to be the third prophet. There was Moses, there was Jesus Christ, and now it's him. He is the third prophet, and he has written his own Bible. Has 99 99 books in it and twelve commandments instead of just ten. He's written his own Bible. He's the self-proclaimed prophet. And he shared his Bible with his 36 wives and his 99 children. But he's a he's a prophet. That's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about a prophet like that. We're talking about uh prophesying here and in other places in the scriptures very clearly talking about preaching. About sharing the truths of the Word of God, about giving out God's message. Some people have the gift of that. Given to them by the Holy Spirit to be a preacher of the Word of God, to share the truths of the Word of God. Here's the gift of ministering. That's service. Serving. Ministering and helping others. Some people have been given that gift, the gift of teaching The gift of exhortation. That is encouragement. To be an encouragement to others. Some people have that gift. And you ought to develop that gift. You ought to use that gift. Whatever gift the Holy Spirit has given you, you ought to use it. The exhorter is one who is able to comfort or encourage a fellow believer who is discouraged or brokenhearted. because of temptation or other reasons. Oliver Bergine said that about that passage of scripture. Be an exhorter. The gift of giving The gift of giving, sharing. J. Verder McGee said this about this text. The heart and the desire to share a man's earthly possession. is a specific gift given by the Holy Spirit. God gives some men the ability to make money and then give it in an un ostentatious manner. Giving is a gift of the Holy Ghost, which manifests itself without show. The gift of giving. People just come to their feet. Some people that have that gift. God has blessed them and they enjoy the Holy Spirit has touched their heart and they just enjoy doing it. They enjoy giving to others. And it's not about, oh I guess I could put a little money in the offering today, you know, we'll see what can I do. I mean that you know that's not what it's about It's about between you and God and you know and God knows and you you you do the gift of giving using that. We're talking about in the church For the work of the ministry, for the edification of the saints, the gift of ruling. That is the administration, leading, administering, the gift of mercy Not mercy in judgment, but mercy of compassion on others. The gift of mercy. A lot of times it's ladies that have this gift of mercy. They they have a heart and they they they see people in their hour of need and their heart just melts for them. And a lot of times men are kinda looking at him and saying, Oh, grow up or or get over it And and the ladies are like, How can you be so cruel? The gift of mercy, just seeing people in their need. Well, there are some people that's needed, and we need people with that gift. Now, a couple things about these gifts that are listed here. In verses 5, 6, 7, and 8. No gift is more important than the other. When we're looking at our relationships here in the church, A man shouldn't think more highly of himself than he ought to think. We go back to the beginning. Because you have the gift of giving and God's given you the ability to do that, that's not any more important than the person that's been given the gift of mercy. And their heart is a compassion for somebody else, or somebody else that's being given the gift of administration or of ruling, and is fulfilling and do using their gift for God, each person fulfilling what God had given them For the work of the ministry, no gift is more important than the other. All gifts are given by the Holy Spirit as He wills. It's not something we have control over. I wish I had the gift of giving. You know, if God gave me a bunch of money I would be generous. I'm just joking with you. But I'm I'm truly, truly blessed. But you know, sometimes we look at, well, I wish I had this gift or that gift. Well the Holy Spirit gives us as severally as he willeth. It's God does that. It's not something we have control over. The Holy Spirit does it. And when we use our gift correctly, it brings edification and it brings unity. There's three descriptive terms here that's specifically talking about some gifts, but I think it could be applicable to all of them. It talks about using our gifts correctly in verse number 8 He says, or he that exhorteth and exhortation, or he that give it, let him do it with simplicity, only looking for God's glory. And I think as we use our gifts, if we use it for God's glory, there won't be any problems between the brethren. There won't be any discouragement. There won't be any uh conflict because we're not doing it for personal glory, we're doing it for the glory of God. With simplicity. And then he says, with diligence, doing it with diligence. He that ruleth ruleth with diligence, but in all of our things we should do it diligently and consistently. and not haphazardly or here and there in hidden mist, but do it diligently. And then lastly we see the characteristic of cheerfulness. Do it cheerfully. Whatever gift God has given you, use it for God's glory with simplicity, diligently, and out of a heart of cheerfulness for God and for his glory. And when we use it correctly, we will see edification of the saints. And unity in the body. But when we use it incorrectly, it will bring discord. So we see the development of these gifts that God has given to us that we should have in our body and in our life as a church. Then I want you to see the display of God's grace. The display of God's grace. Now, how many of you have a study Bible? This next section here, if you have a study Bible, there's probably a title above this next section that tells you something about the characteristics or the marks of a what? anybody in do you have a study bible, Miss Kim? What does it say? The Christian and those within, the marks of a Christian or the characteristics of a Christian. Okay, the next group here, this next list. You see, the first list is a list of gifts that are given to you by the Holy Spirit, you have no control over. This next list, you see, if you haven't been given the gift of giving, you're not expected to have that. But this next list is everybody's responsibility. This is the marks of a Christian. This next list is something that should be in every one of our lives. A part of all of our lives, something that should be there without question. First of all, we see there's Love, let love be done without dissimilation. Anybody have a study Bible or using one of the few Bibles and you have a definition of that word, dissimilation? Hypocrisy. It means hypocrisy. Without hypocrisy. So we should love without hypocrisy We're talking about our relationship among our brethren and how we should be with each other. We ought to have a sincere heart of love. Love without dissimilation, without hypocrisy. We should love indeed and in truth, not just in word only. You see, hypocrisy is, hey, I love you, brother. Amen. What? Oh sorry, I didn't hear you. You need oh no, I don't I'm I didn't hear you. Love without hypocrisy is, hey, I love you, brother. You need If it's within my ability, I want to try and help. I want to be there for you. I want to love you. I want to share and show that love without hypocrisy There's a lot of hypocrisy in the church. And even in this area of love. Oh, I love you, brother Just don't come by my house. Just don't stop. I mean, I love you, brother. I love you, sister, but you know, we need to love with a true heart of love Love one another. This is what's expected of us as a Christian. It's a mark of Christianity. We need to ask God to help us with this heart of love. You know, our heart of love for the brethren, I believe, I've been in the ministry long enough now that I've seen it, it is directly connected to our heart of love for God. You see, when our love for God wanes, when it waxes cold, our love for the brethren starts to wax cold too. We get to the place where I don't really have time for for that, or I don't have time for them. But when your heart is close to God Your heart for others is much stronger. And we need to ask God as a church to give us this heart of love, a sincere heart of love, not of hypocrisy, but to really truly love one another This goes beyond our natural ability. You know that there's a lot of husbands and wives that can't even love each other? They're married. They live in the same house, and they can't love one another. And we're asking the church family to love one another? This is beyond natural ability. This is a work of the Holy Spirit, but it is expected to be part of the Christian's life. We need God to do this in our hearts, to love one another. We need to have discernment. He said, abhor that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. Exercising discernment as a Christian. My this is important. It amazes me sometimes the lack of discernment. That Christians have. Involving themselves in things of this world, going after and chasing after things of this world. And they wonder when they run with the skunks why they smell like one. It's very obvious why. You can't go play in the pig pen and not get dirty. You can't chase after the world and then just expect God to fix the problems you created. A lack of discernment. As Christians, we need to have some discernment and to abhor that which is evil, to stay away from it and cleave to that which is good. This would help us. This would help us. We need to have tenderness towards one another. He says, be kind, tender. Having affection for one another in brotherly love, tenderness, respect He says, in honor, preferring one another. In honor, preferring one another. Again, a man should not think more highly of himself than he ought to think. You realize that if I felt that everyone Was more worthy than me. Everyone was more worthy than me. That would solve a lot of problems. If I felt everyone was more worthy of honor, and I wished to see them honored, then me Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than themselves. I think that's what that verse says. Let each esteem others better than themselves. But when we put it in today's terms and we say he's more worthy than me, that goes against everything we're taught in modern philosophy. That goes against our mindset of I've earned this. I deserve this. I belong. I Again, that heart of humility, just having respect for one another Man, if we could just get a hold of this and it became a part of our lives. It would it would it would guide us in all of our relationships, even in our families. Dealing with our mate, dealing with others that we feel that we have arrived or we have attained or we we deserve or I know Instead of respect in honor preferring one another. We should be diligent. He says, not slothful in business. That's not business like business world. It's business like busyness. like activity. Not softful. We should be diligent, hardworking. And I've spent some time dealing with that just recently, so we're not going to hang out there, but whatsoever thy hand finds to do, do it with All thy might. We ought to be diligent. This is characteristics of a Christian that would help us as we deal with our relationships with one another. We ought to have zeal in our devotion. He says, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. We ought to have zeal. Firm in spirit in our devotion to God as we serve God. We ought to have joy. He says, rejoicing in hope. We can rejoice because we have hope. Whatever's going on in our life, we can rejoice because we have hope. Turn over one page to chapter number 15 and look at verse number 13. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace, believing that ye may abound in hope Through the power of the Holy Ghost. You can abound in hope. You have hope. You know this world doesn't have hope? That's one of the problems that they're dealing with on a day-to-day basis. They're just existing and they living life without any hope. But we can have hope because we know Jesus Because we know the end. We've we've read the last chapter. We know what's coming. We can have hope. In the midst of the greatest storm, we have hope because if all else fails, we know we've got God on our side. And He's in control. And whatever happens, whatever storm comes, whatever I've got to face, whatever I've got to endure, I've got God on my side. He's with me, and I've got hope when I get up in the morning and when I lay my head on the pillow at night. Whatever offense comes from a brother or sister or whatever trial you face You can endure it because you have hope. Because you have God. Amen. We have hope in Jesus. Joy in our heart because of the hope we have. This is a result of living life by faith and not by sight. We are to be persevering. He said, be patient in tribulation C. H. Spurgeon, I don't mean to keep quoting other people, but he said it a lot better than me. With regards to this text, C. H. Spurgeon said this. God does not give faith, love, and hope, or any grace without meaning to test it. If a man builds a railway bridge that it may have engines go over it and prove it's carrying power. If he only makes a needle, it must be tested by the work in which it can do. So when God made you to be strong in the Lord, He meant to try every ounce of your strength. Whatever God makes, he has a purpose. And he will test it to see if it's equal to his design. That's powerful. God fashioned you, made you, gave you the strength you have Would you not expect him to test it? He has given you this strength for a purpose. He is your tool in his hand. He has a job for you to do. And he wants to test and see if you're up to the task that he has for you. We need to persevere, be patient in tribulation. We need to be trusting, continuing, instant in prayer. Prayer needs to be a way of our life. You know, Daniel prayed three times a day. David in Psalm says he prayed seven times a day. We know Jesus got a way to pray often. You and I are commanded to pray without ceasing. To always be in a spirit of prayer. Sharing. We need to have a heart of sharing, distributing to the necessity of the saints. Willing to give, to share, to meet each other's needs. Notice who he gives to here. He says, giving to necessity of what? Saints. Necessity of the saints. He gives to the saints. There are a lot of good causes out there. There's a lot of worthwhile places where one might give But I want you to understand that your first responsibility is to the saints. Giving to the saints. You only have so many resources. If your name was Bill Gates, you might have a little more liberty to do something else. But you only have so many resources. And when we don't exercise discernment and take the finances and the monies that God has given us, that in His plan He has placed you in this church. And by design, he is planning for you to meet the need in this area or in that area or for this person or that person in the church, and you take the investments that God has given you and you put them somewhere else. Then you don't have the that that ability anymore. We are to give to the saints Now, let me say, according to the Word of God, we have a responsibility to the poor. Somebody in our church recently challenged me with this. And I believe as a church we need to be doing more for the poor. You see, the word of God says in Psalms 41, verse number 1: Blessed is he that considereth the poor. He that hath pity on the poor lendeth unto the Lord, and he And that which he hath given will he pay him again, Proverbs 19, verse number 17. We have a responsibility to the poor. And as a church, we're going to be looking and endeavoring to do more in that area. But I believe that we should be doing this for the poor in and through the church. through what God gave himself for. A couple of thoughts with regards to the poor, and I don't have time to teach on this tonight. Maybe we can take a lesson on it another time when given to the poor because people wonder about, you know, like should I give to the guy on the street, you know, the guy that's We'll work for food and our hearts are you know touched and we want to give to them and so on. Just a couple of things with regards to that. Uh when we give, we give out of our out of our abundance. Luke chapter 3, verse number 11. Give out of your abundance, Luke 3. 11. When we give, we give without thought of recompense. We shouldn't be looking for recompense. Luke 14, 12 to 14. And then slothfulness should never be rewarded. Slothfulness should never be rewarded. At any given time, there's 2,500 homeless people on the streets in Baltimore. That's a need that you cannot fulfill. And the director, I can't remember her name, but the director of the Baltimore organization which oversees the homeless people Got on the news and said, Will you stop giving them money? You are enabling them to stay on the street. We have programs. If you want to give money, give money to the program. If you want to give money, stop by and give money to the mission. Give money to something like that, but don't give it to the guy on the street because you're enabling them to stay there and we're trying to help them get off the street. So just a couple of thoughts, but we'll teach on that another time. Our primary responsibility is to our brothers and sisters in Christ. Let me give you some Bible for that. James chapter 2, verse number 14. And verse number 16 says this, what does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be warmed, and be filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Saying, hey, when a brother or sister is in need, This goes back to love in deed and in truth when a brother or sister is in need. It's not just, hey, be warm and be filled. Uh no. If it's within our means, we ought to try and do something for it. We ought to be hospitable, given to hospitality. We ought to be forbearing. Bless them which persecute you Bless and curse not. Forbearing. Sometimes there's going to be people that rub you the wrong way. Somebody's going to come in your classroom just after you worked all week and they're going to say, what is that? And you haven't had enough sleep and you are not, you're gonna take that as what? How can I mean you've got to be forbearing You've got to be forbearing. Those things come up, and the devil would love to use them to cause problems in the church. For you to get irritated at some other man or some other lady in the church. Be forbearing. We ought to be caring. Rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. Dr. Barlett said this it takes more Christianity To rejoice with people that are sailing on smiling seas of good fortune than to sympathize with those who have been wrecked on the rocks of disaster. It takes more Christianity to rejoice when you see somebody blessed, to truly rejoice and be happy for them, instead of thinking, well, God didn't give me that. I've been doing right and I didn't get that blessing. I mean I know something about them. They shouldn't they shouldn't even have that instead of rejoicing with them. He says it takes more Christianity to rejoice with them that you see greatly blessed than it does to have sympathy for those that are destitute. These are some characteristics that are expected to be part of every Christian's life. I know it's a lot of teaching tonight. We went systematically through this passage of scripture. But our relationship with the brethren needs to be of utmost importance to us as believers. And these things, if they're part of our life, will help in that area. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.