Alright, good morning. We'll go ahead and begin in the book of Luke, Luke chapter 15 this morning. As we're singing the song there, uh we've been working on learning that song in our family devotions and uh we started last year I was giving the boys a hint that there was uh something going on for vacation bible school next year about mountains we were singing that song and Just the other day we were reading our family of oceans or we were reading about Caleb wanting to go into the promised land and he said something about the region of Eshkel and I asked the boys, does that sound familiar at all? And Andrew said there's grapes there in Ashgol. So um looking forward to a good week of talking about mountains at Vacation Bible School. Luke uh chapter 15, you found your place there. I had to find all of my places Getting my notes and Bible open and everything. We've been talking uh for Sunday school last several several lessons. I believe this is The fourteenth lesson in this series that we've been discussing the idea of rightly dividing the word. We've been going through the Bible and looking at different um topics or subjects a and and passages of scripture that we need to properly understand or properly divide in order to have a correct uh theology. We started the series looking at the idea of rightly dividing, meaning to cut something straight, there in the book of uh 2 Timothy, we just giving that uh admonition to rightly divide uh the word and the illustration we gave was of of uh Paul as a tent maker uh needed to know how to cut things straight because if you don't cut your theme straight uh you don't end up with a tent when you're done Or at least you don't end up with the tent that you were you are wanting to go for. And so when people go through the Bible and they're putting things in the wrong place and not understanding the context of what's going on, uh that's how wrong theology is built So if we want to have our theology right, we need to rightly divide the words. So we've looked at a lot of topics. Last week we looked at the idea of our standing as Christians versus our state as Christians, if you remember. Our standing has to do with our eternal position in Christ from the perspective of the Father, while our state has to do with our temporal position before men. Our standing is eternal and unchanging, and our state constantly chase changes based on our obedience and testimony We ended last week with the idea that a Christian's goal would be for his testimony before men to match his testimony for before God. You remember that when God looks at a Christian, he sees that that we are we are justified, that we have Christ's righteousness, but as we live day to day we don't we don't live out that righteousness. We don't walk necessarily every day as a child of light, so it should be our goal for our state, the way we live day by day, to match the way God sees us in our in in our eternal in our eternal position before God. We should be growing a little more like Christ to the point where our testimony before men resembles our testimony before God. Now I mentioned last week that the topic we're going to look at today is closely related to this division between our standing and our state. Today we're going to look at the idea of our relationship and our fellowship. Our relationship and our fellowship. That you can have a relationship with God, you can also have fellowship with God, and these there is a difference between these two Now, people who fail to make a di difference or distinction to rightly divide between these two topics come away with the idea that you could lose your salvation. Because your fellowship with God can be broken, but the relationship that you have that was established with God at salvation can never, never be broken. So if somebody looks at their fellowship and says, My fellowship with God is gone, therefore I lost my salvation. No, that's not rightly dividing the word. We need to understand this properly. So as I was looking ahead at this lesson and preparing for it and meditating on these passages of scripture, thinking about the idea of relationship and fellowship The place that my mind was drawn to was the parable of the prodigal son. Now, before we get into this parable. We'll talk about it this morning. I want to give you kind of an introduction to parables because we're talking about this idea of rightly dividing. I'll kind of sneak a quick quick thought in here for us on how to understand parables. The most important thing to keep in mind when you're studying a parable is that parables primarily have one main truth. There's a parable that's trying to teach one thing that Jesus was trying to communicate when he shared a parable. Often parables were used kind of like sermon illustrations. Most of the time when I or pastor or any other pastor uses it in illustration, it's to get across the one point that we're trying to illustrate. So I just to To give you an example, I looked up an illustration. If I were perhaps teaching one day on gossip, maybe I would share the following illustration about the point that gossip gives you a bad testimony with those around you. Here's the illustration. Many years ago, the Moody Church News carried a humorous story about a woman in a small town who was known for being a gossip. One day on vacation, she visited the offices of the Chicago Daily News. She is wearing a white dress and inadvertently leaned against the wall where a freshly printed copy of the front page was hanging It was a hot, humid day, and some of the print came off on the back of her dress. Later, as she walked down the street to meet her husband, she noticed the people walking behind her were snickering. When she reached the place where her husband was waiting, she asked him if there was anything on her back that shouldn't be there. As she turned around, he read the large black reverse letters, Daily News. Realizing the appropriateness of the words, he said, No dear, nothing is on your back that doesn't belong there. So in that context, you understand that the illustration is that When you gossip, it gives you a bad testimony. And that's the point that's that's being made in the illustration. Now, you would not go then and start picking apart the illustration and say, well, well, what do you think was meant by the white dress? And what do you think he was talking about when he said it was a hot day? Maybe he's saying that in when it's hotter, people are people gossip more often or What what if uh what if this was a symbol uh of her purity, the white dress? And the people behind her, those are probably a picture of the world and how they respond to You wouldn't go break apart his illustration. You understand the point that was being made. There was one point given you don't go through, but people will do that with a parable. Jesus gives a parable to teach a truth, and they start saying, well, what was meant by the fish? And what was meant by the this, and what was meant by the this, and they can get a wrong idea of what the parable is trying to teach by missing the main point and the illustration there There is application in a parable, but there is a main point. That's what you're looking for when you are studying a parable. And people can take these and they often often will twist a parable to make it mean something that it's not supposed to not supposed to mean. So when we're going to study a parable, we're going to rightly divide it. We need to look for the main truth. So that's kind of an introduction to parables and how to study those when you're looking at them. Now, with that being said, the parable of the prodigal son is a little bit different. It breaks those rules because it teaches two primary truths in the parable of the prodigal son. The lessons being communicated there is an illustration of the joy that the Father has at someone who repents You see that from the context of the parable of the lost sheep and the parable of the lost silver coin and then the parable of the lost sun. Those three are all illustrating that. But at the end of the prodigal son, we have the story inserted about the elder brother, which was an application to the Pharisees and how they were rejecting the sinners who repented. So there's two truths that Jesus was illustrating with this parable in particular. The focus of this illustration was these two things, that there is joy at repentance of the Father as well as the arrogancy of the Pharisees. And in this illustration of the Father's joy at repentance, we can see this truth of relationship and fellowship illustrated as well So I'd like to read a part of this parable. We won't do the whole thing because it's kind of lengthy, but just verses 21 through 24 to begin this morning. This is after the prodigal has returned, he says to his father, and the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it, and let us eat and be merry For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord, we love you Lord, we thank you for this day and the opportunity we have to be in your house this morning. Pray that you'd help us as we look at your word, that the thoughts would come across clearly, that we'd understand this biblical truth. about our relationship that we have uh with you as our Heavenly Father, Lord, and the fellowship that we have an opportunity to enjoy on a daily basis, Lord. I pray that you'd uh bless us with this thought, help us to live uh differently based on your word and what we learned today. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as a look at this look at this illustration, this story this that Jesus gave of this prodigal son, we see that there was a relationship being discussed. The relationship between the father and the prodigal. And what relationship was that? That was the relationship between a father and a son. Now, did anything that the prodigal did change that relationship, the fact that it was son and father? No, nothing he did could change the fact that he had that relationship established between himself and his father. Even when he came back and said, I'm not a son anymore, the father said, This is my son. It was recognized. This relationship remained intact despite everything that had gone on. The relationship between a father and a son is established at birth, and that relationship can never be changed. But there was something that changed in the course of this parable and the telling of it. That was the fellowship. The fellowship between the Father and Son was broken as the Son went away into a far country. The fellowship, the daily interaction, the the enjoyment that they had one with another, that fellowship was broken and while at the same time the relationship remained intact. The fellowship was broken and it had to be restored. You know, our lives are the same way. If you're a Christian today, you enjoy a relationship with God as your Heavenly Father. This relationship is eternal and unchanging. Well, at the same time, we have the opportunity to enjoy fellowship with God, but that fellowship could be broken, rejected, or ignored This is again tied to, but separate from our standing and our state. Again, our standing is the position we hold in Christ. Our relationship with God as one of his sons is only part of that standing. Our state has to do with our testimony before men, and our fellowship with God will definitely have an impact on our state. So this morning we're going to consider for a few minutes the difference between our relationship with God and our fellowship with God. So we're going to go easy today. I've got two points for you. We've got our relationship with God and we've got our fellowship with God. No nine point message. This morning. Alright, so we're going to get into this. Number one, our relationship with God. Our relationship with God. We have a relationship with God if you are a Christian. And when did that relationship get established? Number one under that is the fact that relationships are established by parentage. Relationships are established by parentage. A father to a son, that relationship is established when the son comes into the father's life. That is where this relationship begins. A Christian is a son of God by birth. Let's go to John chapter 3 together. John chapter 3 together this morning. Very familiar passage, very familiar idea, but we're going to look at it today together. John chapter 3, verses 3 through 7. Your relationship with God begins at what the Bible calls your new birth, or being born again. John chapter three, verses three through seven. Here the Bible says, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit Marvel not that I say unto thee, ye must be born again. There has to be a new birth for there to be a relationship with God established. The idea that everybody we are all every all people in the world are just all God's children is not true. God has children that are born into his family at a point in time that is called the new birth. You must be born into the family of God for that relationship with God to be established. I'd like to point out that a birth is an event, not a process. A birth is an event, not a process. There is a process leading up to birth as a baby grows and develops to the point where it's ready for birth. And it is, by the way, to point out, we all understand this, it is a baby from the moment of conception. That is it is a baby, but the birth is an event. It's not the process of the baby baby growing within the mother. Has anybody ever noticed how the Bible describes pregnancy? What terminology the Bible uses when it call it describes pregnancy? It says someone was with child. With child. Not expecting, not pregnant. They were with child. They had a child within them, is is the idea there, and so there's no room uh in there for it to be a question whether there's a baby uh before it's born or even before it's called so-called viable is a baby from the moment of conception. Uh and Bible the Bible points that out. But even though there's a process that comes before the birth, you would not describe the entire pregnancy as the birth. That would be you. You wouldn't have a nine-month birthday. As this is the whole time that I was I was coming up to coming to my birth. No, the b uh the birth is the event. It takes place when the baby's brought into the world. Salvation is pictured here or illustrated in that of the new birth. And the birth is an event. Salvation happens. There was a moment, there was a day, there was a time when it happened. It is an event, not a process. There's often a process that leads up to someone's salvation of people watering and and planting and and witnessing to them and sharing the gospel with them, but there has to come a point. Where the event takes place where they are born again. They've made that decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. If salvation took place, there's a day when it happened. This is why Christians have two birthdays If you're saved, you have two birthdays. I have a birthday on October eleventh, nineteen ninety, when I was born into the family of Renshaw. I also have a birthday on October 9, 1996, when I was born into the family of God. If you're a Christian, you have those two birthdays as well. You may not remember what day yours was, but you should remember that there was a time, there was a moment, an event that took place when I was born into the family of God. This is why we sing the song on uh uh res on uh um Roundup Sunday. Uh it was on a Sunday, it was on a Monday, it was on a one day when Jesus lifted me. There was a day when it took place, there was a day when it happened If you are saved, there was a day that it happened. If there was not a day that it happened, then you're not saved. Salvation is a new birth. It is an event. It's not something you just always were. Well when was your birthday? Well I was just always born. Nope, you that's not that's not how it works. And it's the same thing when it comes to our salvation. So the birth is an event, not a process. Secondly, birth establishes a familial relationship. A child is in a permanent, unchanging relationship with his parents. The man that w the man will always be that child's father whether he acknowledges, fulfills, or takes that role. He's still the child's father. The woman will always be that child's mother whether she acknowledges, fulfills, or takes that role. Now, sadly, in human relationships, those relationships are not always realized the way that God intended them to be And that is the sad truth of our fallen world. But when it comes to the family of God and being born into the family of God and the relationships that as is established through that birth, the familial relationship we have with God God will always fill his role as your Heavenly Father. He's never going to leave you. He's never going to forsake you. He's never going to stop loving you. God is going to be there for you all the time. That relationship is permanent. He will always fulfill his side of that relationship. We see that idea of new birth. This is how you're brought into the family of God. This is how that relationship was established through the new birth. How does this new birth take place? Well, it is realized by simple faith in Christ. John chapter 1, we're really close there, verse number 12, probably just a page over for you. John one, verse number 12 says, But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. This new birth is realized by just your simple faith in Christ. You put your faith in Christ, as many believe on his name To them gave he power to become the sons of God. You were brought into the family of God as a son, when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, that is the new birth, and that's the establishment of our relationship with God. That's when it began. I have a set of notes here that we're not going to get into have time for this morning, but there is significance to God saying you're a son. Sometimes we try to modernize the Bible and say, well, son or daughter, or well, there's significance there because the son was the heir, and you're a joint heir with Christ when you're brought into the family of God. So a Christian is a son of God or brought into the family of God by birth, but it's also by adoption. God made doubly sure gave us two illustrations of this idea of being brought into his family. A Christian is a son of God by adoption. Galatians 4, verses 3 through 7 describes this. Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of this world. But when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father. Wherefore thou art no more a servant but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ So we are we are in the family of God by birth, if you're safe, and also by adoption that He's brought to His family. And there's some legal ramifications to this. In Roman law as well as in Western law An adopted child cannot be disinherited. An adopted child cannot be abandoned. There are protections that are given to an adopted child, and when you got saved, God adopted you into his family, and you enjoy all those protections. You never have to worry about God saying, you know what, I'm done with this kid. No matter how cantankerous you or I may be, God's going to hold on to us, and he made that clear in his word, especially with this picture of adoption. An adopted child can never be abandoned, we have the promise in Hebrews 13, 5. Let your conversation be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. For he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. And an adopted child can never be disinherited, 1 Peter 1. 4, to an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. There is an inheritance that God has for you as his adopted child in heaven that he said has been reserved for you. And he's not going to lose that reservation. He's got it for you. He's saving that for you. And so how do we get this adoption? Same way we come into the new birth, by faith in Christ. Galatians 3. 26, for ye are all the children of God by faith. in Christ Jesus. Faith in Christ brings you to that moment, that event of salvation, and it is at that salvation that this relationship with God was established. It was established there at our salvation. That's when it began, that you had a relationship with God as a son from and with God as your father from the day that you were saved. So this puts us in the position where we can enjoy that relationship We have the relationship enjoyed. We're not going to take a lot of time to develop this point, but there are innumerable benefits that come from having a relationship with God. I'm going to give you kind of a silly illustration of this. You remember when you were a young person, um if you grew up at all like me in a somewhat conservative uh uh family that had some restrictions on you, that that didn't have all the money in the world, you knew somebody. You knew that one kid. That one kid that got to do whatever he wanted to do. And you also knew that one kid that got to have whatever he wanted to have. I knew several like that, uh a close friend of mine, my cousins that they would have that they would I would get um books and socks and a belt for my for Christmas and they would get a four-wheeler um for Christmas. Uh just the kind of things you do. And you would go as a young person and you'd complain to your parents about what they got to have or what they got to do. Anybody with me here? Anybody remember this going on? Okay. And what did Dad say? I'm not so-and-so's parents, right? I'm not their parent. You don't have a that kind of relationship with them, so there's some things that you don't get to enjoy because that relationship's not there Well, kind of a silly illustration, but with as a child of God that has the relationship of being the son of God, there's things that you get to enjoy that the world never will. There's things that you get to have that you get to do that the world will never get to have, and the world will never get to do, a lost person will never realize because God's not their father. Because they don't have that relationship. So we have the opportunity to enjoy our relationship with God. That relationship that was established at our salvation We enjoy that relationship. We have a relationship that allows us to enjoy it so much. A song I was singing this morning on the way to church kinda was on my mind. Um I'm sure you've heard it before. Consider the lilies, they don't toil or spin, and there's not a king with more splendor than them. Consider the sparrow, they don't plant nor sow, but they're fed by the master who watches them grow We have a heavenly father above, with eyes full of mercy and a heart full of love. And he really cares when your head is bowed low, consider the lilies, and then you will know. May I introduce you to this friend of mine, who hangs out the stars, tells the sun when to shine, he kisses the flowers each morning with dew, but he's not too busy to care about you. We have a heavenly father above, with eyes full of mercy, and a heart full of love. And he really cares when your head is bowed low. Consider the lilies, and then you'll know. We have a relationship. We have a father. And there's so much that we get to enjoy because of that relationship. Thirdly, under the idea of our relationship with God, we see that the relationship was one day going to be completed. Uh I was searching for a good word to fit in there, but the idea is that that we kind of have in part a relationship with God. Now yes it's it's established and there's it's unchanging, but but the relationship is going to be different when I get to go to heaven to be with God forever. That I'm going to be there with God, that I'm going to be in heaven with God, that I'm going to have that face-to-face interactions as a son, being home. Getting home to be with the Lord. That's going to happen one day. At the return of Christ, our relationship will be completed as we go home to be with the Father. Ephesians 1, verses 4 through 14 describe this, but specifically verse number 10. that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one in all things in Christ, which are both in heaven and which are on earth even in him. There's coming a day when you as a child of God, God's going to say it's time to come home. And we're all going to get to go together and we'll get to have that relationship in such a special way as we get to be there in heaven with the Father. At the return of Christ, we're going to finally be all grown up in Christ. Ephesians 4:14 says, till we all come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. And at the return of Christ we'll be like our Father. 1 John 3, 1 and 2, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Beloved, we are now we are the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. That relationship that was was begun the day that you got saved is going to be completed as we're ushered into the presence of the Father at the return of Christ and we'll we'll get to enjoy that relationship of Father and Son in perfect in perfect relationship without ever messing it up again. That's going to last for last forever. So that's our relationship with God, established at our salvation. You're a son, adopted and by birth a son of God. You have that relationship and nothing can mess up. You can never lose that relationship. You never stop being a son of God, no matter what you do. That's the idea of eternal security. Once you're saved, you're always saved. You can never change that relationship. But this brings us to our next point, which is our fellowship with God. Now, our fellowship with God we can change. Our fellowship with God we can impact. Our fellowship with God we can mess up. So let's look at this idea of our fellowship with God. Number one, our fellowship established. When was our fellowship with God established? It was established at the same time as our relationship with God was established. That because of our relationship, we had the opportunity for fellowship. Because we were brought into the family of God, we're no longer, as the Bible calls, strangers, strangers to God. You know, I there was uh good friends of mine I had growing up in church, uh they were called the Herbst family And uh it was very often when w church was over that we were getting ready to head home and uh and somebody w one of our parents would say, Okay, if there's any herbs in the car You need to get out. Or if there was the other vehicle, if there's any Renshaws in the car, you need to get out. Why? Because we're gonna go home and have dinner and we're gonna have fellowship and There's a relationship that you don't get to come have this fellowship because it's family time. You're going home to your family. All right? There's there's a relationship that's enabled, or sorry, a fellowship that's enabled because of our relationship Ephesians 2, 12 and 13 says, Then at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. What a what a what a what a terrible way to describe the plight of someone who is unsaved. But here's some precious words. But now. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who were sometimes far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ You're no longer a stranger, you're brought into the family of God. That was what happened when that relationship was established. Our birth and our adoption made us part of God's household. Galatians 6 verse 10 refers to the household of faith. We're a family. A family with God, family with other believers, joint heirs with Christ. That family relationship is there, and because of that family relationship was established, there's opportunity for fellowship. Sunday afternoons growing up for my family was a time to enjoy dinner together. We lived about an hour from where we went to church, but my grandmother lived across the street from where we went to church. So Sunday afternoon. was at grandma's house. And we go sit down for dinner at grandma's house. And this is a this is very much southern culture, but lunch, Sunday, lunch could last about two and a half hours. As we sat down and just ate together as a family and told stories and talked about the sermon and what had happened that week and what was going to happen that week and and tease one another and just enjoy that fellowship. uh around the table that we just got to enjoy spending time with aga with one another and that was all based on our relationship. Our relationship enabled that fellowship that we had together So our fellowship with God was established at our salvation along with our relationship, but we see secondly that that fellowship can be broken That fellowship can be broken. You have the opportunity to pull away from God. It's not a good opportunity. But we have that ability to pull ourselves away from God. You can't Sever that relationship, that's always going to be there. But that fellowship can be broken. So what causes our fellowship with God to be broken? Let's go to 1 John together. First John describes a couple of these points for us. First John chapter one is uh is a chapter about fellowship. When I say first John one I'm sure uh what's well let me ask you this way, w what's the verse that comes to mind? First John one nine. That's what we typically associate with first John one is the fact that we can have forgiveness But 1 John 1 is a text about fellowship, and that forgiveness is an important part of it, but we're going to get to that in a little bit. 1 John chapter 1. If you just notice in verse number three, he's writing this, he says, that that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye may also have fellowship with us. Truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. So that's kind of laying the groundwork here that we're talking about fellowship. We're talking about enjoying the relationship that you have between you and God. But there's things that can break that relationship and we see the first one come out in verses five and six. Says there in verse number five, This then is the message which we have heard of him and declare unto you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. If you say, I have fellowship with God and you're living in sin, you're a liar. Because sin and disobedience breaks off your fellowship with God. The enjoyment that you have with God, of spending time with God and walking with God and Hearing God's voice and enjoying his full pleasure, that is broken when we go into sin. Fellowship is broken by disobedience. We can take this a very clear example in our minds would be of a child to a parent. There's times when you as a child with your parents or your child with you have this great fellowship and and you really enjoy your time with each other and and you have fun things uh that you're doing together. There's there's often times where I've given my my sons a an a a job to do and I'll say, Hey when I want you to have this done. Let's say clean your room. When I get home And I'm on my way home, and I have planned what we're going to do that evening, and the fellowship that we're going to enjoy, and the fun things that we're going to get to do, and I come home and find that there was disobedience They didn't clean the room. They didn't do the job. And that broke the fellowship that was supposed to happen. Because now instead of going and doing something fun outside We're going to get in trouble and then we're going to spend the evening cleaning the room. Because the fellowship was broken because of the disobedience. And as you grow older Maybe there's as a teenager with your parents or what it with your teenage you, there's there's there's stubbornness, there's rebellion, there's disobedience, and There's some tension that builds up there. Tension in the relationship. The relationship didn't change, but the fellowship did because of the disobedience. So we can cause a rift or cause a break in our fellowship with God because of our disobedience. You're saying, well, I don't walk with God the way that I used to. If God doesn't speak to me the way that He used to, well, what's caused the fellowship to be broken? One thing that can break the fellowship is disobedience. Secondly, we see that fellowship can also be broken by distance. Look at verse number 7 of 1 John 1. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. If we're walking in the light, and God's walking in the light, guess what? We're walking together. But if there's distance there, then we're not walking together anymore. I remember a story my pastor told years ago about a couple newlyweds And they were driving together to town running errands and he had a bench seat pickup truck. You know, the seat goes all the way across. And as as they were first married and running to the store together, she'd be all the way in the middle, leaning up and holding onto his arm as he is driving the truck. As the years go by, that's not the most comfortable spot to sit. So she she kind of let go of his arm, quit leaning on him, and just sat beside him. And then time would go by and she she wanted some fresh air, no air conditioning in the truck, so she moved over to to the window and sit by the window and And uh there's one day she looked over and said, Why don't you sit beside me anymore? Said, Well, I'm not the one that moved. That's us and God. God, why can't I hear from you anymore? I'm still walking in the light I haven't moved. If your fellowship with God's been broken, we're the one that moved. Fellowship is broken by distance. Think of the story of the prodigal son. There's no fellowship with the father. Why? He was in the far country. Father was still where Father was. Father didn't move, father didn't change. It was the son that left. And the fellowship could be restored whenever the son wanted to come back. And God is always there, walking in the light. And if you want fellowship, he says, I'm still here. You can come back and walk with me. Because I'll still be walking in the light. So fellowship is broken by disobedience, fellowship is broken by distance. And thirdly, fellowship is broken by discontentment. Going back to the idea of distance, when we're not walking with God, we're not going to have fellowship with God. And how do we walk with God? We we we know, read your Bible, pray, be in church, listen to the Holy Spirit. Going back to the story of the prodigal son, he wasn't content to stay with the Father. He wanted to see what the far country was like. He didn't want to wait until his father passed away to get his inheritance. He wanted it right now. He wasn't content with what the father had given him. And so that draw drew him away from the Father and broke off the fellowship. The relationship established, but the fellowship was broken because he was drawn away. And God has given us so many good things in that relationship that we have with him. We talked about that already. But we can get our eyes off of God and on the things of this world and allow our hearts to be drawn away, and as we follow the heart that draws us away from God, we're creating that distance and we're breaking that fellowship because we're not happy with what God's given us. We're not happy to just walk with the Lord. We're not happy to just enjoy all the blessings that were given to us by God He was not content to stay home with the Father, and this results in the fellowship being broken. When we're not content with what God's given us, we'll break our fellowship as we pursue other things. All three of these are illustrated in the story of Adam's sin. Oh, that one day that God came into the garden and said, Adam, where art thou? Adam was hiding in the trees. There was fellowship that God came to have with Adam. He came to walk as he normally did in the cool of the day with Adam, and he got there, and Adam was going to miss the fellowship. Why? Well, disobedience. He hadn't obeyed God. He went into sin. He ate what he was not supposed to eat. What caused him to eat that which they wasn't supposed to eat? Well, discontentment. God said, all the trees you may freely eat, except this one. Well, I'm not happy with all the trees. I want that one. Discontentment, disobedience, and then distance. God showed up in the garden, Adam was hiding in the trees. And in the same way with us, we can have fellowship with God. But we allow disobedience and discontentment to create distance, and then we're missing out on the fellowship that God has in store for us. Broken fellowship does not break relationship But relationship cannot be enjoyed without fellowship. Broken fellowship does not break a relationship Just because I break my fellowship with God and I start walking over here, my relationship didn't change. But I can never enjoy my relationship with God when I live in broken fellowship. That's the difference here. So this gives us the point number three here, fellowship restored. How do we get back? How do we get back to where we're walking with God and enjoying that fellowship on a daily basis? Well, fellowship is restored through forgiveness. This is special because forgiveness is how the relationship happened to begin with. The only way that I can have a relationship with God is that my sins had to be forgiven, and that relationship was established at my new birth. But then that fellowship is broken, and forgiveness is the basis of my restoration of fellowship. But here's what's special about that. All that forgiveness is found in one person, Jesus Christ. My forgiveness that allows me to have a relationship with the Father, that was provided by Jesus Christ. My forgiveness that when I've broken fellowship with God, I can return to God, and that fellowship can be restored, that forgiveness is found in Jesus Christ. That relationship was established when all of our sins were forgiven in Christ. 1 John 2. 12 says, I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake. It was for his name's sake that our sins were forgiven. And our fellowship is restored when our sin is forgiven through repentance. This gets us to 1 John 1. Remember, it's all about fellowship. We want you to have fellowship. If you walk in the light, you're going to have fellowship. If you don't walk in the light, you walk in darkness. There's no fellowship that's there. But here's what happened. If you're not walking with God, verse number nine. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When you're walking in darkness, when you created distance, you can come back to God and say, God, I messed up. God, I sinned. I did what was wrong. I need forgiveness. And God will forgive and fellowship. God is always ready to forgive when we're ready to repent. Psalm 86, verse 5, a very precious verse. For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive. And plentious in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. Ready to forgive. Father's there, he's waiting in the light for us to come back, and he's ready to extend forgiveness. Think back to the story of the prodigal son that we started with. Where was the father? He was at home. What was he ready to do? Forgive. As soon as that son came back. He wasn't going to say, well, you have to do this first. You have to repay this first. You need to go get a shower first. He was ready to forgive. Ready to forgive when the son was ready to repent. And our father's the same way. He's ready to forgive when we're ready to repent. And that fellowship can be restored. So after fellowship is restored, fellowship can be enjoyed. We can enjoy the fellowship that we have with God. Listen to these verses again from the parable of the Proudal Son, Luke 15, 22 to 24. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him and put a ring on his hand, and she was on his feet And bring hither the fatted calf and kill it. And let us eat and be merry. For this my son was dead, and is alive again, he was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. Everything that the son was enjoying here at the Restoration of Fellowship was available the whole time he was in the far country. That fellowship was available while he was eating pig slop. That clean robe was available while he was laying in the mud. Those shoes were available when he had to sell his to buy his next meal. That ring was available while his other one was in a pawn shop somewhere. All that fellowship was available with the Father the whole time he lived in the far country. And we live our lives as Christians over here in broken fellowship and I just don't get anything out of my devotions and and church doesn't mean what it used to to me anymore and and I don't understand that I don't get anything out of the out of the preaching and and I don't get along with the other members that we're living over here and all that fellowship's available If we're ready to come back. If we're ready to have that relationship, that fellowship restored. His relationship was intact, but his fellowship had been broken. While his fellowship was broken, he could not enjoy his relationship. When his fellowship was restored, that relationship was enjoyed. So we can enjoy our relationship with God once we correct our fellowship with God.