Turn your Bibles to Revelation chapter number two tonight, Revelation chapter number two. Wonder wanted to start out and get the m years uh that you all have been I know we've a lot of different couples in here uh and how many years uh you guys have been married. I know Glovers is Twenty-six is there one behind us. Uh so we've been married twenty-seven. How many years have you been married? Thirty-seven. Thirty-seven. So they got uh got ten on us. Brother Taylor, how many years? Fifty two. Fifty-two, you got a couple more, uh fifty-two years, Joe and fifteen years, uh Joe and Nelma. How many years have you guys been married? Forty-four years. And uh Anthony, Tiffany? You're in eight. Eight years. Okay, on this side, Gus and Laura. Twenty-two? Okay. Uh Jake and Amanda. Five. Five years. Amen. Five years. I remember when they got married. Yeah. Um Matt and Tiffany? Seven years, yeah. It's amazing how much time flies. Uh Trudy and Reggie, how many years? Twenty-three, twenty-three years. And uh I know Richard's not here, but Mo how many years have you guys been married? Eight. Eight years? Wow. Eight years. Well, Brad, how many years have you been married? Four years. Got a pretty broad spectrum tonight. Um Was four the lowest number? Uh where's John and Stephanie? They're they aren't going to uh They aren't gonna stay married long if they're skipping church. So he's sitting in the foyer there and she's probably in the nursery with the baby. Uh so they're just over a year, right? They're not even two years yet. I'm sorry? Two years, John and Stephanie? Two years? Okay. And Jacob and Ryan, uh I I saw them leave. Does anybody happen to know is Miss Lee Lee okay or Lee Ann? Um the end of the I saw them head out, so um anyways uh Yeah, pretty broad spectrum of of marriages represented here. And you know Miss Mo, I know you don't want to hear this. But it's it's just amazing how quick time flies and how things progress and I'm looking at you standing up here singing with your girls and I'm like, man, ten years passes like that. And Mm certainly one of those girls could be married in ten years. Uh and uh she like, no. Well that's good. She still doesn't like boys. Yeah. Um you know it uh progresses Anderson, good to see you tonight. Yeah, no. Yeah, glad you made it in. Um well, I want you to look in Revelation uh We're kind of dealing with the family today. We dealt with raising kids in the morning service this morning and just tried to encourage uh parents to to really take that role and uh responsibility seriously. Tonight I want to talk for a few minutes about our relationships as husbands and wives. In Revelation chapter number two, verses one through five, he says unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, right, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden sandal s candlesticks, I know thy works and thy labor, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. And hast borne and has patience and for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, thou hast left thy first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove the candlestick out of its place, except thou repent. This passage of scripture here would certainly be very fitting for our theme of rest and revival. This would be fitting for us as a church to consider and think about this message sent to the Church of Ephesus about having left their first love. There are some who applied this first love to the mission of soul winning. I believe God loves soul winning, but I don't think that I mean that could be an application like tonight I'm going to apply it to our relationship with our husband and wives, but Uh the first love here is Jesus Christ. It is a it is a it is a commitment and a following of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and maybe they were participating in the duty and maybe they were accomplishing some measure of work and God said, I recognized what you were doing and I saw your patience and I saw your commitment and I I saw your tenacity for the truth and for righteousness and how you found those that weren't doing right and you wouldn't put up with it. I saw all that, and that was fine, but I got somewhat against thee. You left your first love You've allowed in all of your duty for the love to wax cold And certainly we could take this and apply it to us as a church, as a church like ours, as a working church, a serving church, and so many people participating in different areas and aspects of ministry. Love is the motivation for ministry. But we've got to keep that as the the motivator. And I mean I praise God that sometimes when love wanes or gets a little bit low that duty keeps us doing what we should be doing. But you can only keep existing on duty for so long. At some point, if that fire, if that love is not rekindled, the relationship will fall. I want you to see here if I applied this to our marriages, just for a few minutes talk about this tonight. The fact of the matter is that God knows what kind of marriage you have. He says here, he's talking about the churches of Ephesus, but he says, I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. He says, I know, I know. I know exactly what kind of a home you have. I know exactly what kind of a marriage you have. We have people that have been married here just a couple of years, and some that have been married I think fifty-two was the longest Here, 52 years. But do you know whether you've been married just a couple of years, you think, oh, they're still on their honeymoon. They shouldn't be having any problems You'd be surprised. I agree they shouldn't be having any problems, but I'm gonna tell you you you would be surprised. You're like they had they haven't even got to know each other yet. I mean you talk to Billy Taylor 52 years, he's saying they they haven't even started. I mean how in the world could they have problems? They haven't even got off the ground yet. They're still on the runway. But And I tell you I've sat with a couple that married less than a year that said we're done. We're calling it quits Do you think seven and a half months before that, when they were standing at the altar and they said I do to one another, that there wasn't anything but love in their heart Do you think there wasn't anything but commitment that uh that that that they stood up there and thought, oh, I'm just doing this so that in about a year we can go through the turmoil of breaking this thing apart I'm just doing this for the fun of the fact that from the rest of my life I can bear this scar that's going to be there. I'm doing this just so that for the rest of my life we can deal with the mixed homes and two families and all of that stuff. No. They didn't have that as their plan or their goal. But they reached that place. I have not. Man, I praise the Lord. I hope I never do have to spend any time counseling anybody married 50, 60 years. Hope by then they got it figured out. Amen But we're never past needing to ponder and think about where we're at in our relationships. And put some effort and focus on our homes. Can I tell you that Satan is doing all he can to destroy our homes today? You might be able to fool your church family. You come into God's house, you sit together, put your arm around a really glover, yep, I love her. But when you go home, your relationship's anything but that. You might be able to fool your church family. It's a little harder to fool your kids if your kids are still in a home, but you can hide a lot from them. Certainly you can fool your extended family. They all think everything's fine, but you know better You know that you're really not doing that good. That your relationship is just a few Hurts or failures away from dissolving. Satan is out to destroy our homes, but every home needs help sometime God knows your labor. God knows the work that you're putting in. You know, you can apply these things. He says, I know the patience that you've had. You know, maybe maybe God knows the patience that you've had up to this point. And you're just like, I can't take it anymore. I've just been patient as patient and as patient as I can be, and I just can't I can't be patient anymore. No, he says God knows. God knows exactly what's going on in your relationship. It's not something that's hidden from him. Now I believe by and large that We have homes here where husbands and wives are together and they're on the same page and they want to honor and please God and they want to love and care for one another. But can I tell you if we're if we're passive in this thing Before, just like we've been talking about in Sunday school about giving place to the devil. There's an area where you can give place to the devil. And the devil will get in, and he'll get an advantage in your home. He'll get an advantage in the relationship between you and your mate. And great, great, great turmoil. You're here, you're in God's house, you're still coming to church, you're still maybe participating in work party, you're still giving faithfully. You're still even let's say as far as your relationship goes, you're giving it a good old college try. You're you're trying He says in verse 4, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. I want you to see that this was a decision that was made to leave. It's a decision that was made to leave. Yes, you're still married, but you've allowed your heart to leave. You've allowed your love to leave. What happened is the fire went out. You have a pretty good marriage But you've left your first love. You've let the passion go out. You've let the the pursuit fade. The time you used to invest in thinking about her and doing for her isn't is no longer part of your day. The time you used to ponder and think about what you might do for him is no longer part of your day. The fire goes out. You've walked away. You've left your first love. It's not something that we lose as this world says, well, I just fell out of love. No, somewhere back along the line, you chose to leave. Not physically in your body yet. You haven't physically left, but there's somewhere along the line here, in your heart, you just gave up. In your heart you said it's not worth it. In your heart it's not I I'm done fighting for this. And so you've left the first love and all the heartache and turmoil and all the problems that are coming down the road, you haven't endured those yet But that's where you're headed if something doesn't change. Satan wants to do all he can to destroy your home. It'll get you out of church. It'll get your kids out of church. It'll impact other families in God's house. In a greater way than you might think, because you, as a husband or wife, chose to leave your first love. You know, there's only two things responsible for a failed marriage. Him and her. Him and her. That's all. So I tried to emphasize this morning that if things in the home aren't going like they should go, that you have to make those changes You have to step up. You have to say we're going to improve. We're going to make this step to and we're going to be what we should be before God and for each other. You have to make the choice to keep the fire burning. It's about three weeks ago. Um we burned the last of the wood in the house. I told the kids, okay, good. We're done with wood for this I'm tired of hauling wood, you know, and kids do all the hauling anyway, but uh we're done with fireplace. Let's clean it out, let's clean the basement up, we're done with firewood. Last three weeks have been freezing And I'm I'm like, man, we need a fire in here. We need some heat in this house. The house is cold, especially last week when I was dealing with this fever, man. I mean I was sitting in front. I told the kids, I said, Go get a couple bundles of firewood, bring them in here. Let's light a fire. I just want to sit in front of the fire, just be warm for a little while. You know, but a fire uh takes tending. Constant tending. And there's times like this time of year where it's not that bad, where it's kind of not very cold. You just want to knock the chill off in the morning, maybe. You could light a fire and it'll knock the chill off and you're comfortable and it lasts all day. You're fine. But you know in cold times it takes a little bit more work. And the same is true with your relationship. There's some days that things are going well, things are going fine, and and you can almost coast if it were. You can almost say, hey, we're doing all right. We can just Let it ride. We g I mean we don't have to tend it right now. We can it's gonna be okay, we can let it go and and uh but you know the next time when I want to start a fire it takes a little bit of extra work because now all the ashes in there and and the fire's all the way out and the chimney's cold and and if you don't get a good hot chimney you don't have draft and then it'll backdraft and put smoke in the house and that's terrible. And so you got a little bit of extra work you gotta do The same thing in your relationship. Takes some tending. Takes a little bit of extra work. The problem, and I've said it before, is a lot of times couples are drifting. They're just drifting through life, they're letting life happen to them instead of living life on purpose. If you gotta get out of bed in the morning You know, we we uh on the twenty-sixth was was our anniversary and it happens to be the Glover's anniversary as well, and so Brother Glover had a date planned for his wife and I asked if I could bum along with him And uh he said, Sure, you know, the park's big enough, you guys can go on that side and I will go on this side, you know. And uh so we rode along with him, but he had this whole day planned, you know, and he didn't tell Sandy what what they were doing. He had this day planned for her for her for their anniversary. You know, he got up in the morning with a plan. Here's what we're going to do today. This is going to be a good day. This is going to be a fun time for my wife and I. We're going to have this time together. It was planned. He had a vision, a plan for it. But without that, you're just drifting through the day. And a lot of our relationships are existing on just drifting instead of living life on purpose. If you gotta get out of bed in the morning with purpose and a plan, you will have not just a better day, but you'll have accomplished something. I know life happens. I know things get in the way of tending the fire, of keeping those coals of your marriage hot. But we've got to take time for it. So I I've maybe I've let the fire wane a little bit. What do I do? Well he tells us here, again by application, he says, remember therefore from whence thou art fallen. Remember. Remember what it used to be like. Remember what things should be like and correct the areas from which you departed. How long has it been since you written him a note? Of appreciation, of love, of gratitude. How long has it been since you sent her a text for nothing other than just want you to know that I'm proud that you're my wife? That I love you. That you are special to me. You know what romance is? Romance is saying I was thinking of you when I wasn't with you. And that can be displayed in a lot of different ways. It can be a card, it can be flowers, it can be chocolate, it can be a note, it can be even a simple little note scratched on a piece of paper and left for somebody just saying, hey, I was thinking of you. This last week obviously I've been sick and up and down and tried to come into the church two days and get some work done and one morning I came into the church. And uh I Mary comes in at about 8. 30 with the kids for uh the homeschool co-op and so I came out about nine fifteen and uh went downstairs to the office and there was a note from my wife on my desk Just that says, just want you to know I'm proud of you. I'm thankful that you're my husband. Living life on purpose. Remembering what it was like. Remember those things. I know things aren't all like they used to be. We've gotten a little bit older. Amen, brother. Things are different when you got fifteen grandchildren opposed to just you know, life's different. What you can do or what you used to do or what you know y you don't you don't look the same, you don't feel the same, thing things are different, you've been married a lot of years, but it doesn't matter whether you've been married five years or fifty-two years. We still need to keep the fires hot. Jake and Amanda, you'll never make it to 52 if you don't on purpose keep the fire hot. One day you'll get up and you'll think, how did we get here? How did we get to the place that our relationship is so cold that I would rather be anywhere else than with him? It's mind-boggling to me that in a church of God's people and God's family that there would be couples that don't sleep in the same room. Because they can't get along. Now maybe you don't sleep in the same room because he snores and you can't sleep with that. Get a plug, amen. uh you know, uh CPAP or whatever, I don't I don't know. There might be some other things, but if if you're y listen, a husband taking his pillow and going into the other room or a wife saying, you know, I'm I'm sleeping downstairs or whatever, that shouldn't be. If you're in that place, your relationship's in dire problems. You need to get some help. You're just hanging on by thread. Get some help before it's too late. Remember what it was like before. Remember when you made her your priority. When she was your mission, when you wanted to know all about her. When we were dating, I would ask my wife, tell me about yourself, and she would tell me, one day you're going to regret that question. You know, when you just asking questions, getting to know one another. Do you remember what you loved about him? I mean when you stood at the altar and you stood there and said, I do Your heart wasn't full of animosity. Your heart wasn't angry. Your heart wasn't upset. What was it that you loved about him? What are the positive aspects of his strength or her strengths that you can remember and be thankful for? When was the last time you held hands? I praise God that it's not uncomfortable for me to take my wife's hand. It should never be uncomfortable for you to be able to take your wife's hand. If you let it go too long in between, it'll get that way. You do it and it should be like, what do you want? Like what are you what what are you thinking? What what are you trying to do? You know, she'll think you have some agenda. Just want to be close to you And she'll be should be she'll she'll doubt that. You haven't held my hand in two and a half years. There's something up here. You know, just make it part of your life. Remember. And he says to repent. To repent is to think differently, to change. Make a 180-degree difference. You know, if you want something different than what you've already got, you've got to do something different. You've got to repent. I don't know where your guys' relationships are. I really don't. Um but I know from working with people that Satan is the enemy And Satan will do all he can to disrupt and destroy the homes, especially good homes that are trying to raise kids for God and do what's right. He'll try and do all he can to destroy them. And if you aren't careful, you'll let 'em. Maybe you're let something into the home or you're doing something that you shouldn't be doing that's that's hurting the relationship. You need to change that attitude, you need to repent of that. You know, I've had people Because I've been at this long enough now, I I've had people come into my office for for counseling. And they are about ready to call it quits in their home, in their marriage, they're talking about all these problems and he's describing or talking about all of her issues and so on and she's talking about his issues, right? But in one instance in particular, and I don't want to give anyway any any ultimate any any details, but uh can I tell you that it wasn't Too many years later, that one of the mates passed away, and the surviving mate was in great distress Because they lost the love of their life. Now those two things don't add up On one hand, you're saying, I can't stand her anymore. I want her out of the house. And on the other hand, you're saying, boy And when I saw that so vividly, I started asking people, what would you do if they were gone tomorrow? I mean if they were gone, if i if God took them home tomorrow. You would stand up and at their funeral you would praise and talk about all the good things that they did and how you loved them and cared for them and you know all all of this stuff. But you can't see it's that far down the road right now. We don't know when that day's coming. But while you still got them, you need to be thankful for them. Praise God for her, praise God for him. Repent of anything that you're doing that needs to be changed. Push yourself out of your complacency. Repent of how you've allowed things to get cold and The effort and the work of the home has not been a priority. Some years ago I taught a Sunday school lesson on this just to the men, but some things that every man needs to be very good at saying, they need to be on the tip of our tongue. We need to be ready to say them all the time. Those are I love you. Thank you. Please. I need you. Let's talk. I'm sorry. Can I help you? I don't deserve you. No, you're much prettier than she is. Things that men need to learn to say and be be uh on the tip of our tongue ready ready to say just You know, do you need to maybe repent of some things that you've been saying? You know, one of the hardest things, I mean uh communication is a big part of a relationship. And we do a lot of damage with this thing. What we say to one another, and when you say it You can try and explain it away, but it's so hard. It's so hard to try and take back those words that have left scars on the heart of your loved one. You've got to guard your mouth. Be so very careful. Repent of the things that you say that are not kind. And he says you need to remit remember, you need to repent, and he says you need to redo. You need to redo those former things. Remember how you used to talk to her and talk to her like that again. Remember how you praised her and praised her like that again. Remember how you were so thankful for the fact that he just went to work and Now you're mad because he's gone so many hours. Remember how you used to brag on him and brag on him again You even bought small things for her, little things. You went out of your way to try and make him or her feel special. Do those little things again. Just the small comments, just the expressions of love, just the show of compassion. Redo those things on purpose. Don't let it grow cold. Ask God to help you. To redo them. Get back to doing those things. It'll make your stir the f rekindle the fire in your home again. This I hope is preventative. I hope for all of you here, I don't I don't know where you're at, I don't know w what's going on. I suppose John and Stephanie, although we haven't done our six-month follow-up on our counseling meeting yet. So when I do premarital counseling, I do a six-month follow-up after they've been married for six months to make sure they're still happily married. And uh So we we haven't done the six month follow up. We've joked about it several times and I said, Well I'm watching. Mm-hmm. So as far as I can tell you guys are still happy, so uh we'll get we'll get together soon, but Um, you know, as far as I know, they're they're they're doing good, but I don't want to take it for granted. You know, life gets busy and you you get through the grind and you're just doing everyday things and all the stuff that you you gotta do and meanwhile you're letting the fire of your relationship fall. And I just want to encourage you to keep it precious. Keep it keep it sweet. You know the the kids come and go, right? You gotta be careful, you don't let life be all about them. One day they're going to be out of the house again. It's just going to be the two of you and you're not going to know how to talk to each other. Not going to know how to communicate. Because for so many years you just communicated through the kids. Tell your dad I went to the store. Tell your mom I left. You know, haven't talked to each other personally in a long time, maybe. And that shouldn't be the way it is. But I encourage you to have fun together. You need to have fun together That's one thing that I value very much about my wife. She's fun. I'm not, but she is. Which is good. But I just appreciate that she's fun. I love it that when I do something corny, she laughs. I I love it that that we can just laugh. I was listening to some comedian the other day and I it really wasn't that funny, but I was sick and I was on drugs and I had a fever I don't know, but I was laying on the couch and I was laughing, tears were coming out of my eyes. I was laughing so hard and my m I was listening to it on my ear, but m my wife and kids couldn't hear, but my kids were laughing about what what's dad laughing about. My mom's like he's listening to something. I don't know. And but uh then I started trying to relay the jokes and they're like, Well those aren't that funny, you know. But just have fun together Just have fun together. It it goes so long, it means so much when you just are friends and having a good time together, when you laugh together. You know, when you laugh together, you build up a storehouse that you can hedge against when you need to cry together. But if all you ever do is cry together. Tard. Tard. Because that's not all that your marriage should be. Laugh together, have fun. To grow together takes work. It takes effort. You know, all of our in all of the counseling sessions that I do, I always show people the graph of You put God at the center of your life and your husband and wife, and if you're going towards God, you're going towards each other You need to be growing, and that takes effort. Praying together, reading together, studying together, working towards God together. But if you're growing together, it'll help your relationship as well Listen, every marriage here could be better than it is right now. Maybe you've got a great marriage, and I praise God for that. I'm thrilled and truly blessed to have as wonderful of a marriage as we do. But I know that I'm convicted and I'm not the husband that I could be for the wife that God gave me. Every marriage could be doing a little better than it is right now in some way. You know, there is no neutral ground. You can't just drift. If you're drifting, you're drifting apart. But when you're living life on purpose, you're growing together. That's what happened when you started dating. You started on purpose. Spending time together. On purpose. Calling. On purpose. Investing time. On purpose. Stopping by and dropping something off. On purpose, picking her up to go do this. On purpose. Do you know all of this extra time and effort you're putting in to this relationship? You know if you would do that again, that same fire could come back. If you would on purpose work towards knowing one another.