This is Memorial Day weekend. This verse here in John chapter 15, I think. Greater than any other verse that I can think of summarizes what this weekend is about. In John chapter 15 and verse number 13, would you read it aloud with me? Greater love hath no man than this, then a man lay down his life for his friends. Lord, we come to you this morning and we ask that you would take this thought. That you would draw us into your presence, that you would feed us from your word, that you would remind us of the sacrifice that has been paid for us. Be able to be where we are today. Lord, I pray that you would just give me liberty. Help me as an individual to step out of the way. May my personality as a person not be a hindrance. May your Holy Spirit do his work through your word and Use the thought, which is very simple and straightforward, but can impact our lives. Lord, and we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. This verse pictures what Memorial Day is. Greater love hath no man than this, and a man lay down his life For his friends. There are through the pages of time men and women by the thousands who have laid down their life for you and I. Maybe not specifically for you as an individual, but as a an American, as a Christian as an individual, as we'll see here as we walk through here today, that I want you to know that they have given their life for you. Memorial Day is not just another opportunity to have time off work. It's not just another day to spend time in the sun and overeat and play. It's a time for us to remember the debt that we have, the sacrifice that has been paid, to somehow pause for a moment and remember and think about What they have done for us, how they have paved the way, the millions of men and women who've gone before, gone to war, and never returned. They gave the full measure of their strength and laid down their life, a sacrifice for you and I. That familiar and famous poem, The Field of Poppies, says, row upon row the poppies grow, each one assembled to brave men. We will never know. They stood before us, they stood up straight, for they were the men, brave and great. The seasons come and the seasons go, but unlike these men, these poppies will always grow. We should always wear our poppies with pride in tribute to those who have fought and died. This is what Memorial Day is, a time for us to refuse to forget the selfless sacrifice that was paid for you and I. So this morning I would have you remember three individuals who have gave of themselves selflessly. And completely for you and I. First of all, would you remember this weekend the soldier who paid for our freedoms? Freedom is not free. Freedom costs an enormous price. I think sometimes we forget how many Our nation was shocked and just ripped at its very core on 9-11 when this country was attacked. The beloved, we have gone to war over the years and lost our servicemen and women on the battlefield. Across this world in so many ways. Could I just take a moment to remind you of those deaths, those that gave of their life? Just in order of number, not in order of event, but in order of number. Just going back, not all the way to the beginning, but in the Gulf War 288 men and women gave their lives. In the war in Afghanistan, 1,833 men and women gave their lives. In the war in Iraq, 4,424 men and women gave their lives. In the Korean War, 33,686. Men and women gave their lives. In the Vietnam War, forty-seven thousand four hundred and thirty-four. Men and women lost their lives. In World War I, 53,402 men and women gave their lives on the battlefield. In World War II, 291,557 men and women gave their lives. These numbers are staggering. When you ponder and think about the fact that these men and women were brothers and sisters, they were moms and dads. They were sons and daughters. They went to the battlefield and fought and earned for us the freedoms that we enjoy. Freedom is not free, and Memorial Day is a time and a day for us to remember. Some of you have, I'm sure, have extended family or loved ones who have gone to the battlefield and have sacrificed it all. For our freedoms. Beloved, whether they did this for love of country or maybe out of duty and responsibility, these men and women laid down their life. It might have been because of the love of their family that was back home that they were pondering and thinking of as they went into the battlefield and accomplished the heroic deeds that they did, which earned our freedom. Or it may have been, as I've heard so many soldiers say, that when it comes down to it, you're fighting for the guy next to you. For your fellow soldier who is in the ditch with you and you simply cannot give up, you cannot surrender, and you cannot turn back because Your buddies are there and you have a battle that you've got to fight and you've got to get to the other side because of them. Whatever their motivation, beloved, can I tell you that we are the beneficiaries of it We are blessed today to have a day where we can choose what you want to do tomorrow freely. You can decide to fill your day with whatever you want to do and go wherever you want to go and very likely eat whatever you would like to eat and all because those that have gone before paved the way for you. I just would implore you to please don't forget the soldiers that paid the ultimate price for our freedom. Secondly, this morning, I would like you to consider the saints who have paid for our foundation The saints who have gone before us, who have laid the foundation for the Christian lives that we now live, they have paved the way and earned for you and I A road, a spirituality, a relationship with Jesus Christ, as I this week was confronted with the loss of my own father. I could not help but think as I got that text yesterday that the fact of the matter is he is up in years And I saw some people look at one another. You might have missed the announcement. Dad has 98% blockage, and he has to have open heart surgery I know the Lord will see us through and the Lord's will be done and if I don't see him alive this side of glory, I'll see him in heaven again. But as I as I pondered and thought about the fact the day's gonna come and it's probably not too many years off in the future when dad is no longer here I couldn't help but say, Man, I am so thankful for a mother and father that loved God and shirved God and paved away for a son Who really wasn't that good of a son, but they loved him and they led him and they helped him to be what God wanted him to be so that I could be where I am today I'm thankful that I had a mom and dad that stood against sin and they stood against themselves and they stood against Satan and they stood against society and those that would have them do something else and they said no We're going to stand with the scriptures. We're going to do what God wants us to do. And they paved a way so that their children could rise up and call them blessed, so their children could be the Christians that God wanted them to be. I didn't have to fight a lot of the battles that mom and dad fought because they fought them for me. Could I tell you today to remember and think about the Christians that went before you Maybe you had a Sunday school teacher. Maybe you had a pastor. Maybe you had a Christian school worker. Maybe you had a friend who wouldn't give up on you. And he kept coming and knocking on your door, kept calling you and saying, boy You need to get saved. Oh boy, you need to come to church. You had somebody who kept working with you that you today stand in God's house saved and on your way to heaven because you had a saint who've laid a foundation for you. Can I somebody say amen? I'm thankful today for those saints that went before. You know it's not easy. You know it's I mean everybody here you got friends that you would love to see saved. You've got family members that you're burdened for that you want to see come to Christ. And you know it's not easy to do, then oh, how much more and how more much more thankful we should be for those that came to us. For a mom and dad or a brother or sister or a friend that loved us enough to give us the truth and to pave the way for us to be the Christians that God wants us to be. Do you remember them and the foundation that was laid for you? I love the poem. It impacts me right at my core, the builder. An old man going a lone highway came an evening cold and gray to a chasm vast and deep and wide, through which was flowing a sullen tide The old man crossed in twilight dim, the sullen stream had no fear for him. But he turned when safe on the other side, and built a bridge to span that tide. Old man, said a fellow pilgrim near, you're wasting your strength building here. Your journey will end with the close of day. You'll never again pass this way You've crossed this chasm deep and wide. Why build you this bridge at evening tide? The builder lifted his old great head. Good friend, in the path I've come, he said, There followeth after me today a youth whose feet must pass this way. The chasm that has been as not to me, to that bare-haired youth may a great pitfall be He too must cross in twilight dim. Good friend, I'm building this bridge for him. Could I encourage you to be a bridge builder? To stand strong and fight and hold forth the the banner of the cross so that those that are coming behind you have somebody to follow. They have a path that's laid. They've got a foundation to stand up. You moms and dads, you're you're fighting battles so that your kids won't have to fight 'em. You're bringing them to church so that your kids will get a foundation in the Word of God and a relationship with the Lord and Savior, and it's not convenient sometimes, and maybe Brothers and sisters or extended family wonder why you're going to church because you've got to lay a foundation. I'm thankful today, and one day your children will stand up and be thankful for the foundation that you've laid for them. These men and women that have gone before and laid it all on the line for us, I'm talking about men like Davy, who was 23, and Natalie, who was 21. David and Natalie Lloyd, missionaries in Haiti, that were killed this last week by gangs Her father wrote on Facebook on Thursday, my heart was broken in a thousand pieces. I have never felt this kind of pain. Most of you know that my daughter and son-in-law, Davy and Natalie Lloyd, are full-time missionaries in Haiti. They were attacked by gangs this evening and both were killed. They went to heaven together. Loving there's people that have gone before and paid the price. In further comments, mom said we right now don't understand why. We just hope and pray that something good comes of this. That God somehow, as his word promises, that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. And they say we've got to just trust God that in this, why such a young couple married less than two years? were taken on to glory. Why did God allow this to happen? Listen, beloved, we've got to be thankful for those that have gone before. Those who were willing to go to the battlefield to stand for Christ and pay the ultimate price. Giving of themselves that others might know. The songwriter said, Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize, And sail through bloody seas. Thy saints, in all this glorious war, shall conquer, though they die. They see the triumph from afar, by face discerning eye It's faith that we know God will bring it through for good in his end. Can I take just a moment this morning to say thank you to Hunt Valley Baptist Church as well? On this Memorial Day weekend. Thank you. I appreciate your sacrifice for God. I'm thankful most of all for Christ who gave himself for me. But I'm also thankful for the Sunday school teachers that give of themselves every week The soul winners in the church that are reaching the lost, those that give up time and energy to maintain the facilities here, for those that come and serve at vacation Bible school. One of the longest weeks of the year for us. I'm truly grateful for each of you, the members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, this great church. I'm thankful for your faithfulness to God. I'm thankful. For your giving spirit, your sacrificial ways. I'm thankful for your concern for the lost and your love for one another. I'm thankful for your selfless service for the King of Kings and For the opportunity to pastor. Let me say thank you to the church this morning. Thank you for your patience with me Thank you for the privilege that's mine to serve as pastor. Thank you for loving my family and allowing us to be here. We need to remember, beloved, the saints who have paid for the foundation that we have. Lastly, this morning, I would implore you to remember the Savior who's paid for your faith. The Savior who has paid for your faith. Oh, the verse that we began with, the foundation of this entire thought, greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend. We know that Jesus Christ laid down his life. Beloved, nobody took it from him. He laid it down Romans 5. 8 says, But God commended his love toward us. That word commended is showed. God showed his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. 1 John 5. 11 says, and this is the record that God has given to us eternal life. And this life is in his Son. He gave his life for you and I. Ladies, don't you enjoy it? Don't you appreciate it when the love that he says he has for you is shown? When it's not just stated, when he shows that he loves you, when he goes out of the way to bring you your favorite coffee. When he stops and picks up something that he knows that you would like or appreciate or takes you to your favorite restaurant when you know it's not really one that he enjoys. My wife does that a lot 'cause she doesn't really like barbecue and I'm like a barbecue fanatic. So she's like, oh it's okay. Uh it's terrible. She's gotta eat that stuff. She doesn't even really like it. Her favorite restaurant would be anything with seafood. Especially when they have all you can eat shrimp. You know, that's where she wants to go. Don't you appreciate when the love is shown? Beloved, greater love hath no man than this when a man laid down his life for his friend. Jesus laid his life down for you and I. He, as the greatest soldier that ever lived, stepped onto the battlefield. He willingly took up arms and entered the fight knowing. Knowing that at the end he would lay his life down. His perfect service made him a perfect sacrifice. to provide a way for our salvation. 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19 says, For as much as you know That you are not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by the tradition of your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As a lamb without blemish and without spot. He was the perfect sacrifice and he laid his life down that you and I could have the faith that we have today. That's for the reason we observe and keep the Lord's Supper, which we will be doing here in the next couple of weeks. We do that to remember. To remember the sacrifice that Christ laid his life down. Why did he die? He died for you. Beloved, if you were the only person on earth, the love of God, he would have died for you. He would have gave himself so that you could know the forgiveness of sin and be on your way to heaven. He loves you that much. You couldn't provide for it. There's nothing you could do. You couldn't enter that battlefield or that arena or try and win it yourself. No, it's a free gift. Your debt and my debt was paid in full by Jesus Christ. Isn't it a blessing when somebody pays your bill? You ever been to a restaurant and somebody paid your bill? Somebody, you know, maybe somebody you didn't know or somebody that was on the other side of the restaurant or somebody saw you and they that you're like, you get up to pay your bill and find out that Bob Gamble's paid it already. Amen. Man, I'm gonna find out where he eats and go there a lot. Uh you know, you you get up and you find out, man, that's been paid already, or or you you know you're maybe less Uh it doesn't happen as often probably because it's not as but there's been times where uh you know you you've been at a gas pump and uh You saw somebody from the church and you say, Hey, I'm gonna take care of that, I'm gonna take care of their gas, or I'm gonna cover that expense for them. Or you're going through uh getting something to drink. I I was in a gas station one day and uh I saw Pastor Derek walking up. He was in the back of the gas station and he got a a slurpee. And uh so I told the cast you know, the lady there, hey, uh That guy's got a Slurpy there, just put it on my bill, it's paid for. And then I just left. So I I'm just hoping that they don't charge him again 'cause I didn't tell him, you know I I just I just paid for it and I figure well it's in the Lord's hands. If they lie and they charge him again, you know, I don't know what I can do about it. But he got up there, you know, I'm hoping they said, Oh, that's been paid for, you know Or uh in in uh McDonald's drive-thru, you ever pay for somebody behind you? Or somebody ever paid for you? I mean it's a blessing to have your debt paid. Well Jesus Christ paid our debt. A debt that we could not pay. I mean, just that oughta sink home into our heart that Jesus paid for our faith. 1 Corinthians 15, verses 3 and 4 says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. Christ died for our sins. Do you remember what Jesus did for you? He was betrayed by a trusted friend. He knew Judas would betray him in the end. False witnesses did rise up and accuse, but he opened not his mouth to refuse. He gave his back to that cruel scourge, unmerciful they were, without urge Pain and agony beyond compare, His bones did look upon him and stare. They pluffed the hair from off his cheeks, mocked and insulted, but he was meek Made him a crown of the sharpest thorns, and crushed it on his head to adorn. As he trod Calvary's road that day, the jeering crowd barely gave him way Such an awful hate made his heartbreak. Couldn't they see this was for their sake? The relentless scourging left him so weak, He had lost much blood, he could barely speak, As he struggled to carry his cross, He ne'er did think all this to be lost When he reached the top of Calvary's Hill, that jeering throng was with him still. They drove huge nails in his hands and his feet, making sure their job was complete. He died on the cross to save your soul. Most don't think so, but he is in control. Only he can grant that key to heaven's gate. Trust his forgiveness today before it's too late. Beloved, Jesus paid for your faith. I hope you're here today, and there's been a day or an hour or a time when you trusted Him. Where you put your faith and trust in Him and His forgiveness, what He did on the cross. If you haven't, you can do so today. But if you have, there ought to be a heart of gratitude and remembering Not only the soldier that died to pay for the freedoms that we enjoy and the wonderful day of fun and enjoyment we'll have tomorrow, but also the saints who have laid a foundation that have made a way for us to be able to stand on the Word of God and to live the life that God wants us to live. But also, beloved, a Savior who died and gave himself and purchased the faith that we have today. We honor the Savior, beloved. Bring this to a conclusion by saying, okay, this is what the soldier did. This is what the saint has done. This is what our Savior did. Well, what should we do? Oh, beloved, we want to honor them. We honor them by remembering them. But you honor the soldier who died for your freedoms by obeying the laws of the land. By being a respectable citizen, by having respect for the flag, standing when the national anthem is sung, when the flag is raised. Giving respect to this country, saying thank you to those that serve and to those who have lost their loved ones on the battlefield. We honor them by teaching our children and the next generation about the sacrifice that was paid for them to have the freedoms that they enjoy. What a shame it is that in the schools today they would dishonor the sacrifice of all these men and women that paved the way for them to have freedom by saying that they shouldn't have done that. We honor the soldier by remembering them, by respecting the flag, by respecting our country, by keeping the laws of the land and being a productive citizen, participating We honor the saint by continuing in the things which you have learned. Beloved, I feel that I have a debt that I owe my father and mother. A debt that I owe the Christian schoolworkers, a taught, a bratty, snot-nosed little pastor's kid. Who was who was a whole lot more trouble than he was worth. One day the principal at uh Sheboygan County Christian schools were I mean the principal was Brother Stevens. I remember him, man. Today he had been put in jail, but uh back then he was just training kids Uh he used to grab us by the ear, like when we were messing around, he would come by you grab us by the ear and he would just twist that ear. I mean he like lifted me up out of the seat more than once by my ear. You're like, oh that's terrible. Well I probably deserved it One time he was supposed to spank me and uh I knew about it, so I went and hid in the pulpit. I went into the auditorium, I climbed up inside the pulpit for two and a half hours. I stayed in that pulpit. They looked all over the church for me. You know that did not help my cause at all. They had everybody looking for me. It was terrible. I'm so thankful for men like Brother Stevens who loved God and tried to tow the line and tried to train and raise me. Teachers who loved me and cared and taught me. Here's the thing, I have a debt. The debt is to continue on with the things that I've learned. I don't have the right, the privilege to just throw aside all that I've been taught and say, you know what, I don't want to do that anymore. I don't believe that anymore. I'm gonna go this way. I'm just gonna go just go do what I wanna do today. No, I have a debt for all that's been invested in me. To continue in the things which thou hast learned. And beloved, we honor our Savior by keeping his commandments Man, when we stand before the memorials in Washington, D. C. , our hearts are broken just by the sheer numbers of people that died and gave their lives. The pain that was endured. We contemplate that sacrifice that was made for us. In much the same way, when we stand before the Lord's table, it should remind us of what Jesus did. And our hearts should be filled with gratitude. And we should be motivated, beloved. Like Paul, who said, the love of Christ constraineth me. It is the acknowledgement of what Christ did for me, that love, is what motivates me and constrains me and pulls me to do what God wants me to do. To be a surrendered and a submitted Christian to the to the will of God and to what God would have me do, to try and walk with him and to Stand against the wiles of the devil and to be a faithful Christian to God's house and to God's word and to be a witness to a lost and dying world and tell them About the Savior who gave himself for me. I honor my Savior when I live like a Christian and look like a Christian, and this world can see the light of Jesus Christ in my life. I pray today we would honor the soldiers who've gone before. I pray we would honor the saints who laid the foundation, and I pray that we would honor our Savior Who pay for our faith? Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed this morning