This morning, hopefully you're in Hebrews chapter 11. Look down at verse number seven. We're going to take my three points, come directly from this verse. Although they are presented in the verse in the opposite order of which how I'm going to I'm going to kind of reverse and go from the end towards the front. But in Hebrews 11, verse number 7, the Bible says, by faith Noah Being warned of God, of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. By that which he condemned the world, and became heirs of the righteousness which is by faith. Noah here. This is what we know of him. This is his testimony. This is somebody who by faith Had a testimony and and worked for many years for the salvation of souls around him. He worked and was able to uh save his family, praise the Lord. He loved his family and his family knew that. He had a testimony of faith of himself. It was accounted unto him for righteousness. He had faith in God and therefore was saved himself Don't turn there, but in the book of Acts, chapter 4, verse 36 and 37, the Bible says, and Joas, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas. Which is being interpreted the son of consolation, a Levite, and in the country of Cyprus. This man Barnabas, we know he was a Levite, we know he is from Cyprus, but we don't know much else about him. Except that his friends, the people that knew him, said, listen, we're not going to call you Joseph. We're going to call you Barnabas. Which being interpreted is son of consolation. Is somebody that's a comforter, somebody that's a friend, somebody that's an encourager You know, we walk through the pages of Scripture and we see different people, and right a right away our mind's eye, uh, we are able to kind of envision That person and we know about their character or what they were like, it comes to mind. We think of Ananias and Sapphira, how they chose to lie to the Holy Spirit. And their desire was to uh first get gain and and they wanted to look good, but they still wanted to get gain, and they didn't have to do what they did, but In an effort to look good, they ended up lying to the Holy Spirit. Then we think of Rahab, who for all eternity now is known as Rahab the We think of Samson and his life with Delilah or Thomas the Doubter But they're not all that direction. Praise the Lord, we think of people like David, who was a man after God's own heart. We walk through the pages of scripture and we think of these Men and women. In the last ten days, they these last ten days have brought into the lives of our church families some truly difficult Situations, indeed, some of life's most painful hours. They've had to endure the pain of loss, the heartache of separation And those that have had and felt this pain in the last ten days are not alone. There are numerous people in the auditorium right now who, in the very recent past, Have had that weight of loss on their heart. It seems as though as a church we barely go a month without somebody we love or know. That is enduring and facing the death of a loved one. As I sat in the funeral this last week for Leroy Brighton I sat listening to the presentation of the gospel and to the eulogy presented by the family of The loving memories that they had of him and what he meant to them, how he touched their lives day by day. I sat there having only a few hours earlier received a call about Peter And I knew in my mind that in a few days, in a different auditorium, at a different place, we would be setting about the same thing. We would be remembering somebody's life. And what he meant to them And it hit me. I thought about my life and how people remember me. What will my kid say after I'm gone? Will my church family have any good things to say? Will my wife praise me or will she praise God she's free of me? I sat thinking about that and the Lord stirred my heart about a message entitled, Remember Me. Remember me. You see, as I go through this today, I'm not by any means setting forth that this is what I am. But this is how I would like to be remembered. I read an article this week on how to write a eulogy for somebody you don't like. They said, try your hardest not to be negative. No positive attribute is too small. Like he had a nice house. He always smelled nice. Or maybe his clothes were usually presentable. If you're really desperate, speak in broad generalities that could apply to anyone in mankind. But they said try not to be negative. Well, the family of Leslie Ray did not get that memo. For they wrote of their father this eulogy. Leslie Ray Sharping was born in Galveston on november twentieth, nineteen forty two. He passed away on january thirtieth, twenty two. Which was twenty-nine years longer than expected and much longer than deserved. He leaves behind two relieved children, along with six grandchildren and countless other victims. Leslie was surprisingly intelligent. However, he lacked ambition and motivation to do anything more than be reckless, wasteful, and to squander the family savings. And to fantasize about quick-rich schemes. Leslie's hobbies included being abusive to his family, expediting trips to heaven for our beloved pets. and fishing, which he was less skilled at than the previously mentioned. He will be missed only for what he never did. Being a loving husband, a father, or a friend. No services will be held for him, no prayers offered for him, and no apologies made by the family that he tortured Leslie's passing proves only one thing, that evil does in fact die, and hopefully marks a time of healing and safety for all. You talk about a bitter and malicious eulogy. This is what they remembered of their father. Here's the thing. How will you be remembered? How will I be remembered The Bible says that by faith Enoch was translated as he should not see death and was not found because God had translated him before his translation. He had this testimony that he pleased God. Before his translation, we know that Enoch was not For God took him. Enoch had such a close and loving relationship with God that he walked with God day by day here on earth and he walked right off into glory with him He was not, for God took him. But before he was gone, he had this testimony. That he loved God. That he walked with God. That he pleased God. What I'm hoping this morning to do is stir your heart To right now, today, determine how you're going to be remembered and begin to live accordingly. Let me pray. Lord, I ask you this morning that you would be with me as I present these thoughts. I pray, Lord, that you would indeed give me liberty to speak. Lord, that you would You would uh bind Satan, that you would put a hedge about this place, that you would open the windows of heaven, that you would pour out a blessing on us this morning. that the pages of Scripture would come alive, that the thoughts from you would stir in each and every heart, that we would be driven to see the truths. understand them and make changes that are necessary for each and every person here today. I pray God that you would lead through this next few minutes that you would be honored and glorified and lives would be changed and we would be better for it. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Remember me. Remember me, first of all, as I sat down and I began to just kind of write out. I just I just listed, I began listing everything I wanted to be remembered for, and I gathered quite a list. And then I began to look at those things and I kind of summarized them and summed them up into Some of the most important things that I want to be remembered for. And first of all, I would say remember me as a saved man. As a saved man. Do you understand this morning that life is short? Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life but a vapor? We know that life is short and we know that death is sure. It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. Life is short and death is sure, and sadly sometimes death is sudden It comes unexpectedly. We didn't realize we were at death's door. We didn't know that it was their time to pass. We didn't know it was going to take place like this. But it's coming And what I want to encourage you this morning, every single person here, is I want to encourage you to be known as a saved man. As a saved man, when I pass away, I don't want there to be any question. I don't want anybody, my family, my friends, my acquaintances, I want them all to know that I was saved. I think that your kids should know your testimony of salvation. I want them to know that I, of course, went to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, every Wednesday night, every Sunday school of my life I went to every revival and every missions conference. I went to a Christian school and we had chapel uh two, sometimes three times a week. All through college, five years of college, I went to chapel three times a week. I added it up last night. That's well over ten thousand times I've sat and listened to the Word of God preached Do you understand that as a young man, thousands of times I sat in the pew, that I understood and I knew the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ? I actually taught Sunday school as a young boy. I worked in junior church and I preached in junior church as a very young child or even as an early teen I worked on the bus route and I preached the gospel on the bus route. I worked in nursing homes and preached in nursing homes. I was involved in the ministry I had met people down at the altar and taken the Bible and shown them how they could know for sure that they were on their way to heaven. But do you understand this morning with all of that head knowledge as a young man with all of that time in church that I did not know Jesus personally as my Lord and Savior. I knew about God. I knew all there was to know that I could retain in my mind about God. I had heard, I knew it all. I could lead somebody to Jesus Christ, and I understood all of these truths. But I didn't know him personally And when I went to college, we had an evangelist come. His name was Chuck Cofte. Chuck Coftey was a man's man. I mean, he was five days missing an action in Vietnam. He was found he he actually went he was shot five days with wounds in his legs and he he went and he he hid in the eve of a hut and while he was sleeping the Viet Cong moved in And were in the room that he was sleeping in the eve of the hut for four days. I'm not going to tell you the rest of his story, but I want you to know he was a man's man, but he also was approachable. And as a college student, he had just preached to an auditorium of over 2,000 people. And I walked up to him at the close of the service and I said, Can I talk to you? And he said, Yeah, Caleb, you can talk to me. And we were on I was on this side of the auditorium. I walked up right here and he sat at the pulpit. I said, Can I talk to you? He said, Yeah, and he sat down with me right here. In that auditorium With 2,000 seats, and we began to talk about my life, and I knew a lot about God, I could quote the scriptures I knew how to tell people to get to heaven. But I'd been battling and struggling some things in my life and I just couldn't get the victory and I'm running through this with him and saying, What what do I do? What do I do? He talked to me until that entire auditorium was empty Most of the lights were turned off and we were sitting there and he looked at me in the face and he said, Caleb, maybe what you need is to get saved. And I said, You know what? I think you're right. And I bowed my head right there with all that head knowledge and turned to into heart knowledge and trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And that day I got saved Before that, I know that that's the day I trusted Jesus Christ because that's the day that the Holy Spirit began to work in my life. That's the day that God began to change me and grow me and make me into what He wanted me to be. That's the day I began to yield to Jesus Christ. And what I'm saying is I'm afraid there's too many people that come to church and they know about God and they can tell the story of Christmas and they can sing the songs of Easter and they they they praise Jesus but they've never come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ himself Do you know that you're saved? Do you have a testimony of salvation? If you do, here's the thing. What I want to encourage you this morning is your family should know your testimony. They shouldn't wonder. Your brothers and your sisters and your mom and your dad and your friends, every one of them should be able to quote your testimony. They should get tired of hearing you talk about the day you got saved You ought to know it so well. This is what happened. This last week I was talking to a pastor, and he said that he had a well-known figure in his community that he met. He's a very popular, well-known man. And he was saved. And he said, you know what? Would you come to my church and give your testimony to my people? I think this would be a great draw. We could use your name And a lot of people in the community might come and they would come to hear you talk. I mean, he's a well-known man, and you could give your testimony. Maybe God could use it. And he said, Yeah, he would do it. So this well known man came to the church to give his testimony uh and he brought his mom, Jackie, with him. Jackie was 90 years old. At 90 years old, Jackie had never heard her son's testimony. Jackie didn't know if her son was saved And she sat in church and listened to her son's testimony. The pastor got up afterwards and talked about you need a testimony. The following day, he went over to Jackie's house and sat down with her. Do you know that Jackie's son had never heard his mother Mom's testimony. Ninety years old, he didn't know if his mom was saved. Didn't know. So the pastor began to talk to Jackie about her salvation and began to say, just like uh Chuck Kofty did with me and say, well, you know about God, but do you know God? You you you know of his love, but have you experienced his love? And they began to talk through it and Ultimately they they they uh the pastor said it didn't feel like I got anywhere, but I I got up and it was we had talked for two hours. So I I left He said, I got a text message from Gary that's Jackie's son. And he said, You can't talk to mom about that anymore. She's upset. So the pastor called Jackie and said, listen, I didn't I didn't mean to make you upset. She said, no, it's not a problem. You just really made me think Do I have a testimony? Do I know God? She said, You really made me dig into my past, into my heart, and think and wonder. He said, okay, and they hung up. The following day was February. Let me look at my notes here to me to confirm the date. It was February 5th On February 5th, they were talking about this in the morning on February February 6th Gary got a text from his mom. And Gary's text said this, son, I know I have a testimony. I trusted Jesus as my Lord and Savior. As a seven-year-old girl. I know. That was Wednesday, the sixth. Wednesday night in church, the pastor preached on the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. And he talked about how God is my shepherd. And as they were closing in prayer, Jackie raised her hand. She's 90 years old. She's fit as a fiddle. I mean She she would help clean up chairs, she would pick things up, she was she was she she would walk outside as fast as anybody in here. Jackie raised her hand and she said, I know. That he's my shepherd. I'm not afraid to die because I know he's my shepherd. On Thursday morning, Jackie walking to get something out of refrigerator died. Her son Gary is right now praising God that she was confronted with the question. Do you have Because he has on his phone a text from his mom. I know I trusted Jesus says my Lord and Savior, before this week he would not have known. If he hadn't been she hadn't been confronted, if that conversation hadn't happened, if they hadn't talked His mom would have passed off into eternity and he wouldn't have known. He had never heard his mom's testimony. Didn't know if she was saved. Do your kids know that you're saved Does your family know that you're saved? You ought to have a testimony. It ought to be clear that you know, that you know that He is your shepherd, that you belong to Him. You know, not all the sheep belong to Him. You have to become a son of God. I don't want anybody to wonder, did Caleb know the Lord was his shepherd? I want to be known as Jesus saved me. Because He saved me, I want to have faith like we see in Hebrews chapter eleven I want to be faithful to my Savior to get the crown of life that's promised to us in Revelation 2. 10. I want to be real as a Christian. I don't want to be a fake. I want to be real, not a hypocrite. I don't care if they say he wasn't the best Christian. I don't care if they say they say at the end that he didn't do everything right. But I hope that they'll say that he was real. That he was what he was, and what you got was what he was, and that was it. I hope that I'll have a testimony that he was real I read of a story of a young lady who came to church, and she was the only person in her family that came to church. And her sister was diagnosed with cancer. And she went to the hospital and began to witness to her sister, and her sister wouldn't get saved. Finally, she went to the pastor and said, Pastor, could you please come to the hospital and talk to my sister? She needs to get saved before she passes away. They're there and the pastor is talking to her and says, Would you please trust Jesus Christ? Why won't you turn to him? And she just turned car whole cold and hard. She turned away and faced the wall. Wouldn't talk to the pastor Before they left, the pastor began to pray, and this sister began to plead with her sister and said, would you please trust Jesus Christ? Why won't you trust to trust Christ before it's too late. Would you please do it? And her sister rolled over and looked at her and said, Because I know you. Because I know you. And if you're a Christian, then I don't need it. Lord, please make us real. Lord, please make us Christians that stand true to the Word of God and live faithfully for Him. I want to, as a saved believer, follow Jesus Christ and be known for that. When Elizabeth Elliott, whose husband was Jim Elliott, the famous man who said he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. When he was killed by the Alka Indians in South America, he was asked how he wanted to be remembered, and he said, I want to be remembered simply as a servant of God. Joshua was called the servant of God. Abraham was called a friend of God. How will you be remembered? I want to be remembered as a family man. I want to be remembered as a family man. A son was sitting beside his father's bed, and his father was passing away. Not a whole lot of strength left. And his father looked at him and he said, son, is that that apple strudel that I love? Is mom bacon that apple strudel I love? And he he son said, yes, dad, my mom is. That's what she's making. And he said, Boy, I just would love to enjoy a piece of that before I pass off into eternity. Could you please get me a piece of that and bring bring it to me, son? And so the son left. He came back a few minutes later and he sat down next to his dad but he didn't say anything and he says his dad said son son is that you and he said yeah he says did you bring me some of the apple shrudder? And he said no um mom said that's for after the funeral I hope my family loves me a little more than that. I hope I've done correctly to show my love and my my uh appreciation for my family. I want my wife to know that I love her. That I love her. Do you understand the talk is important? That words are powerful. We need to express that. We need to express that love. But do you also understand that that words are never to be alone? They're to be followed up with action. And if I come in day after day and talk about how, oh, I sure do love you, but then I work all day and don't come home, and as soon as I get home I go in and eat food and then grab my golf clubs and and go out golfing and I get done golfing, I come in and sit down in front of the TV and don't ever do anything in the house. Do you understand what I'm saying? Regardless of what comes out of this mouth, I'm I'm not saying I love you I hope that I live in such a way. I'm talking about our lives, people, and how are we going to be remembered, and I'm saying that I hope that I live in such a way that if I pass away, there's no question in her mind that I love her. That I love her most of all, that she's the most precious lady in this world to me. I hope there's no question at all in the heart of my kids that I love them, that they're important to me. I enjoy serving here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I love what God's called me to do in this ministry that I get to serve in is a privilege. But I hope my kids know that I would resign today and step down and walk away from it all for any one of them. I would leave it for you, Tim. I would walk away from it. Because you're most important. At least you're most important to me. Melissa, I love you guys. I appreciate what God's called me to, but you're my family. And I love you most of all. I hope there's no question, and I hope by my actions I work hard and I serve at the church and I put God first and I try and do my best here. It's a constant struggle, but I want them to know that I love them. There's times that I've got to put them first. I don't want there to be a question. I don't want them to say, Dad, put ministry first. Dad didn't have time for us. He was working. We've only got one life, people. We've only got a set amount of time to impact the next generation. We've only got the kids in our house for so long. I don't want there to be any question And I'll do what I have to do to make sure that I'm known as a family man. That I love this lady. And I love these kids. I'll leave it for you too, Andrew. Sometimes I use an illustration like that and I leave one of the kids out. And they're like, what about me, Dad? I want to be known as as a saved man and I love God and strive to put him first. But I want to be known as a family man, one that loves my family. That would do anything for them, and that they're most important in my life. I want to be known as the sacrificial man I want to be known as somebody that lives for others. You understand I said it as I started here. I'm not saying that this is what I am. I'm not putting myself on any pedestal and saying that this is look at me. I'm saying down in my heart, this is what I want to be known for. And if this is what I want to be known for, then this is how I have to live today. I want to be known as a sacrificial man. I want to be known as a man that loves to serve other people. I want to give my life and invest my time and my energies in helping other people. Like Barnabas, who was known as an encourager. Two brothers, these most wicked scoundrels in a small town. These two brothers, they they were known by everybody for their bad reputation. One of 'em one of these brothers passed away and the other came to the pastor and says, Hey, would you could you could you hold the funeral for my brother? And he says, We'll we'll hold a funeral for him. And he says, I would like you to tell everybody that he was a saint. And the pastor says, man, I I can't lie for you. And the brother just persisted and said, I want you to tell, well, after a little while, the Holy Spirit gave the pastor peace about doing that for him. After all, the man has passed away and he's no longer here, and you're not supposed to speak ill of the dead. So he said, okay, I'll do that. So they held the funeral in the church house, and at the conclusion of the funeral, he said, Everybody here knows that the man lying here before me was a scoundrel. But compared to his brother, he was a saint. He found a way to say it. I just want to be remembered as a servant. As a generous man, as somebody that gave time and energy and effort to other people. And if I'm going to be remembered that way, if these most important things on my list, then I have to live that way today. Before it's too late. What I'm saying to you is write your own eulogy Write your own eulogy today. See, this is what I would like on my eulogy. And then begin to live accordingly. Alfred Nobel was startled one morning when he woke up, sat at his dining room table, and opened the newspaper and saw there his own obituary. He read his own obituary. It said, The merchant of death is now dead. The newspaper went on to tell the story of his life, how this Nobel uh Nobel, the Swedish chemist and engineer, was the inventor of dynamite. He had made a fortune selling his explosives to armies, and they said he was responsible for killing more people. than anybody else. And he sat there and looked at that that day and he had a decision to make. He had to decide, is this what I'm going to be known for? And he purposed in his heart that that was not the legacy he was going to leave. And we today don't know him for the fact that he made dynamite. But we know him as the legacy that he left, which people still today receive the Nobel Prize for. For acts of valor, for peace, for chemistry, for medicine, for literature, for economics For the betterment of the world. He determined that day as he looked at what his eulogy would have been, but that's not what he wanted to leave. And he changed his direction and began to live a life for the betterment of the world. How are people going to remember you? Write your eulogy. And then begin to live. That that's the way it would be. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Just like Peter. You know, Peter, he was known for denying Christ. But that's not all he was known for, because less than 50 days later he was preaching at Pentecost. Peter, you're if you're still alive right now, your story is not done. You can change whatever it might be. However people might think of you, or maybe somebody would would make derogatory or negative comments about you right now, you can change that If you have a mind to, and if you're here this morning and you're not 100% sure you have that testimony of salvation Come before it's eternally too late. Let us take a Bible and show you how you can maybe you know about God. Maybe you're like me and you know about God and you were in church a lot. Listen, don't let pride send you to hell. Come and let us take a Bible and show you how you can know for sure you're on your way to heaven.