Pray started on about the same time we started in January of ninety four, right? What time did you guys actually start going out to meetings? What Oh yeah, so you guys were before. I know you guys were before, I wasn't sure how far out there. But um and uh she was still teaching classes I think in and out there at that time frame because our child was in her class. But uh uh she says, How's things going one day? And I said, Well, it's good, but I have a I had a pastor uh wanted to take us out and get us a suit. And I said, That was hard. And she looked at me and she preached the she got her Bible out. She was going, ah no, she didn't do that, but she preached the great message with one sentence. That's just her pride. Boy when that standard starts knocking those rough edges off, it gets kind of painful. It's a good message. And I said, a hundred percent. And um Uh Pat and we I met him uh right away 'cause when I got to college I saw that orchestra and I said, Man, that's amazing. I want to get into that. But I hadn't played uh any instrument uh for years and years and years and the last time I'd played baritone was sixth grade and I'd already gone through the Marine Corps, been a sergeant in the Marine Corps, went to aerospace and had children and got late in life, decided to go to Bible college It'd been a few years. And so uh Mr. Jing Yingling said, just I got an old baritone, just grab it and it's Thursday. We have church tonight. Just sit down and you can play. If I sit next to Pat, Pat's like, oh I got another bird tone, this is great. Uh what's that? Oh that's an F. What do you mean what's that? It's an F. How do you play it? It's open. I had one note I could play. I can only imagine what was going through his mind. Who is this idiot getting his late and sitting in the band? Anyway, uh, we do appreciate them having the patience to give us a few Mm sandings, amen. And we it polished is the way I would describe the two of them. My wife and I are like, man, good I appreciate them very much. We're not as polished if you haven't noticed, but uh uh everybody has their calling. God didn't call them to uh Siberia, Russia, God called us and We fit in. God called them to a lot different uh ministry and then they fit in. Amen. Uh getting in where God wants you is a key to success and happiness in a Christian. Because that don't try to be somebody you are not. Allow God to mold you into whom you should be, and you will find great happiness. Psalm seventy-eight Going there this morning. Uh I hadn't wanted to preach this. This is not again uh a message that I like to preach, even though it is a message uh from I believe God has given us some things here, some things that helped us in our uh home. uh primarily, but in our church we've done some things too. Because I I I noticed as I was reading this one day, what angers God is not always what we would think would anger God. So let's read down through this. Psalm 78, we're going to read from one, uh I'll probably stop about 22 this morning just for sake of brevity. Give ear, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings of old, which ye have heard. And known. And our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children Showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he hath done. For he established a testimony in Jacob, appointed a law in Israel, which He commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children, that the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. It might not be as our father is a stubborn, rebellious generation, a generation setting off their heart aright, whose spirit was not steadfast with God The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle. They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law. They forgot his works and his wonders that he had showed them Marvelous things that he in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan, he divided his sea and caused them to pass through. He made the waters of standards in heap. In the daytime also he led them with a cloud and all the Night with a light of fire. He claimed the rocks in the wilderness, gave them drink as out of great depths. He brought streams also out of the rock, caused waters to run down like rivers, and they sinned yet more against him by provoking the Most High in the wilderness. And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust. They spake Against God. Wow. What in the world did they say when they spoke against God? They said, can God. Can God? They spake against God. They said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? Behold, he smote the rock that the waters gushed down and the streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Can he provide flesh for his people? Therefore The Lord heard this and was wroth. So a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel, because they believed not in God and trusted not in his salvation. As I was reading this, um the thought came to me about stupid questions. Some pathetic questions of sinners. You've all often heard, maybe you hopefully haven't, but maybe you've taught a class somewhere sometime, and you started off the class by saying, class, now just relax. There are no stupid questions. How many ever heard that said? Raise your hand. Okay? I beg to differ. Uh uh, you know You go you go to to to to impress your love of your life and and you knock on the door and you Pull out from behind you a bouquet of flowers, because nothing says I love you more than decapitating plants and bringing their dying carcasses to your love to look at. Amen. It smells But nevertheless, that's our culture. And you have these flowers you pull off of the back and choose, Oh, a lease for me And you say, Oh of course not, I brought them for your father. I mean what a stupid question. Right? Uh you know, y y y y you you get seen out in the streets now these days Pastor would be different, but some of you, you know, don't necessarily dress like we are dressed this morning and you're seen out there on the street and and somebody says, Oh, what are you all dressed up for? Well I was at John's funeral. Is John dead? Well no, of course not. He decided to have a funeral ahead of time because he wanted to see what the flowers look like. I mean there are some stupid questions, amen. My wife looks at me sometimes and says Stupid question. You know, uh um honey, we need to go buy a new iron. Why is the iron broke? No, I just want a new color. Of course it's broke. We ask stupid questions, right? Don't say sometimes. But this has got to be one of the stupidest questions in the history of mankind. Is there anything that God cannot do? Oh, now don't cheat on me, Bob. That was supposed to trick him into answering no There are things God can't do. In fact, I had a tract that I get from a beacon of truth that says five things God does not know. Okay? And when you hold that out to somebody, this is the easiest track in the world to give away. So you start it off with saying, You think God knows everything? And they asked you, well yeah. Then you hold up this thing, let them see the title. I think God does not know God does not know everything. And I've had so many people reach out to take the track immediately because they want to know what God does not know and I'll pull it back from them if I have time. And I'll pull it back from that. And I I'm not giving this to you unless you promise to read the whole thing. And uh of course it's God does not know a sinner, he doesn't love, doesn't know a sin, he doesn't hate, things like that. But anyway, you get people to take it. Uh because there are things God does not know. He doesn't know a sinner that he doesn't love. He doesn't know a sin that he doesn't hate. It's a trick, right? Because God's all knowing. But God limits his own power in that he does not do anything he doesn't want to do. You see, God cannot sin. Now there's nothing that God cannot do that he wishes to do. He is all powerful, he is omnipotent, the God that we serve. But there are some stupid questions, aren't there? And you know there I I see four reasons why stupid questions, in particular this stupid question, could be asked. One of them is when we forsake the clear teachings of God's Word. Did you notice that they had been taught these things? They had heard them from their fathers. They had received the commandments and the testimonies. Yet they had drawn away from the clear teachings of God's Word. They had forsaken clear Bible teachings. Jesus, I remember at one point in the scripture, when you read, uh I believe it's um Matthew, and he's speaking to the Sadducees, and he says, you do err not knowing the scriptures Nor the power of God. When we get away from the clear teachings of God's Word, we are apt to find ourselves also asking stupid questions. Yea, we may even ask whether God is able, because God is able. And we begin to doubt. When we get away from the Word of God. We also not only forsake teachings of the Word of God, but we fail to understand the character of God. Well, how many times we see something along this line in the Bible where God lays out something along the line of, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. We see that throughout all scripture. I love what uh uh is in Corinthians where he talks about God has given us the foolishness of preaching. confound the wise. And uh I find that so there's things in the Bible that do not make any sense. Humanly speaking. We're talking about faith-promise giving and giving in general, tithing in general. There's absolutely outside of God's word and God's teaching and God's promises no sense In biblical givings. Humanly speaking. Wait a minute now, you're gonna try to tell me that if I take 10% of my income, and you say to God and give it back to him somehow, that ninety percent is gonna go further than the ten percent. And you've got to stop and say, well, well, actually, you can't If you read Malachi, you've got to kind of give a little bit more because he says, You've robbed me in tithes and offerings, and you haven't given offering yet until you've given something of your own, and you've not given something of your own yet Until you've once again given God his ten percent and then add to that. That's even worse. You're trying to tell me if I get more than that, somehow what's remaining will go further than what I had to begin with. That makes no sense. No, it doesn't, but it works. It makes no sense that God would love a sinner It makes no sense that he would let it uh come down in the flesh and die on the cross for our salvation, knowing that some of us would reject. That makes no sense. But he did it. And it does work. How it works? I have no idea. But it works. And we can have a lesson on giving and some of the ways that God makes it work. But I want you to understand that God's ways are not man's ways. And we will ask stupid questions and we'll start to misunderstand God when we forsake the Word of God, when we fail to understand the character of God But if you notice down through here, I think one of the greatest problems that we see is when we forget what God has done When we forget what God has done. I am terrible. My brain has been fried Uh I used to have a pretty good memory. Uh in fact I I I I was I it was one of those issues. Never miss credit again. It's your pride, brother. Uh one of those things I used to pride myself on memorying names and God took that away from me And I have to really, really, really, really work at it now. Uh, is that right Jim and uh Betsy. Uh no wait, that's not Jim Betsy, that's I'm kidding. Bob and Carroll. I got it written down. But anyway, uh uh he's looking he's looking at me kinda funny like, what? Did you get that? Okay. All right Forget. Why do we have a knife on our bathroom wall in Estonia? So we don't forget. Setha, you know, as most Christians do, her life is not uh smooth sailing. There are times when she, as all of us do, get doubtful about God and get their faith shaken But every time she goes in the bathroom, she she lived through that. God saving her life to answer prayer She sees that knife. And then she tells others. And others see that knife. And they remember the testimony of stuff. Do you have a knife on your wall Now, I don't mean you do you physically have a knife on your wall. I mean apply that to your life. Things that God has done. Have you made a point to remember that? Because when we forget what God has done, did you see this here? We forget the works of God and fail to keep his commandments. That's in verse 7. That they might set their hope in God, not forget the works of God. And why what happened because of this? Verse 21, the Lord heard us and was wroth. Why? Because verse 22, they believed not in God and trusted not in his salvation. When you begin to forget What God has done, you begin to slip away. You will stop believing in God. And you will stop trusting in his salvation. It's a step-by-step process. I have seen so many people come out to church, get saved, get baptized, join the church, get excited, begin to give. And they get involved, but then something happens to get them derailed. And you see them begin to pull back I know your preacher has seen it and it worries you when all of a sudden that that person who's becoming every service, all of a sudden a Wednesday night comes and they are no longer there. It starts probably with a soul winning on Saturday. All of a sudden Saturday they have to work extra now and work overtime. And then eventually you see them missing Wednesday. And then eventually it's Sun Sunday night. And then eventually it's Sunday school. And then you s see them slipping and no longer even coming Sunday. Why? Because they forgot. We need to put in place things That helps us to remember. We write them down. And I really challenge you to write down, make a journal of what God has done. We have a prayer book in our church. Now it doesn't have prayers in it, it has prayer requests in it. We have a book in our church and I use two ink pens for this book. I write in black ink uh when we have the request. And then when God answers that prayer, I cross it out, put a PG for praise God, put exclamation marks, and I say how God is answering. And I go through that occasionally, I'll pull it back up, and I'll just remind our people what God has done. Remember when we were praying for so-and-so over here? My stepfather is 93 in May. He was a vicious mean man when we were growing up. We were very abused as children. I'm not joking. This is true. Uh in fact if you go get you a uh a a nineteen seventy series, the eighty series dictionary, Webster's dictionary, uh get the unabridged and look for mean spirited, his picture is probably going to be there. Uh that was a joke. Okay. But uh it should have been there. And I mean just a mean individual w as We've had a burden for him to be saved. I I would sit down with him when it w every opportunity and God would bring in opportunities up, whether something was happening tragic and I'd say, Don, can I just share a few things with you I'd have my Bible. And he would look at me and his eyes would just turn black. No! I don't want to hear anything about it in our front room. That's how he would talk. I mean this as loud as he could scream. Wow. I mean just And a few years later, um this has been when he's turned about eighty, so it's been about fifteen years ago now, uh there's a little tiny church down the street and he um Started my mom said, Let's start going to church and she she drug him out to church. Now she'd been saved uh years before, but they so she started getting him to church and he just is sit there and he's like, okay, I'll do my part now. And uh it was a United Methodist country church running about ten people. And you can imagine what that was like. And it was. And uh um So when I would free his household, he'd say, My church is good enough. Now he had money, so immediately made him a trustee Okay, now here's a man who's not been saved, not been baptized, never joined the church, but he's a trustee because he had money. And uh so that's he thought that was great, but just refused when the word of God was opened to hear from the Lord And when my mom turned eighty, just before that, he turned eighty-five, so it's been about eight years ago now. His church had gotten a new guy in named Don Nudemeyer. Nudemaker, sorry. And he was a layman that had taken some online course and they said, well, we'll make him the preacher. And uh he talked to my mom, found out I was a missionary in Estonia, and he was gonna adopt a young lady from Latvia, so he called me and connected to me, and he said, uh, oh you've been preaching, you've been pastoring for decades. Can you help me? Now this is a guy old enough to be my dad reaching out, saying, can you and I started to find he had been saved, baptized, a Baptist King James Bible Baptist. I mean, this I mean, what are you doing trying to pastor a United Methodist Church? He says, Well quite frankly I'm trying to make him not United Methodist but anyway he began to call me and long story short I helped him move the church and leave the United Methodist and start a new church there. It's just a um Talma Church. And he said, What should we call it? I said, Well you're in a little village called Talma. You're not a Baptist yet. You're getting there. Uh just call it Talma Church. And so they called it Talma Church. But he says, Can you come and teach on baptism because they're right on a river. Literally, literally right on a river. And you go out the the fellowship hall, there they used to have a boat ramp with an initial building right in the river. So you go out the fellowship hall and walk too far, you fall in the river. And so I said, sure. So I came back there and taught them on baptism. What I spent most of my time now. They gave me a long period of time. They said, We're going to be here a couple hours. Uh we got a huge lesson we got to have. And the people were accepted. I taught mostly what baptism is. Okay? And I really, really hit on salvation. And I would teach it. Then I would go to and I say, oh, and don't forget, I re come back. Baptism isn't salvation Salvation is by grace, not by works with any man go back and forth about salvation is letting Jesus Christ do for you what you cannot do for yourself. It is allowing Christ to save you from your sins and penalty of hell. I mean I'm going back over this and over this. And uh afterwards he says, look, he says, we want you to give us a demonstration My mom said, I've never been scripturally baptized. And uh so he said, You can take your mom, you can show us how to baptize down here in the river. Uh and then I said, Well after that then you can take over 'Cause he'd already been baptized. He says fine. I know maybe a little weird, I may get in trouble for this, but this is what we can. And so I took my eighty year old mother Down into their water and baptized them, showing them what to do, how to do it. And all the churches are, ooh, this is really different, you know. And uh she can't swim, so she don't let go. But uh I I brought her up out of the water. As we are coming back to the boat ramp and she's getting o out of the water, my stepfather starts taking off his suit I'm getting baptized too in front of the whole church. Oh no, stop, stop, stop, stop. No, no, no, no, no, you're not. Why not? What doth hinder me to be baptized? He didn't say those words, but that's what it was asking. I said, You have never received Christ. You are not saved. You have never received the forgiveness of your sins. You're still dying in your sins at this moment. You cannot be baptized. I won't baptize you. He goes, that's not true. What do you mean it's not true? You just said in the church that if I would re pray and ask Christ to save me and forgive me of my sins that he would do it. And I stopped right there in the pew when you were preaching, and I asked, oh God, I asked God, I call on his name and ask him to save me And that means man in the world, who we've prayed for for decades. God's sake. Looked at the pastor, I said we was only going to baptize one. He said, get him in the water. And so my 85-year-old stepfather, who we had plotted to kill when we were children. That's not a joke. We had plotted to kill many times. Came into the water. Got I got pictures. I'll look through 'em. I don't want to forget that. Don't forget what that We have prayed for him for decades. I remember going back to my church in Estonia. We've been praying for Don for salvation. Our people have been praying for Don for salvation. And I said, I get to take a ready But praise God. Decades. This it reminds me of Mr. Raymond. How long? Seven two years I think it prayed for him or more. But God is still in the saving And you say, Brother Mike, we hear these. This guy got saved. Am I right? I mean, this guy got saved. This man got born again. That may not be good grammar that's bad, I know, but uh you know what I mean. He said, next time I came through he said, uh, hey, hey, are you gonna preach? I said, yeah. He says, I want to do the Scripture reading at church. What? He makes sure he goes to church at 93 with dying of cancer. We're praying he passes in the glory soon. Peacefully. This is this it God changed him. You wouldn't believe it was the same person today. My daughter comes down and she'd witness to him again and again. He'd listen to her. He wouldn't listen to me. And uh she said she comes down, she'll spend just time just chit-chatting with grandpa A man who's the meanest, nastiest guy you'd ever want. The back of chewing a white one. God is still in the saving business Let us not forget what God has done. Talked earlier on about how God provided when we had sixty rubles in a bag of rice. That was in the spring of ninety-eight. We eventually had uh we had a hundred dollars, we was able to add something to our rice. We still had the rice, and we it was nicer when you had a little bit to add to it And that $100 fetched us through until we was able to get money in. But by the fall of '98, they had the Russian financial crisis. And uh it was awful. Um we we went to a stores and they literally were empty. People, we saw guys taking uh baskets and and walking down the cosmetic aisles to rake cosmetics into the basket. Because that was all that was left on the shelf. And they would rather buy cosmetics than keep their money. Because they said, I can sell this or trade cosmetics later for food. But I can't use the money because the money was devaluing. We saw it go from um six rubles to the dollar to twenty-four to the dollar in four days. It it one fourth of its value in just four days and it kept on going. And uh uh I became a millionaire. It was amazing. Uh a million rubles, it was great. Uh couldn't buy bubblegum, but I was a millionaire. And um We saw God do that. And our people when this started happening, the Holy Spirit said, go to town. And I had a vest that I carried over in in in in we dressed like a Russian and the Russians a lot of times have these vests, they have everything in their pockets. We had mine specially built. When you opened it here, we had room for two sets of John Romans, and then I had a faith for my Russian Bible and then a hymn book. So we would take this and we go out eat uh on the streets preaching and things. And uh we carry so many John Romans and we I had the back, I had them add a pocket on the back and we could stuff more John Romans there and uh I had a place for my passport, my money, everything I needed, pens, notepads, everything tracks, everything was in this vest. And I could just instantly put it on be ready to go. And so I came up to the house, ran up to the house, I was down and I just go. And I got my vest on, ran literally down the hill. Our village was on these multiple hills. I come up to the main road here. The bus Uh, I can see it coming from the airport. Gonna pick up the stop right across the street. There's a little hill. So I got like a a V junction here, Y junction are coming together And I seen a little white car press the hill and the bus is gonna come up to the yield sign, the car's gonna be ahead of it. I ran across the street to get there for the bus. The little white car was driven by a guy whose name was Sasha, and that's how we remembered him. Uh he stuttered. Poor guy, if you got a name if you stuttered Sasha's my good name. And uh so S Sasha uh seen me and uh he he pulled over. He says, hey, you going into town? The bus is coming up. I said, yeah, he says, get in the car, you don't need to get on the bus And so I got in the car, went into town. If I had not gotten masasha, we wouldn't have had any food because I didn't know that the main city, every shop was closed. It's the entire city Every store had shut down. They'd been through this before. I hadn't. And we went out to the warehouses where the bulk foods were, and they had the, I'm not kidding you, a seal the size of your uh back wall there over these big huge warehouse doors, a big paper seal with a big n no entry sign on it. Uh they sealed the warehouses. I don't know where they got the paper. But anyway, uh they they did. And so we're there and There's no food. I got a family to feed. I got money. I got no food. And so Sasha, I'll shorten up for you. He goes, I know somebody. And so we go down, we find a phone, there's no cell phones, we got another phone, and he calls this guy and he goes, That's my warehouse. He goes I can get some things out before the government came in and sealed it. He goes, What do you need? And he asked, What do you got? He said, What do you need? What do you got? And I so and he said, What do you need? I said, I need sugar, flour, rice, uh oil, uh mayonnaise, uh meat, uh and he goes, Well, I got f I got flour. And and they they never tell you what they have. They always want you to give them a list first and then they tell you you got one thing. So this is Mom. And he gets he come back and says, Well I can give you a hundred and ten pounds, fifty kilos, bag of of of flour if you want Absolutely. So we got this little two-door Toyota car and we put two bags of flour, two hundred and ten two hundred and twenty pounds down. In the back of the car. And you got anything else? No, but I I know a guy. And so uh he goes back in, he sneaks into his warehouse and the back through the window and calls this other guy. He said he's got this warehouse over here And uh he said he has oil. So we drove over there and he came out and I he says, How much do you want? I said, How much can I have? He says, How much you want? How much can I have? How much you want? I want three tons. He says, I can give Your case, I said fine. And so we got a case of oil And uh and so did Sasha. Now we put two cases of oil uh on top of the rice and here we are in the car. And uh I said, You got anything else? He says, No, but I know guy And I said, Amen. And so he called him and we went over there and uh he I he I said, What do you have? He says, What do you want? I said, What do you have? What do you want? We did the same thing every single time. And he said, I got millet. How many knows what millet is? You might know. You guys anybody's in Africa knows what millet is. We don't eat millet here in the States. We feed it to the birds. If you get bird seed, those little round balls in your bird seed, that's millet. This is important. So he said, I can sell you two bags of millet. That's 220 pounds. Well Sasha said I only want one. So we put now three more bags at 110 pounds each in the back of this two dollar Toyota. And uh it was nice looking at the stars. But anyway, um I get home and my wife says, you won't believe what I found. There's a lady who's one owns one of the stores, which we knew. We're in a little village. She says she's got a bag of sugar. And she won't open and distribute it because she wants to sell it intact and be done with it, but she wants five times or so the value is really expensive. I said, I'll take it. So I walked down the hills, uh, got this hundred ten pounds bag of flowers and carried it all up the hills Just singing along, it was great. And so now we have sugar, we have flour, we have oil, we've got millet. And uh um my pastor called me. Now we had signals so we knew the K G B was always listening in and he would say, You know, we had certain things, if I needed fish, I needed I need money. You know, we had just talking so he and we're just like woo-hoo hoo that's what God has done because I've been hearing about this terrible situation. How are you guys doing? We're doing great It's terrible. He's translating. And incorrectly, as it turned out, he goes, What do we mean you don't? I said, man, we've got we've got flop We've got sugar. We've got oil. And we got millet. What's millet? What's this grain thing? I never heard of it. What's millet? Bolkane. You know, bird seed The little round balls, that's millet. And we've got 220 pounds of millet. 13 bird seed! So the letter goes out to my churches. By the time it gets to my churches, the poor Smith family is reduced to eating turkey feed. That's the truth. To this day I have people, Were you that poor mission eating turkey feed? I don't even bother to argue. I said, yeah, that was us. What I'm saying is this. When our people in our church found out that we had 220 pounds of millet, wushy sort, which is the best. They were coming out of woodwork. Hey, we'll trade you ten kilos of potato for two kilos of milk. You're wrong. We'll trade you seven kilos of carrots for one kilo of milk. You're kidding. We got the neighbor down the street came and said he his shop had he said I found some sausage. Back in underneath a box is kind of old. Do you want it? I said yes. It was pepperoni. That it aged. It was just fine. Hallelujah. We got a call from NC International, which is the dealer for the big, huge caterpillar tractors that go into the mines in the Russian region. And they said we got a uh a shipment in on a on a fishing crawler and we can't use it. What's wrong with it? It's t it's tysing chickens But they put 'em in there and they laid seals on top of it. This thing smells like a dead seal. None of our people want them. Do you want them? I said Are you kidding me We went in there and we got how many kerfic chickens did we get? It was a barch. I mean a bunch of seal stinking chickens. But they were wrapped in plastic and in wax paper. Once we got the cardboard and the packing materials off the chickens inside were fine And we paid like two bucks apiece for full chickens. We called our churches up, we're passing out chickens. We're like, this is You can't forget those things But you will. You need to make sure that you you have means to remember what God has done because the day you forget what happens We just saw it. You'll begin to even doubt your very salvation. Remember what God has done. But more importantly, make sure your children believe it. Cousin God is so with us aspect