Of Matthew after that. And welcome to church uh this morning. Welcome uh on this resurrection Sunday as we get to celebrate. Uh and remember the uh sacrifice but also the victory uh that Christ gave us when he rose uh from the dead. I was talking to Pastor last evening as we were both here um studying for today that it kind of hit me about halfway through my preparation that uh Biblical civics is a is a strange topic to teach on on Easter Sunday. Um but it is what we're in the midst of as as a series and I know that pastor will be dealing with Easter in the uh morning service here and I didn't want to uh steal any steal any of his thunder and and overc or d cover some of the topics that he he's dealing with. So we're going to continue this morning on our topic of biblical civics. Help if I turn to our chapter as well. Is week four as we're studying the idea of uh civics from a biblical perspective. Uh we do have, I believe, three lessons. left in my plan for now as far as where we're going. We've dealt with just kind of an introduction to what biblical civics is, the idea of what a citizen is and what our role is as Christians uh when it comes to our involvement in government and in our interactions with other citizens as part of our country. We went on to discuss the three institutions. uh that got established. And then last week we looked at um the idea of the foundation of government. Where where did government start? And we looked at its roots and how government got started and the need and how it arose for government. Kind of see what the role of government is from God's eyes. Today we're going to look at a very common verse that we're familiar with in the Bible when it comes to the topic um of civics and uh and dealing with government is something that happened in the life of Christ where he said, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and render unto God the things that are God's uh approaching this study, coming into it, I kind of uh went in with an expectation that that's a a fairly simple thing to dive into and to to study, but like so many other things in the Word of God once you uh get into it, there's kind of no stopping where as far as it can go, there's a lot of truth uh that's there. So I had to make a cutoff point and uh I did so. Um we're going to go through this material that I have prepared for today. This is again by no means exhaustive, um, but giving us a glimpse into what God has uh in store for us uh in this study regarding what Jesus meant by that idea of render under Caesar, the things that are Caesars, and then how does that apply to us today? If you were able to get them, there are notes available in the back. And if you're watching from home, there are notes available on the website. Once again, try to have those available to you. So beginning in Matthew chapter 13, we're going to read verses 1 through 7, and then we'll be jumping over to Matthew chapter 22 to actually look at this story from the life of Christ. But beginning in Romans thirteen, verses one through seven, the Bible says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God, and the powers that be are ordained of God Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain. For he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil Wherefore ye must needs be subjects not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For this cause pay ye tribute also, for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing Render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Again, we thank you for your word and what it can teach us, Lord. Pray we would see from the Bible this morning your thoughts on this subject as far as our relationship towards our government as citizens, Lord, and our relationship to you. And how those two should remain distinct from one another, but also how they affect one another, Lord. I pray that you'd be with us as we study your word this morning and ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So what we have there at the end of this chapter, obviously, that Romans 13 is a the new key New Testament passage regarding our responsibility towards government and It has the introduction there. The fact that government was ordained by God, the powers that be, they were set up by God. That goes back to the first lesson we talked about. Then you look a little bit further in verses 3 and 4, it gives us the idea we were discussing last week as far as the foundational purpose of government Why was it established? It was to punish evildoers. And the role of government, as defined here, is to be a terror to those who would do evil. And it shouldn't be a bother to those who do good. And we looked at the end of our lesson last week how as the governments become more corrupt, that process gets inverted to where they begin to call things that are good evil and things that are evil good. And that that is uh an inverted purpose But he ends the verse here and verses five through seven he says, talks about our subjection to that government and subjection to the laws that are there, and ends in verse seven with this idea of rendering. render unto whom tribute is due, and you give them that, and unto whom sorry, uh custom unto whom custom and fear to whom fear, honor to whom This is a callback to the lesson that Jesus taught back in Matthew chapter 22. It's also found in the book of Luke as well as the book of Mark. So we're going to go there, Matthew chapter 22, to look at this story from the life of Christ. and how he taught on the subject here regarding giving tribute. Matthew chapter 22, verses 15 through 22. Beginning verse number fifteen it says, Then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. And they sent unto him their disciples with the Herodians. So stopping there, we're going to start to look at this passage and break it down and look at the story that is here. But you understand in the background, uh Jesus is beginning to teach the people and he's amassing to himself a following. Many of them are true disciples that really want to see what Jesus is going to do and to learn from his teachings. Some are coming just to benefit from him and his ministry with the miracles. Some are coming just because occasionally he feeds everybody. And we want to be there when that happens. And so there's different reasons that people are following Christ, but a lot of people have begun to do so, and this is taking away from the Pharisees. The Pharisees were the religious leaders of the day. They prided themselves in how spiritual they were and put out a good front as far as we're looking really good and doing really good and the people usually look to them as a spiritual leader, but their their people's attention is being diverted to Christ and they don't like it. They become jealous of Christ, one for his ministry. The fact that he's definitely got God's power on his life, and they're jealous of that because God's power is not on their lives. They're jealous of Christ's leadership and the fact that he's People are following him. They wanted people to follow themselves. They won't worry about people following God. They wanted people to follow them. They were also guilty because of his actual purity. While they had a front of holiness Jesus was perfectly holy, and it was his holiness that brought conviction against their hypocrisy, and so what did they do? They got right with God. No They tried to get rid of God. They tried to get rid of God because God's word was convicting to them. God's word in the flesh was convicting them. So they're taking counsel together. What can we do? How can we trap Jesus. What can we get him to mess up on? So they decide to try to catch him uh by asking him a a tricky question. So we see first of all in this passage The inquirers. Uh when we get the record here from Christ and what he said on us, the first point is the inquirers. Who were these people that came to ask him these questions? We already talked about the Pharisees. And who they were. But looking at the Pharisees in relation to the question that they asked Christ, first of all, they the understand how they viewed the Roman government. The Pharisees viewed the Roman government as an enemy force that was invading the land. And this was true, they were under the Roman Empire. Rome had subjected uh Israel at this point and they were having to follow Roman laws. Roman soldiers were stationed there uh in Jerusalem and the Pharisees didn't like this. They they bristled under the Roman control. Going back to their pride, they were the descendants of Abraham. If you remember the story from John the Baptist when he was visited by the Pharisees Um and he told them, he says, Well do you think you're so special? Uh because um because you are the children of Abraham? Uh he said, God could raise from these stones. uh children unto Abraham. You're not special just because of who you are, but they thought so. They thought they were so special. We're the descendants of Abraham. We're supposed to be a free people. This is Our land that God promised us. What are these Romans doing here? I shouldn't be having to pay tribute to these Romans. Uh they're the enemies. So they kind of bristled under the Romans' control. That was who the Pharisees were. But you see who they joined up with? They joined up with the Herodians. There in verse number um verse number sixteen it says, They sent unto him their disciples, that would be the disciples of the Pharisees. with the Herodians. So who were these Herodian people? Well we don't know much about them from history, but we learn a little bit about them from their name. Now when we use the term Christian, we say that means we're a follower of Christ. So if you look at the word there, we have a Herod, Herod, Ian. They were followers of Herod So these were people who these were Jews who enjoyed the Roman occupation. They were fully supportive of the Roman governments. They were followers of Herod. As such, they had a very positive view of the Roman authority. They saw submission to and participation in the Roman government as a positive thing for their nation. Tribute to them would have been natural and it would have been seen as their obligation to the Romans. So we have these groups. Pharisees, pay as the Romans. And they were going to try to get Jesus on this question about taxes. Herodians? Love the Romans. But they were trying to get Jesus in on this question of taxes. So what's the what do we see here? We first of all we see a conflict. What immediately stands out in these unions union of forces is the contrary nature of their this doctrine. Normally, Pharisees, Herodians would be enemies to one another. Completely different political parties, you could say Um but they united in this one instance, but what do they unite around? They united around the hatred of Christ. They ri you have heard the expression, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. But here you have the enemy of my enemy that he also has an enemy, and we're just going to get together because we hate this guy. So not a very stable union These are not good groups that could have had friendly dialogue. One was for tyranny and the other was for rebellion from their perspective. The Herodians saw the Pharisees as r uh rebels, and the Pharisees saw the um uh the Herodians as those who were supporting the tyranny of the Roman government. So they had no agreement among themselves, but what they agreed on was that they hated Jesus. They did not agree on this issue of taxes, and no matter what Jesus would have said, this conflict would not have been resolved. Their agreement was their hatred of Christ. And again, this would have been a very unstable relationship. So we see the inquirers. Who was there? Who was asking these questions? Secondly, we're going to see their inquiry. What was it that they asked? Verse number thirteen, sorry, verse number sixteen, it says, uh they sent unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the person of man. Tell us therefore, what thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar or not? This is the question that they ask. If you looked over at the comparison passage, I believe in the book of Luke, he they they the question is a little bit broader. He says, is it lawful for us? So speaking specifically about us as Jews, under the Roman government, do we have this obligation? So we see their inquiry began with flattery. They first were trying to butter Christ up. Notice how how eloquently they spoke of Christ there at the beginning. They said, We know you're true. You're only worried about God. So tell us what do you think? Just getting live tell us your opinion on this situation. Just trying to butter Christ up. And so they were flattering him. They were flattering him to try to try to ease in their deception, to try to make the him think that they were uh true inquirers that really wanted to know, uh as opposed to those who would try to undermine uh his authority and get him in trouble. So they began with flattery. We see this idea of flattery show up a lot in the Bible, and sometimes it's kind of hard for us to define. So real quickly, uh talk about the difference here between Praise is something that is good and has has a proper place. Flattery is something that's condemned in the Bible. So what's the difference between the two? We have two verses that kind of show us this difference of flattery and praise In Proverbs thirty-one, speaking of the virtuous woman, it says, Her children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her. Back a couple chapters earlier in Proverbs, we have the idea of flattery. It says, A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his feet. So very simply, the easiest way I could define flattery is that flattery is selfish praise. Flattery is self-praise. It's when you're trying to get something out of somebody so you tell them good things about themselves. They were trying to get Jesus to accept their premise trying to get Jesus to accept their question and get Jesus in trouble. So they had a selfish desire behind their praise. Praise is to recognize somebody's uh somebody's accomplishment with no thought to yourself and what you're going to get out of it Flattery instead is selfish phrase. So they begin with this flattery. It reveals their attitude towards Christ. It reveals what they thought of him. Not that they saw Christ as any of these things. They weren't being honest in thinking that Jesus was true and truly sent from God. They also did not see him as divine. They did not view him as Messiah, instead they saw him as a problem. To the Pharisees, they saw him as a threat to their religious authority The Herodians saw him as a threat to Roman authority. So both of them perceived Christ as a threat and did not look at him in the light that they had portrayed him as. They also thought that Christ could be manipulated. They thought that through their flattery he would be free to share his heretical opinion, because they were sure that he had one. They also thought that their their flattery, through their flattery, he would be emboldened uh to defy the government. So they were looking for it, well we'll tell him we we're gonna confide in him, hey we're just it's just the two of us here. What do you think about this? Just tell me your opinion And they thought that that flattery could embolden Christ. This reveals what they thought of Christ, but it also reveals what they thought of themselves. They thought it would work on God because it would have worked on them. Somebody would come up to them and say, hey. Just the two of us? What do you think? You're such a great, wise, smart teacher. Well, let me tell you what I think. That's what they thought. That's because that was their attitude. So they thought it would work on Christ as well. They were prideful. They enjoyed being flattered. Surely Jesus would as well. But it also reveals how little they knew of Christ. They did not know his person the fact that he was the Son of God. They did not know his power, the fact that he had established the Roman government and he could tear it down. They did not know his perception. They didn't understand the wisdom of God. They could not see God's view on the matter, even though they had the Word of God. They didn't ask what is God's teaching on this. They asked, What's your opinion? What do you think about this? They weren't concerned about what God had said about it So this leads them, this flattery that they began with, leads them to ask an insincere question. They were not here looking to Christ for him to give them instruction. This wasn't a a Herodian and a Pharisee who were sitting chatting one day and said, You know what, we really can't figure this out. You're on this side of the issue, I'm on this side of the issue. Let's go ask Jesus, see what he thinks, see what God says about it, and then we'll see who's right That wasn't their premise. No matter what Jesus would have said, the Pharisees weren't changing their opinion. The Herodians weren't changing their opinion. They were only worried about undermining Christ. They already had their own beliefs. Whether they knew what they wanted to believe in, Jesus was not going to change that. They were looking to harm Christ instead of helping themselves. Their only goal in asking this question was to trap him. Even though this was their goal, uh does not have to be ours. We can receive instruction from Jesus' answer. What Jesus gave here is truth. And so even though they were sneaky about it and flattery and trying to undermine Christ and they received no benefit from it I'm hoping that today we can receive benefit because this is God's truth and God's perspective on this matter. So that's their insincere question. And what is the trap? What was the trap that they were trying to lay for Christ? Well, if he would agree with the Herodians that they should have to pay tribute, the Pharisees would try to turn the uh Jewish people against Christ because they believed and they they themselves taught that the Messiah, when he came, he would free them from The Roman government. That was what they believed about the Messiah, that he would free them from the Roman government. So if Jesus came along and said, Oh yeah, you are supposed to pay taxes, they would turn his people against it, saying, Look, he's not the Messiah. He's not trying to free us from Rome, he's trying to get us more subject to Rome. If Christ wanted them to stay under the bondage of Rome, they could use that to prove that Jesus was not the Messiah. This would turn away the people that had believed in Jesus simply because of the miracles. They would turn away from him. But on the other hand, if he agreed with the Pharisees that they should not pay tribute, the Herodians would turn him over to Rome. So it was a it was a catch-22. If he says yes, we're going to get him. If he says no, we're going to get him. That's why these two forces joined together against Christ. In fact, this is the accusation that was ultimately brought against Christ at his trial when they finally turned him over to the Roman authorities in Luke chapter 23, verse 2. It says, and they began to accuse him, speaking of Jesus, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar. So it's what they tried to use to undermine Christ, uh the fact that he had well not the fact that he said that that they had lied about him saying that he had forbidden to give tribute. So that was the that was the trap. If he says yes, we're going to get him, if he says no, we're going to get him. And so it was uh they were trapped in this position or trying to trap Christ in this position of having to give one of these two answers We see Christ's response, he doesn't begin by answering their question, he begins with an indictment against their attitude. You see it says there in verse number 16, or 18. It says, but Jesus perceived their wickedness and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Immediate goes straight through the problem, you're not interested in my answer. You don't want to know the truth about this. Why are you trying to tempt me, you hypocrites? He saw right through their trap of flattery. He saw right through their false praise, and then he addressed their attitude. A hypocrite is someone who is a play actor, someone who has two faces. While these disciples of the Pharisees and the Herodians were putting on the face of a disciple looking for instruction, they actually had an evil heart that was attempting to destroy them. This indictment of Christ reveals Christ's omniscience. This reaction reveals that he could see right through what they said, their question, and say see their motives. He could judge their heart. Now I can't see what somebody's motive is when they come to me with a question or come to me with accusation. I don't see their heart. I don't have that knowledge. Christ does. Christ can see right through it, his omniscience He knew what they were really trying to do. He saw their motives. So that was the indictment against them. And then Jesus asks a question of them. They asked him a question, he asked the question back. And his question has to do with the image that's on the coin. Continuing to read there in verse number 19, he says, Show me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny. And he saith unto them, Whose image and superscript whose is this image and superscription? The answer, of course, to this question was Caesar's. They're in verse number um twenty-one. And they said unto him, Caesar's. So he's pointing out to them the fact that this money had come from Rome This money had Caesar's inscription on it. Why did Jesus ask this question? Why did Jesus ask whose what was the what was the reason behind asking whose image it was? In doing this, he was further pointing out the hypocrisy of the Pharisees The Pharisees bristled under the Roman government, didn't want to have anything to do with the Roman government, but they were happy to spend the Romans' money. They were happy to use the currency. They were happy to benefit from the government that they did not want to support. And that was the hypocrisy that was who's pointing out there with the currency. They claimed to have no need of Rome, yet they benefited from Rome's privileges This points out the principle behind the instruction in the Bible to pay taxes. A government is operating on behalf of its citizens, and it is due tribute from those citizens that it is helping. Um so he's pointing out to them, you say you don't have anything to do with the government, you say you want the Romans out of here, but you're more than happy to participate in their economic structure, you're more than happy to benefit from the protection that they offer you You're more than happy to spend their money. Whose image is this? So he's pointing out their involvement in the government. Rome has supplied you with a stable enough government These were the things that Caesar is due because of the role that he fulfilled. And this brings us to the instruction that Jesus gave. In verse number twenty one, it says, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. He says, No, I'm going to be on God's side of the issue and gave it gave the third perspective there. And that's side from what we're talking about today, but that's our pers perspective as Christians It's not, do I agree with this or this? I agree with what God said. No matter if it agrees with them or them or neither of them, I'm going to go with what God said on the matter. So his instruction, they render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's There are things that Caesar was due, and there were things that Caesar was not due, and there are things that God is due. Don't give to one what belongs to the other, but give both their due. So what did he mean here? What did he mean by render unto Caesar? In saying this, and saying, Jesus saying, run right to Caesar, he's talking here, he's recognizing the authority of earthly government. Now we've taken time to talk about earthly government in the last few lessons. Um but just as a review, we saw that uh stressed the fact that government gets its authority from God. Actually speaking directly to the Roman authority, Jesus said um that the Roman author official would have no power except it can't be a very important thing to do. And that's in John chapter nineteen, verse number eleven. That you wouldn't have any power except it was given to you uh from God. And that's where the authority of um government comes from. So in answering the question this way, Jesus reinforced the idea that governments have the authority to require things of their citizens. And this is even true when governments go beyond the role that was established for them in the Bible. We've dealt with this already, but the role that government is supposed to fill is the punishment of evildoers. And it is to use the collective force to protect individual rights. And because the government is made up of individuals, it has no rights to act beyond those of the individual rights But even when these governments go beyond this, as Rome had often done, Jesus still said to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. He still pointed out the fact that you have an obligation as a citizen, even though these were not citizens. of the Jews weren't, they were subjects, but as participating in the role of this this this government, you have an obligation to them, even though it sometimes goes beyond his biblical mandate. There's a lot of things that the government does that are outside of the role of government from God's perspective. But even when it does that, as long as it's not c crossing the line of what God says you can't do, then we still have an obligation to follow them and to do our part. So he recognized the authority of government. Jesus also recognized the role of government By using currency as an example, GS was recognizing the role that government had in the lives of its citizens. Just briefly a couple of these roles. There was an economic role that government fulfilled. This government provided and oversaw the value of the currency It provided currency to its people, and it had the right to ask attribute of its people in an economic role. There was an economic involvement that the government had with the people. There was also a political role, the inscription on the coin was Caesar, a politician, a political figure someone in the authority of the government. And it points out the fact that this government had a political structure. There was a man who exercised authority within the government. There's also a militaristic role that was fulfilled by the government. The reason the government could provide currency and collect tribute was from the relative peace that was provided through the military. This military was overseen by the government, and the military provided protection for the citizens of its nation And his military was paid for by the citizens that benefited from his protection. So he saw the military role that the government fulfilled. And there's also a judicial role that the government fulfilled. The premise behind the question to Jesus was that if he said no tribute was owed, they could turn him over to the Roman authorities for them to judge him and bring justice against him for for his his um uh his rebellious speech if if it turned out to be the case. So they will recognize the fact that there's a judicial structure that evil gets punished and and good gets rewarded and that's where the government falls in. This judicial system sought to ensure that justice was carried out on behalf of the citizens. So just recognized these roles that government fulfilled, and he also recognized the responsibility that the citizens of the country had. His answer pointed out that there are things that the government had the right to expect of its citizens. Specifically in this passage, what is dealing with is tribute, that the government has the right to expect tribute from its citizens, or we would call them taxes. The government has a right to expect these of their citizens because of what was provided for them by the government. And Jesus answered our answer pointed out the fact that there were responsibilities that citizens had towards their government. They are responsible to pay tribute If we look at other places in the Bible, and we'll do this probably some next week, there are places where citizens are responsible to obey their government. There are places where they are to um told to honor those who are in political authority. And it also other scriptures command us too, as Christian citizens, to pray for those who are in authority over us, the government that are there. So we as citizens have a responsibility towards our government. Because of the relationship between the government and its citizens, there are things that the git that the citizen has that the government is due. So that's what he meant by render under Caesar. There's things that Caesar is providing for you and as your government, he has a right to expect things. of you for that. But we go on to the second half, which is very important of his statement here, and he said, Render unto God the things that are God's Governments do have broad authority over the things that they can expect other citizens, but there is a line that if they cross, their citizens have no obligation to obey them. There are things that belong to God, and only those things are to be given to him And we see Jesus' answer, we see the first part of his answer was addressed to the Pharisees. They're the ones who didn't want to render other Caesars. They they at least claimed to be happy to give God what he was doing. But they didn't want to give Caesar the things that he was due. So that was the um they didn't want to financially support the government that they disagreed with, although they were benefiting from its rule. The second part of his answer was directed more towards the Herodians. Now remember the Herodians, they were the ones who accepted the Roman government. They had no issue with paying taxes or the government. Yet they had allowed their political allegiance to effect their obedience to the Lord. Along with the new government, the new military, the new judicial system, and the new currency, Rome had also introduced a new religion system. And those who accepted all the other things of the government had gone right along with, the Herodians had gone right along with the government's view of God And they had participated in that. So Jesus was addressing the Pharisees, you've got to give unto Caesar, even though you don't like it. The Herodians had you've been given things to the government that it is not due. And you need to give them back to God. So he's addressing both in this answer. Jesus reminded them that there are things that the government is due and there's things that they are not. There's things that only belong to God. So what is God due? We can take a lot of time to look at this, but I'm just going to narrow it down to two things. The kind of kind of are broad topics to talk about this. But first of all, God is due worship. We began our study today in Romans 13, verse number 7, where it says, render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute, custom to whom custom. So we see there, that's rendered Caesars, and then we get to what we're supposed to give to God. Fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor So government there's some things that they get, but God, there's things that he gets. And uh the the two do not the two do not cross. Don't give one uh that what belongs to one to the other, especially when it comes to Yes, there's a place in the Bible where got where we're told to Honor the kings, honor those who are in political authority. And even in the in Romans chapter thirteen where we started, there was a place where somebody could be Fearful of the government, and that was if they were doing evil. But when it's talking here about the fear to whom fear and honor to whom honor, that's talking about the reverence that we are supposed to be giving to God It is very easy for us as humans to look at powerful people in positions of political authority and begin to give them the worship that only belongs to God. That's the case all over, even in our country, America, with its religious religio religious background, you get powerful people in authority and and they start to give them what is due to God. How do they do this? Well they begin to look at the to the government as their provider. Looking to the government as your provider. Who is the one that meets our needs? God does. So when you're looking to the government to meet your needs, you're giving the government what's due to God. What about um the looking to government as their as their savior? They got that they're the one that's gonna fix everything. We're in a mess. We we need solutions. Uh no, that's that comes from God And so we're looking, we're not giving the things that are due to God to the government, so our worship. We are also God is also due to our obedience. We are to obey the laws of men until they contradict the laws of God The government does not exercise absolute authority over the Christian. God does. Government does not exercise absolute authority over Christian, only God does. Acts chapter four, verse number nineteen, but Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto ye more than unto God, judge ye And in Acts chapter 5, verse 29, then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. So when it comes to our worship and when it comes to our obedience, that goes to God. And now when the the role the the the laws of government um are just and they're within, but they're not commanding us to do something contrary to the word of God, we are to obey obey that, but our allegiance first is to the Lord. We give to God the things that are God, we give to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. So this brings us down to our application. That's what Jesus was teaching. That's the historical context. That's what he's talking about. What does that mean for us? What does that mean for us? What is the responsibility of the Christian citizen? Now I told you last week that we're going to start getting into the things that we should be doing as Christians within our government, and next week we'll take a whole lesson to talk about what it means to be a Christian citizen. But today we're just going to briefly discuss uh what it means to to render unto for us as Christians. And we're going to be uh discussing this in the context of citizens as the United States of America. This changes, uh, and you'll see why in a second, based on the type of government you're under. The way that the the people in Jesus' day reacted to the Roman government, yes, the principles are still the same, but how they play out is a little bit different than how we as citizens in America play out our role. So that's the context we'll be talking about within the American government. So first of all, as Christians we have a responsibility towards our government. This is the render unto Caesar principle. Just as the Jews and Jesus, they had a responsibility towards their government, we do as well. But for us in America, our first question that should come up is, well then, who's Caesar? Who is this Caesar that I'm supposed to render these things unto? So we don't have time to teach American government right now, but we might just go a real quick overview of this topic to try to figure out who Caesar is Ultimately, in America, our Caesar was established to be the people, the citizens themselves. Our constitution began to With the words, we the people of the United States. So that was where the Caesar originates within us as America. Political power in America is ultimately in the hands of the people Some interesting things. Going to a little bit more closer to home here. Back early last year, I went and read the Maryland Constitution, something that probably not too many people have done. Probably not very many people in office in Maryland have done. But I went and read the Maryland Constitution. This this reinforces this idea that this authority goes back to the people Article I of the Maryland Constitution says that all government of rights originates from the people as founded in compact only and instituted solely for the good of the whole, and they at all times have the inalienable right to alter reform or abolish the reform of government in such a manner that they deem expedient, recognizing that that ultimate political power goes back to the people. Article four of Maryland Constitution says that the people of this state have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the internal government and the police thereof as free sovereign independent state. And then Article 6 says that all pe persons invested with the legislative or executive power of government are the trustees of the public. What is it saying there? That those who are in political power, they're invested with that authority from the people. And so it it goes on to say they and as such they are accountable for the conduct. Wherefore, whenever the end of government are perverted and public liberty manifestly endangered and all other means of redress are ineffectual, the people may and of right ought to reform the old or establish a new government. The doctrine of non-resistance against arbitrary power and oppression is absurd, slavish, and destructive of the good and happiness of mankind. So reinforcing the idea that in America that that that our government power starts with the people. So does this mean that our obligation is only to ourselves uh as people when it comes time to tax date? Do I write myself a check? And say, there we go, I'm done? Well no, not exactly. Um the people of America have delegated their authority to the government, to a government, through the Constitution Where we the people said, we have this authority, but we're giving it to the government in this way. And that was through the Constitution. This is the highest form of authority in the land. All government power is derived from this document because it was invested with the authority of the people The Constitution, uh, when we get to the Constitution going on from there. So we have this, we have the people, then we have this piece of paper, that's where the authority goes back to, and then this piece of paper, this constitution that got its power from the people gives the people's power to people that are in politics, government leaders that are elected by people. The Constitution delegates the authority of the people back to the people in order for them to delegate it to public servants for short periods of time. So that was confusing, but let's look at it this way. If this was the Constitution I put my power into the Constitution. Now the Constitution says you as the person have the power to pick a representative And then you give that power to that representative with the agreement that that representative in two years, four years, or six years is going to give it back to you. And you can choose to give it back to them or give it to somebody else. The power always comes back to the people. That's why we have people that have have to be elected and why they can only serve serve for so many years. So we get that power back to the people. So while those public servants are in office, they do have the delegated authority of the people during their time in office, but under the authority of the Constitution. So that's a very brief picture of how government is, American government is set up. So who is Caesar? Caesar would be temporary political leaders chosen by the people under the authority of the Constitution. That's our Caesar in in America. It goes back to these documents, the power that we give uh to the document, and it gives it to us, that we give it back to the politicians with the expectation they're going to give it back. And so it's kind of a confusing, but um but that's the way ours is set up. So that's who Caesar is, temporary political leaders chosen by the people under the authority of the Constitution. What does that mean? So what are we supposed to do? What do we render unto Caesar? If we go back to the four categories we talked about with Jesus in his day, those four categories apply as well. We have the economical category. As much as we hate them, we do as citizens have an obligation to pay taxes. And no Christian should ever be in a position where they could be accused of evading their taxes, because it is a responsibility we have from God to pay tribute. to our government. And I unfortunately I do not see in the Bible where Christians do not have to pay taxes because we do not like what taxes are paying for. I I don't I wish it was in there. I wish you said, I don't like how you're spending my money, I'm not gonna give it to you anymore. Um but that role that role is is not command I'm not doing the evil, I'm giving my money to to the government where that they were that I'm I have that obligation. as a citizen. Well we're gonna look in we're gonna look more into next week how we have opportunities as citizens to affect this area, what our government chooses to do with that money. So we have the economical um reason, we have the political obligations We're given obligations as citizens in the United States in the political realm as well. The first would be for us to be lawful citizens. That's an obligation. That's what the government expects from us, to be lawful citizens. To follow the laws, to to do what we're supposed to do and be obedient to the laws of our country. They have the right to expect that of their citizens We also have the political expectation from our government for us to be informed voters. We in America have the privilege to have a personal direct impact on how our government is run. We are given back the power of the government every election, and we have a duty as our to our nation, as citizens, to participate in that in a knowledgeable way. So it's a expectation we have. Now this wasn't an expectation that was around in Jesus' day. The Jews didn't get a vote. Pharisees didn't get a vote on who Caesar was going to be. But it's it's a privilege that we have under our formal government And it's an expectation we have from our government. So let's render unto Caesar what it expects of us to be an informed voter, to be involved in the process. And we also have the opportunity to serve in office ourselves as well The Bible is full of examples of people of God that have served in political offices. And we have an opportunity as American citizens, and it may be, that is an area where God would have you served. Serve that we have this expectation that some of our citizens are going to step up to be political leaders. And uh it would be better for our country if more of those were Christians uh stepping up to fill those roles. So these are the Run around the Caesars. This is what Caesar, our Caesar, expects of us as citizens in the political realm. We also have the area of the military While it's not been used for a long time, our government does have the authority to require you to serve in the military Your safety and freedoms are protected by your government through the military, and as sit as a citizen, your government is expecting you to support the defense of your country. Now that's going to be supported through taxes. be supported by some going to fight. That's going to be supportive by us being supportive of our military. That's something a country has a right to expect of its citizens. And something we should be rendering uh unto Caesar. While I would not necessarily recommend military as a choice for Christians, I would be glad to fill that role if my country needed me. to because it's something they have a right uh to expect of their citizens. There's also the judicial system. Now this one had actually been a change for me since I began this study. Uh but one piece of mail that I used to hate to see come through with the mail was uh jury duty, right? Jury duty, oh just terrible. And I don't know what happened. I have gotten summoned since I moved to Maryland, I've gotten summoned for jury duty. I've only had to go once But I think I've been summoned four times. I'm not sure how that happens. Um there's some people that have never been summoned. Um but somehow since I moved to Maryland I've been summoned four times from uh for jury duty. I used to hate getting that um people piece of paper, but in this study I realize that that's a role or a privilege we as citizens are given to directly impact the legality of our laws. to say that this is a just law or this is an unjust law and to participate in in the in this process. So it's something that we have an obligation on in our country. So we have these obligations, these roles that our our government expects of us, and we should be rendering that to our government, those things that they have the right to require of us. But we also have the responsibility towards God And I know this is something we've taught on many times. We're going to take a lot of time to develop this, but going back to those two principles, God deserves our wish our worship. As Christians, we don't look to the White House, to the Governor's House, to the legislative offices, to We don't look to the government as our supplier, as the one who meets our needs. We give that worship that that um that goes to God. Fear goes to God. We don't have to be in fear and dread. Now there's respect that goes into the political office, and we have that, we'll talk about it when honoring the king. But the reverence that is due to God only goes to God. And the worship that's due to God only goes to God And we we we act that out as believers within our country. But our God is also to do our obedience. Again, whenever government's laws contradict the laws of God, we have an obligation to God first. And for the hi great majority of our history as a country we have not been in a position where we have had had to to say, well I'm not doing that 'cause I have to obey God's God instead. Unfortunately, we're on a very fast uh track where things are getting inverted constantly and people are being required by the government to do things that go contrary to the word of God. And it's our obligation to say, no, I obey God first. God gets his due before Caesar gets And I'm I'm gonna do what I can as a citizen, I'm gonna fulfill my role, but I fulfill my role as a Christian first. I fulfill my role to God Now I mentioned at the very beginning that these two roles, while they are separate, God gets his stuff, Caesar gets his stuff, there is an overlap, an intersection of the two, and that's found in 1 Peter 2, if you want to go there with me. First Peter chapter two. We'll close with this uh passage of scripture. First Peter chapter two verses twelve through sixteen. Bible says here, having your conversation, that's your lifestyle. Honest among the Gentiles, that would be the other citizens around them under the Roman Empire. That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of his visitation. So the other citizens of this country look at the Christians as evildoers, but what's going to change their mind? Their good works. What are those good works? Well, obviously that's our obedience to God. But what does it play into in the next verse? Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. As we as Christians obey God first and then render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, that points out to the other citizens of our country. that um we're not evildoers but he but doers of good. And it rodens our testimony. We can continue reading it. It says we're doing this for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the King is supreme, or to governors, or to them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers And for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God. This is God's will. What's God's will? We get that question. What's God's will? Well, here's one thing: God's will is for you to be a good citizen, for you to obey the laws of your country. This is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free and not using your liberty as a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. God says, You serve me by being a good citizen. So while these two, you render unto Caesar, when you do it properly, you're being a servant of God. When you render unto God properly, you're being a good citizen. Even if you're even if your obedience is contradicting the laws of the country, when you're being obedient to God, you are being a good citizen of your country. So these two have this intersection, although only things go to the government, they go there. And God gets his things. You give unto each their due But the intersection is that when you're going to be obedient to God, you're going to be a good citizen as well. And that's where these two intersect. And next week we're going to come back and we're going to talk about what it means to be a Christian citizen, specifically in our country, what is our role and how do we interact uh directly uh with the government and with the other citizens as far as being part of the nation. So we'll be coming back to that next week. Let's go ahead and close