Uh turn your Bibles to the book of Galatians. We are wrapping up this book we have this week and next week, and that will conclude the book of Galatians here. That will get us right to Vacation Bible School. We are not going to uh have Thursday night service during vacation Bible school. That night we do meet for prayer while the kids are all having their class and then we dismiss and uh the adults kind of hang out and wait for wait for the young people but we won't have an actual service During that Thursday night of VBS just to show you all are aware. That's two weeks from now. Not next Thursday, but the following. It's coming quick We have here in Galatians chapter number six the verses that we'll be considering tonight, verses 11 through 15, which I've entitled Resist. The faithless. Resist the faithless. There are those in the world that uh lack faith and are are working on a different set of principles. And uh they uh would want to or would desire to try and pull you away from the truth. And so we want to resist that. That's what Paul tells us here to resist the faithless. Look with me if you would at Galatians chapter 6. We'll read our verses 11 through 15. He says, Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised, only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh. But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availth anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creature So these verses here tonight, written to the churches of Galatia, are written by the Apostle Paul and are bringing this book to a close. Before he signs off, he exhorts them, he encourages them to resist this continued movement of turning back to the law. This group of believers that Paul dearly loved. They were literally his sons and daughters in the faith. They're men that he had sacrificed for and women that he had the privilege of witnessing to and laboring and prayer for and Bringing along in their discipleship and learning about Christ. And he was brokenhearted to see them being pulled away by those who had no faith in God. They were part of a fervent and forward-looking church on fire for God. And they were beginning to drift into cold formulism. They were there on the brink of destruction because the faithless were pulling them away. So I have three things I want to show you tonight. First of all, we see the method of his formation, the letter that he wrote to them, how he put it together. It's interesting that he notes this uh for us and he writes it down for them. He says, Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. Well there is uh couple things here. First it he mentions the size of the letter. He says this is a large letter and uh you know in scheme of the word of god certainly it's not large. In even Paul's writings, 1st and 2nd Corinthians are substantially larger than this. Uh so what they believe is that what he's talking about is not necessarily the size of the letter in how much was written, but in the actual size of the notes that he was writing, an actual size of the letters that he was writing, the boldness of it or the you know how how big the letters were. Um you know he had to use large print, some say because his eyes were getting worse and worse and and he was maybe writing bigger and bigger. I remember uh Pastor Scott Hanks, his father uh towards the end of his life his father uh had very terrible eyesight and he would print his messages out in like size fifty six font And he had like sixty pages of paper for for every I mean, it was a lot. I mean he ha because he could not see anything smaller and he had to print out all of the stuff that he wanted to have up there in front of him in really large print And so maybe, I mean we don't know 100% sure, but maybe that's what it is. He says, hey, you see the size of this, but I think the the emphasis here is on the importance of it that he's getting to them. He wrote this To emphasize some things, to show some things that are of great importance. And then he mentions the specialness of the letter. He says, hey, I wrote this with my own hand. You know, some people believe that uh by and large Paul used scribes because of his eyesight, because of his inability maybe to write with his own hands very well, he would use a scribe. And uh scribe he, you know, he would speak and the scribe would write down what he was supposed to or whatever. So uh Paul saying, Hey, I didn't use a scribe on this, this is important. I wrote this for you with my own hand. I there is something special about getting a note from somebody that's written with their own hand. In today's world of digital technology and everything's very easy to print off and all that, you know, uh it's kind of nice when you get something that somebody took time to write. That's why these marketing companies started producing advertisements in handwritten script. And so you get it and you think, man, somebody took time to write me this and then you realize it's an ad for new windows or something. You're like, oh Uh that's trash too, you know. Uh but they they understand that there's something special about it having been handwritten. And so they came up with some fonts that uh mimic somebody's handwriting and because of the specialness of it and Paul says hey I wrote this to you with my own hand Then we see he goes into the motivation of the faithless. What is the motivation of these that lack faith or don't have any faith? Why is it they're doing what they're doing? First of all, they're motivated to save themselves from persecution. He says, as many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised. Only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. He says, hey, the reason they want to do this is because they want to avoid persecution. You know, uh the Romans uh they they loved to persecute just about anybody. The Romans were known for their harshness and they would be uh apt to persecute anybody that they could, and so The Jews and the Romans had come to kind of a a l uh at least a quasi-piece, a little bit of acceptance. That just got a lot louder, didn't it? Did he use something Uh so um just so it's not bothering you. But they got came to this level of peace and they said, Okay, um you guys can exist, we'll let you live and and so i Of course, circumcision was a mark of those that practiced the Jewish faith, and they would say, hey, uh, why not? Why not? I mean, after all, the law came from God too. And so if we could do this and avoid being persecuted by the Romans, then then then why not? Why not do that? I mean we just avoid this level of persecution. He's very clearly saying that this was their motivation because It wasn't about what was right or what was wrong, it was about avoiding persecution. Not only did the Romans persecute the those around them, but the self-righteous Pharisees. often attacked and persecuted others as well. Just like Paul. Paul was Saul, and he used to persecute the Christians He went and did all he could. He thought he was being uh righteous in that, but realizing he wasn't, he was, he used to persecute them. But the fact of the matter is Paul's saying, hey, these people, they're not ready to bear the cross. They're not ready to endure suffering for Christ Jesus. Their motivation for declaring this or asking you to do this is because they just want to avoid being persecuted. They were seeking the applause of men more than the approval of God. That's what they wanted. For anyone that would dare say that Christ alone was sufficient would set themselves up for ridicule and attack by the Pharisees. And so they would say, well, let's go ahead and embrace the law. We don't have to say just Christ alone. I mean, after all, the law came from God, so we're going to do this and we can avoid being persecuted. Beloved, established religion has always attacked the preacher of the cross. Because they don't mind if you say Christ is a way. But Jesus said he is the way, the truth and the life. There's no other way And Jesus is very clear about that, and that's the problem. When you begin to preach the cross of Jesus Christ as the way, then it draws a line in the sand, and people say, well, I don't like that. And so they want to persecute you. You know, you can be a compromiser and avoid persecution. That's the facts. But you cannot be consecrated and avoid persecution. It's gonna happen. Persecution is gonna come. Sometimes even from family or friends. When you're striving to live a consecrated life, it's mind-boggling. You would think That everybody would be pleased that you were desirous to be in church. That you no longer want to watch those particular movies, or that you no longer want to get drunk with them. You would think they would they would be like, man, that's good. You really shouldn't do that. It's bad for you. It's killing me. I ought to stop. No, but people don't like that. You live a consecrated life and you're going to be persecuted. I want you to know that the Bible is very clear that persecution is part of the Christian's life. In John 15, 18 and 19, he says, if the world hate you, you know it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. That's the fact of the matter, is they're going to hate you. Why? Because You're not of the world. Because you're living a consecrated life. And so that opens the door for persecution. He's saying some people don't want persecution, so they're just going to compromise. Persecution is necessary for Christian growth. Romans chapter 5, verses 3 and 4 says, and not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience. And patience experience and experience hope. You see, those tribulations, those trials, that persecution that you endure, it's going to help you to grow. It's going to help you be what God wants you to be as He molds and makes you into His image. But let patience have her perfect work, that she may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Again, the idea of suffering persecution, something that is part of the Christian life. That's the facts If we're going to live a consecrated life, we're going to be persecuted. These faithless men were motivated by simply wanting to avoid persecution. Secondly, they were motivated by personal status. They wanted some personal recognition. We see that here in this verse. He says, in verse number 13, For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised. That they may glory in your flesh. You see, they wanted some personal status. He says, hey, they don't keep the law. The ones that are calling for you to be circumcised, they themselves don't even keep the law In Matthew, Christ said the same thing. He says in Matthew 23, verses 3 and 4, all therefore, whatsoever they bid you observe. That observe and do. But do not ye after their works. For they say and do not. He says, they say this and this and this, but they don't do it. For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be born and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. He says they're they're coming to you and saying, boy, you got to do this and you got to do this and you got to do this, and they're putting all this weight on you, saying this is what you need to do, and they're not even moving one of their own fingers. Christ said that. Listen, they don't keep the law because nobody can keep the law. So he says they they don't they're not asking of this for any other reason, but personal status. You see, they want to glory in your flesh. They are looking to put another notch in their belt. You see, they're looking to come and say, boy, look at these Gentiles that we brought into the faith. Look at these Gentiles that we brought that that have all followed us and And basically just notching them off, counting them off. Look at look at all the these people that that we brought or that we did. It wasn't about uh Getting people more in line with Christ. It wasn't about getting people to a place where they honored God. It wasn't about their personal relationship or about them living in accordance or pleasing to the Lord. No, it was about their individual personal status. Wanting to have some more notches on their belt, as it were. They were less concerned with the loss finding the Lord than they were with growing their own congregations. Can I tell you, beloved, we need to be careful about that as well? We've got to be careful that it's not about numbers. It's not about notches on our belt. And if we are not careful, it can get like that. It's not about counting people As much as it is remembering that people count. We need to reach people to restore them into a right relationship with Christ. Not so that I can say, boy, look, look how I've I've reached somebody else. I did this or I did that or look at me or boy uh what are my tallies. for the year. W it's about bringing people to Christ. The numbers game can be a metric that's used to gauge or check the temperature of a church, but I want you to know that that can be very false as well. It can be very false. We've got to caution and be careful about that. We need to have a right spirit. We need to have a right motivation. Our motivation shouldn't be like that of the faithless. Just wanting to mark off or get some notches in our belt, but it ought to be to bring the lost to a true relationship with Christ. And to bring those who are saved and on their way to heaven. To the next step. Wherever we are, everybody has a step of growth they can take. Everybody has an area where we can push forward where Maybe we are discouraged and we need encouraged, but our goal to help the saints, to help the family of God in this Christian life to be what Christ wants us to be. That should be our motivation. So we see Paul here give the motivation of the faithful in verses 14 and 15. He said, God forbid that I should glory. He says, boy, these people want to glory in one thing. They just want to glory in your flesh. They want to glory in their notches on their belts. But God forbid that I should glory in that. that I should glory in anything save the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. I read about a wife, a lady who had been untrue to her husband She had uh allowed this activity to go on and she became very bitter and angry, and ultimately she filed for divorce. This man was heartbroken. He was in his house all alone, and his wife had moved out and she found an apartment and She was living in this apartment and she didn't want to go back and see her husband, so she sent a note and said, I would like you to box all my things up and send them to this address. He is heartbroken and misses his wife and he's boxing up everything for her and putting all of her stuff in these containers, getting ready to send them off and He thinks I'm gonna on the top of his last box that he closed, he thought I'm gonna center this. And he took a little pair of white shoes that belonged to their two-year-old daughter that had passed away, the only child that they had had. Their two-year-old daughter had passed away due to an illness. And he put them there on the top of that Sent it to her. When she received those boxes and opened them up, she of course was glad to get her things. And when she opened that box, she saw those little shoes. And immediately her heart was flooded with memory of that time, of the time where she was in the home with her husband, and a time when their daughter was there and the love that was there and the hope and the happiness that was there, it reminded her of all of what she had and what she gave up. For what? And she looked around at her empty apartment. She said, I gave it all up for nothing. And she broke down and began to cry and in tears of repentance she called her husband. And their marriage was restored. That little set of shoes that was sitting there When she opened the top of that box was something that reminded her. It was a token. It was a symbol. It was a time of a time when things were magnificent. And I want you to know that Jesus Christ, when he went to the cross, we have been given the cross as a token to remind us of what Jesus did for us, to remind us of what has been done. And too often, beloved, we forget that if we're going to glory in anything, we should glory in the cross of Jesus Christ. This is the only motivation that we have for glory. What are you glorying in tonight? What are you so proud of this evening? Is it your level of education you've attained in this world? Is it the family that God has allowed you to have? There's many things that people look at the size of their bank accounts that they've amassed or the land or the buildings that they've gathered, whatever it is. Beloved, we have nothing to glory in in this world save the cross of Jesus Christ. I think about Paul and all that Paul had done. All that Paul had accomplished in his life on both sides of the cross for him. And yet he said, I have nothing to glory in save the cross of Jesus Christ. Oh, if we could get back to that kind of humility. What matters, beloved, is faith in Christ alone. When we glory in the cross, we're not glorying in a piece of wood. I was talking to some people on Sunday about uh We were just talking about the Catholic Church and they had some questions about saints and stuff like that and they they asked about the cross and I said, Well, there's nothing wrong with using the cross as a symbol. But the problem is in the Catholic Church, Jesus is still on the cross. Don't you know he's not there anymore? He's not on that cross. He was only there for six hours and then he went into a grave and three days later he rose. And they were kind of they they paused and were taken back a little bit and they said, Man. I have never in my life thought of that or realized that. You're right, Jesus is not on that cross. So, beloved, we we look at the cross and it reminds us not of this chunk of wood or a piece of wood, but it reminds us of what was done there for us. In the spring of 1865, there was a lonely traveler making his way through the hills of southern Virginia. When suddenly out of the woods came a disheveled man in a tattered and torn gray uniform, he was holding a revolver and he demanded some food of this traveler. The traveler said, sir, why don't you just go into town and get something to eat? He says, I can't go into town. I'll be shot as a deserter. He says, what do you mean you'll be shot as a deserter? He says, well, I deserted from the army, but I I I went to the northern lines and tried to cross over into the north, but they turned me back and now I've just been hiding out here. And he says, wait, wait, don't don't you know that the war is over It's been it the war's done. He says, but surely if I go into town, they'll shoot me as a deserter. He says, No, the president has pardoned all of you. You've been you've you're free, you're a free man, you have nothing to fear. And beloved, that man was living in horrendous conditions out in the woods in fear of what was going to come and take his life because of something that was there. But many Christians live in the same way. Jesus Christ has set you free. You shall know the truth and the truth you shall be free and free indeed. That is what it is. Many people living like they're still under the bondage of the law Many living like they haven't been set free by Jesus Christ. If we're going to glory, we have the cross to glory in. Have we forgotten what he did for us? We see in this verse a twofold accomplishment of the cross. He says, first of all, the world is crucified unto me. Beloved Christ's way of dealing with the world was to crucify it. From the first day that Christ walked among men until his final day here on earth. He was always gaining victory over the world. John 16, 33 says, I have overcome the world. And when we come to the cross, we change sides. The world has now been crucified in our hearts. He tells us to love not the world. The Apostle Paul, he says, over in the book of Philippians, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss. For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ. I mean you think about it, beloved. Think about this world. Think about everything that this world has to offer. Think about every attraction that may grab your eyes or pull your heart tonight. Just ponder it for a moment. Let me ask of you what will come of it? What will its end be? All this world has to offer. The end of it all is still death. No matter how glorious the day, night still comes. And everything this world has to offer in the end, it just comes to death. But the man who is crucified with Christ, he will never die. This world has been crucified to him. The world doesn't have the same attraction or the appeal that it once did As I was reading this, I was reading about some of the old preachers and I forgive me, I don't remember who it was, John R. Rice or uh Lester Roloff or or one of these guys, I don't remember which one it was, but he was relaying a story that when he came to Christ, his friends came to him and uh they said, Man, I feel so bad for you. Uh, you know, you can't uh uh do anything anymore, your life is all restricted and all this and he's like he's like, wait, wait, no, no, no. You guys got it wrong, man. He's like, I'm a Christian now. He said, but I can go to the party anytime I want to He says, yeah, yeah, yeah. As a Christian, I can I can go and get drunk anytime I want to. He says I can go and listen to that music anytime I want to. I can go to the parties anytime I want to. And he was running down through the list. We want to go gambling anytime I want to. And his friends are like, oh really? Wow. That's I didn't know that. I thought you couldn't do any of that. He's like, the thing is I don't want to anymore God changed my want to. The world is crucified. When you come to the cross, the appeal and the appetite for the things of this world is to be crucified. I die daily. Crucifying this old flesh. Galatians 1, verse number 4 says, Who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present world. So not only do we see here that the world is crucified, but he says, secondly, that an eye unto the world. So that's the other side of it. You see, when you turn to Christ, you're a new creature. Old things are passed away, old things are become new. You know, you don't have to tell your friends. And are going after the things of the world, you don't have to tell them to stop hanging around you. You start living a consecrated life. You know what all of a sudden the world just doesn't have that much interest in you either. Those friends just aren't gonna they're just not gonna be coming by. You say, oh yeah, we're gonna we're gonna go to church tomorrow. Oh well I'm not interested in that. I I'm not gonna see you tomorrow. You know, you start living that type of a life where you're putting God first and honoring and pleasing God. As far as you're concerned, the world looks at you and says, hey, he's dead to us. There's no appeal there. There's no friendship there anymore. There's nothing in common anymore. You don't have to tell them to stop hanging around you. You just start living right and they'll fall away. Just as the world has lost its attraction to you, so you have become unattractive to the world. Beloved, that's why I find it very hard to believe all of these movie stars and rock stars that want to talk about how they're Christians. And how they love Jesus. And yet they're setting modern culture. They want to talk about, you know, uh God and yet the world has completely, fully embraced them. I don't know. They hated Jesus. Why would we think if they hated Jesus that they would love us? I don't I th those two things just don't they don't meet up. They don't match up. I don't know how that that could be possible, and I don't claim to know it all, so maybe I have something wrong, but I'm just not seeing how that fits When you start to behave like a believer, the world stops wanting to be around you. He says here that listen, circumcision doesn't matter one bit, one way or the other, it doesn't matter. It's not that you've performed some religious ritual, but he says here the last part of that verse, he says, you've been made a new creature. You have made a new creature. That's what we need to remember, beloved, is we are a new creature in Jesus Christ. It's not about the rituals. It's not about formalism. Not about observing, you know, uh some set level of uh activity that makes us feel spiritual. It's a new creature. You're a new creature in Jesus Christ. And for if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. So how do you become a new creature? Well it's not just simply saying a prayer or praying in Jesus' name. But as many as believed on him, believed on him I worry about some of these churches or groups that are seeing two or three hundred people saved a month. I hope they are saved. But there needs to be an acknowledgement of the fact that you're a sinner. Repent of your sins. And whether you want to say repentance is a work that God does in your heart, or because people say, well, you can't repent, or else that's a work, and and it's not it's not up to us. Jesus and so if you say repentance is required for salvation then that's a work. Well we could say well it's a work that God does in our heart. But you've got to come to a place where you realize you're a sinner and need a Savior. And you believe that Jesus Christ died for you. Call on him. Put your faith and trust in him and him alone. And in nothing else, whosoever believeth that Jesus is a Christ is born of God. It takes a sincere heart of belief and repentance for your sin. Turning from your wickedness and trusting him. This is why it's not it's not necessarily a set of words that you have to say. I I was talking to somebody. You know, we we have things that we look for. We we ask people trying to narrow down and obviously it doesn't matter how much I talk to somebody, I can't know that they're saved. The Bible says that, you know, the Spirit bears witness, and there are signs, there are things that you can look at and say, well, uh the evidences show that you're probably saved. But uh I was talking to somebody here in our in our church just a few months ago. And we were talking about salvation, I'm trying to nail it, nail it down, like, okay, are you saved? And I'm listening for, you know, I I Trusted Christ, I confessed my sin, you know, I asked Jesus to forgive me. I'm listening for some type of words that I would normally in my mind associate with coming to Christ, and he just wasn't saying any of those. And so I kept asking questions, and I kept digging, and I kept asking questions, and I kept digging. And everything he talked about with regards to his experience of coming to Christ didn't fit in my little mold. But can I tell you that over the last uh six months or whatever, uh we've had several had several other several other countries that I I obviously can't know that you're saved, but I can tell you that I believe the evidences are there. The evidences are present that you're saved because of the change in your life, your desire to be in the Word of God, your desire to be in God's house. the change that has taken place. The evidence are present. Those are things that that I could observe. And so what I'm saying is it's not a a set of words or or they don't have to say a particular prayer that you've got written down or recorded somewhere, it's putting their belief in Jesus Christ that He came and He died for them. And they believe that He can and will Forgive them of their sin and save their soul. In John 3, 3 through 6, he says, Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. They have to be born again of the Spirit of God. And that's the moment where they come to the cross and they change sides. And they can glory in the cross. All I am is because of Jesus. I've got nothing to glory in but what Jesus has done in my heart and life. Paul says that's all that I've got to glory in. If you're glorying in something else, you're glorying in the wrong thing. So we see here the challenge to resist the faithless, those that would try and impose or put other things on us. And just glory in the cross. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed in your eyes closed