We are finishing up Job tonight. I know some of you have been praise God. Finally finishing Job. Oh my goodness. I hey, I don't think I have done too bad. Uh we have pushed pretty pretty uh far, pretty quick, gone through sometimes covering six, eight chapters in one night. Uh you know, we're in Job chapter forty-two tonight, but uh I I haven't even as far as we I remember in Kansas we did a Sunday school series that we were doing that uh Pastor Hanks was writing and uh it was called Journeys Through And he started it when he got there and began in Genesis, and it was journeys through, and we would do journeys through Genesis, journeys through Exodus, journeys through And uh I I think we were in 1 Samuel, uh somewhere around there, 1 and 2 Samuel when when we left. And at that point uh he had been there about eighteen years. And uh so we were in Second Samuel at that point. So it's like I don't know if he's ever gonna get through the whole Bible at that face. Uh you know, and I've heard pastors that preached, you know, they preached like ninety-four lessons from Ephesians. And you know, I mean that's yeah, just a few chapters. So I didn't do too bad, get too bogged down in Job. I didn't even have 42. We didn't even do one for every every lesson, but really tried to capture the theme and the main idea as we went through and And just see what was happening in the exchanges between Eliphaz or between Job and his friends and then God. So the title of tonight's message is Resting on the Restorer. And you guys remember, of course, what takes place here in this chapter. As we noticed, uh the last time we were together, uh obviously a couple weeks ago now, but Job comes to the place where he gains a new view of God. After asking his questions, after approaching God, God comes to him and he gives him a new view of God. In chapters 40 and 41, we walked through that and just saw how God points him to the universe and God points him to all that's in the realm of creation and things that that Job really could not have any concept of trying to grasp or to understand. God is saying, well, you know, basically I created these things just with my voice and and and this is nothing. This is only one fraction of the of the world that you know or you can see. And so just Basically by by showing him all that, Job comes to a realization of who God is, how powerful God is, how sovereign God is. And in the face of that, he like the prophet says, Woe is me, for I am undone, I am a man of unclean lips. And Job gets not just a picture of who God is, but he gets a picture of who he is. And then he begins to repent and confess before God. You know, beloved, as a nation and certainly as Christians, we need to have a renewed view of who God is. We're talking about a God that's big, that's powerful, that's big enough, beloved, to give you victory over that befeth besetting sin Not just big enough to talk about, not just big enough to save your soul, but big enough to heal the problem that's in your marriage. Big enough to solve the situation that you're facing, a God that we don't just say, oh I know he can do anything, but he's not big enough to do it for me. No, we need a new view of who God is and his ability to solve the situation, to come on the scene, and it's t it's high time we stop making excuses. and rest on the restorer and allow him to bring us through in in his ability. When Job sees who God was, it is then that he repents in sackcloth and ashes. Job God tells Job's friends to uh do the same, to uh offer sacrifice, to repent. And uh today he he actually says to him, have have Job pray for you, because I hear Job's prayers, because I answer Job's prayers. You know, sometimes, beloved, it's a good thing to have somebody pray for you that gets a hold of God Somebody that can can get an answer from heaven and they've been proven to have a prayer life and when you're in need it's a blessing to have that friend to be able to call on and say, I need I need you to pray because I need to see God come through in this situation. I want you to see in our text here, we saw the first few verses last week. We looked at the beginning verses as we saw what God was doing in Job's revelation of who God was, but tonight we're going to pick up in verse 7, and we see that God reveals his anger. God reveals his anger, he says, and it was so That after the Lord has spoken these words unto Job, the Lord said unto Eliphaz the Timenite, My wrath is kindled against thee. And against thy two friends, for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to the servant Job and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering. And my servant Job shall pray for you, for him will I accept lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the things which the thing which is right. like my servant Job. So Eliphaz the Timenite, and Bildad the Shunite, and Zophar the Namethite went and did according to as the Lord commanded them. The Lord also accepted Job. So we see here God's anger is kindled, his wrath is kindled against these three friends of Job. And the cause of this wrath, beloved, is because they didn't speak right things. It was because they did not use their voice or their tongue wisely. You know, beloved, we're going to give an account for everything we say. The Bible tells us in Matthew chapter twelve, verses thirty-five and thirty-six, a good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth evil things, but I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. We're going to give an account for every idle word. For what we say and do. It is amazing. I mean, if you think about how much hurt How many problems, how much heartache could have been avoided if this was just controlled? Not even just in the church, obviously it it impacts and affects the church greatly, but just think about your own lives. Think about in your own family and extended family and situations that happened how many years ago that something happened, somebody said something, and mom is still bitter at them because of that Because this wasn't controlled, because that tongue was let loose. And beloved, we would do well to ask God to put a watch before our mouths, to ask God to control that tongue. It'd be better to say nothing at all. than to say the wrong thing and to be guilty uh uh before God for misuse of the tongue. But you see, we're we're too concerned about correcting the error. We're too concerned about somebody hearing our opinion or what we think of the matter. And it would be wise for us just to Stop. Just to stop. You know, beloved, their sincerity didn't make up for the fact that what they were saying was wrong. It didn't matter how sincere they were, it didn't matter what their ultimate objective was, what they were communicating to Job was wrong, and God's wrath was kindled to the point He said, You better have Job pray for you. Because I'm ready. You don't want me to deal with you according to your folly. You better have Job pray for you that I would have some mercy on you because of what you are guilty of. And how I want to judge you. James tells us, beloved, that this little member kindles a great fire. And in that little tongue, that little member of the body, there is a world of iniquity. As I pondered and thought about this today in our in our world, I mean you think about how much communication goes on in our world today and how we can It it is mind-boggling the level of communication and how we have conquered the ability to, from anywhere in the world, I can I mean we climbed the Grand Tetons and on the top of the Grand Teton we had a cell reception. We picked up the cell phone, 14,600 some feet in the air, miles from anywhere, and clicked the button and called mom. And we could call a missionary on the other side of the world working in some grass hut somewhere, and we've conquered the ability to send what comes from this tongue across That little member, Leonard Ravenhill said This sword has damaged, bruised, wounded, and killed more people than all the swords in all the wars since history began. Psalm 64, 3 says, who wet their tongue like a sword. It's like a sword. Angry words, O let them never from the tongue unbridled slip. With the soul's best impulse, ever check them ere they soil your lips. Angry words are quickly spoken, bitter thoughts are rashly stirred, fondest links of life are broken by a single angry word. Just not controlling the tongue. Not only that, but we can go to the other side of it and think about how it's death and life are in the power of the tongue. To think about what good could be done with the tongue. How much of an encouragement can you be to somebody With just a simple word of praise or gratitude, thankfulness, recognition of effort put forth or Of a job well done or compassion shown, whatever it is, just using that tongue that God has given us to be a blessing to somebody else To recognize the work that your kids do, to praise them, to let your mate know you're thankful for the meal or the clean clothes that are in the closet. Or the paycheck that came home after a week's worth of work. Just expressing that, using the tongue. We see here that God's wrath was kindled Why? Because they didn't use this wisely. How would you see secondly That Job prays for his accusers. That Job prays for his accusers. And the Lord in verse number ten there and the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. He prayed for his friends. You know, beloved, this is a sign of true forgiveness. A sign of true forgiveness. When you can bow your head and really pray for somebody, we can you can really uh go before God in an intercessory way and pray for somebody else. This is a sign of forgiveness. You see, Job did not bow his head and prayers uh self pray selfishly He didn't bow his head and and pray uh an imprecatory prayer, that is to rain fire down on their head. He didn't pray, you know, God, that's right, they they spoke false things, they falsely accused me, Lord They're guilty, boy. They sure should be punished for what they did. No, that's not God said you better have Job pray for you so that I won't punish you. I think Job's Prayer was like that of Moses or others in the Bible where it's, you know, Lord, forgive them. Lord, forgive them. Yes, they've done wrong, but forgive them. And so we see the heart of Job to forgive and Only when we have true forgiveness for others will we be able to pray for them. Every Christian should be involved in intercessory prayer, praying for our loved ones, praying for our brothers and sisters in Christ. We're to pray for one another. 1 Timothy 2. 1 says, I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. You have it a habit of praying for your brothers and sisters in Christ. Every prayer time should begin with a time of worship. Where we acknowledge who God is, the Creator, the King, Lord, Savior. I mean God. We are worshiping who he is and that we can come to his throne and then it should also include a time of praise where we praise him for his goodness to us and the prayers that he's answered and his blessings in our life and an acknowledgement of these things. And then prayer time, obviously every prayer time should have some type of confession. Where there's an acknowledgement of our sin and a confession before God, and to pray and confess your sins before God, and then even the things that you don't know that you've done. Say, Lord, forgive me. And then every prayer time should have a time of intercession. Where we're interceding for others and on the beat on the behalf of others. I know we don't have a problem forgetting our prayer request. That's in a time of entreatment where we go and seek and God answered we we have our requests that we seek after Him for and and that can can be included in your prayer time as well, but we need to be sure our prayer times are not just our want list. There's other things that prayer should include, and one large part of it is we see through the Word of God very clearly that we're to be interceding, praying for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Pray for our missionaries. Pray for your church. For your church family. For your pastor. For your mate, for your extended family, maybe some you your friends, a time of prayer for others. Then we see thirdly this evening that Job prospered in the end. Verse number eleven, down through the end of the book. Then came there unto him all his brethren and all his sister sorry. Just getting into the spirit of it. All his sisters and all they that had been of his acquaintances before, and did eat bread with him in his house. And they bemoaned him and comforted him over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him. You understand, beloved, that that statement there that the Lord had brought upon him is just an acknowledgement, a recognition that ultimately God is the one that allowed it. We know Satan is the one that did it, but because God allowed it, God brought it into his life in that respect, that God did not, he opened the hedge and allowed Satan to come and do this So the Lord brought upon him every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning. For he had fourteen thousand sheep and six thousand camels and a thousand yoke of oxen and a thousand sheasses. He had also seven sons and three daughters, and he called the name of the first Jemiah and the name of the second Kinzah and the name of the third Kernapshu, I'm not sure how to pronounce that one, and in all the land where no w woman found so fair as his daughters, the daughters of Job. their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. And after this lived Job a hundred and forty years, and saw his sons and his Son sons, even four generations. So Job died being old and full of days. But you understand, beloved, we have in these few verses covered many, many years of Job's life. Many, many years where Job was restored to a place of blessing, where Job experiencing the outpouring of the goodness of God For Job day by day was back in that place of fruitfulness in his life. You see, beloved, patience Brought Job through to the other side. He endured the horrific events of chapters one and two those lists of things that Satan desired to do and God allowed Satan to do to unto him. And then we had chapters 30 chapter 3 all the way through to really chapter 41 where it's just kind of discussing and going back and forth and talking about this time period where Job was in great affliction. And we don't know, beloved, how long that was. Could have been a couple of weeks. Could have been a few years. We don't know exactly. There's nothing to give us a definitive thing, certainly more than a couple weeks, because the descriptions that we have, but could have been a little bit longer. But here's what I want you to see is that during all that time he sinned not. Either charged God foolishly. His patience brought him through the other side of it. If you'll just be patient, you'll get to the other side of it. You'll get to the other side. You'll be back in the place of blessing, the place of fruitfulness, the place where you want to be As the old country preacher said, this too shall come to pass. Then come to stay, it came to pass. Everything that comes into our lives and those of you that have lived a little longer, you know How the cycles of life carry you and things come and they seem so hard and like you're never gonna get through it. And now you look back and you think, boy, I'm not so sure why that consumed me so much. I'm I'm that was really Not that long. I mean it was only a few months I endured that or a couple years I endured that or whatever. But look look where we are now. We're back in that place of blessing. What I'm exhorting and encouraging you to do is just be patient and be faithful through it so that you can experience the blessings of God again. It will come to pass. I was talking to somebody recently about the stages of marriage and how that initial period, that first year Uh for some maybe a little bit more, but there's that adjustment time where the marriage comes together and you're learning each other and you know, they say the first year is the hardest and You're trying to blend those two lives and there's conflict in certain areas and you're you're trying to just learn how each other responds and And what to do and you know how how to have an agreement without letting it get into a full-on fight. You know, you're you're learning each other, you're figuring that out. But you get through that first year and it gets better For a while. You get around year five, six, seven, and I don't know what it is, but it seems to be pretty consistent, like somewhere around that time something else comes up. I don't know if the monotony of it all or whatever, but there seems to be around that time there's like a there's just a period where there's some tension and and things are hard and you're thinking, man Is this ever going to go go away? Is this going to get better? But if you'll just stay faithful, if you keep working at it, you'll get through that time, and then you're hitting your stride. Then things are pretty smooth and and it seems like, hey, we've got this figured out and everybody's invested in their job and you're raising the kids and he's going to work and You're doing all of life circumstances and you're doing it together and it's okay. And you got a good number of years, sometime between ten to fifteen years, that uh it seems like things are going pretty good. But you get somewhere around that twenty year mark and it just like Some t a lot of couples hit a wall there at twenty years and it's like, oh I'm not sure. They go through some struggle at that time and And uh but what I'm saying, the examples I'm giving is I've I've I've been at this long enough and talked to enough couples that if you just get through that It gets good again. You can be you can sit in the blessings again. Yes, you hit some challenges and and there's some some changes that come along and you know, you got the dynamics of life changes with the raising of kids and then the the the the kids all leaving and the jobs and all of these things, but if you'll just stay faithful, it gets good again. But you can't give up when it's hard. You know, I asked uh I think it was Dr. Larry Brown. Because he pastored the same church for like forty-four years or something like that. And I said, you know, how do you how do you stay at one place so long? He said, Well, I just decided never to quit when I was mad Basically not to if I was gonna quit and go move somewhere, it was gonna be when we were on the top. When I was on the mountaintop But you don't want to quit and leave when you're on the mountaintop, when everything's going good. You know you want to quit when you're in the valley, when it's rough, when you're discouraged. And he said, I've just determined if I ever left it was going to be when everything was flying high. That's when God was going to move me me because I wasn't going to let a problem move me. I wanted to be only God. And so what I'm exhorting and encouraging you is just stay faithful. God will bring you through it I know the majority of Job was talking about his problems, but you know, as far as the picture of things, we just read these verses here, 140 years more, plus we don't know how many after that, but at least 140 years after this time. That Job lived and experienced the blessings and the goodness of God. The book of Job covers maybe a couple years at most. What if he would have fallen during that time? What if he would have given up on God and said it isn't worth it? And he wouldn't experience all those years of God's blessings and God's goodness after the fact. God's provision restores Job to a double portion. We read it. His 7,000 sheep he had is doubled to 14,000 and his 3,000 camels were doubled to 6,000 camels and 500 oxen to a thousand oxen, 500 chiases. to a thousand she has. And God gives him ten more children. I'm sure that you've heard it before, but You understand that this gave him twenty children. God doubled his children. God gave him ten, but he has ten in heaven. He had ten that were removed from his presence that were no longer right there, but they were still alive, but alive in heaven. They were still counted as his. They were still ten of his children. So when God gave them ten more, it doubled his children. The principles that are seen in that are just powerful, and I'm not going to chase that down too far. In Ephesians 3:15, he says, of whom the whole family in heaven And earth is named. If you've got family, loved ones, God sees them in the ones that are in heaven, and He sees the ones that are here on earth. And they're all listed and named in the family. You've got it there. And we praise God for that. Let me just point this out, and I know that I'm not going to be very popular for this, but I want you just by principle to see the fact that all of these animals had to be doubled. In order for God to double them, his children, he gave them ten and said, that's double, because you already have ten in heaven. But for all the animals, he the the the first five hundred she asses died, and God gave them f a thousand to double it. Why? Because that first were gone. Okay, so contrary to popular opinion, all dogs don't go to heaven. Okay I'm just pointing that out that I know you can throw your tomatoes later. I know we love our dogs. I had a lady, my kids were delivering firewood, and I don't even know why she asked me. She knew I was a pastor, but they had lost their dog and she came up to me. And she was cussing mad at me 'cause I told her the Bible says. I should have left her in her ignorance, I guess. I don't know, but you know, it's just uh I said, Well I can only be dogmatic where the Bible's dogmatic and the bi the Bible says men have a so soul and you live in eternity somewhere. But dogs, cats, you know, other animals, they don't have a soul. And so there's nothing in the Word of God that points to the fact that Phido is going to be in heaven, okay? Just let now if you can show it to me, I'll be happy to be educated on that and I can stop making make people mad about it. But I know we love our animals. You know what? Maybe in the new earth when God you know, gives us a new earth here. He'll allow us to have pets, maybe, but uh it's not gonna be Fido He he didn't he did not die and his soul go wait in heaven for you to get there. I know we love our dogs, but That's what the Bible says. And we follow the Bible, right? Not just what we think or what we want. So That's kind of a side note, but I think it's important for you to know. Let me give you lastly some godly principles that we need to remember. As we've considered all of Job here, we're closing this book out I want you to remember what Wearsby said. When trials come, we should not ask, how can I get out of this? But we should ask, Lord, what can I get out of this? And realizing that A trial that comes into our life, whatever the purpose, it is ultimately to exercise and build our faith. It is ultimately that the work of God would be accomplished in our life Whether it's a small trial or a big trial, whether it's pretty easy to endure or extremely difficult to endure, it is something that God is trying to do in our lives. James chapter 1 verses 2 and 3 says, My brethren counted all joy when we fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience. That God is trying us and he's building us, he's growing us through that. So we know that suffering comes and it is a test or an exercise of our faith. We need to remember also that God is sovereign. God is sovereign. Questions are okay as long as they're asked in the right spirit. We know that Jesus was without sin, and he asked, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He asked of his father the question why? And so we can look at that and say, okay, questions are okay for you to ask God why did this happen? How did this happen? Or what am I supposed to learn from this? Or how can I benefit this? Or how can I help others through this? Questions are okay as long as they're asked in the right spirit. Job had many questions here, but through it all he charged God, he didn't charge God foolishly, and yet his friends, God was holding them accountable for what they said. So questions are alright as long as they're asked with the right spirit. So I ask you, when you ask a question of God, are you asking in rebellion or in cooperation? By the way, this is applicable anytime you're speaking to authority. Young people, I never told my kids they couldn't ask a question They just needed to learn how to speak to an adult with respect. They would I'd say you need to look at the adult in his eyes, you need to pause, and you say, can I can I ask a question? Yes, you can ask. And then respectfully, with the purpose of understanding You see, is your goal to complain, or is your goal to just get understanding? Is your goal just to be upset about it, or is your goal to try and really learn why did this happen? How did this happen? And so when we come to God, as long as we're coming with the right heart, the right spirit, questions are okay. The lesson we learned from Job here. The answer to the question. I think this is probably one of the most powerful things that I gained from this entire study of the book of Job. Ultimately, the answer. And everybody wants to know the answer. Why? Here's the answer: God. That's the answer. God is sovereign. He can and will do as he pleases. There's things this side of heaven we will never understand. So the answer is simply God. And we should not, as men and women of faith, need anything more than that. We don't understand and know always what God is doing, and we are not self-sufficient. He is the creator, we are the created. We are under his control. We are In and under his command. We need to remember that God is with us, working his will through us. And in it all, we must just trust his plan. We might not see it, but we need to trust it I read a story by Bill Bennett, who is the author of the Book of Virtues. In that book, he gives an illustration of an old Jewish folk tale that Tells the story of two brothers who had grown up in the city. They had spent all of their life in the concrete jungle, had never gone out into the remote villages in any way, never seen outside the city, but they reached of an age and decided they were going to go out of the city for the first time and see what it was like out there in the rural community. They were on their way walking and got outside the city and less and less buildings and fewer and fewer houses, and finally they came upon this great field. They saw a man out there in the field who was with his oxen and plow and was plowing up this field. They're standing there beholding the sight for the very first time and they thought, wow, isn't that curious Why would that man be destroying this beautiful prairie? This prairie looks so beautiful like it is. These wild flowers growing and this landscape so picturesque like this? Why is that man going back and forth and back and forth in this beautiful prairie, just destroying it like that They went on their way for a little while longer, and a few days later they came back by that area. And they saw again this man out in the field, and he had a satchel, and it was full of wheat, and he was taking this wheat and throwing it on the ground, and they said, Boy Isn't that guy ignorant? He is so stupid. Look at what he's just casting wheat on the ground, just throwing it out with I mean for what? On the dirt? He is wasting that wheat. One of the brothers said, I had all of this foolishness I can take out here. I'm going back to the city. And the other one said, I'm staying out here in this area. The one that went back to the city went back to his life as it was, and the other one stayed there. And he he was surprised just a couple of months later when such He came by that field and there was these beautiful green sprouts growing up and these these plants and the entire field was like this this beautiful rows of Finally planted wheat was growing up and it just it was so pretty. And he wrote a letter to his brother and he said, Boy, you've got to come out and you've got to see this. Look at what this guy did. We thought he was destroying the field, but he was making it even more beautiful And so finally the brother gets some time off work and he makes his way out there to visit his one brother staying out there in the rural uh area. Only problem is by the time he gets there it's harvest season He shows up and then that same man was out there with the sickle, just cutting it down. He said, boy, this guy is the dumbest guy I've ever seen. He did all that work. He he he tore the ground up and destroyed the destroyed the beautiful prairie He threw fresh wheat down and made this beautiful picture, and now he's cutting it down again. Does he have nothing else better to do with his time? And the guy says, I'm out of here. He goes back to the city and his older his older brother stays out there in the field And he watches this guy, and the guy harvests this wheat, and he takes it over to the granary, and then the granary takes it and they mill it down and they separate the wheat from the chaff, and he he sees what is produced from the man's labor And then he realizes what it was all for. And in the same way, we looking at one aspect of our life We say, God, what are you doing? This doesn't make sense. Boy, this looks like such a stupid thing This doesn't I don't understand. It doesn't make sense why we would have to go through this or why I have to be torn down like this or why you allowed this beautiful thing to grow in my life and then it got removed. Lord, this doesn't make sense. But you see, beloved From our side, we can't see the great tapestry that God is weaving in the space and time of an eternity. And so that is when we just trust Him because He knows what He's doing. God is the answer. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?