Our study in the book of Galatians to a conclusion. Here we are in the final chapter. It has been a uh Fallen, which we will be looking at this evening. We have reaping for our faithfulness and the resistance to the faithlessness And then r uh a a record of fervency. Those are the divisions that I'm going to break this into over the next Four weeks counting tonight. But look with me tonight in Galatians chapter six, beginning of verse number one. We're going to cover verse one through verse number five. I unmuted it. I did not unmute it. I pushed the wrong thank you. Alright, so we have brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fall, ye which are spiritual, restore such in one in the spirit of meekness, consider thyself, lest thou also Be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if a man if a man's My text here that's interesting. If a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoice in himself alone, not in another, for every man shall bear his own burden. In the concluding verses of chapter number five, we are told to walk in the Spirit. We studied that and looked at it already. We know that the fruit of the Spirit is going to be part of any believer that is consistently walking in the Spirit of God. But Paul is wise enough to know and he understands that even the best of men may very well find themselves stumbling at some time. They may find themselves victim to temptation and a moment of weakness A time when they don't stand as strong and as sure as they wish they would have. So he extant he exhorts us tonight, beloved, to Not to stand in condemnation of those that have stumbled, but to comfort those that have stumbled, to help those You see, Paul addresses here the very heart of the legalist individual, one who is more concerned with the form of godliness than he is with the power of godliness. He almost looks right at them. He looks right in their eyeballs, and he says to them in verse number one, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, Ye which are spiritual, restore such and one in the spirit of meekness. I mean you can hear almost a a little bit of sarcasm in his voice there He says, you guys like to pride yourself in your formalism. You're so proud of your legalistic nature. You're so excited about the law that you're keeping Well, ye that are spiritual should be restoring the fallen instead of standing over here in condemnation of the fallen, instead of being ready to kick the man that's down. If you were truly spiritual, like you believe you're spiritual because you are observing the law, then you would be restoring those that are fallen. This is in context what he's addressing here. So we see, first of all, the command that is given to us. This command, first of all, we note is something that's given to all of us. He says, brethren, if you're saved. On your way to heaven, this is something that you're supposed to be involved in. Not just uh the pastor, not just the lay leadership in the church, not just the deacons, but a brother or a sister in Christ. We're all to be involved in this idea of restoration, of restoring the fallen, of bringing them back to Jesus Christ. It is the job of every brother. We also see here, beloved, that is the job of the spiritual He says, ye which are spiritual. Those beloved who are still walking in the Spirit, those who are bearing the fruit of the Spirit. Those that have found strength to resist the flesh and day by day. We know that this is a day-by-day endeavor Boy, I wish we could get in a revival meeting and hear some preaching and get on fire for God and commit ourselves to be in the Spirit and it would be a one-time decision that was done and we've got it I mean we oh yeah we took that step. We're walking in the spirit now. Wouldn't that be awesome if we could have made that decision once 20 years ago and just been walking in the spirit ever since But each and every one of us know that when we get out of bed every morning, we've got to get out of bed and make a renewed commitment to walk in the Spirit that day, right? It's a day-by-day thing. And he says, hey, if you're spiritual, if you're walking in the spirit, then you need to be involved in restoring the fallen. The reason that we are to do this is because they have been overtaken in a fault. They've been overtaken. This word overtaken means to be caught by surprise. Means to be overrun by, means to be caught suddenly, to be overtaken. You see, beloved, it's one thing to be overtaken by sin, and another thing to overtake sin. You see, the difference is, on one hand, I was striving to do all that I could for God. On one hand, I am serving the Lord faithfully, and Satan comes and tips me in a moment of weakness, and I fall and stumble. And I am broken about it, and I want to get right. And on the other hand, I'm doing all that I can to be involved in sin. You see, this verse is not dealing with somebody who is living a rebellious In rebellious sin against God, this is somebody that was overtaken by sin. Somebody, I think about Peter. You remember when Peter he looked at Jesus and he said, Hey, uh, I'll go with you even unto death And uh then he denied Christ. But what does the Bible say about Peter afterwards? He went out and wept bitterly You see, he was broken about having failed his Savior. He was broken about that sin. This is what we're talking about. This is saying if there's somebody that was tempted, somebody that stumbled, somebody that fell, then it is our job to strive to Bring them back to restore them. It's amazing to me, beloved, that most anybody is surprised when they're overtaken by sin. You see what it is is most people are surprised they got caught. Let me just remind you tonight that the Bible says, be sure your sin will find you out. The day will come, the hour will come, the time will come. when it will be found out. And certainly it's not this side of glory that the time will come on the other side that we're all going to know. It's all going to be made known. But I have seen it over and over again in my own life and in the life of God's people where their sin was made known. And sometimes, I mean, I could tell you a couple of very humorous stories about ways that God revealed some sin that like I didn't even I mean I don't have time tonight to chase that rabbit, but listen, be sure your sin will find you out. It's gonna happen. And so you might as well deal with it right now and get it done so that you don't have to walk that road People are surprised they got caught, beloved, they're also surprised at how far they went. You guys know the statement: sin's gonna take you farther than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, cost you more than you want to pay. I've heard it over and over again. People have said, man, I didn't I I never thought it was going to get that bad. How did I let it go so long? How did it get to the place where my family's ruined or my testimony's ruined or I no longer can serve God? Or how did this happen? They got caught They were overtaken by sin. If that's you tonight, beloved, and you're in that situation where sin has been running rampant in your life, come back to Christ. He is always there. He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all righteousness. This job of restoration is to be done by us. This word restore literally means to reset in place. The same word is used in Matthew 4. 21, where James and John were there with their father Zebedee, and the Bible says they were mending their nets. That's the same Greek word, that mending. That means they were taking those nets and putting them back into a useful uh position. They were bringing them back into a state of usefulness. They were restoring it. It it literally has the idea of S resetting a dislocated bone. A bone that's been dislocated and or or broken and it needs to be reset in order to be used again. That's what he's talking about in this idea of restoration is to reset that bone. How are we supposed to restore? The Bible says here, do so in a spirit of meekness. Can I tell you, beloved, it takes meekness to set a bone back in place? What I'm saying is that that area is really, really sensitive. The bone is the arm, the leg, the the foot, whatever. Yesterday Andrew uh sprained his ankle. He probably doesn't want me telling you guys that, but he did. He'll be wobbling around here anyways So he sprained his ankle pretty good. And last night Alicia is like, well, I have an air air cast. When I sprain my ankle, you can use my aircast. And he's like, not right now. He's like, I can't even I'm I just don't even touch it, you know. Like just don't even touch it. Leave it alone. Why? Because it's really sensitive. And here's what I'm saying, if we're gonna be about the job of restoring, we gotta have some meekness Because the dislocated Christian is hypersensitive. They are they are they are concerned What what is Andrew he he's saying, wait, don't touch it. Or if if somebody's walking around the end of the end of the chair there, you know, he's looking to to pull back like You know, stay away from my foot. I don't want you to touch it. It's gonna you know, that's gonna hurt. Well somebody that's been dislocated they're pretty sensitive and uh if we aren't real careful our our effort to help can hurt There they can be hurt. So we gotta use that meekness. That's why the Bible says that use meekness. I didn't write down who said this. It wasn't me, one of the commentators I was reading, but he said, beloved, meekness is humility translated into relationships. Meekness is humility translated into relationships. Dealing with humility when we deal with others That'll make more sense as we go down through this text a little bit. But can I tell you tonight I'm s I'm very frustrated with uh those Christians who stand in holy condemnation of others. Like they would never fall short. Like they would never make a mistake. No hair would be out of place on their head. We can even have this in the church house You may be very proficient at studying in preparation for a class and very diligent about it, and you lose your patience and you are You lose your humility and you lose your meekness when somebody else comes to class and they're not as prepared as you think they should be. Restore such in one in a spirit of meekness. You've lost all your meekness. You're looking at them and say, boy, I would never show up to class unprepared like that. But him that thinketh he standeth, take heed lest he fall. Sometimes we lose patience with people because they're late Late to church, late to choir, late to music practice, late to banquet, whatever. And you'd be like, I would never be late. Oh yeah. Now you may be very good about being on time. But when you stand in righteous condemnation of somebody else, the Bible tells us very clearly here, you better be careful. We've got to deal with meekness with other people. Ye which are spiritual. You see, you think your spirituality comes because you're there on time. And other people that were spiritual would be there on time too. But he says either spiritual are gonna deal with meekness with other people. That's what we've got to do That's Bible. He tells us here to consider thyself, lest thou also be tempted. He says in verse number two, we see the compassion that we're supposed to have. He says, Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. We beloved, beloved, we are to bear one another's burdens. Now this burden here, the word burden in this text right here, has the idea of a very heavy weight, something that's too much to bear. It's too heavy. I can't bear it myself. And beloved, this should be the hallmark of Christianity that we go about helping one another. And I praise the Lord that we have a church that's given to helping one another. We have a church that by and large, I mean I don't know that uh You know, I mean, it's just something that's prevalent in our group, and I praise God for that. But let me just remind you tonight that we are to be bearing one another's burdens. And let me remind you tonight that weakness is a burden. I have felt the burden of weakness. I have felt the burden of knowing that there's something that I should do, a place that I should be, a job that I should be accomplishing, witnessing that I should be doing Scripture memory that I should be memorizing, something that I should be doing or something I shouldn't be doing, and because the weakness of this old flesh, I haven't done it What I'm saying is that is a burden sometimes that people carry, and we as God's people need to come alongside and encourage and exhort and help and bear that burden with that brother or sister. Help them. We need to have compassion. The man who's fighting or striving to win over sin and finds himself carrying a burden that presently is too hard. The list of burdens we could give you tonight would be longer than the day is. The question I have for you is, whose burden are you carrying? There were two pastors who were going into a hospital together to make some calls and visit as they began to leave the hospital. Uh one of the pastors uh walking through the waiting room there saw a five-year-old girl sitting all by herself and she looked very forlorn and very concerned and And he just walked up and he said, Hello, young lady, how how are you? And she put her head down, was very concerned. He got down on one knee, looked at her, and says, Is somebody that you love sick tonight? And she began to cry a tear coming down her eyes. She says, My mom, my mom is very, very sick, and they took her, they took her somewhere, and she said to stay here. And and he says, Are are you afraid? And she looked him looked at him in the eyes and she said, Not anymore. You've taken my scared away The question I have for you is whose scared are you taking away? Whose burden are you carrying? Who are you helping in their moment of weakness in their struggle. Romans 15, 1 says, we then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak. There's days that we're strong. And when we're strong, we're to be bearing the infirmities of the weak. We're to be helping the weak because there's going to come a day when we're weak Oh, I know we don't feel like it. But there's gonna come a day when we're weak and we need somebody else to help bear our burdens. Second Corinthians 1, verse number 4, it says, Who comforteth us in all our tribulation? Why does God comfort us in all our tribulation? He goes on, he says, That we may be able to comfort them. Which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God He says God has come to you in your hour of need and and and comforted you and enabled you and helped you. And he says he did so for the sole purpose or for the reason that you would have something inside of you. You would have a comfort that God has given you that you could go and carry to another brother, another sister, somebody in in their hour of need, that you would be able to comfort them. We're to bear one another's burdens, beloved. And if we are functioning in the realm of love, which we have seen over and over in this text, we will be functioning in the law of Christ, he says there. And so fulfill the law of Christ. You know the law of Christ is the law of love. So thirdly, we see the consideration in verse number three. He says, For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. You see, in verse number one we're told to consider thyself. In verse number three, he draws this out and and kind of Makes us take a second look right at it. He says, hey, those that think of themselves to be something when they're nothing, hmm? You see, beloved, this brings ourselves into view when we are in contrast with others. It's amazing We as individuals are always right. I'm saying individually, all every one of us. We're always right. We have it figured out. We know what should have been done or what was done wrong. We know what someone else meant. We know what their intentions were. We know what they were thinking. We know what their motives were. Our perception is correct. The other individual is in error. Every time I see it over and over and over again. This is down, I told you chapters five and six are practical. This is down where the rubber meets the road. And it may not be very comfortable, but this is the fact of the matter, is we always view ourselves as correct. He says, if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, what does he say about it? He deceiveth himself. I'm reminded of a lady that went to her pastor and said, I need you to help me with my problem of pride. I've got I've got a problem and he says, What well what what is it? And she says, Well I know that I'm the prettiest lady in the church and I'm just I just err I just can't come in church without thinking about it and I'm so full of pride. He says that's that's not pride, that's just a mistake He said, you're you're just uh uh mistaken. That's not that's not pride, you don't have to worry about that. A man that thinketh himself to be something when he is nothing deceiveth himself. Sometimes we are mistaken about how much how important we really are. About our view of things. Only in true humility are we ready to help restore our fallen brother. See, when we don't have meekness, when we're full of pride, we stand up and look down at somebody else and say, boy, that would have never happened to me. Pride cometh before destruction and a haughty spirit before it falls. One of the things that that I fear about being a pastor is preaching things like this because I'm preaching truth, but I feel like it puts me in a place where I'm almost more susceptible or uh I'm just more afraid of falling because I've I've stepped out and said this is what you shouldn't do and so now I've got to make sure that I don't do it. Almost would rather not say it. But only in true humility are we ready to help restore fallen brother. The opposite of humility is a man that thinketh himself to be something. Humility acknowledges the fact that he is nothing. Well I'll tell you what, if we could just come to grasp with that in our Christian life. If we could just come to grasp with that. A dead man doesn't get offended. Never does. I know in our false humility we say it, oh, but I'm nothing. But I'm saying, do we really believe that? Are we really convinced in our heart and mind of that truth? We know biblically that's a correct answer. But in practicality, in our life, are we living that way? A man who humbly knows his own weakness deals meekly with a brother who sends. Only when you believe you're above such sin, that you're too good to be tricked by Satan in such a way, do you stand in condemnation of him We see fourthly here the conflict in verses four and five. He says, but let every man prove his own work. And then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone and not in another, for every man shall bear his own burden So we see first of all here in this idea that there is a proving that needs to be done, a proving of our own work What he's saying is at the end of the day, what another man does doesn't really matter. You've got your own work to prove We don't need to be so concerned or worried about what somebody else does or doesn't do. What we need to be concerned about is what we're doing We need to stop worrying about the toothpick in somebody else's eye and get the beam out of our own eye. We know these things in practicality, but uh or or in principle, but are we doing them in practicality? Are we living them that way He says you've got to prove your own work. He's saying, boy, you want to stand up and look down on everybody else, but what is it that you're doing? The London Transit Authority was being berated in the public some years ago because the bus drivers were going right past the passengers. They weren't picking them up. They're driving right by him. And of course everybody was up in arms and the London Transit Authority released an official statement Their official statement they put out for the public is we are unable to keep our schedule if we have to keep stopping and picking up people. That was their official statement. They got so concerned about the schedule that they stopped thinking about their service. They stop thinking about the reason that they were there in the first place. If they're not out there to pick up people, they don't even have a job So what are they doing? And the problem, beloved, is sometimes in Christianity we get so consumed with the schedule. We get so consumed with the law, we get so consumed with the details that we forget why we're here in the first place to try and help the weaker brethren. To try and bring those that still need to grow, yes they need to change, yes they need to take a step of faith, yes they need to be more committed Yes, they need to try and be faithful to church. Yes, they need to try and be on time. Yes, they need to be ready for their area service. Yes, they need to step up. But beloved, we all have got to step up somewhere And our job is to try and help each and every one where they're at to take the next step for God. And it's not just this man's job, it's all of our job He says, you've got to prove your own work. There's a proving that must be done. And beloved, let me tell you, the day's going to come when you and I stand before an Almighty God, and the proving will be done then. And if we want to stand, and as he says here in this verse, he said, and he shall have rejoicing in himself alone and not another. If we want to rejoice in that day Then you must examine yourself today and prove your own work before God today. Stop being so worried about other people You know, I first started welding many years ago. Uh Colin's not uh Connor's not here tonight, but he's a welder. I enjoyed had him over to the house and we did some welding because I like learning and he's teaching me some things, you know, and he's watching my welding uh mechanism. He was probably laughing, but he was gracious. He you know, he was giving me some pointers. But when I first started welding Like I would not trust my welds on anything critical. I would not use one of my welds on anything that had to go out on the highway or the road or anything. Like I would weld something like a rake maybe or something that's not really gonna matter. But i after some great amount of time when I started being able to prove That is to put to test my welds, I got to the point where I could be more confident. Now my welds aren't that pretty now, but they do hold. I know I can tell whether I got a good weld or not, and I can tell if it's gonna hold or not And so it was proved. That's what he's saying, you gotta prove your work. You gotta test it. You might need to test your motives So he says, not only do you have to prove your own work, but you have a burden that's your own to bear You see, in verse number two, the burden that was there was a weight that is too heavy, something extra, something that you've got to do, or something that's commanded upon you, but it's it's too much to bear. But here the word literally is a load that has to be carried, like the load of a cargo ship. Like that is specifically their job. That's what it's supposed to be doing. That's their task. They have that load to carry. And so what he's saying, he said, there's some things that by God's design and plan You're supposed to be carrying. You see, beloved, there is some loads that are to be shared, and we bear one another's burdens. But there's also some loads that should be shouldered that you have to carry on your own If we are going to walk through this road of life, and let me say that's a lot better than the alternative, you're going to have some burdens. Every man is going to have some burdens. I tell you tonight it rains on the just and the unjust. We need to stop thinking Like why is this happening to me? We need to stop thinking life is unfair Job 14. 1 says man is born of a woman of a few days and full of trouble. Everybody has burdens. So what should we do with our burdens? Well first of all, we need to remember that everybody has them. He says they're every man. Every man in our text there, for every man, for every man shall bear his own burden. Everybody has burdens, beloved. I read this week about a woman who had lost her son. She just couldn't get past it. She would not be comforted. She was torn up and eaten up with grief and she she would not be comforted, no matter who. Her friends would come and nothing they would say, no way they could help. The family would try and minister to her, pastor would try and minister And she could not be comforted. And finally, she was talking to a random individual, and this man had some wisdom, and he said, I'll tell you what I'll do for you. He says, I will help you. And he said, here's what I'll have you do. I would have you go to a home. You find a home that has no sorrow. And bring me from that home a mustard seed, and I will restore your joy. She was gone for some time, but she came back, a changed person. And she said I truly have been selfish in my sorrow. For every home knows it That's the thing, beloved. Everybody has burdens. They might be different than your burdens, sometimes they might be greater than yours, or yours might be greater than theirs, but every home Every individual has burdens to bear. Some are burdens regarding work or their jobs, some are health burdens, some are relational ship burdens. Burdens, some are family burdens, some are spiritual burdens, some are financial burdens, but everybody has burdens. And so we see, first of all, we need to remember that everybody has them. and and stop holding on to this individual mentality, this woe is me. Secondly, we need to remember that some of those burdens are our responsibility. There are responsibility like a mother who must carry her child. Aaron just delivered her child today Mary understands long labor and when I think Aaron has her beat has Mary beat. Um you know, it just Mary understands and she's like, oh no, I feel so bad for her and oh this is continuing on and this is too long and Oh man, this is so bad. Uh you know, and and another any mom that's been through it can, you know, as it's getting close, like, oh I know the misery that you're in and boy, and they can, you know, have sympathy and empathy and whatever else, but they can't carry the baby. That's her burden to bear. That is her, and there's some things in life that are ours. They're our responsibility, and we need to stop trying to shirk the responsibility. We need to bear the burden. Shoulder your responsibility. Someone can come and encourage. They may be able to exhort and try and assist, but beloved, it's your responsibility. We need to get past this modern tendency to blame others for our problems or situations. The socialist says it's your environment. The psychologist says it's your relationship. The doctor says it's your chemical imbalance. But the Holy Spirit looks at you and says, Thou art the man. We can blame it on whom whomever we want, but many times the the situations or problems or burdens we're carrying are our own. We could run down and talk about different burdens that we might have to carry that are ours. You might have a burden of service that you need to carry. You might have a burden of sorrow that you need to carry. Sometimes people are carrying a burden of sin, something that they've done that has translated into problems in their life and they they they feel so bad and oh this is so this is so m miserable and and I wish it wasn't this way but you understand it was the sin that got you there And so you have a burden to carry until you get past that or through it or beyond it. Let me just briefly encourage the parents to allow their kids to bear their own burdens. Parents sometimes in an effort to protect their children have protected them to the point where the children have not learned to bear their own burden. A child breaks a window, he needs to know what it feels like to have to pay for it. Oh I know mom and dad could pay for it, but the child needs to go take his birthday money that he was planning to buy a super soaker with and go spend it on the window he broke. You're teaching them to bear their burdens Andrew was driving someone's ATV one day and ran into a tree. Did fifteen hundred dollars worth of damage. Andrew asked me about it. So you gotta go tell him you'll pay for it. So he may be really nice and say, Don't worry about it, but you you you need to offer to pay for it. You broke it. And Andrew paid for it. You know, over the years, you know we have two or three four-wheelers. Over the years, there's been many people that have damaged our four-wheelers. One one person did twelve hundred dollars damage to one of my four-wheelers. I've never had somebody offer to pay for it. It's a generation or group of people that have never been taught to bear their burdens, to take responsibility. Listen, if you can't pay for it, you can't afford to drive it. You need to you need to understand there's a risk there and you need to say, okay, am I prepared to own this? Am I prepared to pay for it if I ruin it? If you can't, you can't afford to borrow it. And a child that's been taught properly responsibility understands that. They're not going to take a tool and leave it out in the rain and return it all rusted and say, oh sorry. They're going to go buy a new tool and give him and they're going to keep the old rusted one. Because they understand the responsibility of using somebody else's stuff, and that takes training. They need to bear the responsibility. Now, we need to remember the reason. Do you believe that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord Do we believe tonight that God is in control of the affairs of men? Do you think that your burden took the Lord by surprise? So regardless of what your burden is tonight, we are acknowledging the fact that God knows about it And understand that God has a reason for you carrying that burden. Whatever it might be, there may be something that you need to learn from it, an area of growth that you need to be Grow through it. Somehow you're going to help somebody else. I don't know, but we need to understand that God is in control. And beloved, there is a r reason. I read of a man that his little girl was born mentally handicapped. He described the immense weight of that news as it struck him and All of the challenges that he would have to deal with through life as he found this out. But looking back after many years He said that he regretted his self pity For through the years I have learned so many life lessons. I've gained a new and deeper relationship with the Lord that would have otherwise been impossible. He said, I I received the news and I rejected it, I rebelled against it, I say, this is not what I wanted. I did not ask God for a child like this, and it was a burden at first that he felt was too great to bear, and he didn't want to carry it. But through the years as he carried it, God taught him, God instructed him, God grew him, and he began a deeper understanding of his Lord. And he says, Oh, I wouldn't have it any other way because now I can look in the eyes of my Savior and realize what He's taught me I would not have learned without this life lesson. There is a reason There is a reason, the burden that you're carrying. There is some burdens that must be shared. There's some burdens that must be shouldered individually. But also, and lastly tonight, I want you to know that God instructs us there are some burdens that should be shed. In Psalms 55, verse number 22, he says, Cast thy burden upon the Lord. 1 Peter 5, verse number 7 says, Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Oh, dearly beloved. Sometimes we're carrying a burden that God and his immense mercy was planning for us to bring to him and leave at the cross. That God was looking to carry that burden for you, but we have been shouldering it when God says you can't shed it. Our Savior who cares for us, saying, Cast your burden upon Him. If your body suffers pain and your health you cannot regain, and your soul is almost sinking in despair Jesus knows the pain you feel. He can save and he can heal. Take your burden to the Lord and leave it there. When your enemies assail you and your heart begins to fail, don't forget that God in heaven answers prayer. He will make a way for you and will lead you safely through. Take your burden to the Lord. and leave it there. To bring this to a conclusion tonight, I ask you, have you ever heard the statement, Talk is cheap? Well talking about a Christian's chief. Talking about Christianity. We can stand in condemnations of others in their struggle, or we can strive to help them in their hour of need. I read about a Bible college student who was studying for his final exams. Those are some times of pressure, huh? Yeah, it can be hard. You've only got this much time and you're studying for his final exam. family unexpectedly came to town and they're like, Oh, we drove all this way, we want to have dinner and he's like, Not today. I I just I I need to study and they're like, Oh, we drove all this way, can you please eat dinner with us? And He said, Oh, okay, I I'm gonna come, I'm gonna eat, and I'm gonna come right back because I g I need to be studied. He went there well during dinner the youngest child of the family had an allergic reaction to something that was eaten and had to be rushed to the emergency room. He felt that he really ought to go to the emergency room with the family and wait on his brother and see how his brother was doing and Of course, one hour turned into two in the emergency room and then three and then four and before you know it most of the evening was eaten up. Later his dad looked at him and said, Son, I know that you needed to be studying for your final But thank you for staying with us. He said, Well dad What I came to realize is that it probably would be better for me to uh do what Christ would do than just study about what Christ would do. You see sometime Christian were real good about studying what Christ would do. Sometimes not quite as good at doing it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?