A overview of what God presents and gives to us here. Uh beginning in your notes there, just it it began it was written in AD ninety five or ninety six. Uh this is uh likely written during the reign of Domatian. Uh Domatian was the emperor who uh ultimately is re believed to be responsible for exiling John to the Isle of Patnus. And so it was during his reign that uh John was exiled there, and so that was where John wrote this. There's no question about that, and so that is the uh time frame that it was written The aim is given to us here in the pages of Scripture in several ways and several places. First of all, is to reveal the things that are to come. That quite literally is the definition of revelation in of itself, the unveiling or making visible those things that were once hidden. Revelation I often prayed for revelation when I was taking tests, you know, that things would be revealed, uh, that I would get revelation to know maybe uh what the answers were when I was seeking for those, but uh I'm not sure it really worked Uh but I certainly was asking God for some help. But that's what revelation is, to make known or un uh means of unveiling or making visible things that were once hidden. uh truths that had been concealed, uh that God had waited until this time to make known or to reveal. And we see that in one verse number one. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants the things which must shortly come to pass. So to reveal those things that are to come. The things that are coming, they're going to come to pass. Okay, now to encourage, warn, and appeal to believers to stay faithful through difficult times. And uh so that is uh just all through the book, really, you can see that. We're just gonna look maybe just at chapter two in verse number ten. As an example of this, but I've written several of them down there for you. In chapter 2, verse number 10, he says, Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death. And I will give thee a crown of life. And so over and over again in the book of Revelation, you'll see this admonition and this encouragement. Listen, there's tribulation coming, there's going to be trials, there's going to be hardship There are going to be some tests, and so I want to encourage you to be faithful through that. We need to be encouraged to continue on. And uh sometimes we get discouraged because of hardship, because of trial, because of tests that come into our lives. And uh we we literally uh can feel like uh you know uh I think of um Joseph's father. You remember Joseph was in captivity And uh he was there and God had you know, God of course orchestrated and planned all that and put Joseph there for such a time as this, but you remember when the br brothers came And uh Joseph told them, Hey, go and get Benjamin and bring Benjamin back. And uh so they went and talked to Dad and said, Dad, we gotta take Benjamin. And uh Dad was saying, Well, Joseph's gone And you want to take Benjamin, and he said, All these things have befallen me. You ever feel like that? I mean it who knows what it is. It could be the car broke down or the roof is leaking or the water heater, you know. Uh here's an example. We came home, of course we've been gone several days Uh we came home and our toilet upstairs in the house uh fluke thing, the filler that's supposed to stop it from filling, didn't stop it from filling. And it kept filling, filled all the way up, overflowed out of the top, ran, soaked the floor, went through the ceiling, soaked the ceiling, went through the floor, soaked the floor. The nice thing is Mary's plants were under there, so they got watered very good. But you know, sometimes those things happen and you're like, why? Why me? Oh, this is so hard, and we need to be encouraged as they said here. Listen, be faithful. Continue on. Do what God wants you to do. That encouragement, that exhortation here is to give also not only to reveal the things that are come, not only to encourage that and warn that things are coming, be ready, but be faithful. Also to give a revelation of Jesus Christ. We see that again right from the beginning. The revelation of Jesus Christ. Verse number one there. The revelation of Jesus Christ. So not only wasn't this a revelation which is to come. the Almighty. He is the eternal one. Now this is not my outline. I actually don't know where it came from um as far as this list of uh things here, the description of Christ. Um as you guys know, an area that I need to study and beef up on and have been working towards for a while is the book of Revelation and End Times. It's an area that I'm not as strong or well versed in. And uh so I've been collecting stuff and you know different people have given me things. Actually, Miss Linda Wellman, her her husband Herschel gave me a study that they did on the Book of Revelation. And Miss Rebecca actually uh gave me a study that her husband Chris uh had done uh with them many years ago and she gave me all his work on the book of Revelation, which is a huge blessing. And so I have several things that I've been collecting so that I could learn and and get more information with regards to this. So I'm not sure who is whose it is. Otherwise I would have put their name down there. But I just I I want to give credit where credit's due or or make sure you know that's not mine um that I didn't come up with that, but it's certainly uh powerful description of who Christ is that we see there. Some of the names that are given to us that are found in the book of Revelation, we have the Alpha and Omega, verse number eight. Prince of the kings of the earth, verse number five, we read that, the first begotten from the dead, verse number five, the lamb, uh the lion of the tribe of Judah. The King of Kings and the Lord of Lords in 1714, but also we read that in 19. Uh so it appears several times there, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. So this is not a conclusive list Complete list. There's other names given to us, but this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. This book reveals unto John who Jesus is, and obviously unto us. So we see here the author. We of course know the author was John. John began his ministry, you know, in Jerusalem and ultimately was called to pastor the church at Ephesus. He was serving there at Ephesus until uh Domatian uh decided to exile him. Uh off the top of my head I don't remember or know the reason, like what transpired that Domatian would choose to hey Kicking him off, uh and we're gonna send you to the Isle of Patmos. The Isle of Patmos was a rocky, um kind of barren uh island. uh that was about sixty miles southwest of Ephesus and so th he just said, well we're gonna kick you off the mainland. You gotta go over here to this less barren, less, less prosperous, uh kind of a harder place to live And uh they he exiled him there to the Isle of Patmos, and that's where John wrote these things. We know that it was written from the Isle of Patmos, chapter one and verse number nine tells us that. I John Who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the Isle that is called Patmos. for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. Well he tells us right there why he was exiled to the island, the Isle of Patmos for the Word of God and for Jesus Christ. because he was following the Lord. He was enduring and going through this trial and test because he was doing what God wanted him to do. Um so he gives us gives us that But then we see that the message was from Jesus Christ in chapter one and verse number four. He says, John to the seven churches which are Asia, grace be unto you, and peace from him which is, and which this is the description here. This is talking about Jesus Christ. From from who? From him which is and which was and which is to come. That that's Jesus saying, This is the message I have for you from who? From him that is and was and is to come. The eternal one, the one that always was and always will be, of course, Jesus Christ, God, uh in the flesh. So we see that it was a message from Jesus. But this book is unique in that it was a message delivered by angels. It was delivered by angels. We know we believe in the verbal inspiration of the Word of God. uh that God inspired men, that he directed them to write his word and communicate that to us. And But we have here noted for us in chapter 22 in verse number 16 a unique thing with this book specifically is that Jesus chose to use an angel to communicate it. He says I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. So Jesus determined, hey, uh, he made this revelation. The angel appeared unto John and Uh communicated to him so that an angel communicated this unto John to share with us. So it's just a unique thing about this particular book that we have here. Then we see the audience. Who was it written to? Well, first of all, we know without question it was written to the servants. Hopefully you're a servant of Christ. A servant is somebody who has chosen They serve out of love. They serve because they desire to, they want to serve him. And that's who John was, but we see in chapter one and verse number one he says, and the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, that show unto his to show unto his servants. To show unto his servants. So if you would include yourself as a servant of Jesus Christ, this book's for you. Amen. The book of Revelation is for you. And so it was written to his servants. Now it also was written to the seven churches of Asia Meyer in uh Chapter 1 and verse number 4 we read that. John 2, the seven churches which are in Asia. And so these seven churches were literal churches. It would be like saying the church of Hunt Valley. It's a literal church, you know, the the churches of Asia Mire that are described and given to us, they were literal churches, but they also have come to represent uh both church history. There's different ages of church history that kind of very well fit into the description of these churches And so you have almost a a documentation or a representation of some different church ages, church time where that particular time was like this, this time was like this, and these seven churches represent those different different ages. But uh also it can represent churches in their particular current state, uh where that church might be a church uh that is a Laodicean church, you know. uh and we don't want to be that kind of a church, but it can represent or at least be an example for us. So there's some great teaching there as well. But we know that this letters were written specifically to a literal church, to a group of believers. that were learning of God and wanting to know what God had for them. Now some competing views of the book of Revelation. You have the preterist view. Now this is uh maybe less not as held as completely as it once was, but it what they hold to is they believe that revelation was fulfilled in the first century. basically saying that everything in the book of Revelation took place in that first century, in the first churches, during that time frame they would teach that. Uh it the beast is identified as Nero. Or Roman Emperor rule. So as it describes or talks about the beast, they say, well, that fits Nero. Or we could talk about just the overall emperor rule, but we're going to say that that's what it is. The Great Tribulation is the early church suffering. So they would believe that the Great Tribulation took place and it was the suffering that the early church had. Now I'm not sure how you read uh the descriptions of what takes place during the Great Tribulation and in any way apply it to what took place in the early church I mean definitely there the early church went through great persecution, there's no question about that, but it was very marginal compared to what the Bible talks about is going to take place in the Great Tribulation. And v very uh I mean uh not even close as far as what happened there, but that's what they believed. Now this is not something that you know, like well nobody possibly ever believes that. Uh now I have not talked to R. C. Sprohl personally myself about this, but uh he is one of the reformed theologians that would believe this in some level. A lot of people that hold to this uh they would be they would consider themselves partial, uh Frederist view, uh or they would hold to it a little bit like most things But there's certain parts of it that are gonna happen in the future. So they might believe most of it took place but there's and and depending upon who they are They may say, well, I think this is still going to happen in the future or I think this already happened in the past and what they would draw at each place could be a little bit different. for different people and I'm not gonna put words in R. C. Sprole's mouth or or others. I just from my research and study trying to find like who who holds this view, uh R. C. Spro came up as a proponent of it. And uh so Um just letting you know that. Then historical view, uh this really runs parallel with the preterist view. It it is a teaching that describes the entire course of church history. So that revelation describes not just what took place in the first century that the preterists would hold to, but that revelation is a description of all of church history. And so really it's describing things that have already happened. You see, these two views really would look at Revelation as something as a historical document. describing what has already took place. And they look at the beast, often interpreted as the corrupt religious or political systems that have found through all of church history, because they're including all of it. So it's just In each church history, you'll find a corrupt political organization, you'll find uh corrupt or heretical teachings, and so it could be that. The Great Tribulation represents the centuries of persecution and hardship that is seen. And uh this was believed by uh early Protestants uh such as Martin Luther. Um so because of that, there are a lot of Protestant churches. that would hold to this in some level. Again, I'm not going to try and put words in people's mouths or say that a particular group holds to this completely one way or the other. But because this is what they came from, a lot of them would hold to that in some proportion uh or another, and they would have to each determine where they were. But uh Then the symbolic view. There are those that believe revelation is only viewed as typology from which we can draw spiritual insight. So Revelation, all that's in there, all the descriptions of the things to come and the great tribulation and uh the beast and all the hardship, it's all there just to kind of give us some Aesop's fables. you know, to kind of give us some symbolic things that we can draw some truth from. Certainly there are many things that we draw truth from. uh but they would hold that it is no neither historical or prophetical, that this document is neither one. Uh that it's just a symbolic testimony of what is. So the beast is represented as Babylon or recurring evil systems. Babylon or recurring evil systems. The Great Tribulation is a picture of the ongoing struggle between good and evil that's taken place throughout the world. And uh again, taking a lot of the literal things that the Bible says and just saying, well that's not actually what it's saying. It's just talking about hardship. It's describing hardship like this, uh or trials like this, um, instead of taking it as a literal description of what would take place. um believed by uh many Lutherans and some Catholics. Um so this is a whole there. And again Some might not even realize that this is what they hold to, but this is the symbolic view there that's held by many. Now the futurist view The futurist view, this is what we hold to, this is what we as a church believe. As we look at the book of Revelation, we believe that it contains both historical information as well as prophetical information. It chapters 1 through 3 refer to the apostolic churches. Those letters that were written to the churches were literal churches during the first century that he is writing to, that he's admonishing and encouraging. So there's historical information there in chapters one through three, but then chapters four through twenty-three refer to events that are still to come, events that are in the future So it's prophetical in that regard that all of these chapters are describing things that are still to be fulfilled. The Antichrist has yet to be revealed, although there have been many people throughout ages, and those of you that have some years on you You can remember down through time where people said, Oh, this person's gotta be the Antichrist. You know, this person's gotta be the Antichrist. And they they there's proponents of it and believe that you know they put it out and Uh the Antichrist has come and gone many times according to individuals, uh, but the time will come when the Antichrist will will rise. Um and the Great Tribulation is coming after The church is raptured. This is what we believe. We believe in the uh pre-uh tribulation rapture of the church that we're not going to go through Now, there's lots of reasons that we believe that. That's what the that's what we say we believe in our constitutional uh statement of faith that's in our constitution as a church. But uh one example or one very good Teaching on this is the fact that in the book of Revelation, you have in the first three chapters, you have the church mentioned over and over and over and over and over again But you get to chapter number four, and the word church is not one not doesn't appear one more time in the rest of the book. The church is not present. In the rest of Revelation. That's why one reason why we believe as a church that we we're going to be raptured out of here. The church is not going to be going through the Great Tribulation as God's people We're gonna be taken out of here. We will not have to endure these uh terrible things that are gonna come. Now it's gonna get bad And can I tell you that we're gonna feel like we're going through the tribulation? If it if it happens in our lifetime and we're still alive, the Bible describes uh it's gonna wax worse and worse and we certainly look at it and we think, Man, we're there. Can't be long now. The Lord's gotta come soon and so we we look at that, but it's gonna it's gonna get bad and we may think, man, cer certainly It can't get any worse than this or or the hardship, the trials. I mean you see even the natural events and the disasters that are around the world today and the conflicts that are rising up, the the wars and rumors of wars and these things over and over. The signs of the times are everywhere, there's no question about that. And so a it's going to wax worse and worse. I think Y y your four hundred one K is going to be the least of your concerns uh when we really get into that stage and we're gonna look you you you talk about the you know declaring Even so, Lord, come quickly. I think we're going to reach the point as a believers that we're saying, Lord, you've got to come back. You've got to come back. Think things are so bad and we're ready But ultimately the church is going to be raptured and before it gets to the point of the Great Tribulation, uh the tribulation or the Great Tribulation, you know the difference. The Great Tribulation is the last three and a half years when the floodgates of God's judgment and wrath really uh are poured out on the earth. And uh so there are some that are mid tribs, uh they call 'em. They believe that we're as a church, we're gonna go through the beginning part But we're not going to have to experience the Great Tribulation. So we'll be raptured out in the middle. We are pre-tribulationists. We believe we're not going to be here. We're not going to have to do that. We're going to be taken out before that comes. But There are some who believe that and there's some that believe we're going to go through it all. Um but we believe here with regards to the book of Revelation that it is we're futurists. We believe that basically the majority of this is prophetical in nature, it's describing things that are yet to happen that are going to be coming and God has given us insight into the end times. Now some key words that are found in the book here. We have angel or angels appears 72 times. I saw, I saw appears 33 times, and I've given you those there. This is really a uh a testimony, a declaration. Jesus called the angel and said, I want you to give this revelation unto John and ja he went there and John is describing what he saw. So he entered the room and he says, Okay, when I I saw and he describes it. And then he says, And and I saw and he describes it. And then I saw and he describes it So he's literally just recounting the things that God revealed unto him to reveal unto us. So he says I just saw I saw thirty-three times. Overcometh is eleven times, and as God's people we are to overcome, and it is he that gives us the victory to do so. And then blessed is seven times we see that. We're blessed. Some strong truths that are found here in the book. Revelation Revelation teaches pastoral headship. rather than elder rule. There's a a rising idea or philosophy today among churches, even independent Baptist churches that are moving towards this idea of elder rule. And uh they think, well, th there's supposed to be a plurality of elders. There's supposed to be many uh guys leading the church. But uh over and over again we see in the scriptures uh pastoral rule. And I I read something this week from Pastor Tom Brennan which Uh he was here for our Marriage Matters Conference, very well read, well studied guy. Certainly uh respect his research, but he said this. Uh he said Leadership in the church has never been about authority. It's about ministry. And that's where people have the wrong mindset. And when you have a pastor who is worried about his authority, there's a problem It's about ministry. And we're called by God to minister to the church in in the same way that Christ said, I came to minister. And if a pastor's got to stand up and declare his authority and his opposition and I'm gonna you know rule uh you know there's a problem. But we do see the biblical pattern that the pastor is supposed to rule A pastor that has the right heart probably doesn't even really like that too much. That's not something he's too excited about. It would be much easier to say, well, the guys decided instead of, yeah, it's my fault. You know? Uh it's it's much easier to say, well, but that's what Brother Brown wanted to do Guys don't like it, you know. But but the the Bible calls a pastor to lead and uh that's why the Bible says, Be ye not many masters Because the fact of the matter is, is when you're the master, when you're the leader, you have a a greater responsibility and therefore greater condemnation. Because you're responsible, you answer for the souls of God's people and for the direction and leadership of the church. But we see this here, the Revelation teaches pastoral headship And that's in the example here. Let's just look at chapter 2 and verse number 1. We're not going to read all of these, but he says, unto the angel of the church of Ephesus. Right. And so as he addresses each of these churches, he addresses an angel. Now you know the word angel means messenger. And uh so this is believed to be the messenger to the messenger of the church, the pastor, the leader, the headship. And over and over again, he addresses the leader. Now there are some that believe this angel there, unto the angel of the churches. They believe that just like I believe that God gives us guardian angels That protects us sometimes when we do foolish things, you know. Uh our angel saves us from that, you know. Praise the Lord for our guardian angel Right? And so I believe that. But there are some who believe that God gives angels to the churches and that this would literally be written to an angel that God had set over the church. However, the conflict in that is that the angel gets reproved. The angel gets called on the carpet. And so that wouldn't make sense. You don't see anywhere else in scripture an angel in submission to following God and doing what God wants him to do that he gets reproved because he's not doing it right And so it doesn't that doesn't fit with what we see take place in the book of Revelation, but to the leader it fits. Like you're not doing right. You're not leading the church right, and you need to fix this. And so we believe that that addresses that issue. Then This book is the only book of the Bible. Now we believe the entirety of the Bible. You're going to be blessed for reading it. But this book has specifically a promise. Look in chapter 1 and verse number 3. He says, Blessed is he that readeth, and that heareth the words of this prophecy, and keepeth those things which are written therein. Now, my brother-in-law Scott, he's a Bible scholar. He he spends exorbitant amount of time study and and uh in the Word of God. And he reads a portion of the book of Revelation every single day because of that promise. He said, I want to be blessed. This is the only book in the Bible that says you're going to be blessed if you read, hear, and do what it says So I want to be blessed, so I'm going to read the Revelation. So he reads a portion of the book of Revelation every single day. Because he wants to be blessed and taking the promise that God has given us there, and I think it would do us some good That's what God says. He said you want to be blessed. He said you're going to be blessed. If you hear this word, you receive this word, and you do this word. Amen. Then we see the urgency, that urgency is felt from the opening statement to the closing thoughts. This book has kind of like a fast pace to it. There's an urgency, there's an importance about what's being said here. In chapter 1 and verse number 3, there it uh he says, as we just read, blessed is he that readeth and that heareth the words of this prophecy and keepeth those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. The time is at hand that we see that, hey, it's time. There's something important that needs to be done. The time is at hand. There's got this has to be addressed. We've got to deal with this. And then we go all the way to the closing verses here in twenty two, uh what does it say in your notes there? Twenty two, is it ten? Twenty two, ten. He says, and he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of this prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand From the beginning to the end, you see an urgency and importance of what's present in this book for us today. We need to be all about it. So there's an urgency that's there. Also, of course, the admonition uh to guard against lukewarmness, because lukewarmness in the church makes God sick. We know that he is despised by those that are neither hot nor cold. In chapter three and verse number sixteen. He says, So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth Uh, neither cold nor hot. Christian, God is looking for uh passionate believers that are following Christ with a purpose. That are on fire for him, seeking to do great things for God and realizing the urgency of the time and the hour that calls us to great importance. And so lukewarmness God is despised with. We see the outline is given to us. Now revelation gives to us Its own outline. If you look in chapter 1 and verse number 9, we see the outline of the book of Revelation here. In chapter 1 and verse number 9, he says I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of John, that note we read that already. I have written down, I'm sorry, 19. Look down at verse number 19. He says, write these things which thou hast seen. So he says, write these things which thou hast seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. So that's the basic outline of the book of Revelation. You've all taken some type of speech or writing class where they said, okay, you've got to write an introduction And in your duck introduction, you want to say what you're gonna say. And then you say what you say what you're gonna say, and then in your conclusion, you say what you said. You know you you you you introduce it and then you do you could you you say it and then you tell everybody what you just said and and that's what he's saying here hey write these three things and so we have here an outline the things which you've seen Chapter one verses nine through twenty, the things which are, chapter two through three twenty-two, and the things which shall be hereafter, chapter four through twenty-two-five. And this outline we're taking straight from uh New Testament survey and that's actually the New Testament survey book that I had in Bible college twenty whatever years ago. Uh it's been a while ago Um and so somebody at the college was asking me something when I was with Melissa there, they were asking me something about Bible college and I said, Man I can't remember that. That was back in the nineties. So I'm not sure what what to tell you about that. It's been too long ago. It's not like it was just yesterday, but We have there the book of Revelation. So I'm glad we were able to get right to the end and we're on time here. So we're going to close in prayer And we'll be dismissed. This does conclude our study of New Testament survey. Uh and you've got all those notes that you can keep uh now for years and have to uh as a resource to look at. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today. Thank you for this study through the New Testament, Lord, just getting an understanding of what you were doing in the early church and how it applies to us here today. And Lord, we certainly do look for your soon return. And Lord, we just pray that you would give us the strength to stand in this evil day. Lord to uh live not lukewarm but with a passion, with a purpose and to endure in hardship and suffering, Lord, I pray that uh we would fulfill your desire through this time and the days that we have, Lord, to bring honor and glory to you. Bless this morning's service, use it in our hearts and lives in Jesus' name, amen. Thank you so much, you're dismissed.