In our modern society We've advanced far beyond just convenience. It's no longer about the vacuum cleaner, the washing machine, the microwave, what we would call these matters of modern convenience Beloved, we have advanced today to a point where we have brought the world to our fingertips. I remember standing on the top of the Grand Tetons. And even there, on top of the Grand Tetons, being able to grab a cell phone and call somebody or browse the internet. We have the world at our fingertips no matter where we are We're not far from air travel being able to take somebody from New York City to London in 30 minutes. There are surgeons in Japan that can perform surgery. Through the internet, via robotics, on somebody here in Baltimore. Not just that, AI is not far from performing the surgery itself. There have been multiple studies done, and AI has surpassed the human ability to even diagnose illness. There's been multiple studies done by different organizations that have taken a segment. I know Microsoft did one. They had 20 or 21 uh doctors specialties in their field and they took cases from the New England Journal of Medicine And they gave it to these 20 doctors and they asked them to perform a diagnosis based on this information and they fed that information to AI. AI was correct with the diagnosis 83% of the time The doctors were correct twenty percent of the time. The AI has advanced to the point where they were very soon uh be surpassing the ability of humans in every capacity. It used to be you could browse the internet and try and find something out about your sickness. Now your doctor's appointments are going to be held there. Neuralink has given uh paralyzed individual back their freedom and their mobility. Cars are literally driving themselves. It is something that has taken uh it's going to take the country by storm. I know that there's a lot of hesitation about that in society and maybe even in this room. But I want you to understand I told somebody probably five years ago that I believed in my lifetime we would reach the place where you would be required to have a special license to be able to drive your car Otherwise you will be required to have the car drive itself. The reason I believe that is because self-driving cars are going to be on several orders of magnitude much safer than human-driven cars Why? Because humans drive distracted. Because humans drive, especially today, more and more distracted on their devices and all these other things. They drive impaired. They drive so many it's going to be on an order of magnitude safer for you to drive with the car driving itself than with you driving. And uh I think the day's gonna come where that's gonna happen. We we see it. It's gonna it's gonna happen faster than we think. With these modern advancements, it truly is, like uh Dickens said in A Tale of Two Cities, it was the best of times. But it is also the worst of times. Beloved, with all of the conveniences and the qualities that life advancements have brought, we would think that it things would be getting better and better. We would think that man would be improving, improving. You would think that we would be enjoying life more than we ever have, but it seems as if the opposite is true. The depravity of man and his sinful condition has never been more evident than it is in modern society. We were reminded of that and brought right face to face with it this last week With the murder of Charlie Clark. We have seen where the depravity of men and the sinful nature of men has silenced the voice of an individual not just for freedom but really for faith. He talked about God and his love for God and his faith in God and pointed people to him. Can I tell you, beloved, that a nation is made up of people? A state is comprised of men and women. A church is an assembly of individuals. A family is made up of people. What I'm getting at this morning is that a nation, a state, a church, a family is only as great as the people that make it up. Alexis de Tocqueville, a French historian traveling across the United States, analyzed the social conditions. This was in, I believe, 1804. He analyzed this and he wrote a two-volume series of books called The Democracy in America. And in that book, he wrote: America is great because America is good. If America ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. Beloved, the greatness of America has never been our GDP. It has never been our military prowess. It's never been the gold reserves or the oil production or our ability to manufacture. The greatness of America was found in the heart of individuals that were good individuals that was rooted in a faith in God. And I would ask you this morning to consider this. We can look at our country, we can look at our church, we can look at our home, but I'm asking you this morning to look at yourself. Our text this morning is Proverbs chapter 14, verse number 34. The Bible says, righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. Would you consider yourself this morning? If we're going to have a great nation, if we want to have a great church, even if you want to have a great family, Understand, it's not just something that happens because you wish for it. It happens because the individuals in that place are good men and women. They have a foundation of faith in God and are following God. Literally, as exhorted in our text, they are righteous. Individuals. Beloved, we tend to look at the collective, but God looks at the citizen. God looks at the heart of each and every one of us. And as I speak to you for a few minutes on the fact: righteousness or reproach? You as an individual, are you living in a righteous way wherein your home will be exalted? Where your church will be exalted, where your country will be exalted, or are you living in a way that will be a reproach? This goes from the youngest person in here to the oldest person in here. Every one of us need to be living in such a way that we are God can pour his blessing out upon us and give unto us his hand of blessing because we're living righteous lives. We can look in the pages of Scripture and see an individual whom we all can learn from him. Certainly Jesus Christ is the greatest example, but some may look at him and say, well, he's not a fair example. I know we all aspire to be like him, but I mean, come on, Pastor, he was uh God in the flesh. But let's look at another individual. The Bible tells us in the book of Matthew, verse number eleven, chapter eleven. He says, Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not raised a greater than John the Baptist, notwithstanding that he is least in the kingdom of heaven, is greater than he. This high praise was given to the man John the Baptist. So we can look at John the Baptist and maybe learn some things about him that we should apply to ourselves. That maybe would help us to be great, good, righteous men and women. But have you first considered the fact that John the Baptist was a humble man? Turn your Bibles to the book of John, chapter number one. John chapter number one. In the New Testament, in John chapter one We see that John had a spirit of humility in his actions and reactions The work he did was so profound and so powerful that men came to him and they asked of him, Are you the Messiah? And John denies it. Look with me in John chapter 1, beginning in verse number 19. He says, And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? And he confessed, and denied not, but confessed. I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who art thou? That we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord. And he said, as said the prophet Isaiah. Beloved, he just said, I'm just a voice in the wilderness. I'm nobody special, I'm nobody to be uh acclaimed or lifted up or exalted or recognized. You don't need to carry my name and spread it abroad and tell everybody, oh, this is who he is. He says, Nope, I'm just a voice. I'm just somebody in the wilderness just crying out for for men to turn towards Jesus Christ the Messiah. He was a humble man. Listen, he didn't uh say, well, of course I mean you remember when Jesus came to him and said, John, I want you to baptize me. John John didn't say, well, obviously you would have me baptize you. I mean of course I I'm the most obvious choice. John didn't put it on his LinkedIn profile. Baptizer of Jesus. Like men would do today. No, he was a humble man. It's the exact opposite of today's society, even these pastors, and I I don't know, maybe I just am old-fashioned, I just I could never have www. Caleb Batrel. Come worship I mean no come learn at my feet or whatever. These pastors that have their own websites promoting themselves and all of what they're doing or whatever. I I don't know. Obviously they're doing more than I'm doing, so m maybe I shouldn't say anything. I just look at John the Baptist. He says I nobody needs to know my name. I'm just pointing to Jesus. That's all that I'm doing. I just want people to hear and to learn of Jesus. I have no desire that my name be put in lights. I've got no need for recognition. I don't need anybody to praise me or call me. I just want people to know about the one who can change their life. He was a humble man, and what I'm saying, beloved, is if we If we want to have a great home, if we want to have a great church, if we want to have a great country, then we need to be men and women who have a humble heart, who aren't looking to lift ourselves up, but lift up Jesus Christ. You know the message of John the Baptist. You know John the Baptist's heartbeat. Can anybody tell me what John's heartbeat was? Let's look at it in the Bible. Turn to John chapter 3. John chapter 3. I need to get there myself in John chapter 3. You guys are going to be there before me, chapter three, verse number three. Jesus Nope. I have verse number 30. I'm looking at the wrong thing. Look down to verse number 30, John 3 and verse number 30. What does he say there? Read it with me. He must increase, but I must decrease. This is the heartbeat of humility, the heartbeat that John had through it all when men could have been praising him, men could have been sitting at his feet, he says, no. This is not about me, this is about him. And beloved, only by pride cometh contention, and when we have problems in our life between one another, when we have problems in our homes, when we have problems in the workplace When we have problems in our country, root mark it down, it's because there's a pride problem. We need God to do something in our hearts where we will swallow our stinking pride and stop worrying about what people think of us and stop worrying about getting our opinion out there and getting what we want out of the situation and letting our voice be heard and just say, hey, it's not about me, it's about him. We need to swallow our pride if we're going to be a great people, a great nation, or even a great church or home, beloved, we've got to rule function in the realm of humility. This goes in direct opposition to this world and this world's philosophies. You'll find that quite often God's way is exact opposite of Satan's way. I know today men do all they can to lift up themselves, promote themselves, market themselves, put it out there Matthew 18, 4 says, Whosoever there shall humble himself as a little child, the same as great in the kingdom of heaven. Christ had the spirit of humility seen all through his ministry, even to the point of washing the feet of the disciples. The sad reality is today men won't even humble themselves before an all-powerful God. Romans chapter ten and verse number three says, For they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves. Unto the righteousness of God. Men today won't even humble themselves before a holy God, the creator of the universe Instead, they go about trying to establish their own righteousness, looking at how good they are and what they've done. What they've accomplished is righteousness exalteth a nation, but beloved, we don't have capacity for righteousness outside of Jesus Christ. Paul understood this when he said in Philippians 3, verses 9 through 11, he says, and being found in him, not having mine own righteousness. Found in Christ, not in mine own righteousness. Which is of the law, but that which through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God, by faith. It's a righteousness, beloved, that comes because we put our faith and trust in God. There's not a righteousness that we have, that we've acquired, that we've earned. Beloved self-righteousness will never do There would be many people, Matthew 7, 7, I think he says, They came unto me and say, Lord, Lord, why have not have not we prophesied in thy name? He's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Men who have gone about trying to establish their own righteousness, but have never come in submission to the Creator who said the way you get righteousness is you submit yourself, acknowledge you're a sinner, and trust the sacrifice of my son. And then, beloved, we're clothed in Him, clothed in His righteousness. You know I uh used to do this a lot when my kids are much younger, but now they're they're older. All these boys are much older and they're much bigger. So I don't have that capacity anymore. Caleb, would you come up here? Uh it's not going to quite be the same effect. as it was when he was little and my suit coat would reach to the floor. Uh but it's still a little bit bigger than him. But beloved, here's here's the difference. Men can go about trying to establish or get their own righteousness. But this it would be like this. It'd be like as if I had a bacterial infection, something inside my body. And I thought, well, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to go take a shower and take care of that infection. That's not going to fix it, is it Well, what if I take a shower in distilled water? What if I take a shower that was been boiled twice and salt added I mean I could make all kinds of things. Nothing's going to No, the bacterial infection is something there's a there's a problem inside that I can't think deal with. I need to have something that will address that issue. And beloved, we have been infected with a sin problem And it's not something that we can do, but if we will humble ourselves, submit to an Almighty God. The Bible says that we are clothed in his righteousness. It's not anything that we've done, but we are wrapped in the righteousness of God. And when the Father looks down at us, this man inside here is still full of sin. He still has a sin problem. But when God looks here, he sees the righteousness of his son. Because we've been clothed in the righteousness of God. And you know what? Our desire as Christians, beloved, is to live righteous lives, and as we go through life, we don't want to get that shoe coat all dirty. So we want to be careful how we're living, amen? We don't want to get the righteousness of God all dirty. But, beloved, once I've been clothed in that, I may get it dirty, and my father might not be that happy, but I'm not going to lose it. I'm still a child of the king. I still have the righteousness of God given to me by the Father. Beloved, we need to have a spirit of humility, submit to a holy God. Thank you, Caleb, you can be seated, and be clothed in his righteousness. And then in our lives, we need to submit to God and live like He wants us to live. It's not about us just doing what we want to do. We need to have a spirit of humility. If we want to have great homes, a great church or a great nation, we need to be humble. We need to move quickly here. Secondly, I want you to see he was an honest man. We find oftentimes in the life of John that he was honest even in the face of great hardship or even in the face when uh it could have cost him greatly. He stood before King Herod and he looked at him and said, Hey, it's a sin for you to have your brother's wife. King Herod could have killed him on the spot, but he said, No, that's not what's important. What's important is I tell them the truth. He was honest over and over again. He told the Pharisees and the Sadducees that they were a generation of vipers, full of unclean lips, that they had their own righteousness, but not the righteousness of God. What I'm saying is he communicated truth. And we see that he was honest in his dealings. Can I tell you, beloved, you contrast that with modern man today in society today, and we're in trouble. I did just a quick little research and found that globally theft from hotels cost the industry $500 million to a billion dollars last year. There is one hotel chain in Spain that has over 80,000 towels stolen every year. Listen, if you take a towel or a washcloth from a hotel, you're a thief. That's stealing. That's dishonest. White-collar crime cost the US economy $500 billion last year. White collar that's the that's the crime where they steal your identity and and they run up your credit card and then the credit card company has to write that off and you're like, oh well they got lots of money, they can do whatever they want. Listen, there there are no victimless crimes. Dishonesty. According to Capital One, loss due to return fraud cost $1. 52 billion in 2022. Return fraud. Beloved, when you buy something and you know you're not going to keep it and you use it and next week you return it, that's dishonest. That's dishonest. It's wrong. You ladies buy a dress that you want to use for an event That you know costs too much, and your plan is to go ahead and just use it, and I'm gonna be real careful, I'm not gonna get anything on it, and next week I'm gonna return it. That's dishonest. Righteousness exalteth a nation. Sin is a reproach. That's a reproach. You're bringing reproach on yourself, on your family, on your church, and your country. Beloved, we could stand here and talk about we don't like what happens in Annapolis or we don't like what happens in DC, but what we need to look at is our own homes. We need to look at ourselves and say, I don't like what's happening in this heart because I'm not being honest with my dealings, I'm not being honest with my mate, I'm not being honest with my church, I'm not being honest befor Beloved, if we want righteousness to exalt a nation, our home, our church, we've got to look in our own hearts. Many years ago in Vanderbilt University, there was a teacher, Dr. Madison, who would say to his students before they took the test: he said, Today I'm going to give you two examinations. One in trigonometry and the other in honesty. I hope today you will pass them both. But if you must fail, fail trigonometry. For there are many good people in the world who cannot pass trigonometry, but there are no good people who cannot pass honesty. But I'm saying, beloved, that if we are going to have great homes and a great church and a great country, we need to be people that are not only humble, but that are honest. Lastly, this morning, I want you to see that he was holy. He was holy. God prophesied concerning his holiness in the introduction. of John the Baptist and Luke chapter one verse number fifteen, for he for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord and shall neither drink uh wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. God describing and talking about this man, John the Baptist, and how he was going to live. He was going to be filled with the Holy Ghost. He was going to live righteously, be holy in his actions and his activities. Can I tell you, beloved, we need to get back to holy living? I know in society there's things that are acceptable, but we need to get back to what the Bible says is acceptable We need to stop drawing the line over here where family may draw the line or what's acceptable in the world draws the line or what's acceptable at this church or that church, beloved. We need to get back to draw the line where the Word of God draws the line. Can I tell you that adultery is still wrong? Yes, sir. Going out and having sexual relationships outside the marriage is still wrong. It's still a sin. Homosexuality is wrong. Listen, the Bible says fornication is wrong. That's sex before marriage. That's sex outside of the marriage altar. Sex is supposed to be something that is kept for the marriage bed For for for people, God's people, to be able to go out and live immorally, to live in sin and do wrong all week long, and then come into church and act like everything's okay, there's a problem with our heart. Because we are not being honest before God and not being honest before ourselves, we want to live like the devil and come into church and pretend that we have God's blessing. We need to get back to holy, righteous living. If we as individuals want to be exalted, if we want God to exalt our church. If we want God's blessing on our home, we cannot live like the world, the flesh, and the devil, and then act like everything's okay. We've got to get back to holy living. Can I tell you, beloved, thou shalt not kill is still in the Bible. Murder is wrong. Whether it's an older individual who can no longer care for themselves, or a baby who is still in the womb, It's wrong, it's sin What I'm telling you is that John had faith that shaped how he lived. He lived a holy life. His faith was not a side gig. His faith was not something that he did on Sunday mornings. His faith is something that shaped how he talked and what he watched and where he went and what he ate and what he drank and what he communicated how what he said is faith dictated what he was going to do in his life, and for far too long Christians have allowed themselves to live however they want and pretend that they're righteous. Yes, you're still clothed in the righteousness of God, and God still looks down and sees his righteousness. But, beloved, we have gotten full of dead man's bones on the inside. Because we've stopped a long time ago living righteous, holy lives. I wonder how God feels about it. Faith shaped his life. Not just a Sunday morning thing. Like John Huss when he was at the stake. They were going to burn him alive. They said, all you have to do is recant And he said, what I have taught with my lips I now seal with mine own blood. I wonder if our faith is that strong. I would ask of you this morning, are you living a holy life? Is there enough to convict you? For being righteous? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I know that we can look at the collective I know we can look at Annapolis or D. C. or anywhere else you want and say, boy, I don't like what's happening there. But I wonder, beloved, if we shouldn't look at our own hearts. We shouldn't look at us and say, boy, it's not about what's happening in the rest of the world. It's about what's happening in my own life. Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. Not just to them, not just to somebody else, but to us. Dear God, I've preached your message this morning. Shared the truth of this one verse. Lord, I pray that you would do the work in the hearts of your people and that may we get honest before you. Jesus' name, Amen