What we believe about the doctrine of salvation in particular, and then that uh a church should be made up of people that are saved. And uh that's very important and it has been through the ages. I just wanted to read for you a little story uh about uh somebody who went through persecution. George Wagner of Immerich was apprehended in Munich on four accounts of articles of faith. So he was arrested on four accounts of articles of faith. First, that the priest cannot forgive men of their sins Secondly, he did not believe that a man can bring God from heaven. Thirdly, he did not believe that the God or Christ is bodily in the bread that the priest places on the altar. And fourthly, he held not the belief that the baptism of water would save men. So he had those four statements of faith that he said, and he was arrested for it. Because he would not recant his articles, he was put to great torture, so that the prince, having compassion upon him, personally visited him in the prison and earnestly exhorted him, saying that if he would recant He could call him his friend for the remainder of his life. In like manner, the steward of the prince's household persuaded him to recant and made him many promises Finally, they brought his wife and his children before him to the prison and placed them there to remove to move him to thereby recant his statements. However, he could not be moved, but said that though his wife and children were indeed so dear to him, that the prince, with the whole of his land, could not purchase them from him Yet, nevertheless, he would not forsake the Lord his God. Many priests and others also visited him, trying to persuade him to renounce his erroneous doctrines But he continued firmly in his unmovable and unshakable faith in an Almighty God, even condemned to die by flames. When he was delivered to the executioner and led to the middle of the city, this excellent man said, This day will I confess my God for his glory of Christ Jesus. that such happiness has been afforded me in the sight of all the world. His face was not pale, nor were his eyes distorted With a smile on his lips, he went into the fire, where the executioner bound him neck by a ladder, hung a bag of gunpowder upon his neck And when he had taken leave of his Christian brethren, he was thrust into the flames, and he calmly gave his spirit to Christ on February 8, 1527. This is a book that I recently acquired called Memorials of Baptist Martyrs and historical events of those that gave their life for their faith. And uh we praise God we live in a country in which we do not have to do that. So far. Amen. The day may come, though, when we'll lose the freedoms and the privileges we have, and we too will have to stand through history. The Baptists have stood, or those that believe these Baptist principles, maybe not always called Baptists, but believe these Baptist principles, and one of those was in a saved church membership. It is God's will that all men come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. It is after the saving, they become to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ that they are added to the church. This example is given to us in the scriptures and made very clear. Saved, baptized, and added to the church. The objective of this is uh a method in which the church is kept pure and clean, is not just made up of a large group of whoever might want to come or attend. Obviously the church doors are open to all. But that of the goal is that all would come and get saved and get baptized and become part of the church in going and reaching more with the message. of the gospel that they too could get saved, baptized. This is not just a fact of that the church should be saved, but it is about the very doctrine of salvation itself, what we believe and teach with regards to salvation and how you how salvation is attained. Now we here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we teach on salvation a lot. We try and at least introduce it as part of a point or uh in a conclusion or in a summary in most Sunday morning messages, because that's when we have most uh guests and visitors here at our church and The people that we don't know for sure that they're saved, and so we try and at least give them a uh abbreviated uh presentation of the gospel that might draw the net and they would come to a saving knowledge of Christ So as a church, I know that you, uh church family know a lot about what we believe and teach with regards to this doctrine. We don't need to spend a lot of time here. But if you would turn to Acts chapter number four. Acts chapter number four, I just want to introduce this idea and get you your brain turning a little bit As we look here at the beginning of the church and Peter's words that he gives to them in the book of Acts and in chapter number four. We're want to make our way down to verse number twelve, but he says here, he says in verse number one, and as they spake unto the people, the priests and the captains of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. So they taught and preached that Jesus had risen from the dead and the the Sadducees uh didn't believe in that and they were discouraged about it and and they laid hands on them and put them in hold on the next day For it was now even tide. Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed, and a number of them was about five thousand. And it came to pass on the morrow that their rulers and the elders and the scribes, and Ananias the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest were gathered together at Jerusalem. And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name, have ye done this? They said, Hey What authority do you have? What name have you preached these things? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel. If we this day be examined of the good deed done to an impotent man, by what means he is made whole Be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, Whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. This is the stone which is set at naught of you builders, which is become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be what? Saved. So think about this. Scenario playing out. We as a church, we know all about Jesus Christ, and we know that he rose from the dead and that he was God in the flesh. We know all about salvation, and that's a term that is very common and understandable to us. But here in the book of Acts This would have all been new. Here Peter was talking to them and saying that, hey, Jesus, whom ye crucified, God the Father, rose him from the dead And by his authority we are preaching unto you. We are saying by his authority was this man healed, and with his power. And then he says, and not only that. There's no other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. And that being a new term for them, saved, what what what What is this that you're talking about? What do you mean we've got to be saved? Are we in peril? Are we in certain uh uh distress at this point? What we gotta be saved from what? Now in a church and in a setting like us and And the many people here, you've heard this teaching a lot. You know what he's talking about, but to them here, they might not have understood. They might have thought about this term. What do you mean? What is it you're speaking of? Now indeed God used this term for us because He knew we were as a people in great peril. And we did have need of a Savior. Amen. Any look at a man or at mankind would have anybody honestly would have to conclude that we are in a fallen condition. We are, as mankind, in a condition, in a place of great peril, overrun with sin. And helpless to rescue ourselves. Mankind has tried to over and over again bring about new initiatives to bring about better peace and more harmonious uh cultures and and and and more prosperity in the world and yet we are worse off today than we ever have been Because of man's fallen nature. Only Christ, through his plan of salvation, can rescue man from his fallen condition. Neither is there salvation in any other. Excuse me, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. It's through him. Salvation, what is it? Let's just define it a little bit. And some of this I know is going to be reviewed. Don't go to don't go to sleep on me. Hang in there. It is a work of God On the behalf of men. It's a work of God on behalf of men. It's what God did for us It includes many things, and and I was talking to Pastor Gus today. I have a a book uh that teaches the Baptist doctrines, you know, that we would hold to. And the one on sulturiology has 40-some pages. 8. 5 by 11, 40 pages on the doctrine of salvation. I said, we certainly aren't going to dig into that tonight. It deals with so many things and these words you might be familiar with, but each of these are a study in and of themselves. Study on redemption, on reconciliation, on propitiation, on conviction, repentance, faith regeneration, forgiveness, justification, adoption, sanctification, preservation, and glorification. All of these things are tied right in with what takes place when we get. Salvation from Jesus Christ. This work that God does. I summed it all up like this to make it simple. Okay? It is the process Through which man receives the forgiveness of sin, fellowship with the Father, and a future in heaven It is the process through which man receives the forgiveness of sin, fellowship with the Father, and forgiveness in the future in heaven. You understand when when Adam sinned, the he he he now stood in judgment And he needed some means of covering his sin or being forgiven of his sin. And in the Old Testament they used the sacrificial system which the shed blood of the animals covered the sin, but it didn't wash it away. It didn't take it away. Only Jesus Christ can do that, and salvation is the means by which that sin is is we're washed clean. We're forgiven of it It's cast as far as from the east as from the west. We're forgiven of sin. When Adam sins, fellowship was broken. He used to walk with God in the cool of the garden, and they would talk together, but when he sinned, Adam and Eve hid themselves. Fellowship with God was broken. And the ability to live forever with God ceased. But through salvation, fellowship is restored and a future with him in heaven is given back to us. Now this doctrine of salvation has always been a source of conflict. Look over in Acts chapter number fifteen. You know we're here still. We're still in the book of Acts. And see what takes place here in the book of Acts, chapter number 15. Look down there at verse number one. He says, and certain men which came down from Judea taught the brethren and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be what? Saved. Already here in the book of Acts, they were devising their own means of salvation. This is something that man has always done. Man has always sought to find a means or a way of covering themselves, of improving themselves, or or uh attaining salvation on their own. Even in the book of Genesis in the Garden of Eden, where Adam and Eve sinned. They went out and they made an attempt to cover themselves. And God gave us the first example there of the shedding of blood and the sacrifice. because he had to kill an animal to cover them and to make coverings for them No matter how it's painted, there's no really only two ideas with regards to salvation. It's couched in a lot of different ways, it's stated and presented in a lot of ways, but there's really only two ideas. And that is a due salvation and a done salvation. There is those that would teach you there's things that you must do in order to attain or to have salvation. And they're the it's couched in a lot of different ways and presented in a lot of different ways. sometimes very eloquently, but what it boils down to is a works salvation, where you try and achieve or maintain or guarantee your salvation by your works. And then there's done salvation, and that's what Jesus Christ did for us, and accepting that in complete and total payment for our sin. What Jesus did, it's done. Salvation was given freely by God. It is a work that was finished by God. And we have no part in it except to accept it. Just as Jesus Christ said, I am the door, we've been looking at these I ams of Christ in Sunday school, and he said, I am the door. He is the door of salvation. But not just the door of salvation. You see, salvation is the door or the uh I mean door is a great way to put it, the door to the church. By salvation, you're able to come to the churches to be made up of saved, baptized believers Look in your Bibles with me, if you would, to Proverbs, chapter number 15. You see, Jesus is the door to salvation, and we come to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He is the door. That door also gives us entrance to service. It gives us entrance to the church. In Proverbs chapter number 15 and verse number 8. It says, the sacrifices of the wicked is what? An abomination to the Lord. But the prayer of the upright is his delight. What he's saying is the means by which men might try and earn their own salvation. They might come and they might serve, they might sacrifice, they might do things to try and achieve their own salvation. God says there that it's an abomination. The rejection of his son and the the earning of your own salvation is an abomination. Serve God in and of yourself. But through salvation we can come and bring honor and glory to Him. The prayer of the upright is His delight. So salvation, this salvation given to us freely and by God, the doctrine of salvation. Now Let me give you the differences. My notes printed out all backwards and upside down, so I gotta figure out where where I'm at. If I don't set the printer up just right, it it it messes me up. Alright, so now we're going to get into the the development. The development. When Christ came with his new message of salvation by grace, started the church there in the book of Acts, these things were all new. Truly, as the Apostle Paul said, I mean think about this for them and his statement that old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. I mean, think about that from his standpoint, having lived in Judaism and understanding the Old Testament and having followed that so stringently and so strictly, up until salvation. And all things are passed away. Behold, all things have become new. This was truly new for them. The gospel message given and spread through the church. It grew ignited by Christ and fueled by the Holy Spirit. It spread rampant throughout the New World As man is prone to do, they took the purity of the message and began to introduce their own philosophies and ideas, as we saw just in Acts chapter 15 They just added. They said, hey, you got to be circumcised. Okay, we're gonna we're gonna believe in salvation, but you also have to be circumcised. Man is prone to add to the message, to bring about their own philosophies and ideas. Judaism and Greek philosophy began to influence the message of the gospel. Salvation began to be regarded as a gift from the church. Instead of a gift from God. You see, because if if I control salvation, if I control the means of grace in your life. You are beholden to me or to the church. And thereby they are able to exercise power over men. And for much of history, the church and the state were combined. And being able to exercise power over them by being the controller of grace. Salvation became a gift given to you by the church instead of by God. We of course know that that's not the case. It's a gift given to us by God. And although we have a great church, our church cannot offer or give salvation uh atonement, any means of grace in and of ourselves, we can only point people. to Jesus. The first step of this was adding baptism as a necessary step for full salvation. By adding baptism, then the church could only be the one that admitted, okay, so we believe in salvation, you've got to trust Christ, but in order to actually complete this work of salvation, you've got to get baptized. And the church is the one that administers baptism, and you have to be a member in good standing in order to be baptized, and thereby exercising and extolling grace out that way. Following Christ began to be demanded instead of voluntary. It began to be demanded instead of voluntary. Constantine in 325 made up uh the Christianity as the state religion. Now he didn't do this because he really loved Christianity. Think about the world during his time. The world during his time was literally permeated with Christian faith. There were Christians everywhere. The numbers are astronomical. Different historians predict or believe how many Christians were during that time, but they were all throughout the empire. So he felt it was a good political decision to embrace Christianity because that would endear all of those Christians to him But then it became mandatory that you be a Christian. They began to take quite literally Christ's admonition to compel them to come in. They began to uh say, listen, this is no longer voluntary. This is no longer an option. You are compelled to come and be part of the church So salvation was no longer even a decision. They were just telling people you are part of the church. And if you say you're not, or if you don't fulfill your duty with regards to the church. Not only do you not have salvation as recognized by the church, but you can be in danger of losing your life. Because it was the state or government religion. Then baptism was started being given to children, to infants, to give to make compulsory members of all. They thought, well, why don't we just baptize them as infants and they're just part of the church then? We got them when they're babies and they don't have any decision of it. But as a church, we understand that that was not God's plan. That was not God's purpose. It's salvation, baptism, and then membership, and salvation being a free gift from God. The example is followed that we see the New Testament groups were called Christians. A called-out assembly, an ecclesia, a church, a group of Christians called out to worship God together. The members of New Testament churches were called saints. As they talked about, Paul uh often wrote his letters, his books to the saints at the church, to the saints at Philippi, to the saints at Rome. Saints. Saints are set apart unto God. The example given to us in Acts chapter 2 of the church there in Acts chapter 2, verses 41 to 47, he says Then they that gladly received the word were baptized, and the same day they were added unto them about 3,000 souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, in fellowship, and the breaking of bread, and in prayers, and in fear, and uh come upon every soul in making wonders and signs were done by the apostles. Verse number 44 in Acts chapter 3 says, And all that believed were together and had all things common, and sold their possessions as goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need. And they, continually daily, with one accord in the temple and a breaking of bed from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Such as should be saved. When were they added to the church? After they were saved. This is the example given to us very from the very beginning. The prerequisite for being part of the church was being saved. The impact of this is that you have unity in the church. Be not unequally yoked together as the manner, you know, but you know, what what communion hath light with darkness? We have unity in the church when everybody's in one accord, when everybody believes Christ and has accepted him as their Lord and Savior. We certainly don't want to Try and put together a church of all different faiths and all different doctrines. That's not what God's plan is. Now, I did my best here. This is is a uh Uh this is the heart of the message of the Word of God. And I did my best to try and give you some of the differences. between us and some of the other uh Protestant churches that are out there or mainline denominations that are out there. Understand as I give you this, this is not to say that every single person in that particular uh denomination believes this or teaches this, but as a denomination, this is what they would uh state on their website or as a group that they would believe or hold to and um is and I just try and this was very hard to get concise answers on these things because believe it or not a lot of people on the surface will say very close to the same thing. Uh but you gotta dig down a little bit deeper. And find out what they're teaching. On the surface, they may say, Well, we believe that Jesus Christ and His atonement, blood atonement, offers salvation to all. But you gotta dig a little deeper to find out that they also believe that to complete salvation you need to be baptized Or that you have to continue to work and maintain your a level of testimony that's acceptable to the church to hold on to your salvation So the best as I could, I tried to read and get some information for you. So let me give you a few of these. Um Catholicism, I think that everyone here understands that Catholicism really uh believes in faith plus sacraments, plus the traditional of the church and there's so many things with regards to that that don't hold true to the scriptures that I don't think we need to spend much time there. Now Lutherans, uh which was the church of Germany that came out of Catholicism, they believe in salvation by grace. If you read a doctrinal statement from them, they will clearly teach they believe in salvation by grace, but they also believe in baptismal regeneration They believe that uh that that you have to be baptized and in order that you might be saved. This is taught in the fulfillment of the fact that they practice infant baptism. And they also believe that you can lose your salvation. So they don't believe in eternal security. So you have to maintain. A level of Christianity in order to keep your salvation. So if you just read the first statement, they say salvation is by grace. Well, hey, amen. We believe it's by grace and faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. But if that's all it is, then why do I have to maintain a certain level of Christianity afterwards in order to keep my salvation? That's not salvation by faith in Christ alone. That's salvation plus works. Right? Okay, so that's what they teach. Presbyterians. Presbyterians hold to Reformed theology Now reform theology is basically the reformers. John Calvin taught the tulip theory, and we don't have time tonight to teach on Calvinism and what all that is. We are we as a church are neither Calvinist nor Arminiist, uh either one. Uh somebody wisely said uh To to be lined up with the Bible you can neither be a Calvinist nor an Armeniist. You gotta be like a train and have one foot on each track. And uh kind of have a little bit of uh a little bit of doctrine from each one, um, not taking either extreme there. Uh and we're not going to teach on what those are tonight, but understand we do believe a little bit of the Calvinist theology, but we're not full uh uh We're not Calvinist and we don't believe in the tulip theory, uh, and which is the total depravity of man and unconditional election and And uh uh L is limited atonement and I is irresistible grace and the Perseverance, perseverance or preservation of the saints, right? So we we can teach them on that if anybody has any interest in it. We can teach them another day. But that's what they hold to, reform theology. So most teach that you can lose your salvation. And currently, right now, there is a debate in the Presbyterian Church concerning salvation. They wonder if salvation if salvation is a is there here let me let me read it to you because I'm gonna mess it up. There's a debate If there is a path of salvation that does not involve belief in Jesus Christ. So the Presbyterian Church as a their leadership is right now debating If there's a path to salvation, it does not involve a belief in Jesus Christ. And I don't know where that's going to end up or why they're debating it, but that's what I found on their website. Um so um the Anglican Church the Anglican Church uh they are basically the Catholic Church is what they are. They just uh you know are are out of the they don't call themselves that but they are basically a Catholic church. Then the the Methodists they believe in salvation by grace, but many teach you can lose it. They believe they teach you can lose your salvation. Wesley believed that the living core of the Christian faith was revealed in Scripture. But illuminated by tradition, verified by personal experience, and confirmed by reasoning. So he he believed that it kind of took continued following of what should be taught in order to hold to your salvation or keep your salvation. The theology of John Wesley, uh more closely, is a different stand of theology than Western and Eastern Orthodox. Uh they traditionally teach, I'm quoting here now from the Uh United Methodists. com. org website says traditionally they understand that salvation is both something that God does and in which we cooperate. Though not an equal, but not by not in equality by any means. Only God can initiate salvation But only by our ongoing living relationship with God through faith can God's saving grace be fulfilled and realized in our lives. Okay, so I know it's kind of a long statement, but they said, listen, God's the only one that can save you. But unless you're continuing to live right, that salvation is not going to continue to keep you. So that's kind of what it says there. There's some other people asked about some specific things. I'm going to go through these quickly. They asked about specific groups like the Amish. I'm quoting an Amish leader here. He said, salvation is a gradual project. So it's a project. The Amish teaching salvation by grace. But you have to be true to the church and to the family and to the community. And if you fall from grace from any of those things, you fall from grace. from the Lord as well. From any Amish, salvation is believed to be obtained through faith in Jesus, but also through a lifelong process of obedience to parents, church, community, etc. Leaving the church is damning your soul. So the assemblies of God, which uh most are are Pentecostal in nature, believe in faith, plus Holy Ghost baptism. Uh man's free will can overpower God's grace and choose not to be saved. So in the Pentecostal beliefs, a lot of them believe you can get get saved, but you would have the power to say, well, I don't want to be saved. And you could deny your salvation by going away from the church. You could lose your salvation. And they stated the opposite way on their website there. They stated the opposite way. They say that God would not usurp your free will. Thereby, if you choose, you don't want to be saved, you could lose your salvation. So that's how it's stated on on their on their website but if you turn that around and say what they're saying is that by my free will I have the ability to overpower the grace of God and uh and say I don't want to be saved. So you can lose your salvation with regards to that. Seventh-day Adventists, they believe in salvation by faith, plus keeping the Sabbath. They do not believe that you die and go to heaven or hell upon death. They believe in soul sleep. where you die and your soul just goes to sleep for a while and uh then they believe those that are wicked are just destroyed by fire That there's not an eternity of fire, but you're just destroyed by fire, and those that are saved have trusted Christ will one day be resurrected with him after this period or time of soul sleep. The Church of Christ, many teach that there's no salvation outside the church Because they teach that they are the one true church. There's no salvation outside or without the church. And they also teach in baptismal regeneration Uh what how they teach this is they say baptism, they don't actually teach baptismal regeneration as it's a means of getting grace. How they teach it is this. They say salvation is by grace and faith in Him alone. However, unless you take the step of obedience, your salvation will not be granted. So it's all faith, it's all God, God does it all, but you have to take this step of obedience. No measure of grace is given through baptism, but you've got to get baptized in order for God to grant salvation. So it's adding to the message of salvation from the way we see it in the Word of God. That's how they teach those those things. So That's some of the differences with regards to this teaching as best as I could narrow down or figure out from the reading that I did today. Alright, well let me close this in a word of prayer and we'll be just missing. Lord, we thank you for tonight and thank you for your study, for the study on salvation. Lord, we thank you most of all for the gift that you've given us in salvation. Lord, that it is a free gift and that Lord we we love you because you first loved us. And we serve you because you saved us. And Lord, we're not serving to get salvation, but because we have salvation. We're so grateful, God, that our Salvation is not determined by our ability to do or to be something in particular, but is because of your your goodness, Lord. Lord and Lord, we thank you for that. And we pray, God, that that would, as Paul said, the love of Christ would constrain us to be what we ought to be for you, to serve you, to love you, to And manpower, Lord, to you. And Lord, we'll thank you for it. We ask as we close tonight that you'd be with Doug Griffin, Lord, I pray that you would Lift up his spirit, encourage his heart, and heal his body. Lord, we pray you'll be with the church family as we go our separate ways and keep us safe. In Jesus' name. Amen.