Well, we were looking last week um and discussing the idea of acceptable sacrifice. What is a sacrifice that would satisfy God? And we, of course, uh launched on this little bit of a study by going over to Psalms and and uh saw that to obey is better than sacrifice. And so uh a gift out of our pocketbook or a gift of a little bit of time is not going to satisfy God. What God wants is he wants commitment from us. He wants obedience. from us. He wants us to do his will. And some type of monetary sacrifice or gift of some kind is not going to be acceptable to God. Now it's not that God doesn't ask of us any of those other things, but it's almost kind of a mockery or kind of a joke. Uh, you know, it'd be like me uh buying my wife something she wanted so that I didn't have to spend time with her. You know, like oh I I got you that, isn't aren't you happy? You know, I mean no. I mean, yes, she would love for me to buy her a ring, amen. You know, she would love for a a a nice gift of some kind. But What she would much rather is a husband that loves her and wants to be with her and values her and likes that relationship. That's what's precious to her. The gifts are are you know icing on the cake and and But sometimes we we lose sight of that, even good godly Christians who are actively serving God and we kind of we get in the motion And we do what we're supposed to do because we're supposed to do it. And amen for that. Because sometimes when everything else fails, duty will carry you through. And you might need that sometimes. You say, this is what I'm supposed to do. I'm going to do it. And we do that. But we can't get in that, we can't stay in that place. We've got to get to the place where our service is out of a heart of love and and it's rooted in a heart of obedience, where we're being obedient to God. And we turned to this text in Hebrews where we see some admonitions and the uh heading in my Bible is uh dealing with sacrifice and satisfying sacrifice or sac sacrifice that would satisfy God. See in Hebrews chapter thirteen, let's read down through verse number four, beginning of verse number one, he says, Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. So last week we looked at the idea of brotherly love. Brotherly love is an acceptable sacrifice. It's something that brings a smile to God's face when we love one another. We're supposed to love one another. And that love is expressed in two ways, it tells us here, in hospitality and in sympathy. Having hospitality, and we talked about being hospitable and all the way to maybe Inviting people to your house and spending some time on that kind of uh level with them, not just saying hi to them at church, but beyond that, going beyond that and really striving to be hospitable and then sympathy Having compassion for one another and seeing people that are in bonds or that are bound, whether it's by sin or or by sickness uh or whether they're bound in in some type of uh sometimes people are bound by a a financial situation where they they have no liberty and they're stuck and they just they they have to do what they have to do and they they they're just feel like they're being crushed under this. And so you you see that and having sympathy for them, striving to try and help them. And of course the greatest bondage of all is that of sin. And we're called of God to try and restore people, bring people back, and let them know about the love of Christ that can forgive them of that sin. and uh restore their relationship with God. That's where we looked at last week and talked about those things. Today we're going to go one step further and uh begin to dig in to this verse number four here. Where we see an acceptable sacrifice or satisfying sacrifice that is purity. Purity There's a call that God has upon us to live pure, holy, clean lives. He said the marriage is honorable in all in the bed. undefiled. Now, I want you to see tonight that that idea, first of all, marriage is honorable. Marriage is honorable. What is marriage? Marriage is the union of one man and one woman in one relationship. In one union. They're put together by God. God has established and created marriage, and since he created it there in the beginning chapters of Genesis God has honored marriage. That relationship. It was established by God and God honored marriage. God honored marriage several different ways. Jesus himself honored marriage by performing the first miracle that he did at a wedding. Recognizing the importance of this and the validity of this relationship that was established by God is still viable and present and should be held in high esteem today. The Holy Spirit honored marriage when he used it as a picture between that relationship between Jesus Christ and the church. That that union of of uh Christ, how he gave himself for the church and constantly we're reminded in our relationship how men are to love their wives and give themselves to their wives like Christ gave himself to the church. As a child of God, I'm to love that which God loves. Amen? We should love the things that God loves, and we should value and feel that the things that God values are important. And God says marriage is honorable. Marriage is honorable. Let me remind you tonight that students of history Will tell you that when marriage breaks down in a society, society breaks down. When the home ceases to exist as a functioning unit in society, That society by and large begins to decay. And those that are students of history will look back and can point at and show you societies that are no more because the home broke down. It should be understandable then why Satan Our enemy, the enemy of God, would do all he can to destroy the home. He would do all he can to destroy that which is honorable to God. He's the enemy of our happiness, the enemy of our homes. Biblically, beloved, there is no marriage other than the definition of marriage that God gives us. One man, one woman, and one union. That's it. That's the definition that God gives us, and there is no other definition. There is no marriage between a man and a man. Or a woman or a woman. In Mark chapter 10, verses 6 through 9, he says, But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife, and they two shall be one flesh. So then they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. So we have here this description of this honorable institution, this creation that God made. Not only is it something that God honors, but it's something that's supposed to be permanent. By God's design, it's to be permanent. He said, what God had joined together, let no man put asunder. And there is much in this world that would work to put asunder your relationship. Your home, your family. The attack on the marriage that's in our society today is in fact an attack on God's plan for the home. Beloved, I want you to understand they can make it legal, but they can't make it moral. It doesn't change the facts. The Supreme Court of our land can declare with all the authority that they have, they can declare that it's legal that the union between two men is recognized and is now called a marriage. But do you understand that that does not make it so? Because as I said when I began, is there's only one definition of marriage, and that's one man, one woman, and one union for life. That's the definition God gave us. The Supreme Court does not have the authority to change that definition. You know, I could describe for you, I could tell you that this pulpit is a horse I could declare it to be so. This is a horse. It's recognized as a horse. From here on forth, this is going to be recognized as a horse. But can I get on it and ride it home? No. Just because you declare something to be so doesn't make it so. Doesn't make it reality. And just because society has accepted it Or because the Supreme Court declared it to be so, I want you to understand as far as God's concerned, it's not so. It's not so. They can say it is, and it might be recognized on their taxes. But God doesn't recognize it. It is it is not so. Just because they attach a name to something Doesn't make it reality. The reality is that marriage is only possible between one man and one woman. Why? Because the person with authority over us said that's what it is He's the one. He described it as such. You know, I heard a I heard a uh good e example of this. Let's say that tonight I declared from here on forth This five dollar bill is now going to be recognized as five hundred dollars. This is now five hundred dollars. All of you tonight, if you have a five dollar bill, you got five hundred dollars, go spend it tonight. You can say okay. But if you go try, it doesn't work. Why? Because I don't have the authority to make that change. And the Supreme Court does not have the authority to change God's definition of the home. So they can say it, but it doesn't make it so. Yeah. Marriage is something that's valuable. He says here it's honorable. That word honorable literally means highly valued, precious, or costly. You know it might cost you something to have a good marriage. It might cost you something. You're gonna have to put some effort into it. You're gonna have to put some work into it. You know, we've got the couples retreat coming up. And I'm excited. There's many, many people signed up and uh we've got good attendance, uh even from other churches. Right now there's forty-one people I think signed up for the couples retreat. Uh but you know, out of all the things that we're spending money on, our relationship is worth the investment. It's worth the investment. Taking that time, it might cost us something to have the right kind of marriage. You know, I wonder, we recognize it and we say that marriage is honorable, that marriage is something that's precious and highly valued to us, but I wonder if our actions show that Just like I was describing, if I said to my wife, you know, oh hey, yeah, I love you. I'm gonna give you this and give you this, leave me alone. No. Those those the words don't line up with the action. And if we're going to say, well, we believe God and marriage is honorable, marriage is something that's supposed to be highly valued, something that's precious. Are our actions displaying that? Do you value your relationship? Do you value the marriage that you have? Are you investing in that? Are you putting work into that so that it lines up with that sentiment of your heart? I know in our heart, every one of us here are, amen. It is important, it is valuable. But sometimes we lose sight of that and we get distracted. So tonight just a reminder maybe where are you emphasizing, where are you putting your focus? Do you honor your marriage? By honoring each other? Do you honor your marriage? Men, by controlling these, by only on purpose, only having eyes for her, for your wife Listen, we're gonna get into this here in in a minute because this verse goes on. We're still in the first couple words here. Uh but we live in a sexualized society. You have to on purpose determine to have eyes only for her. And it needs to be something that she recognizes, that you've expressed, that she knows you only have eyes for her. And I'll tell you what, that takes discipline and a power and power from God in today's world. You can honor her by doing that. And I'll tell you what, it'll give life to your marriage if you do it. I know, beloved, that the world mocks marriage. The world makes fun of it and sometimes we joke about it as well. You know, but Field Marshal Montgomery said, gentlemen, Don't ever think about marriage until you've mastered the art of war. So that's that's kind of the sentiment that a lot of society has and and And uh we joke about, you know, the marriage sentence and uh all of those things. And It it can be fun, but we gotta remember that this is a is a relationship that's honored by God. It's precious Today they joke about the ball and chain, talk about how the the honeymoon's over. But marriage is designed by God. It's great and it's a precious relationship. And it should be valued as such by you and I. So the question is, are you giving your marriage the honor it deserves? He says here that not only is marriage, marriage is honorable in all, but he says that the bed is undefiled. This is dealing with the sexual relationship inside of marriage. It's undefiled. That relationship should be right. It is right according to God. It's acceptable according to God. Outside of marriage, it's a perversion. Do you know that sin, all of sin, is a perversion? Of what God made right and holy, but sin takes it and perverts it. A foul mouth is a perversion. of the honorable speech that God would have us have. Lying tongue. You know, every aspect of sin is takes something that's holy and right and good and perverts it. This relationship that's supposed to be inside the bounds of marriage is right and good. It's honorable. But the world takes it and perverts it. God created this to be pure and clean. There is no shame in it. In Genesis 2. 25, he says, And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. They were not ashamed. So there's no shame in that. Now I know I'm being a little bit maybe uh You're not used to hearing me talk like this, but we're all adults in here tonight. And the kids are all downstairs. And these are these are things that we face in our world today. The world talks about this stuff. It's everywhere. And we need to have a biblical perspective of what what it is. There shouldn't be shame, there shouldn't be guilt. In 1 Corinthians 7, verses 3 through 5, he says, Let the husband render unto his wife due benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. That's talking about that relationship, that intimate relationship, that physical relationship, one with another. We know that it's right and good. Don't let Satan steal that from you. Sometimes there's people that deal with things from their past, and that messes with them. in their current relationship. If that's you, you might need to get some help. You might need to get some counseling so that you can look at it with the proper perspective. There's no reason for you to be suffering with shame or guilt or making this it should be something that's enjoyable Inside the bounds of marriage. But outside of the bounds of marriage, what does he say here? He says, Horemongers and adulterers, God will judge. Hormonger is from the Greek word pornos, from which we get the word pornography. That word hormon hormoner has the implication, the application of fornication, of partaking of sexual activity outside the bounds of marriage That's what it's describing. And of course, adulterers are those that have committed themselves to a marriage and break those bonds, break those commitments, those vows, and partake of any type of sexual activity. With somebody outside of that marriage. That relationship. So he said, whoremongers and adulterers, God's going to judge. A whoremonger is somebody involved in any level of fornication, sexual relationship outside of or before marriage. The Bible tells us, it's very clear, the Bible wants us to flee fornication. Flee fornication. You know our Passage. In the passage in the Word of God talking about glorifying God in our bodies, you know, where he says, What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you? Which ye have of God and ye are not your own, for you're bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are his. In that passage where God's talking about glorifying God in your body Just preceding that, he says, flee fornication. For every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. And then he goes into honoring God, bringing God honor and glory. He's saying, flee fornication, beloved, this is not something that's supposed to be part of our lives. There are those who struggle with knowing the will of God in their life. Beloved, knowing the will of God starts with knowing the Word of God. The Bible very clearly says in 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 through 5, it says, for this is the will of God. So, if we know the word, there are several things like this that are pretty clear. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification that you should abstain from fornication. That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor, not in the lust of con Concupiscence. Thank you, Jacob. Even as the Gentiles which know not God. That's not how you're to, we're not to be living like this world. And again, the world and society has fully embraced fornication. It is something that is is taught and pushed and talked about. Years ago it used to be just the guys would talk like that. Years ago just the guys were kind of like looking towards that promiscuous relationship, but now it's everybody. Everybody looking for it and talking about it, engaging in it, but it's still not acceptable to God. The world is flat out lying to society at large and to especially the innocent, especially the young, when they're teaching them about fornication. Our young people are being inundated with sexual content on every side. I literally can't even imagine the pressure that's on our young people today in our public education systems. Not only do they have the natural desires that are in any young person's heart, but they have ignorant teachers. Putting them in the same room and explaining to them the process Describing for them everything necessary for this to happen. And by the way, if you need it, we have it here for you And then the pressure in the hallways where the kids begin to talk among one another about how they partook of this, how they did this, and you haven't done it yet? Rare is a child that could stand up to that kind of pressure There's a natural desire God put in the heart of a young man and a young lady, and that that fire that starts inside of their soul. They don't need any encouragement. You have got to guard against that. There's almost the idea that if you haven't already been involved in that, you're not normal. They like to use the term with the kids. They explain it to them and describe and say, talk about safe sex. I want you to understand there's no such thing as safe sex outside of marriage The CDC says sixty-three percent of youth are sexually active today. Sixty-three percent. One in four will contract an STD in their youth. I don't know how they came up with these statistics, but they said 50% will be infected on their first encounter. Fifty percent of young people will be infected on their first encounter. If you have parents I'm sorry, if you parents have children that are of this age, I know we have a broad spectrum here of of of even parents. But let me tell you, you need to be talking to your kids about this stuff. You don't talk to him about safe sex. To me, this is mind-boggling That's basically giving them license. I mean you're saying listen I don't want you to do it, but if you do it, here's what you need to do. I can't imagine that. You need to teach your kids about biblical morality. Tell them about the joys of waiting. Talk to them and discuss with them about the damage it will do to them physically, emotionally. To get involved in this before their time. Show them the statistics that are readily available online about STDs And how quickly one encounter could give it to them. Tell them about the true joy of a Christ-honoring marriage when it's done right. By the way, this is done by and large by example, having a Christ-honoring marriage. One of the reasons that I never got involved in drugs as a young man Uh sadly, I was in many situations where I had the availability to be I was around drugs. And I could have partaken of any of them. And they were present and even pushed on me at times. But one of the reasons that I always said no is because I had enough knowledge. I had enough stories in my head about that kid that took a drug one time and he was paralyzed for life. Or one time and he died. I had a fear put in me because I saw the results. That's what I was talking about. You need to explain these things to them regarding this intimate relationship so that there'll be some fear in them. to give them courage to stand against a wicked society that wants to push it on them. Do you know what your kids are being taught? You should know. Do you know where your kids are and who they're with? You should know. I didn't go to sex education as a child. I had friends for that. As a pastor's kid. In a Christian school. All Christian school kids. I I didn't go to the public school. But I got a world of education Evil communication corrupts good manners. You need to be aware of who your kids are hanging around, what they're learning. Don't give them opportunity to be on the phone alone with people you don't know what they're talking about in their bedroom or whatever. In our house, Timothy 17, and to be on the phone, you still got to be in the living room. Still got to be in a public place. You don't want to open the door, the opportunity for these things Satan, beloved, is trying hard to convince everyone that you can be involved in fornication without consequences That's what this society is pushing. They say, well, it's just an animalistic instinct. It's just a natural process. There's nothing really that happens. I mean you just I mean everybody's doing it, it's no big deal. There's no consequences, but there is. What does our text say? Whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. God's going to judge it. There's no way to be involved in it without consequences. You can't partake of that which is supposed to be inside the bounds of marriage without consequences. There is quite literally something deeply emotional that happens with physical contact. If if the skin is all that's touched, there's another problem You understand what I'm saying? If all the deeper that interaction goes is just the skin, there's another problem. It's a lot deeper than that. And you know it is. God designed the act for unification He says in Genesis chapter 2, 24 and 25, he says, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. They were made one flesh. They were put together. There is something that happens inside of you. There's something, it's more than just physical. There's something deeply emotional. There's something Uh mentally, there's something spiritually that takes place designed by God where you become one flesh. And beloved, this idea of unification is not just recognized because you happen to be married. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 15 and 16, he says, Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the member of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid. What know ye not? That which is joined to an harlot is one body. You see the same description there. He says, you were joined with a harlot, you've been made one flesh. And this is destroying our society today. Because you cannot continue to be made one flesh with this individual and this individual and this individual and this individual and then expect to have a marriage that functions and works how God designed You cannot be a part of this without consequences. In Proverbs chapter 6, verse 32 and 33 says, But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. I mean, it's pretty clear. There are consequences for partaking of What is supposed to be kept inside the bounds of marriage? It's mind-boggling to me. Shocking that the CDC, obviously that renowned institution of conservative biblical thought, uh, the CDC said this. Those with multiple partners or continued exposure to pornography have a higher rate of depression and poor physical health. Now what did the Bible just say? Who still committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding, he doeth it, destroyeth his own soul. The Bible is very clear. Now after all the tests that society has done, the CDC has determined that to be true That there is consequences. You can't just do this and expect there not to be. Our culture is promoting fornication and the adulterous relationship on every hand. In every type of media that's out there. But it's still wrong. According to the Pew Research Group, more people live together today than there are married. The study went on to talk about the fact that married adults are more satisfied with their relationship and more trusting in their mates. Isn't that amazing? Than people just living shacking up. But eighty-six percent of Americans say it's acceptable to just live together, to just shack up If you limit that age to s to Americans under 30, the number goes up dra drastically Beloved, you dishonor the institution of marriage as God intended it when you partake of this Let me just say this. Yes, it's wrong for kids, but it's wrong for adults too. Of any age. There's nowhere in the Bible where it all of a sudden says it's acceptable to to live together. And although society and a lot of churches today want to look the other way or don't talk about it, the Bible says fornication is wrong. Fornication outside the bounds of marriage. And it doesn't matter if you're nineteen, twenty-seven, or sixty-five. It's still wrong. Some might ask, well, what about just living together What if it's you know, what if we're just living together and there's nothing intimate there, you know? Uh we're just uh platonic, you know. Greg said, yeah, right. Okay. Even if that is 100% true, you know the majority of society is saying yeah, right. So what I'm saying is even if that's true, you are destroying your testimony. You are destroying the opportunity to be a witness for Christ. in today's society, in today's love-starved, relationship-starved uh world One of the biggest tools we have that will preach to this world is a successful marriage. Around the foundation founded on Christ. And you love one another and you want to be with each other and you're excited about your relationship even after 10, 20, 30 years or plus, and the world looks at that and thinks, how in the world Well, because of Jesus Christ and what he's done for me. And when we tear down this this institution that's modeled and uh made by God and supposed to be honorable, we're destroying our ability to be a testimony to this world. So if you're just living together, platonic or otherwise, I would I would affix the situation. Either get married or move out. So that you can honor God and be a godly testimony in today's world. God wants us to be pure, Christian. Pure. We're discussing or looking at the idea of doing that which is pleasing to God. This world pushes this stuff on us. And it's so accepted in society. But for the Christian, we've got to take a stand against it. We've got to realize it's not accepted to God. What type of sacrifice is acceptable to God? Have brotherly love. Live pure You know, I told you the reason that I never did drugs was because of the fear that I had from the stories that I had heard. But it's also because of the godly example that I had in my parents. People who I knew were not perfect, but I knew they loved God. What I'm saying parents is if we want to really protect our young people from getting involved in this, it starts with our lives. It starts with us. Living right, being pure, controlling these, keeping a right mind. Honoring God, that example, living that way, gives you a voice when you begin to talk to them about it They see and recognize you're not perfect, but you're striving to honor God. Tonight, if you've been involved in this in any way, if you're consuming This in today's society with the media and things that are out there, maybe you need to confess and ask God to forgive you tonight