Hebrews chapter 13 is where we're going to be. I'm going to reference some other passages and we'll we'll make our way to the text tonight. But in Psalms 51 we find that very powerful passage, uh that passage of scripture that really hits us very profoundly Possibly because we all can picture ourselves there in that psalm with David as he begins to crawl his way back to God. As he's faced with the reality of his sin, how he failed God so miserably, and the full weight of his transgression is laying upon his heart. And he crawls into the presence of God and he begs God for his mercy. And he asks God, God, have mercy upon me according to thy loving-kindness. Those verses where we are very familiar with them restore unto me the joy of my salvation. As he begs God for his presence again and forgiveness of sin. David gets really honest with God and he holds nothing back. Let me say that if you're going to experience any real restoration with God, that's what it takes. You've got to get real with him. You've got to get completely honest with him and lay it all out. David progresses through his prayer and he teaches us many things about confession and about restoration and about repentance. As he prays and talks to God and seeks forgiveness from his Lord. There are many powerful statements in the text, but there's one that's always stuck out to me, one phrase found in verse 16 and 17 of Psalms 51 where David says, For thou desirest not sacrifice. Else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. O God, thou wilt not despise. David came to the realization that God wasn't going to be content with a man who had a dirty heart, an unrepentant soul, but was willing to come and to make a sacrifice at the altar. God wasn't going to be okay with somebody that was willing to come to church and give God some time, but not live for him. God wasn't going to be all right with somebody that was willing to come to church and and sacrifice some money and put some money in the offering and and and give to God that way, maybe even as a means of trying to cover their sin but not being right with God in their hearts. David realized that and he says, Listen, thou desirest not sacrifice, and it's not that God doesn't want any sacrifice from us, beloved Surely God calls us to sacrifice for him and desires of us to give to him. He says, but that is not what is of utmost importance. The sacrifice is meaningless where the heart is not right with God. You see, David came to the right conclusion that God was not interested in David just coming before the temple and offering sacrifice as an altar when his heart was full of sin. In 1 Samuel chapter 15, 22, we find a very similar statement given. For he says, And Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Beloved, Obedience. Sacrifice may come out of obedience. But obedience is greater than sacrifice. Obedience is a sacrifice of love. That God requires. Understanding tonight that God is not interested in your ceremony when your heart is far from Him. He would much rather you and I obey. He does not have need of our sacrifice. It's the broken heart that God will not despise. You can come and repent. You can be restored at any time. And we praise God for that. But then obedience should foll As I considered, what kind of sacrifice would God want? What sacrifice would be satisfying to the Lord? As I read over the passage in Hebrews chapter 13, which is our text this evening, if you have a study Bible, In the beginning of this passage, there is probably some type of heading. And the heading for Hebrews chapter 13, the beginning, would be something about pleasing sacrifice or acceptable sacrifice or sacrifice of some type. I don't know exactly what it is. The heading in my study Bible was pleasing sacrifice And this is where I began to read, and that heading stuck out to me. And from that, God stirred my heart about the idea of Performing or doing that which is pleasing to him. I want to speak to you tonight for a few minutes on satisfying sacrifice. What is satisfying sacrifice? What would satisfy God? What would be pleasing to God? I know your heart's desire is like my heart's desire, and that is to do that which is pleasing to God. We want to fulfill that in Tonight's thoughts are not profound. They're not deep. They're really quite simple. But as I think about it and the idea of that, listen, this is what is a satisfying Sacrifice to God. You know, my children, on occasion, they want to please me. And they may even look for uh something particular that dad wants or they'll they know I have a desire for something to be done. And I didn't even ask them to do it, but they know I have that desire. And so it's a desire that's in their heart To satisfy dad. That causes them to do it. And sometimes they come and tell me what they did, and other times they wait for me to see. You know, did did you notice that I did this, that I got that done? Sometimes I'll notice and I'll say I'm not sure who You know, usually this ends up happening in family devotions at the end of the night we're sitting down and I'll say I didn't I don't know who did it but I appreciate the effort and thank you for doing that and You know, somebody will usually say somebody else will usually say, Oh, it was Timothy and Melissa or oh you know, this child did that or that child did that, uh, you know, and uh they'll kind of usually sit there humbly and you know, the smile starts to grow on their face and yeah, they they did something that's pleasing to dad and and I am certainly grateful and I praise the Lord that they even want to please me at all. Certainly don't deserve that. But our heart's desire before God to do something pleasing to Him. So as I read this simple passage tonight, I I want our hearts to be reminded of some things that be pleasing to God, satisfying to Him. First of all, beloved, the beginning here, verse number one. He says, let brotherly love continue. This is a characteristic of the Christian. This should be the heart of the Christian. Not just because people have come to expect it of a Christian, not oh it's Christian it's like what Christians should do because that's what Christians do. They're they they have love for one another. No, actually God commanded it. We should have brotherly love, not just because it has become the norm, but because it is a command of God. He says, a new commandment have I given you that ye love One another. God wants us to love one another. We should have brotherly love one for another. As I have loved you, that ye also love one another. And then we have that telltale sign. He says, by this shall all men know ye are my disciples. What a testimony. What a picture to this world that God's people just love one another, that we have that brotherly love. This is supposed to be part of our spirit, part of our heart. Not in a a way uh this world perverts everything and turns everything into uh you know, just just wickedness. But we should, brothers and sisters in Christ, be able to express love for one another, having that brotherly love and concern and compassion for one another. You know, beloved, that the child of God is hated in this world. Jesus said, if the world hates you, know that it hated me first. And what I'm saying, Christian, is the child of God Out there in the world receives very little to no love, more than likely receives a measure of hatred, a measure of despising. Man, when they come to God's house, there ought to be love. There ought to be brotherly love that's present. That Phileo love and I know you guys know that and know what it is, that brotherly love The Bible says, having kind affection to one another. Romans 12, verse number 10, be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. This is the kind of compassion that we should have. It should be normal and common practice for us as Christians. Can I ask you, are you kind? Are you a kind person? Maybe b maybe not by nature. You know, she's not in here, so I can uh I can use her as as an example tonight. But I think about Sandy Glover. Miss Glover is just a kind person. I mean she would just as soon hurt herself than to cause anybody else any pain, to cause anybody else any hurt. I mean she's just kind. It's just her nature. She's just a very kind person for for anybody, whoever it is, she's got that kind of spirit. Now I know some of us aren't made that way. But God still tells us to be kind. And that you you know, we could say, well, that's just not my personality. Well, tough. You gotta change your personality. So Miss Andy has a God-given gift of kindness and praise God for her. The rest of us have to work at it, you know. We gotta try and put some effort in. We gotta try and be kind. When we don't want to be kind, when it's not natural to be kind. We're to be kindly affectionate to one another. He says, let this continue. I'm glad, beloved, that we have a loving church. I'm speaking to the choir tonight. I know that inside of our church is certainly tonight not a problem that I'm trying to fix. It's certainly not an issue that we have where our church lacks love. I don't see that at all. But this here even in our text, you understand it was not a rebuke against them It was a reminder. He says, let this continue. He says, as you guys have been showing this brotherly love, as you've been having this kind of compassion for each other, continue to do that. Continue to do that. And occasionally, we need to be reminded of some things. Occasionally, we need to be reminded how important that brotherly love is and that concern for one another. It's okay to say, Hey, brother, I love ya I know uh it's not real comfortable sometimes, especially for us that don't, you know show any connection to anybody uh ever, you know. Uh but we need to work at that. God's people, the family of God, our church, people need to know that they're loved here Not just by one or two of us, but that we have a family. And you know it's something that we need to work at. You've got to be very cautious and very careful because in a church, it's very easy for a church to become very cliquish. It's very easy for a church to group to end up grouping into this group that does these things and this group does these things and and I I'm not a hundred percent sure on how to fight against that. But I remember J. R. telling me that the reason that he came and stayed here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church was because when he came in, there was no clicks. There was no no groups of these people and those people and and it was a family all of at the whole church. Now that's been some years ago. And Christian, if we're going to keep that, it's something we have to work at. We've got to be sure not to allow that to creep in, asking God to give us a hedge and to fight against it. It's okay to express and show compassion and concern for one another. You know, you and I, we should be looking forward to coming to church and seeing our brothers and sisters in Christ. It shouldn't be, oh no, I gotta go to church tonight. I know that I'm gonna see Miss Trudy. Oh no. I'm gonna have to talk to her tonight. That shouldn't be that way. We ought to be looking with anticipation, with joy, you know. Hey, brother, good to see you tonight, man. It encourages our heart. It thrills our soul. It brings joy to us to be able to get together and to express that concern and to show that love and that kindness. This is a kindness that's preferring one another. You know, that's not natural to prefer one another. The natural thing is to prefer ourselves. Which is seen a little bit and you know it would be nice if the auditorium was full tonight. But do you know it's not nice that the auditorium is full tonight, uh or it's nice that it's not full tonight, because this way you can have the seat you want. And nobody's gonna sit in your seat, you know. And and you can sit on the end of the pew if you want. You know, I mean it's amazing sometimes uh people come to church and there's somebody that wants the end of the row And the whole pew is empty and everybody coming in has got to climb over this guy because he wants that seat. That's not preferring one another. Preferring I mean if you want that seat, there's probably somebody else that wants it. You know, that seat on the end, so you have e easy access to get out so you don't have to talk to anybody. Uh no, I don't know. It's comfortable to be on the end. You know, you don't have to sit next to anybody you don't know and all of that. But we we need to prefer one another. Look for ways that you can prefer one another. That you can put somebody else's desire or needs or wants above yours. Well, that's a great way to show brotherly love. I'll tell you what, if we did this, it would solve a lot of church problems. You know what, not even just church problems, it would solve a lot of f family problems. If we just preferred one another. Instead of being so concerned about ourselves. A friend prefers one another. A friend loves at all times. A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity The friend loves when things are good and when things are bad, when it's convenient and when it's not. Sometimes It's okay if your friend has a bad day. You know, it happens sometimes. You know, they're not as kind as they should have been, or they said something to you that wasn't didn't come across correctly. They didn't phrase it in the best way. But you see a friend loveth at all times. You understand that listen they haven't had any sleep or they've been sick with COVID or uh whatever going on in their life and they're a little bit short or a little bit abrupt today and so maybe they did be sharp with you. But you understand there's times that you're sharp with people. And you just gotta just forgive it and let it go. And say I love you anyway, man. Go ahead, yell at me. You feel better? All right. Let's hug it out, right? That's what Pastor Jeff would do. Hug it out, you know. uh whatever whatever uh makes you feel good, but you know what I'm saying is you gotta let it go. Just don't hold on to that foolishness. You love when things are good, you love when things are bad You know, it's okay if they have a bad day. You love them anyway. You love 'em when they're not loving you back. That's what a real friend does You know, have you ever said, after all I've done for them, that statement shows our heart. It shows us that we were expecting something for what we did. And we're not happy that we're not getting back what we think we deserve for what we did. Whatever that might be, whatever scenario that might be, I'm encouraging you tonight to let brotherly love continue because it's pleasing to God. It's pleasing to God. He goes on and these could be separate things or they may be expressions of that love. Verses two and three might be uh two ways to show that bloodly love. You're gonna let that brotherly love continue, and there's two means or methods of showing that bloodly love. First of all, with it with his hospitality. In verse number two, he says, be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Now it's not just being kind to your friends, but being kind to the stranger, to people that you don't know. Can I remind you tonight that everybody was a stranger at some point? Everybody was a stranger at some point until we took some time to get to know them. And we found, oh, I I really connect well with this person. We really get along good. And there's some people you will connect really well. Birds of a feather flock together. Water finds its own level and people find their own their own kind. That's just the way it is. We can still be kind and loving to everybody, but there are some you will really connect well with. But if you didn't take time to get to know them, you wouldn't even know that you had such a good friend in that person. Can I also remind you that we were strangers to others at some point? And we're all strangers and pilgrims in this world. We're just passing through. So we're to have hospitality to the stranger. That word hospitality actually comes from two root words, one meaning friend, and the other stranger. Literally means to make a friend out of a stranger. That's what hospitality means. To make a friend out of a stranger. And that's what Christ is asking us to do. Christ Himself said he was a stranger in Matthew 25, 35. He says, For I was hungered and you gave me meat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in That's what we're supposed to do. Show hospitality. Show that kind of brotherly love. Practically, how can we show hospitality in the church? Well, one way would be to open up the pew on Sunday. Now this would be exciting if we reach a point where uh that was needed again. Right now you do have the liberty to sit pretty much wherever you want and probably aren't going to be disturbed. But I would rather God send some people in the doors. And us have to be ready and be willing to move down. Hey, uh I'll sit in the middle. Come on in here. Sit with me. Invite guests to sit with you. Introduce them to somebody else in the church. I know we don't encourage talking in church. We discourage it. However, if you're sitting there and somebody comes in late and they come in and stand next to you, don't just ignore them. Don't try not to look, you know. Obviously there's somebody you've never seen before. Just take all the awkward out of it and just say, hello. Good to see you today. Welcome to church. You know, just greet them, even if it's a song service that's already started or we're already involved in teaching in Sunday school or or whatever, you know, just let them know you're glad they're there and they're welcome to sit with you. with with you and and acknowledging them, it'll go a long way to letting them feel welcome. You know what, when somebody comes through the doors of the church, I pondered this, I was thinking about this today. You know the reason that they're here is they're looking for something. The reason that they would get out of bed and get dressed and get in a car and drive to a place that they've never been And go into doors and come into a church that they've never been in, and they have no idea who's here, have no idea what what the program's gonna be like. Do you know what? They're looking for connection. And although God uses the word of God to change their heart, I believe God can use the connection with God's people to win their heart. to bring them to a place where they would want to come back. They'll come back and listen to a poor preacher if they've got a good friend. Now, pray for the preacher that he wouldn't be so poor and and the Lord will use use that as well, amen. But what I'm saying is If i i i if people have that relationship, they'll keep coming back. I mean Karen would have quit coming to church here a long time ago, except Don. Do you know? Got a good relationship. She wants to be with Don, so she comes to church. I'm d I'm just kidding. They of course love their pastor and they love the church. But I'm saying those relationships, they tie you in. They make you part of the church family. They make people want to be here. And hospitality is how we show that The ultimate expression of hospitality is to open your home to them. This is coming from a time when people were very hospitable. In our society, we're not very hospitable. It's just the American way. It's acceptable to leave somebody at the door. If somebody wants to talk to somebody else in the house and you just close the door on them and go in the house and get who it was and they come, that's acceptable in our society today, but that is not very hospitable. And and we need to be willing to open our homes up. You know, I think sometimes we don't want to open our homes up because we're ashamed of what's in our home. Now that might be dirt. It might be you're embarrassed because you haven't cleaned your house in six months. Listen Clean the house. If you say this bothers me so much that I'm embarrassed about it, and I don't want anybody to see it. Then clean it up. Now I think that you ought to have a clean house and you ought to take care of things. But listen, if you don't mind the mess and it doesn't embarrass you, then okay. Invite people in, say, hey, this is my house, this is the way it is. But I'm saying if there's something in your home that you're ashamed of Then fix it. Don't just continue to live with it. If you feel that God doesn't want you to live that way or there's something that you shouldn't be doing. Maybe there's something in your home that's not pleasing to God and you don't want people to see that. Well then take it out of your home. Get it out so that your your home would be a place that's pleasing to God You know, before you can express and show great hospitality to others, you have to have peace and love in your own home first. You can't expect when somebody comes over for you to put on airs and to have a measure of love and try and have that peace that's not present in your home. Normally, you can't expect to try and put that on for just a few minutes. People are gonna see through that. They're gonna see through that. So you've got to work at that. And maybe I'm challenging you tonight to say, I need to work at that on my home. I need to have that as part of my home as a normal practice. Many years ago, I had a friend that called me and he was suicidal. He was living in another state, but he was literally he hadn't showered in weeks and weeks, he hadn't eaten anything. He was completely depressed. He's a Christian. He knew God is his Savior. He called me. He says, I know, I know I'm saved. I know I'm on my way to heaven. He's a Bible college graduate. But he was in complete despair. He had no hope. He had nothing to live for. He didn't know why God had him on earth. And he he he just wanted to give up everything But he called me and requested something of me, and at the same time he paid me one of the highest compliments he could have. He said, Caleb, could I come and live with you and Mary for a while? I've always found the most peace and comfort in your home. And I said, sure. Of course he did. He came. Moved into our home and lived with us for a while. We cleaned out an extra room and had him had him move in there and for the first seven to ten days he didn't even come out of the room. Slowly through time, God and the peace that was in our home nurtured him back to a place of stable mental health. When he left, moved back to his own state. He was on the victory side. Today he's married, and him and his wife have adopted six special needs children that they take care of and nurture and help and do do with so much joy. You've got to build that in your home. It has to be a natural thing. It has to be something that's already present there. I was talking to one of the men in our church here, and he said for this year God had challenged him. He wanted to bring people into his home. They wanted to try and have some of God's people, the church family, the guests of our church, over to their house. Praise God That's what we need to be doing, not just them, but all of us. Listen, I know it's a lot easier to go to a restaurant. You don't have to clean the restaurant first. Amen. And when you leave, you don't have to clean up I know it's a lot of work. Getting everything ready and then feeding them lunch and then when you're done picking everything up and putting it all away But there's there's no place where you can truly minister to the heart of another like when you open your home. When you're sitting down with them in your in your own home. It bridges a gap. It unites a heart. It feeds a soul in such a way that nothing else can. So I would encourage you this year, yes, have hospitality in here in God's house with the guests that come and so on. But maybe God would touch your heart and say, you know what, I need to open my home and bring in some of God's family. I need to minister to somebody I don't know as well and have them to our house. Takes work, takes time, takes effort, but you know what? It's pleasing to God. It's pleasing to God. He gives us a motivation here for why we should do it. He says, because you may entertain angels unawares. I don't know about the times that God might have put an angel in my path. I can think about situations that that God worked out. I mean looking at this The idea of an angel coming, and this passage is literally believed to be speaking about Abraham when he entertained the three angels unaware in Genesis chapter 18. But I know in my life there's been times where things have happened that I can only explain in an extraordinary way by God doing something An angel would be somebody that has a message. Just like with Abraham, the three angels came and you remember they talked for a while and and and Abraham, you remember the story, he he He said, Hey, why don't you guys come to the house, stay at the house? And then he ran and he told his wife, Hey, we have three more for dinner. Would you quick get some food out and get some things ready? You ladies ever have that happen? We we gotta feed we've got to feed some extra people. Uh okay. Um well let's see what we got. Let's put together what we can. So Sarah was working in the kitchen. You remember she's getting it ready, and these angels began to talk to Abraham and And they began to to tell him a message. They carried a message to him and said, Sarah's going to have a baby. And you remember Sarah overheard that from the and she laughed. I have a message I'm working in working on entitled Who's Laughing Now? I'm looking forward to that one day. Who's Laughing Now? But he they brought a message. I don't know, but I believe in angels. And I believe that God brings angels into your life sometimes to bring a message of hope to you. Sometimes to meet a need. I remember one time I was traveling, I had a long drive to go to go, and I stopped at a church. And somebody in the church, I mean what are the chances of this? I'm driving this long ways. I'm going to be in another state the next day. Somebody in that church says Well, I have a family member that lives in that state, and it's right off the interstate, and here's the address. You can just stop there and spend the night And and go on. Here I am stopping in a place that I have no connections, no I don't know anybody. I'm just being in church like I'm supposed to be. Just talking, just casual conversation, and the Lord gives me a place to stay. Just I I went in, I stayed with the people. We had a good conversation. To this day, I don't even know who they were. I don't remember the names. I've never seen them again. Probably 25 years ago. But I remember that hospitality that they showed me. So I don't know what it might be, but God will bring people into your path and and he's saying, be cautious how you treat people. Because it might be somebody that has a message for you Now, I don't know if the angels would have had a different message for Abraham, if he would have treated him differently. I don't know if God would have said, you know what, Abraham is not ready for a child. I I I don't know that. Uh we just know what happened because Abraham did have hospitality, because Abraham did treat them right, and they had a message of hope for him and gave it to them. So we gotta be cautious about how we treat people have have hospitality. Then lastly tonight is All the further we'll go, but we see in verse number three, a second way of expressing or showing this love, this brotherly love that we should have is to have sympathy. He says, Remember them that are in bonds. As bound with them, as them which suffer adversity, as being yourself also in the body He says, remember them. Remember those that are in bonds. Those that are in bonds of prison, there obviously at this time there was lots of persecution. There were people being imprisoned, literally in bonds, imprisonment. And so he's remember those that are in prison. We don't know who the writer of Hebrews was. Some believe it was Paul. I tend to lean that direction, but we really don't know. Some think it was Timothy. You know, but we know it was the Holy Spirit, amen. We know it was God. But you know, Paul spent a lot of time in prison. If Paul wrote it, you could hear him saying, Hey, don't forget about the guys in jail, okay? Let's remember them But you know, there's other kinds of bondage that people endure, and he encourages us to be sympathetic to them. I'm not a real sympathetic person by nature. I really am not. I'm kind of a I I I just say grow up, shake it off, get over it, what I mean, just not sympathetic. And it's a fault of mine. I'm preaching to myself in this point that I need to have more sympathy. It's something I need to work on, because truly I think people are just babies sometimes. So how to balance that, I don't know. You pray for me. But there are beloved people that are in bonds of sin, and we need to remember them. We need to have sympathy for them, not judge them We need to realize that except it were were the grace of God, we would be there. We need to realize and understand that that bondage that they're in, whether it's a drug addiction or addiction to pornography or or some kind of uh area in their life, they they seem to not be able to get past That they're in bondage to that. And they need a sympathetic heart to carry that burden with them and to pray with them and to see where they're at and trying to help them get through and get past that There are those beloved who are bound by circumstances. There's things in their life that have happened that they can't get past. Sometimes this is an abuse. or something that took place early in life or many years ago. And it's just something that defines their personality today. It defines their actions. It defines what they do They're in bondage because of something that happened 10, 20, 30, 40 years ago. It's even this many years later controlling their actions. They need somebody to have some sympathy and somebody to care and say, let's let's with the power of God get you victory, get you past this, get you through that I think because I've been doing this study and working with Brother Brian and dealing with this area of grief. Listen, beloved, there is a level of grief that people experience that literally puts them in bondage. It binds their heart and their life, and every aspect of their day is controlled by this grief. They need somebody to have some sympathy and not just look at them and say, hey, it's been a year. Would you get over it? Would you get past it? Could you get uh grow up? They need somebody to realize that they're enduring this grief and how how to help them get past this and how to help them find a new normal, a new way to live without that person, whether it's a son or a daughter or a husband or a wife. Listen, grief is a real thing. I'm because of this study, I'm also putting together a series of messages on grief to help us understand what people carry and how to help them when they're going through that grief. There's people that are bound in sin. There's people that are bound in circumstances. There are those that are bound by false doctrine. People that don't believe the way that we do because they've never heard the truth. You know, they sought after God because God has put it in the heart of man to know and to look for God. But the sad thing is that a a false prophet, a false cult got to them first and began giving them some way of defining God for them Which they want, they want to know God, and so they found a measure of peace in this false doctrine. They're bound by that now And we, of course, look at it knowing with our the scales being taken off and with our eyes being able to see the truth. We look at it and say, why can't you see the truth? Because they've got to reject everything that they've held on to for so long. Let all that go to accept Christ and Him alone. They're bound by that false doctrine. Like in this text here, there were many who were bound by the law. They didn't understand this letter of Hebrews, written to the Hebrews. So that they would understand Christ and his love. There are those who are bound by poor health. I'm thinking about Dr. Keller, who I sat with today, who's stuck in his bed And he said, Pastor Caleb, I have to try and figure out what is it that I want out of life. He says, I I'm still here for a reason. And he reached over He couldn't turn his head. He couldn't look. He reached over on his bookshelf and he felt and he had a stack of New Testaments here. And he picked up the New Testament. And he opened it up and he began to cry. And he said, Pastor Caleb, if I could just walk down these halls. There's so many people I could tell about the love of Christ. There's so many people that I could give this New Testament to and tell them how God died for them. He says, but I'm stuck here in this bed. He says, so I wonder why. Why am I here? Because I can't minister. He says, everybody that comes through the door, I share the truth with, but but the nurses, every one of them says, Yes, Dr. Keller, you already gave me one of those He says that they don't necessarily want to hear it again, but I I just look at what why and what am I days supposed to be full of? What am I supposed to be here for? Desirous to serve, but stuck in a bed. I wonder about us who have all of our abilities. And what are we doing with it? Folks like Dr. Keller and need somebody to love them. He said, remember them. Remember them like you were in that situation. He says, as bound with them. Having sympathy, real sympathy. Realizing it could be you, that you're you're still living in this body of flesh. Amen. It could be you that's down next month. It could be you that's bound up in some sin. It could be you that's being sidelined by Satan. God's people need to have sympathy and love. You know, just having someone who understands has provided strength enough for many to continue, to keep going. That piety that looks down one's nose at the sin of another serves no purpose but to further the bondage. The sympathy reaches down with a loving hand and picks them up, helps them out of it What I'm talking about tonight is satisfying sacrifice. Doing that which would be satisfying to God. These things. Very simple. Truth we've heard before. Things we as a church are already doing. No doubt. Continue, beloved. Continue to do them, those things that are satisfying to God.