Well, let's get into the Word of God tonight. We've been looking at Hebrews chapter number 13. Hebrews chapter 13 as we've been discussing and reviewing uh this passage talking about the idea of acceptable sacrifice before God. And uh last week I had a real scare. Uh I got up here and began to teach and my notes here for this series. I'm into page number twenty one and I'm a little over six thousand words uh that I have in this this series and anyways last week I got up and the pages of notes that I had typed were gone. They were blank. I mean the page was I'm like, oh no. Okay, Pastor Gus says, I saw you pause for a second. He says, I saw you hesitate like And I mean I had no notes and if you know me, man, I might work well off the top of my head. I put a tremendous amount of time into preparation ahead of time so that I don't have to go off top of my head And they all of my notes were gone. But praise God, it just took a second. I don't know if it didn't connect to the network or what, but it took a second, it updated, and the notes appeared. So we praise God for that. Let's look at the text, Hebrews chapter 13, and we'll read down through where we will be ending tonight. And I don't know how much further we'll get in this uh in future weeks or if the Lord might lead us to do something else. There's a lot here, but just follow along. He says, let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful uh to entertain strangers, for thereby some having entertained angels unawares. Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body. Marriage is honorable and all, and the bed undefiled, but for amongers and adulterers, God will judge Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Well, we began looking at this passage of scripture and we saw on the first week that really the idea of brotherly love is what is necessary for us as uh Christians is we're talking about the idea of sacrifice that pleases God and really dealing with it from the standpoint of being motivated to do what it is that pleases God. And obviously a uh sacrifice made uh out of piety, uh maybe for somebody down the pew to impress somebody down the pew or to impress somebody else in the church That might impress them, but it's not going to impress God. What God desires is a broken and contrite heart. What God desires is obedience. And in this passage of Hebrews here, the last chapter is considered the practical chapter of this doctrinal book, this book that has a lot of doctrinal teaching, really the overriding theme of the book of Hebrews. is the sufficiency of Christ, that Christ is greater than everything. Christ is greater than the law, and Christ is the answer. And he concludes with some practical truths about pleasing Christ and gives these admonitions to us. Wherein we are encouraged to do so. We saw first brotherly love, and that brotherly love is taught or expressed in having hospitality. It's expressed in having sympathy. And then we dealt with the aspect of purity in today's vile and wicked world. We as God's people are expected to be pure, to live pure lives, to live clean, to live holy. That is God's expectation for us. And then tonight we are going to look at the idea of really being satisfied with the Savior. Being content in Christ. Being content in Christ. He says, let your conversation be without covetousness and be content with such things as ye have. You know, there's the Bible says Webster's dictionary tells us that the idea of contentment Quite literally means being satisfied. I ask you tonight, are you satisfied as a Christian? Are you satisfied? There's a lot that we could look at most of the time. The idea of contentment is looked at from a monetary standpoint. From a financial standpoint. This evening I'm going to do what I can to stay away from that aspect, not only because Pastor Derrick is dealing with uh materialism in Sunday school. Uh had no idea that was what he was going to be doing when I began this series several weeks ago. Uh but I believe the idea of contentment is much greater, is much deeper than just monetary means. Than just financial situations. So tonight I want to look more purposely at the latter half of this verse Or he says to be content with such things as ye have. Well, what do you have? We all obviously we many times look at that as our possessions, right? But I think in context, when we look at context and see what he says here, it says, be content with what things as ye have. He tells us that you have Jesus Christ. He says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He's saying, Be content with what's with the things that you have. And as you think about or consider what you have, first and foremost should come to your mind the fact that you're a born-again Bible-believing Christian and you have Jesus as your Lord and Savior. You have Him and that promise of His presence. We have Christ, beloved, who will never leave us or forsake us. So the question tonight is. Are you content? Or maybe as Webster put it, are you satisfied with the Savior? Are you content with Christ First of all, I want you to see here in this verse the proclamation of the precept. The proclamation of his precept. He tells us here, let your conversation be without covetousness. You see the word be there two times. You're supposed to let it be without covetousness, and you're supposed to be content with such things as ye have. We have in this verse, beloved, both the expectation and the explanation. He tells us to be content, and then he tells us that you have Jesus Christ. You have a friend that's closer than a brother. You have a Lord and a Savior. You have God who has promised you that He would never leave you nor forsake you. He says, be content with what things as you ha such things as you have, and when you look at the Word of God as a whole and you see other passages of Scripture that talk about if as long as you got some food and you got a little bit of of clothing to put on your back, uh that should be sufficient. Why? Because you've got Jesus. How horrible would it be to to live this entire life and have all the pleasures of this world and die and spend an eternity in hell But beloved, you could live this life without anything. Live in abject poverty, which none of us understand. But if you did, it's still only 70, 80, 90 years. Praise God, he gave Dr. Keller 94 years 94 years. But that's such a brief time in the span of eternity. And you spend eternity in a place called heaven. There's a command here, beloved, for the Christian to be content. It starts with a description of our very lifestyle. You understand that the word conversation is not speaking solely or just about the way that we talk. It could include that, but your conversation is your lifestyle, your habit of life. Our habit of life is to be one of contentment. Yeah. That goes against the world today. That goes against the flesh. Our habit of life today tends to be the exact opposite. But we need to have a habit of life that is content. Beloved, to be discontent is futile. That incessant wanting and continual hunger for more does no good. It has yet to remedy any evil. It has yet to supply any want It is yet to solve any problem. That continual wanting of more, that opposite of living content, has yet to solve anything for you It's a futile endeavor. It's a means that you will never reach an end to. Discontentment is a well that never has a bottom Depression is a very real and powerful emotion. Depression grips the heart of much of society today. This there there is almost an epidemic of depression. I mean when I was a kid, I literally Never heard of anybody being depressed. I mean it wasn't something that people talked about. I mean you just didn't hear about people being depressed. But it seems like more and more and younger and younger ages people In the pit of despair, but you want I want you to understand that as a society today we are more discontent than we've ever been. And I believe that depression is rooted in discontentment. Because you don't have something you want. You don't have something you feel that you deserve. Your life is not satisfying enough. There is no sufficiency for you. You are longing or looking for something else. And that discontentment has led to depression. There are many causes for depression. I certainly don't want to oversimplify it, but by and large, I believe a root cause is discontentment. We are to be content with such things as we have, beloved. You've never met a happier person than one who is content with what they have. They're just happy. I remember when I was a teenager I began to work at Walmart and uh this is back when Sam Walton was still alive. And uh Walmart was of course growing by leaps and bounds at that time. The stock had just split several times and and uh he had just written his book. And uh I remember the news media and all them people talking about how Sam Walton, although he was worth forty billion dollars at that time, uh that he drove an old Ford pickup. Just an old junkie Ford pickup. I mean it's what he had always drove. He's like, well it still runs. Why should I get a new one? You know? It it it's okay. Uh you know, he was just content with what he had. I mean And he he had been blessed with lots of things, but he didn't need to go out and spend a bunch of money to be happy. He just drove his old Ford pickup and everybody, you know, kind of mocked or made fun of him, but they made a big deal out of it because that was n uh not the norm. It's not the norm. Most people get some money and they go out and blow it. Beloved, what you have or how much you have has never been the source of your contentment. The word things here is used, but again, I believe this to be much deeper than the merely possessions that we acquire. Contentment is a condition of the heart. It encompasses all attributes of our life. It would include, but it's not limited to the job you have, the position that you hold at your job The number of kids you have or the kids you don't have, the mates you have or wish you had, the weight you are or wish you were, the height you wish you were. A simple life you long to have, or maybe a more exciting life you long to have. The list goes on and on. There's no way I could possibly exhaust the list of areas in which the heart finds discontentment. Finds a longing for something more or something different. But beloved, the contentment of this world is as temporal as the possessions that are gathered to try and meet it. Contentment gained through the gain of possession is fleeting. It's passing. You know as well as I do that that brand new car that you sit in that was so awesome. How quickly does it get old? How quickly is it just a car? Yes, second pavement. Amen. How quickly does does the new model come out or or whatever? You know, people think or feel like if I, you know, I'll never need anything else or want anything else but this, but it's fleeting. So contentment is not gained or acquired by how much possessions we have, but it's a condition of the heart. We see here it's a command given to us by God. What you need to understand tonight is you can change the circumstances, but if you don't change the heart, you will find you're just as content in your new situation as you were in the last. Sometimes people look for a for a move. Oh, I need to move to a new town. I need to get a you know, go over here or do that. Uh e even sometimes churches. They look, oh I need to get a new church. I need to go find a new church, you know. Go go get 'cause 'cause why? 'Cause they're looking for something. You know any church you go to is gonna be full of people just like this one Or just like any other church. And those people have problems just like the people in this church have problems. And ultimately they all have different names and different faces, but the issues are going to be the same. I mean we're all sinners saved by grace. And you're going to have some people there that are late, like there's some people here that are late. And you're going to have some people that are rude like there's people here that are rude. And we can go down the list. It's all the way across the board. Uh we just gotta learn to be content with what such things as we have The truth being taught in this verse, beloved, regarding contentment is on the source of our contentment, is to be found in being satisfied with the Savior Want you to see, secondly, the promise of his presence. The promise of his presence. He says, For he hath said I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He has said, He, this is God Almighty. This is the creator of the universe, the Savior of your soul that has extended and given you a promise that He would never leave you. He is going to be with you no matter what, no matter where you go, no matter what things you face in this life, he said he would be with you. You've got to understand, beloved, that contentment is found at the foot of the cross. It's found in Jesus Christ. Like the woman at the well who was told, if you drink of that which I have to offer, you'll never thirst again. He's talking about the contentment of his heart, of her heart, that although she was longing and looking for so many things, if she would partake of what Christ had to offer, she could know Joy and full satisfaction in Christ and in Him alone. That's contentment found in Christ, who will never leave thee nor forsake thee. I want to remind you tonight that you have the presence of God. There are far too many discouraged, downhearted, and defeated Christians walking around today. Beloved, we have the presence of God. That promise of God's presence with us. You should know the victorious Christian life. This should not be the exception. It should be the rule. It should be the normal. For Christians to be living victorious. Because one who is saved by the precious blood of Jesus Christ and been forgiven of their sins and they have a home in heaven because Christ and what he did on the cross. They trust in him and him alone. Beloved, he's with you. He's with you. He'll never leave you or forsake you. Joshua 1, verse number 5, he says, As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. We look at that comment and we think about it, we think, man, how he used Moses. Wow, the victorious things he did with Moses. What a promise Joshua had! What a promise he had that God was going to be with him as he went into the promised land and he was going to have what Joshua had, but I want to tell you tonight that God has given you that promise He said he would be with you. He's going to be with you, and he's never going to leave you and he's never going to forsake you. How many people. How many fatherless and motherless children have been comforted by the words in Psalms 27, When my father and my mother forsake me, then my Lord will take me up. Beloved, that's a promise from God that He will take you up. He will be with you, He will strengthen you. This is a relationship that will never change. You know, through your life your relationships change. The dynamics of life change. We have a couple down here Not too far in the future, their relationship's going to change. She's going to have a new title. Wife. Excited about that? Amen. Excited about that. A new a a new relationship established. Relationships change in this week. You know, several people that we know, Pastor Derek's grandfather passed away. That relationship passed away. That relationship is no longer there. But beloved, we have one relationship that will never change, not just here, not just now, but for eternity. And that said, I'm a child of God. He's my father. And he said he would be with me forever. He would never leave me nor forsake me. That promise, how rich, how powerful. There's nothing, beloved, that can change that relationship Nothing that can separate you from the love of God. When others fail you, God will not. When others fall, God will not. The question I have for you tonight is, can you rest in him? Isaiah 26, verse number 3 says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee You see, God is with you. But are you living and experiencing a victorious Christian life? You have God, God's presence, with you That is there for you. But are you doing it? Are you trusting Him? I mean, when you face Satan in that hour of temptation, can you trust God to give you the victory? Can you trust God to help you through? Is he enough for you? Not only do we see, beloved, a proclamation of This precept that we're to be content. And we see the promise of his presence, that he's with us and he's never going to leave us. But we want you to see in verse number six we have the profession. of his power. He says, so that we may boldly say, so that we can profess. The Lord is my helper. And I will not fear what man shall do to me. The question tonight is, are you so thoroughly convinced in your mind and assured of the fact that you have God's presence with you that when you walk into a situation You can boldly declare, God is my helper, God is my God, God is my strength, God is my sustainer, and He will be here right now in this situation to help me. Do you have that confidence? He says that you can boldly say, are you that convinced, beloved, about that relationship that you have with Christ, that He is with you? Is your faith strong enough to boldly declare this? I want to tell you that in the many years that I have been in the ministry now, I've found the majority of Christians' faith to be so weak and anemic that they question if God is even with them, let alone if He is their helper. I can't tell you the questions that I've had. How many times over the years people have come and say, how do I know that God is even with me? You see, they don't have that confidence. They don't have that faith in that relationship with Jesus Christ He is their helper. And in that hour of need, they can rely on him. This relationship, beloved, is vitally important. If you're going to know continually Contentment in this world, you've got to be assured of this relationship because other things change. Situations change, uh circumstances change, financial Prosperity may come or go, and even our personal relationships, the love of our life, as Brother Bob back here not recently buried his wife, that relationship is gone. But beloved, there's one relationship that doesn't change, and that's with Jesus Christ. And if we're going to know contentment, we've got to have that relationship right. And we've got to be assured of it We've got to know that God is there. Sadly, many Christians look at the hardship in their life. Of one kind or another, and they say, well, if God loved me, this wouldn't be happening. If God was with me, then this wouldn't be the situation. I wouldn't be going through this. But this is not true. God has promised He would be with you. There is no question about that. There is a promise from God. If you are a child of God, that is you've Confessed your sin and trusted Christ's payment on the cross for you. As a child of God, you have his presence. The Holy Spirit came to dwell in with you, and God has said he would be with you. If you are a Christian and you say that I don't know if God's here. Or I don't know if I if God is with me through this. I want you to know you've allowed Satan to win a monumental victory in your life. He's convinced you a lot of a lie That you don't have God. You have a promise from God. You've got to believe His Word. Beloved, there's a battle raging in the heart of man between faith and fear. It has always been that way, for fear is the exact opposite of faith. That battle rages. When our kids were young We find them perched in a tree or some other lofty place. You know, they climbed up into a tree and they're playing around and it's kind of high and they're not sure how to get down. And you know, dad goes up and dad says, jump! And the kid looks at you and looks at the distance to the ground and looks back at you and that battle is raging. Faith in dad and fear of falling. And you're like, go ahead, go ahead, Andrew, jump. I'll catch you. No, no, just let go. Don't hold on, just let go, just jump. I'll catch you. And you see them. They're like, you know, and you're trying to tell them, I I got you. Just just let go. I don't want to have to climb up there and get you. I'll catch you. Come on, just trust dad That battle of faith and fear, and beloved, in our life, it is no different with our Heavenly Father, where we battle between faith and fear. We allow fear to hinder us from doing what God wants, or fear hold us back. When God says, just jump, I've got you. I'm with you. I'll never leave you. I'll never forsake you. So that you can boldly say, God is my helper. Is your faith in God sufficient for you to have complete and total reliance on Him? He's promised to be there. Do you believe it? Do you have faith in that fact? We see here this friend that sticketh closer than a brother He stayed close. He's there. A friend is stayed closer than a brother. Beloved, it is a test of our faith when we stand. Against fear. We know that perfect love casteth out fear. And that God has perfect love for His children. It's easy for us to say I will not fear, that I don't have fear when it's somebody else's situation I recall when I was in college this kind of trend started where the guys started trying to scare each other. We were working very hard at it. And uh we used to have to park back at Fort Apache and walk up to the guy's dorm, and it was a good distance that you would walk. And so some of the guys started like hiding in the bushes. at night and waiting for somebody else to come by. And then they would jump out of the bushes and ah you know scream. And uh so some friends of mine were involved in this and And I thought about it and I thought, well, I need to get them I need to get 'em. And they were told, uh, you know, of course there's all the people talking around the the college, like, oh that wouldn't bother me, uh I wouldn't be afraid, you know, idiot It's jumping out of a bush, blah blah, you know. So my a couple of my friends were were house sitting, and they didn't know that I knew they were house sitting. So I went to this house about ten thirty at night And I was looking for a way to get in. And they were all sitting in a living room, and I saw there's an upstairs window open, so I climbed a tree, I got across the tree. I climbed onto the roof, got into the upstairs window, and I'm about to go downstairs, and I think, hmm, there's a shotgun hanging on the wall. So I grabbed a pillowcase off of the uh bed there and this pillowcase was so old I could see through it. So I put this pillowcase over my head and I grabbed the shotgun. And I come down to the to the to the stairs, there's like six steps to go down, and then there's a landing, and then three steps to go down into the living room, and these guys are all sitting in the living room. And I got about halfway down and I jumped. I had this shotgun. I mean these college men, these college men squealed like girls, okay? One of the guys was on the couch and he had all his arms up in the air and his legs up in the air and he was going I mean just screaming like a girl. Funny funniest thing I ever saw. It was so much fun until the dogs started coming at me. And I had to run back upstairs. Then I was the one that was scared. And I'm saying, it's Caleb. Call the dogs off. Call the dogs off. I mean and they those dogs never did like me after that It didn't matter when it was. They just sat and growled at me if they ever saw me. But you know it's easy to say, Oh, I wouldn't be afraid or I don't fear. Listen, when somebody else is in the hospital and you say, Hey, listen, just trust God When somebody else doesn't have a job and you look at them and you say, uh, hey, God will meet the need. When somebody else is struggling, it's not, it's, it's, it's easy to talk about not having fear, but what about when it's us? When our loved one is on that hospital bed, then do we have faith to stand with God? And confidence that we can say boldly, God is my helper. You see, beloved, what we're talking about here is things that please God, things that make God happy, things that He looks at and is satisfied with. And God likes it when His people can rely totally on Him. You know, as individuals, as parents, we spend our life raising our kids to be more and more independent so that they go out and live the life that God wants them to live. But as God's children, we should spend our life becoming more and more dependent on Him.