We're going to get into the Word of God here. Would you turn to Matthew chapter number five? Matthew chapter number five. Now I know that you all are familiar with what a mirage is. Back when this country was heading west in the gold rushes, when there were families loading up all of their belongings and they were heading out west, they would reach uh Death Valley, they would reach that place which was so hot and you would see literally along the trail the possessions that people uh thought were so important when they left home just thrown out beside the trail because they realized that that really was of no value to them if they weren't gonna make it to their destination. that thing was weighing them down that was keeping them from getting to where they should be in their stories and I'm sure that many of you have whether seen depictions of this or watched an old western or something like that that Maybe you've seen people literally uh at the point of despair where th they haven't had anything to drink in days and they're looking off in the distance and And all of a sudden they they see there in the distance, there there it is. There's there's water. And they begin to go towards that water thinking that there's a lake or a pond or something there, finally they're going to be able to get a drink of refreshing water. And yet the further they travel, the further away it gets The mirage continues to move and finally they give up all hope, realizing that it was just fake. It was just a mirage. It was just something their mind was creating, the shimmer of the heat and the the sky and whatever. It was all fake. Well sadly, beloved, I believe that there are many Christians. Who begin their Christian life and they hear about the joy of the Lord and the satisfaction that there is in following Christ. And they begin that journey, but the problem is they've got too money, too much baggage They've got a lot of things in their life that they think are valuable, that they think are worth carrying, that they won't that they don't want to give up, and as they head in their Christian life, they start throwing off some of those things, praise God, because those are things we don't need What shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? So they begin to throw those things off and they say, Well, I don't really need that, I don't really need that, I don't really need that, but they're looking ahead At what they perceive to be the joy of the Lord and satisfaction in this Christian life. And it's sad, but they reach a point where they begin to think That is just a mirage. That real joy of the Lord, that real satisfaction that they desire to have in the pursuit of Christ is not there. That it's all fake. They begin to grow cynical and bitter, and they think about other people that have the joy of the Lord and they see them in church saying, Praise God, and and singing out with joy in their heart And then they begin to get all cynical and think, ah, it's all fake. It's all a show. I've been doing this thing for a while, and there is no joy in serving Jesus. The sad thing, beloved, is the problem is not that it's fake. The problem is looking them in the mirror every day. You see, beloved, because the joy of the Lord and satisfaction in this life comes in the second mile. I would like to preach to you this morning for a few minutes on second mile satisfaction. Second mile satisfaction. Beloved, we need to be second-mile Christians in a one-mile world. We need to learn how to live in and go the second mile. Jesus talks about this in Matthew chapter number 5. Would you look at it with me in the Word of God, verses 38 through 48? He says, ye have heard it, that it hath been said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say unto you, ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if a man will sue thee at the law and take away thy coat, Let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that seeketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away. You have heard it You have heard that it hath been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy, but I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse the curse you and do good to them that hate you and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh the sun to rise on evil and on the good, and sendeth the rain on the just and the unjust. For ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your own brethren only, what doth ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? Be therefore perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven, is imperfect, is perfect. In verse number 41, he says, And whosoever shall compel thee to go mile, Go with him, twain. You see, Jesus is describing for the disciples here the difference between the law And grace. The law which Jesus came to fulfill, not to destroy, but the law, beloved Was merely something that man did, that he must do, that he must perform or fulfill out of duty. But grace is what man does because of love. When we live by the law, we only do that which we must. Only that which we absolutely have to. When a child asks mom or dad, is that clean enough? What they're saying is, have I done enough to get by? Have I cleaned it enough that we can be done with this? I don't want to do any extra. I just want to make sure I've got enough done Beloved, we have not learned that the true joy that's in the Christian life comes when we get under grace, when we're motivated by love, and we move into the second mile. It was the practice of C. H. Spurgeon to encourage the young men that he affectionately called his preacher boys. To instruct them to teach or to speak from this passage at least four times a year Well, the last time I preached from this passage was in 2020. It's been five years, so I'm a little behind C. H. Spurgeon's recommendations for this text. Well let me begin here this morning by kind of giving you a little bit of an explanation for what it is that Jesus is saying when he Says unto them, if a man compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. You see, this expression came out of old Persia. It was a uh habit it was something that had been put into place where a soldier who was on king's business could conscript Could compel, could demand of anyone that they serve them for one mile. You were down here at the corner in Shawan and York, and somebody on King's Business could stop you and say, I need your car. For one mile. And there was nothing you could do about it. They could take your your your chariot or your horse or your donkey or they could conscript you to carry their load They could command you and there's nothing you could do. You're required to carry that for a mile. Well, that was in old Persia, and that had been adopted by the Greeks and the Romans, and the Romans had taken a little bit further And of course in those situations those types of things tend to get abused and what would happen is uh you know, Penny that what the guy let's say I was a Roman soldier, I would come by and I would say, Boy, I want you to come and uh you're gonna carry my load and as soon as I got As soon as I got to the end of the mile, then I would say, Hey Bob, Penny here's free. I'm done. And Bob would say, Penny, I need you to carry my load for a mile. And then they they would just continue to abuse that. And you know, the the the Jews could be out in their field ploughing and trying to get in the harvest before the storm would come. There's rain coming and they got to get in the harvest before it rains and then all of a sudden they get pulled away from what they were doing and they have to carry somebody's load or they have to give their donkeys up to carry something. Beloved, this was a humiliation for the Jewish people. This was a reminder of them living under somebody else's rule. It was something that they avoided and didn't like at all, and yet Jesus looked at them and said, Hey, if somebody compels thee to go a mile, go with him, Twain. Man, that was foreign. Boy, they literally at that time, and if you've been in Israel or some of these older uh nations, there are literally mile markers. People had one mile marked off from their house. Not mile markers like we have down the highway, but I mean from their front door they would have one mile marked and they'd get to the end of that one mile and they'd be like, okay, that's all I gotta do. See ya And Jesus said, hey, when somebody compels thee to go a mile, go with them, Twain. Go the second mile, because that is where joy and satisfaction comes. Jesus brings this home to them by giving them this very vivid and real illustration. You see the law compelled the first mile, but love compels the second. That's what the Lord has and desires for you and I. Could I tell you this morning that God did not just ask that of us or say that we should do it, but I can tell you that He is the example of it. God created man and put him in a perfect environment. God gave man a perfect place to live. They had wants for nothing at all. Everything that they ever could desire was present there, but there was one tree, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, that they were not to eat of. Jesus did, God did not want uh robots. He wanted men that chose to love him, men that desired to follow him, men that wanted to be with him, men that made the decision out of love to be obedient to him. So he said and put this one test in the garden and man, of course, you know, chose to go his own way. chose to try and have the knowledge of God. And what he found is he got what he wanted, but he lost what he had. He was kicked out of the garden, and wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world. And so death by sin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. All men have sinned. Why? Because Adam and Eve sinned. You see, God, the Creator, created man. Gave him everything he could ever want, and man rejected him. God gave man the covenant of the law. The law, beloved, was a hard task, Master. It's impossible for man to keep the law You see, if you uh break the law in any point, you have broken it all. I have here a piece of paper and I could say, well I still have all this that's unaffected, but the paper's broken. Oh, but all this is still good. Yeah, but it's broken. You see, beloved, that's what the Bible tells us. The law really Was put in place for man to understand that they needed grace. That we could never do it by ourselves, no matter how good you are. You may be a really, really, really good person. But no matter how good you are, you are not perfect. For all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. God's glory is his perfection We come short of that no matter how good you are, if you're honest this morning, you know you come short of perfection. Amen? And that's the thing, you see the the the law simply was set there uh to show us that we couldn't do it ourselves. I mean how many laws do I have to break to be a lawbreaker? One. How many lies do I have to tell to be a liar? Just one. How many things do I have to steal to be a thief? One. So I'm a lawbreaker, a thief, and a liar. We don't have any kids here that are they're all downstairs. When I was about six years old, I'm gonna you guys are gonna just you're gonna find a new church after this morning. When I was got si about six years old I got hauled home in a police car. You guys remember those little Candies that they used to have uh inside of a lipstick case. Like you'd crank it up and you could eat those. I was in the piggy the wiggly. And the piggly wiggly. I was with a friend. Be careful about what kind of friends you have. I was with this friend and this friend told me take some of those and put 'em in your pocket. So I reached down and grabbed a handful. Not just one. Sin will make you stupid. Can I tell you that? My pocket looked like this. And I'm walking out of the store. The owner of the store is like, son, come here I was begging the police officer just throw me in jail. Don't take me home to my parents. I'm gonna be better off in prison. Don't take me home, man, when that guy knock that police officer knocked on the door and told my mom standing there that her son had stole from the piggly wiggly Man, I thought you're never gonna see me again. It's done. Listen, we've all done things that are wrong. The law is put there to show us that we've transgressed the law, that we've sinned. He says in James chapter 2, verse number 10, For whosoever shall keep the whole law yet offend in one point is guilty of all. You're guilty of the whole law, because you've broken the law. And then God went the second mile for us. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God created us and then man rejected him and then God sent his son to die and be crucified on a cross. To purchase our redemption, beloved I've told it before and I know many of you probably ha have heard it, but there's I don't know such a such a beautiful story of What God did for us in the story of the little boy who crafted his own boat. He desired to have a little sailboat and he worked on it and he he cut the pieces of wood and he shaped it into the the form of a boat and He put tar on the inside to seal it up so that that it wouldn't get any water in it. And he sanded the outside and made it so smooth it would slide and glide through the water so perfectly. He put a rudder on the bottom so that it would have stability, and then he he crafted the top of it so that it would uh look beautiful, and then he took one of his old shirts and asked mom before, but he took one of his old shirts and he tore it up and made himself a beautiful sail and finally the day came that he was able to go down and to put his boat in the water to see if it floats and he he just very gingerly put it in and just see is it gonna float? I mean I made this myself, you know. And he put it in and and it floated and he's played with it for a while and he thought, well I wonder if it would sail and He took his shirt that he had made into a sail and he affixed it to the boat and it it w the wind a breeze came and filled the sail. And then it started drifting away all on its own. He thought, wow, it's sailing. Look at that. Well, that's amazing. And he's looking at it, watching it sail, and so excited about it, but before he realized it, it's like, whoa It's getting kind of far away. And so he he began to go into the water to go after it, but as he was going into the water, the waves he was creating and the breeze from the wind kept pushing it further and further away, and he he couldn't get it He stood there on the shore until he watched his boat, hoping it would turn, hoping the wind would change, somehow it would come back to him, but it didn't. It was a few weeks later that he was walking downtown in his little small town, and there in the window of the secondhand store was his vote. He thought, wow, my boat. And he walked inside and he told the he told the owner, he says, Sir, sir, sir, sir, that that's my boat. That's my boat. And he went over to the front window and he grabbed the boat and he began to walk out with it. And the guy says, Wait Young man, that's not your boat. Somebody came in here and sold me that. I paid for that. He's like, no, no, no, no. Sir, I I made this boat. I built this boat. I crafted this. Look Right here where I spilled the paint and it kind of ran down right here. Hey, this is my shirt. This is a shirt that my mom gave me and I cut it up and made this sail. This is my boat. I made this. And he says, son, if you wanted that boat, you're gonna have to pay for it His boy says, I don't have any money. He says, Well you aren't walking out with that boat. You're gonna have to pay for it. He went home and he asked his friends and his neighbors and everybody he could and he went and he earned And he saved and he scraped and got together enough money the day came that he went down to their store and he put down his money on the table and he bought back his own boat. On the way out of the store, he was heard to say, now you're twice mine. First, I made you, and now I paid for you. Beloved, that's what Jesus did when he went the second mile for you and I. He created you and I. And because of our sin we are separated for him, but then he sent his son to die and pay our sin debt. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus, payment for your sin. Do it before it's too late. Do it before you no longer have the opportunity. Will you accept what He has done for you to pay and cover your sin this morning? He created you. And then he cared enough to shed his blood for you. Don't reject that. We see he lives the example, but we are supposed to make this part of our lives. It's supposed to be an expansion. Of who we are, of what we do. We are to be second-mile Christians in a one-mile world. Beloved, there is no joy or satisfaction in half-heartedness. There's just not Half-hearted is the way the average person lives, doing just enough to get by. Just enough to keep from getting fired. Just enough to keep the kids occupied for another day. Just enough to keep your parents off your back for right now. Just enough to look like a Christian. Just enough to keep your mate from complaining too much. Living half hearted, living in the first mile Beloved, it is the love of Christ that constrains us to move beyond and follow his example to the second mile. This world wants to get as much as they can for as little effort as they can, but God calls of us to do the opposite I mean it sounds good on the surface, like why wouldn't you? Why wouldn't you just get as much as you can for as little as you can? Because that's not where joy and satisfaction comes. Have you kids ever got a D in school? Yeah, well say you don't have to answer but You know y you just getting by, like you know you didn't really study, you know you didn't really work hard, and you're just getting by in that class. There's no you don't look forward to going to that class. You hate it. Going in there every day I know because I live that. It's terrible. But do you know when you're working hard and you're doing your best, you enjoy it. It's like, man, look at that. You stand back and say, look at look at that. I made a meal for my brothers when we were on vacation, and uh it was unedible. I know that's hard to believe. But it was terrible. I mean I did not want to feed it to them I'm like, this is I don't know what happened. I I mean I cooked them some ribs and the ribs were tough. They came out tough. I'm like, man We need to throw these in a crock pot for about eight hours. No, I not we put it in for about three hours. But it was that was way too late for dinner at that point. They just didn't soften up. I smoked them here before we left. But it was terrible. But I was embarrassed. I'm like man I do not want you guys to eat. There was no satisfaction in that. But do you know the satisfaction when you put everything in, you do all this work, and you serve it to them, and they eat that and they're like, oh, oh, man, that's good. I my older brother Dave he likes to say that's like candy. Oh man, that's good. Wow. You know he it's it's good. There's joy, there's satisfaction when we go the second mile. What I'm saying, beloved, is we need to begin to live in the second mile in every area of our lives. Stop being satisfied with being just enough to get by. He said, you've heard it said, but I say unto you, you see, you've heard it said, an eye for an eye. You've heard these things said. The philosophy of the world is present. Just do enough to get by. Just do what you have to do. Don't do any extra. Don't, don't, don't, I'm not going to do any extra for them But that's the world's philosophy. God says there's satisfaction, there's joy if you go the second mile. Go the second mile, beloved, in your service for God. Could I encourage you to make church a priority? Satan's going to give you every excuse in the world to not show up for church. To skip being in God's house. But beloved, God wants you when the family of God gets together, you're part of the family of God, God wants you to be there. Forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together as a manner of some is. God says, Hey, there's some people that forsake the assembly. When the family gets together, you come. But I encourage you to be a part of the family of God, be present. I received a letter this week from a church in Baltimore. I'm not going to tell you which one unless you decide to go there. They are giving thousand dollar scholarships. To parents for their children, if they will attend church twenty times over the next year. Beloved, that is pitiful. It is pitiful that we've got to the place that you have to pay somebody to honor God. It's even more pitiful that the standard is twenty. Twenty out of fifty-two. That's not even fifty percent. That's not even half the time. How is it or why is that worth getting anything? I was floored when I read this. Hey, we would gladly give you $1,000 for your kids or for their school or their education if you would attend church 20 times on the next 52 Sundays. Is that what we've come to? And we've got to be paid to do what God asks of us? Or would we make church a priority? Would we determine our hearts to honor and to love and to please God because that's where joy comes from? In your service for God, in your work for God, go the second mile. Beloved, outside of somebody attempting to go the second mile, nobody would have ever summited Mount Everest. Nobody would have ever performed the first heart surgery. Nobody would have ever performed the first brain surgery outside of somebody being willing to go the second mile. In 1920, there was a young pharmacist just got out of college and he bought his own pharmacy in the south side of Chicago. After a few weeks of running the pharmacy, the the ho drum and the the day-to-day monotony of the job was kind of boring to him, and he was getting a little bit like just wasn't as fun as he thought it would be and then he got an idea. He says, you know what? This was just when people started calling their prescriptions in The phone had just kind of started getting installed and people would call their prescriptions in and uh he thought, well, most of my customers are in the region. So he hired a young man and when somebody would call with their prescription he would say, Okay, you're on you're on 1220 Charles Street. Wonderful, wonderful. That's that's that's a beautiful neighborhood. You know, how long have you lived there And uh you begin to talk to them and and the prescription you need, and he would begin to talk to them, and he re-read ever reset everything they said, and while he was doing that, somebody in the office was filling the prescription. And then he had this boy, he gave him the prescription, and the boy would run to the house. And the goal was for them to still be talking on the phone when the prescription showed up at the door. And he decided that's what we're going to try and do. So he got his team together and they got excited about doing this and he uh started making this and uh that's when Charles Walgreen revolutionized the pharmacy industry because he decided to go a second mile He wasn't content with things just the way they are. He wanted to go beyond. What about in your sacrifice for God? Have you ever learned the joy of giving? George Truett, who's a pastor of a Baptist church in Dallas, Texas, had a multimillionaire in his church. I'm glad we have seven or eight of those here. Because uh we gotta build a building someday. Uh but George Truett he he tells a story of this man in his multimillionaire's church and he said exactly what I began to talk about this morning, that he had no joy. He says, you talk about the joy of the Lord and I I don't have any joy. And he he came into the office, he told Brother True, and he said, I want you to take my name off the roll. I'm done. He says, that's fine. Uh I'll be happy to do that, whatever you desire. But before you do Uh could I ask you the the Henderson family are really struggling financially. They're in great need. Now listen, don't be cheap, but I want you to go out and buy a bunch of groceries for them. Would you take it down to their house? Just drop it off and just be a blessing to them and you come back next week and I'll remove you from the rolls. Well, this man went out and bought a bunch of groceries. Easy for him to do, you know, he bought some groceries, took it over to their house and He walked up on the porch with these arms full of groceries, and the door was open, but the screen door was there, and he he was about to knock on the screen door when he heard from inside Mrs. Henderson Crying out to God. Not wanting to interrupt her prayer, he just stood quietly waiting. But in the prayer he heard her talk about with tears in her eyes and obvious Turmoil in her voice, crying out to God, God, you know where we are, and we haven't wasted our money and we've been tried to honor you and Lord We need you to meet our needs. God, I've got to feed my little boy and I need to put some food on the table for my little girl. Lord, you know where we're at, Lord. Would you please provide something for our family? God, I'm trusting in you. We're relying on you. I'm trying to be faithful to you. And she's just pouring her heart out to God. And Mr. Mr. The millionaire was standing there like a little bit embarrassed, not sure if he should leave or if he should knock or what he should do, but finally she said amen and then he knocks on the door. She comes to the door and opens it and sees him standing there with all this all these grocers and and and she says, Oh, glory to God Oh, amen. Look at what God did. Hey, come on in here. Come on in here. And and he comes in carrying the groceries and he sets them down and And and she says, Jay, come here, come here, come, let's sit, let's get down right here in the living room. We're gonna thank God for sending you an angel from heaven Providing exactly what we needed. Oh, let's get down right here. Let's pray together. And she she gets down on the floor and says, Come on, come on, kneel down. We're gonna talk to God And we're gonna thank him for what he did. And she began to thank God for delivering these groceries and meeting her need and mis d this Mr. True tells how this missionary or this millionaire got up and went home and he came back to church the next week and he said, Hey, forget taking my name off the rolls. I didn't realize what being a Christian was. Beloved, we need to learn to go the second mile and stop living for self. Go the second mile in your relationships, in your home, with your kids, with your families. Don't just let life happen to you. Make life happen for you. Invest in your mate. Go the second mile for your relationship. It's worth it. That's where the joy is. That's where the satisfaction is. The half-hearted effort you put towards your relationship is why you're getting half-hearted results. If you would put forth that extra effort, you did it when you were dating. You did it when you were pursuing her. You did it when you wanted him. You did it when you desired to be together and you thought, boy, I'm going to do this. And here's the thing, is at that time you were trying to show your love, not just state your love. You were trying to convince them that you love them. But now that you're married, now that you've been married for a number of years, you're like, ah, I don't have to convince them anymore. But you know it would be a good thing. And Mary and I, we were dating. I told her that it was going to be two years before we could get engaged because I had two years of college to finish And can I tell you honestly, she was a little bit worried about me going back to college with all them girls and her being home alone And uh she wasn't really for that, but I said, hey, I gotta finish college. You know, everybody says you shouldn't get married until you're out of college. And I had convinced her that I loved her. We were probably gonna get married, but uh, you know, maybe someday. And uh anyways, I planned I planned this date with her, or we went out into the hills of Arkansas, and there's a really nice old-fashioned restaurant that's a high end steakhouse that they they took an old church and converted it to a steakhouse and I had arranged for us to have our own private room. And our own waiter, our waiter, you know, this one that he stood at the door with a towel over his his arm, you know, he's standing there just just doing whatever we wanted, that's it. He served us our meal there. And then when we left there, I had I had arranged for us to be able to go out on a on a walk along this lake. And this lake had a beautiful peninsula that went out into the middle of it, a kind of a U-shape that went out into the middle of the peninsula. And I and I took time to put a uh to put a picnic bench out on the end of that peninsula so that it would be there. So that when we went to this walk, we could stop at the picnic bench. And I could get down and say, Hey, will you marry me? And I proposed to her there at the sunset on the end of a peninsula. All planned. And that's the last time we went out. Pray pray for Mary and I. We need to have a good date. No, we you know that's not true. But listen, what I'm saying is I put forth all that effort I put all that planning. I put everything in place. If you go the extra mile, you get extra mile results. She said yes. Amen. The problem is you're getting half-hearted results because you're living half-hearted. God calls for us to be second-mile Christians in a one-mile world. If we would go the second mile in our relationships, it would revolutionize. He says, uh Love your enemies. That's the second mile. This is where we see the elation, the satisfaction, the joy. You see, there's no joy or satisfaction in the first mile. It's when you reach the second mile. When we were growing up in our home, You guys know we grew up in a pastor's home and uh we would have other people stand around and my brothers and I, my family, you know, uh especially my older brother, he would hear dad You'd hear dad talking to people and people would be bragging on their kids. People would be talking about how good their kids were, or how their kids did this, or they did that, or they accomplished this, or just bragging on all their kids. Dad never really said anything. This bothered my older brother so much that he went to dad and he says, Dad You know, I I'm standing there and I hear these people bragging on their kids and you never say anything about us. Are you not proud of us? Are you ashamed of us? Are we not doing what you want? And Dad looked at him and said, son, The joy that I have is I am proud of you. And I'm proud because I don't have to brag on you. Other people do. And if you'll just listen, you'll hear other people. And we saw it over and over growing up, people come and just compliment dad on his kids. compliment dad on how that they're doing and bragging on his kids. He didn't have to. But I'm saying, beloved, he was enjoying having gone the second mile. He was and is now today getting the privilege of enjoying second mile satisfaction now later in his life. All of the consistency, all of the discipline, all of the faithfulness, all of the hours when you thought, is this ever going to bring forth any results? But continuing to do so, and it brought forth results, and he gets the joy and the satisfaction of having gone the second mile. You see, too many Christians are living in John 17, 10. John 17, 10 says, So likewise when ye shall have done all the things which are commanded you, Say we are unprofitable servants. If you read that text, you realize that it is the individual that says that. It is an acknowledgement and it's an understanding that I only went halfway. And every one of you here know. When you do it halfway, you're not happy. You're not satisfied. You barely got done. You almost want to just sweep it under the rug. You want to cover it up. You're like, okay, I'll try and do better next time. I'm just going to get past that. Well listen, beloved, you can't do anything about yesterday, but you can do something about tomorrow. You can begin to be a second mile Christian. in a one mile world. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed