Well this evening I'm gonna speak uh on the judgments that we see in the Bible. Uh I've had numerous people ask me questions with regards to the judgment, specifically the judgment seat of Christ and the Great White Throne judgment. uh in recent days. It really stirred because of this discipleship program that these people have gone through this discipleship and they're they're getting an appetite and they want to learn more about these things and They hear a little bit about it and they're like, you know, what what does this mean or what's the timing of this? And uh, you know, so it's motivated some more questions and specifically uh you know you you uh it it stirs me to thought and study and and to provide or give answers uh and because there's been several uh and specifically somebody asked if I would do some teaching on it Um I figured I would do that. Now somebody asked me this morning about tithing, so maybe that's coming up soon too. Yeah, you know, a few weeks ago somebody asked me about hell and so you gotta be careful what you ask me about because uh you know it might might turn into a message uh that uh that everybody can glean or benefit from. But we're going to look tonight uh very briefly at the different judgments that we see in the Bible and then specifically narrow in on the great white throne judgment. and the judgment seat of Christ. But there are other judgments that are mentioned in the Bible. There are places that we see judgment take place. And so I thought it would be good for you just to have these if you're Again, wanting to grow, wanting to study. And because this is a topical message, we are going to be looking at a lot of different passages of scripture, and I will be asking you to turn to numerous different things. For to start out this evening, if you would turn to uh John chapter 5 and verse number 24. John five, twenty-four. Uh we see the first judgment here, this is a judgment that uh we praise God for because it's the judgment of our sin that took place on Calvary. Uh and for every person who has had the privilege of bringing their sin to the foot of the cross, we know that God uh judged that sin and covered that sin on the cross. And I'm going to give you several verses with regards to this judgment just so that you can have them. But we see The judgment of sin that takes place at Calvary. John five twenty-four. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation but pass from death unto life, because our sin was covered, was judged at the cross Now, uh I'm going to give you some other references. I don't know that you'll have time to turn to these, but you at least can note them down. If you would note down Romans 5. 9 and Romans 8, verse number 1 and 5. 9, he says Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. We're saved from that wrath, that judgment of God, because Our sin was judged on the cross. Instead of one day standing at the great white throne judgment and having our sin judged there and being cast for an eternity in a place called hell, our sin was judged on the cross and covered by Jesus Christ. We've been freed from the wrath of God. Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Galatians 3. 13. He says, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Again, our judgment uh or our sin was judged on the cross by Jesus Christ. Second Corinthians 5. 21, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Hebrews 10, 10, by the which we will we sorry, will we, but even my brain's going faster than my mouth or my tongue. By the which we are sanctified through the offering of the blood of Jesus Christ once and for all sanctified by that offering of Jesus Christ that was given in sacrifice for us once and for all. One time in your life you come to the cross and confess the fact that you're a sinner and Jesus Christ in his shed blood covers your sin once and for all. It's not something that you have to do every morning. It's not something that you do Every time you feel guilty, you come one time, and the perfect shed blood of Jesus Christ covers your sin once and for all. If you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior Your sin can be forgiven. It can be judged on the cross. And believe me, you want it judged there by Christ on the cross instead of the great white throne judgment, which we will be getting to later. But we see first of all the judgment of sin that takes place At Calvary secondly, we see the judgment of self that's supposed to take place every day. Turn to 1 Corinthians 11. 1 Corinthians chapter number 11. Now this is something that we talk about here, uh especially uh around time when we have the Lord's Supper. We observe the Lord's Supper here uh you know pretty much about every three to four months or so. And uh just about the time you think, man, it's been a little while since we've done that, we want to try and do it again. We want to be reminded And you know the Lord suffers a time of examination, a time of self-examination where we be sure that we're right with God. But in 1 Corinthians 11, verses 31 Through 33, he says, For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. Now God is going to chasten those whom he loves. And you can run from God and you can try and hide, but you know he's going to come. God's going to chasten those whom he loves, just like a father would chasten his son. God's going to chasten you if you're away from him and running from God. But he says here, listen, you don't have to get under the chastening hand of God if you would judge yourself. If you would examine yourself and say, wait a minute, this isn't right. Lord, forgive me. And we know he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We can come back to him and have that relationship restored at any time. So we are to judge ourselves. Then we see the judgment of the nations in Matthew 25, verse 31. Matthew 25, if you want to turn there, Matthew 25, 31 to 33. Now this, the judgment of the nations, uh I have to be honest with you with regards to in times. In times is not something that I'm it very strong on And uh some of these things I don't completely understand exactly what happens or how it happens or when it's going to happen. There's some things, I'm sure some of this I'm I'm just gonna create questions. But it you're gonna have to do a bunch more study and understand the context of this passage and who he's talking to and when does it take place and that kind of stuff. But we see a judgment given to us here the judgment of the nations. He says in Matthew 25, verses 31 through 33, he says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from the other, as the shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. and he shall set the sheep on the right hand and the goats on the left. There is a separating here. And I don't understand the the exact time frame of when this takes place because Uh again, we're going to get to the judgment seat of Christ, and we know at the judgment seat of Christ that that's for believers. And so you look at it and you say, well, it has to happen before that because God has already separated out. the the the goats from the sheep. God's already separated the wheat from the terrors. That's that's happened. Unless you consider or think about the millennial kingdom and that time when uh the devil's going to be loose for a period of time beforehand and and you've got a lot of other uh you know eschatology that that can play in there and and so again I'm not going to get hard fast and try and give you a bunch of definite upon this. I just see one thing that's very notable that we need to realize here, that there's only two groups listed. In this here, there's only two groups. There is no in-between. There's no neutral ground you see here that there are only those that are saved or those that are lost. There is only the sheep or the goats. There's only two possibilities. In all of the world and all the people that are living There's only two possibilities. There's those that know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, been forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. They've put their faith and trust in Him, or those who have not. They may even, as he says in Matthew, they may even say, Lord, Lord, have not we prophesied in thy name? But God's going to say, depart from me, I never knew you. He's going to separate them out. There may be people that meet in churches every single Sunday, but they've not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ to forgive them of their sin. They may testify to having a love for God, but they've never bowed humbly before the cross of God and been forgiven by Jesus Christ. They'll live their whole life dependent upon some measure of works for their salvation, and here they're going to be separated out as a goat. Because there's only two, they're saved or lost. Then we see in Psalms chapter 50, verses 1 through 7, we see a judgment of Israel. And I believe Israel is going to be judged because of their rejection of the Messiah. But in Psalms 50, verses 1 through 7, and we're not going to read all of these verses, but if you look at verse number 4, he says, And he shall call to the heavens from above and to the earth that he may judge His people. Gather my saints together unto me those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. And the heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God is God is judge himself. Selah. Verse number seven, hear, O my people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against thee. I am God. even thy God. So again, another judgment that we see here. Turn to, well, depending upon where you want to go here, let's let's go to Jude chapter 1. Jude chapter 1. Don't get lost. In verse number 6, you want to turn to Jude 1. 6, right? Or Jude 6, because you could just leave the one off. But in Jude chapter 1 and verse number 6, we see the judgment of Satan and his angels. The judgment of Satan and his angels. And we're moving quick because our focus is going to be on the last two that we're going to get to here. But we see a judgment of the Satan and his angels. He says, and the angels which kept not their first state. but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. And another verse that teaches this is 2 Peter 2, verse number 4. He says, for if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell. and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. And so we see the the these judgments listed, these are judgments that are found in the Word of God. But ultimately, uh this evening the area of focus uh and answer to the questions that are asked of me is we're going to look at the judgment seat of Christ. So turn to 2 Corinthians chapter number 5 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. I know we've done a lot of turning uh tonight, which is unusual because I usually just you know rattle off the the scriptures because I put all the scripture in my notes so that I can stay on track. And uh then that doesn't usually give you time to turn, but I want you to see these things. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 10. We see, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that every one may receive the things done in his body according to hath to he to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Another parallel passage with this is Romans don't turn there, but Romans 14, 10 through 12. He says, But why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. So we beloved, we know that the next thing on God's calendar is the rapture of the church. We're going to be caught up together in the clouds. You know, the dead in Christ are going to rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. We know that's the next thing. And that's going to be a glorious day We look at that day with anticipation and with excitement. And we should, as Christians, we're told to anticipate that day. We're told to look for the soon appearing of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Well I tell you what, if we kept that in view, it might help us to stay on track, keeping that in view a little bit. But Immediately following that, beloved, there is taking place up in heaven the judgment seat of Christ And I want you to see several truths that are very clear in our text here about the judgment seat of Christ tonight. First of all, attendance is required He says here, we must all appear before the judgment. We must all appear. This is not something that you're going to be able to get an excused absence for If you're a believer, if you know your sins have been forgiven, you're going to be called before the judge. You're going to have to appear there. All those that are believers are going to be present on that day. It's a required. Attendance, but no lost people will be present there. This is for the believer. We see not only is attendance required, but we see that the judge is righteous. The judge is righteous. In 2 Timothy 4. 8 he says, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. He is a righteous judge. In John 5, verse number 22, he says, For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committeth all judgment unto his son. We see in our text right here, it's called the judgment seat of what? Christ. You see, Jesus Christ is going to be the judge. He is a righteous judge. There's a couple notable things about that. I think it's pretty amazing that the Father gave all authority and all judgment to the Son. who was tempted in all points like we are, who knows what it means to To walk down here on earth, who endured and went through the things. I think it's just amazing how God said, listen, you've been through this, you stand as their judge. Now he was perfect, and he's a righteous judge. But he's also a judge that knows what you've endured. He's a judge that knows what you've been through. He's going to be a righteous judge. You're not going to be judged by your mom who lets you get by with everything but murder Like Caleb in our house. His older siblings are like definitely that guy gets away with everything. He never gets in trouble. The older ones, you see, that's what happens. The older ones got whooped and Caleb said, I ain't doing that. Yep, I'm smarter than that. And so he didn't get near as many spankings. Now he might not be he may be the worse off for it. We'll find out in a couple years. But uh He uh you know the how they the kids they talk about him getting away with everything. But but you know, you're not gonna stand at the judgment seat before a friend who's gonna say, Oh, it's okay Now you're going to stand before a friend. He's a friend that's even closer than a brother. He is the Lord Jesus Christ, and he loves you more than anybody possibly can here on earth. But he's a righteous judge. He's not gonna let you just slide by because you had a bad day or because life is difficult. No, he's a righteous judge. We see that it's a time of receiving. He said that everyone may receive the things done in his body. What I want you to understand, beloved, that every decision you and I make as a child of God has eternal implications. It has eternal implications. I know many times we think about our decision to do this today or do that today or we just casually go about our lives and and don't really think about the the long term or even eternal implications of the decisions that we make. Oh, we see eternal implications in the decision to lead somebody to Christ, and praise the Lord, we get to lead somebody to Christ, but Maybe not the internal implications off of our own wrong attitude or our wrong spirit that we might have that impacts others. Every decision we make has eternal implications. There is some thought or debate or consideration with regards to this judgment because We of course know that ultimately our sins are judged, are ready at the cross. We talked about that judgment. If you put your faith and trust in Christ, your sins have been judged there. So what is this judgment for? Well, it's a time of receiving He says here you're going to receive the things done in your body, whether they be good or bad. There's some very clear Bible teaching on this. First of all, we understand that we're going to give an account for what's done in our body, whether it be good or bad. This this word good is athos, and I'm you guys know I'm not a Greek scholar. Yes, but th that's uh you know, might not even be pronouncing it right, but it means useful. That good means useful or beneficial. What he's saying is, are the things that you're doing in your body, the decisions that you're making on a daily basis, are they producing, are they bringing about a benefit to the cause of Christ? Are they useful? Are they beneficial? Is your life bringing glory to God? We are going to give an account for those things that are good. We're going to give an account of those things that are bad. That word Chaos or keikos means destructive or injurious. The things that we do that are destructive or injurious. Have the works of your life been injurious to the cause of Christ? You might say, well, I'm not sure. I'm really not sure about the works that I've done and where they're going to fall. Well, the Bible tells us that our works are going to be tried. It's going to be tried by fire. He tells us that in 1 Corinthians 3. 13. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, but it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. So if you're not sure about your work and where it may fall, we understand that it's gonna Either it's going to endure and come through that fire and be gold and silver and precious stone, it's going to be work that's profitable, that's good, or it's going to be burned up and it's going to be useless. It's going to be of no value. We know that in that day nothing's going to be left hidden. 1 Corinthians 4 and verse number 5. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and will make manifest the counsel of the hearts And then shall every man have praise of God. God's going to bring it to light. All the things that have been hidden. Everything that's been done. And I I don't know Exactly, I mean, how this is going to take place. nation or or every single person that's present gonna view your life on a screen or is God gonna just make you aware of the fact that he knows that it took place and that you're being judged for it But he's going to bring it to light. We know that we're going to be judged for every idle word. In Matthew 12, 36, he says, But I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. So these are things that take place and so as I said there's some concern or or debate and I and I'm Uh apologize that I don't have a definitive answer for you at this point and I I can continue to do some study, but at this judgment we know ultimately that our sin you're not standing in judgment for Your sin, because that was covered on the cross. All your sin, past, present, and future sin, is paid for by Jesus Christ. We know that We know that we're supposed to come to God and confess and forsake our sin, but we know that when we come to God to confess and forsake our sin, that is not to maintain our position of salvation. It's to keep a right relationship. I am married to this lady over here. And on occasion, especially during church, I do things she doesn't like. Just kidding. On occasion I do stuff that might offend her. Well we're still married. That relationship is not going to change, but I need to go to keep a right relationship, to have a good working relations, to have a good spirit between us, I've got to go and say, hey, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that. I shouldn't have done that. And so we know that at this judgment that our sin is covered by the judgment on the cross, but there is a measure of giving an account for what's been done in your body. Are your works going to be tried by fire and come forth as gold, or are they going to come forth as wood, hay, and stubble and burnt up and be useless and good for nothing? You say, well what is the judgment for really then? We see that it's really a judgment for reward. The judgment seat of Christ, which is actually also called the Bhima Seat. If you go back to uh the history of the Bhima seat in the old Olympic arenas, the Bhima seat was the place where the judge would stand. But not he wouldn't stand in judgment of the runners, but he would stand to be able to present the award. The Bima seat was a place where the award was given to the athlete who completed the race. And this is what this is called, uh Bhima seat, the judgment seat of Christ. We see that it's a place of reward. Now, I'm not going to teach on the five crowns tonight. That's a whole nother lesson in itself. But we're going to be able to receive the crowns. These are the rewards that will be presented at the judgment seat of Christ, and there's the incorruptible crown. As for those who have mastered the old nature, I'm not sure that I'm getting that one. I mean mastered the o I mean even the apostle Paul said the things that I would I do not and the things that I do not them I don't know what do we have to do to win that ground? Lord help us Master the old nature. I don't know, but it's the incorruptible crown if you maybe get to the place where you you've got uh you know a whole lot more over there than you got here And the incorruptible crown, but then we see the crown of rejoicing, that's to those who win souls. I would say that's an attainable crown. You just gotta win souls. Just go and present the gospel of Jesus Christ, the message of God's love, his death, burial, and resurrection, and point people to the Savior. That's a crown of rejoicing There's the crown of life given to those who have endured persecution and tribulation. Before it's all said and done here in America, we might be earning that one. The days are coming. We see the crown of glory that's given to those that uh teach and assist in the growth of other Christians. The crown of glory. Those of you involved in the discipleship program, you're earning that crown. The crown of glory. Teaching others, discipling, bringing other people along in their Christian life. Helping them be what God wants them to be. That's the crown of glory, and you can win and earn that crown. So disjudgment What is the big concern if it's just a matter of reward? Well you know, the Weight is this, the the the burden is this. If I brought everybody up here in the auditorium that was under the age of 12 years old. There's not very many of those tonight. We got our we got a whole bunch in the nursery that are coming through. But let's say I brought those up and I said, okay, I'm going to give each of you a ice cream sundae. Just like Miss Mary wanted with chocolate fudge and caramel. She wants both on there. And we're going to give you an ice cream sundae. But we're going to give it to everybody except you because you were messing around in church You see, they were tried for the works that they did in their body, whether they be good and bad, and all of these were rewarded, but this one suffered loss. And that weight of loss, I mean you you know what's going to happen. That one that doesn't receive that Sunday is going to try and find a hole to crawl into. They're gonna probably start crying because they didn't get the Sunday. And I don't know, beloved, but one day when we stand at the judgment seat of Christ, I don't want to suffer loss. I don't want to be the one who lived his entire life and claimed the name of Jesus Christ and went to church and talked about God. But when my works were tried, they came forth as wood, hay, and stubble. You see, because you're not tried just for what you do, but for the attitude that you do it. If all I do is to be seen of men, for the glory of men, the Bible says you have your reward So it's not just what we do, but it's the spirit and the attitude with which we do it that God is going to evaluate on that day. The rewards are presented, but those who have not Done what the Bible says good. You're gonna be tried for the things done in your body, whether it be good or bad. And if we haven't done good, we're going to suffer loss at that judgment. How much more I would rather have some works. That don't just burn up, but that are found to be profitable for God. These are some things that I see as far as clear teaching in the Word of God with regards to the judgment seat of Christ, and they should motivate and challenge us as Christians to be sure that we're living our lives in line with the Word. and doing that which is good. Because one day we're going to stand at the judgment seat and we have the opportunity To win, to receive, win's not a good word, to receive, to have God bestow upon us a reward, or to suffer loss. And I just can't imagine a greater loss in all of the world, besides the loss of a man's soul, than that. than to stand there and not receive anything to play at the feet of Jesus. So then we see the judgment of sinners that takes place at the great white throne judgment. Now, there's a lot here, this last judgment, and this in and of itself could be uh a a entire message, but we'll try and just give you the highlights. Look at Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20 verses 11 through 15 He says, And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged of those things which were written in the books According to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. This judgment I'm glad tonight to know on the authority of the Word of God that I'm not going to be at. I'm not going to have to stand there and I'm not going to be judged. Why? Because my sin was judged on the cross. So I won't stand at the great white throne judgment. But we see that soon after the millennium there is the great white throne. That's mentioned here. This passage describes the resurrection of the lost, the resurrection of the those that had been that died, that went on before. Just like Christians, the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. We know that that's going to be absent from the bodies, to be present with the Lord. Well those who die without Christ, the Bible says they go to the place that's called hell. Just like the rich man in Luke chapter 16, he died, and he says, and immediately he lifted up his eyes, being in torment. He was immediately in a place called hell. His body was here on earth somewhere, but who he was, the individual he was, he went down to a place called hell. But this at the judgment seat, this this great white throne judgment, the Bible says they're going to be they're going to be raised back up. They're going to be pulled out of held and brought to the great white throne judgment. This shall be the only reprieve that they have in all of eternity. Our mind can't even comprehend eternity. This is the only repeat that they'll have. I can't imagine the the in their heart and mind the the the break, the rest, the ultimately they're they're taken out of that torment for a little while And they go stand at the great white throne judgment only to be cast into what the Bible calls the lake of fire. Where they'll spend eternity in a place described as a lake of fire. Excuse me. Then John views the approach of this great white throne. He sees it coming. He sees the first heaven and the first earth that flee. He says here, they flee from the presence. And I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away And there was found no place for them. But then you get to chapter 21 and verse 1. If you're right there, you could look over at it. He says, And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away So we see here at the Great White Throne judgment that that the the first heaven and the first earth they flee away. They they run before the judgment and then in Chapter 21, with a new heaven and new earth comes. This, of course, as we mentioned, is a judgment of the unsaved. The small and the great. There is no respecter of persons at this judgment seat. Doesn't matter how much money you have, if Elon Musk dies without Jesus Christ He's gonna spend eternity in the lake of fire. Doesn't doesn't matter. Luke 16, it was the rich man that Went to hell. Lifted up his eyes, being in torment. Both the small and the great, verse number twelve says, are going to be judged. God's no respecter of persons Doesn't matter if this world thinks a man is great or that he's done many good works or he's accomplished uh huge things for for humanity and has has won uh what's the humanity award? Uh Nobel Prize. They've accomplished some magnificent things here on earth, and there's been some that God has gifted in such great ways that they have benefited humankind in in many, many ways, but without Jesus Christ they're still. Going to spend eternity in hell. They need Jesus. All who stand at this judgment are there because they've rejected the offer of salvation. They've rejected Jesus Christ. The books are opened and the Lamb's book of life is opened. The books which hold the record of what men have done in their body is going to be opened And the Lamb's Book of Life, which holds the record of every person who's put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. At the moment of salvation, You've got a new name written down in glory. And it's mine. I hope you can say that, that your name has been written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Then you won't be at this judgment. The Lamb's Book of Life is opened to reveal and show all those that are there that their name is not there. They have no ground to stand or argue. This great white throne judgment will establish the different degrees of punishment that the lost will endure throughout eternity. He says the books will be opened. Men will be judged. Those books are referenced, the things that they've done in their body. will be referenced. I know in our hearts and minds we we and and I'm have done the same thing because in in in the aspect of the fact that how many sins do you have to commit to be a sinner is just one, right? So there is the aspect just one sin makes you a sinner, but not all sin is equal. Otherwise, God wouldn't have some sins that he specifically describes as an abomination to him. There are some that Or an abomination to God. There's some that God is especially displeased with. There's some that have crossed over into the place where God says he gave them over to a reprobate mind. There are some that will endure much greater torment in that lake of fire. Revelation 20, verse number 12. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to What does it say? Their works. So they will be judged You know, the Bible tells us that to whom much is given, much is required. To whom little is given, little is required. There are some who have never had the privilege of being directly told about who Jesus Christ is. They are still guilty of not accepting the Son. But I believe that they'll be in a place of less torment. I believe the one who is standing there and he remembers A soul winner coming knocking on their door, saying, Hey, I'm from Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I just would like to tell you about Jesus Christ, invite you out to our church, and they say, Oh, I don't want anything to do with that. They've rejected the gospel. I believe there's a greater torment for them. They had an opportunity to accept the sun and they said no. The word hell is used in the Bible as a place of torment that is a you could basically say like a holding tank Like a place where where people go to, as soon as they die, they go to that place called hell before the great white throne judgment, because after the great white throne judgment, the place is called the lake of fire Are they one and the same? Are they ultimately the same? Maybe you can tell me definitively, one way or the other. I know that there's a distinction made in the scripture as to what God calls it Um so ultimately at least at right now I can't tell you definitively one way or the other. But after the Great White Throne judgment, each unsaved person will suffer uh in this place called the lake of fire. And they'll suffer different degrees of punishment. In Matthew 11, verses 20 through 24, he says Then began he to abrade the cities, which were most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. He says, Woe unto thee, Charizan, woe unto thee, Bethesda, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyra and Sidon, They would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyra and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you. I mean, is that pretty clear? He says, hey, you guys stood and saw the mighty works of God. And you rejected him, stood against him, refused to believe in him. Had those same things taken place over here in Tyra, they would have fallen on their face and repented And he says very clearly, in the day of judgment, it's going to be a whole lot more tolerable for them than for you. I think it's pretty clear. This is what he's talking about at the Great White Throne Judgment when men are judged for the things done in their body Those men who have rejected Jesus Christ, ultimately it's a matter of their name is not in the Lamb's book of life until they're going to be cast into the lake of fire. But at what degree or what level of punishment will they receive? The more opportunities one had, the more memories he'll have. I believe that they'll in their heart and mind remember you handing them a gospel track at the checkout. They'll remember seeing that God's gift. And throwing it away. Their own heart and mind will condemn them long before God does. We see that death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. In this passage, the material part of the unsaved persons being, his body is represented by the word death. We know physically we're going to die one day and our our physical body is going to be placed in the ground But to be absent from the body as a believer is to be present with God, but if as an unbeliever, to be absent from the body is to be in torment. And where does the where does the somebody that's absent from the body that's in torment, where are they I'm asking you where where's the holding tank? Hell. So they they spin it in so he says here he talks about death in hell are cast into the lake of fire. This is both their physical body that was buried at death and Their spirit that was in hell, that's brought up and reunited with their physical body, death and hell are cast into the lake of fire. We must remember that no one needs to stand at the Great White Throne Judgment. Nobody has to go there. Payment has been provided. Forgiveness is available. God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God wants every single person to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He does not want to cast anybody into that lake of fire. But they've got to meet the requirements to be allowed or accepted into heaven. And that's putting their faith and trust in Christ. This is the seven judgments. that we see and I know that in some aspects I just barely touched the surface of the depth of these topics and we could have very easily spent more even more than one message just on the Great White Throne judgment And so maybe I just stirred or or created some more questions for some of you. But I was asked to deal with this and wanted to bring it to you tonight. I know I did a lot of teaching this evening. I think if we're going to apply it to our hearts, we can praise God that we're not going to be at the great white throne. That we don't have to go there. And then we can consider and think about the fact that the judgment seat of Christ really is a place of reward. And we don't want to suffer loss. So let's be serious about our Christian life and live for Him. Do what He expects or asks of us. That our works, when they're tried, will come forth as gold. Amen.