We'll turn to Acts chapter one, very first chapter of the book of Acts. And we've begun in our reading plan reading through these events as they occurred in the scriptures. So over the last month or so we've gone through the gospel story, uh the story of Jesus' life here on earth. And then uh over the last couple weeks we've transitioned to go into the the the church age, the time of the church, and uh where where the church is the emphasis and the focus uh of what's going on and uh of course The church here i i i is that once Jesus leaves, he talks about uh uh leaving the the comforter. We've talked about that fairly recently, how Pastor was speaking about God giving us the Comforter, and that was the Holy Spirit. And so in the book of Acts, right here in chapter uh one, verse number 14. uh were were again Jesus w ascended into heaven and left uh left the disciples here. That happened in verse 8. And then in verse 11, you know, they're standing there looking around, looking at what just happened, and the angels gave them a charge. He said, Hey, why stand ye he Why stand ye gazing up into heaven? The same Jesus which is taken up from you unto heaven shall so come in like manner. And the Bible says in verse twelve that they re then they returned Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem, a Sabbath-day journey, and they were And when they were come in they went up into an upper room where abode both Peter and James and John and Andrew Philip and Thomas Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotus. and Judas, the brother of James, these all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication with the women, and Mary, the mother of Jesus And with his brethren. Let's go ahead and start off. We'll start off with prayer and then we'll get right into it. Let's pray. Lord, we we love you, and Lord, I just pray for this time around your word that you would help us to Focus in on uh Lord this this aspect of prayer and and I pray Lord that you would Lord just bless this time that we have Lord that we would learn something not necessarily new, but something perhaps that we need to give attention to in our prayer life. And Lord, I just pray that you would help us to be used of you uh Lord to to to intercede, to to pray, to seek your face, Lord, for the many different needs that there are, uh, but also for the people uh Lord around us that need prayer and I I just pray that you would help us to do that. Lord, we ask for your blessing on your word and on the rest of our service. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. So with that, the title of the message tonight is Seven People to Pray For. Seven People to Pray For. In the book of Ephesians, you hear There's a right at the end of the passage talking about the armor of God. The the Bible says in verse 18 of Ephesians 6, it says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. So the exhortation is to pray And understand that prayer is an important part of the life of a Christian. This may i I don't think it's a surprising fact, but it's something that's interesting when you stop and consider it But what I found out this afternoon in looking into it is that prayer is mentioned in every single book of the Bible except for one. The topic of prayer, or perhaps having a prayer mentioned or outlined, or spoken in the scripture, all every single book of the Bible has talks about prayer except for one, which is the book of Leviticus. And we we see that prayer is important. There's said to be 650 prayers listed in the Bible. Uh the Bible records Jesus praying twenty-five different times. And Paul also mentions prayer, whether it be a prayer where he prays, or perhaps a prayer report, a report of matters that they had been praying about. Or he mentions a prayer requests or he exhorts someone or a church to pray. And Paul mentions prayer 41 times. And when we stop and we think about that, take a moment and understand that most of what the Apostle Paul wrote were called epistles, which is another word for a letter, and many of those letters, most of those letters, were written to churches. And so when the when you stop and you take that and we see that Paul mentioned prayer so many times and so many books Of his are our letters and mention prayer, it it's it's something that we can come to a conclusion that the church ought to be known for prayer. The prayer meeting, perhaps similar to what we have today, is one that uh they they started, they became more prevalent around uh the 1900s And uh understand that there wasn't a set time, you know, when when we went on the Baptist history tour and uh uh down in Virginia and because there were some preachers that used to uh go from different areas and to go from one area to another and preach there. They would just have church when the preacher came through. So if it was his turn they were gonna have church there on that Sunday and maybe it was gonna be the uh that was gonna be the time that he would come for maybe a week or two. And uh so there was this like circuit uh and sometimes they would have church on a on a irregular day, not necessarily on a Sunday because that's when uh uh the the preacher came through. But the meeting uh started maybe about uh or became more prevalent about the the 1900s But it's something for us to consider that we should not give little value to prayer or even to the time that we come together as as we call prayer meeting. And and it's something that perhaps if you've been in church any length of time, you you've seen the typical, you know, you have church and you have people that will come on a Sunday, and uh honestly You know, even growing up, you would hear people say, well, Thursday, you know, or Wednesday, you know, oh, that's just prayer that's just prayer meeting. And there's this word in the Bible for that, and it's called the word is despise. And despise doesn't mean that you hate it. When the scripture uses that word, a lot of times what it means is that you don't give it the value that it's supposed to have. And so what we do a lot of times is we despise Different y we don't want to be a people that despise or give little value to prayer. Prayer is necessary in the life of the believer. But understand that the Bible teaches many things about prayer. It teaches that there has to be preparation in prayer. We must be clean. We must be humble. We must come to God, not as if he is a genie, where we're going to ask our three wishes of God. But we come to God acknowledging who He is. And as we bring forth requests to God, one of the things that we're doing is that we're acknowledging God's power to be able to intervene. or impact the situation. But understand that prayer is not a meaningless exercise. I don't know if many of you have heard. There's a I guess a wave in our culture today. You know, there's different circ circumstances and different situations that happen that are that are tragic, that are terrible. And many times people will publicly say, you know, as the thought of Consideration or to be sympathetic to people. They will say, you know, uh even an official will say, our thoughts and our prayers are with, you know, these people as they go through this time. Now there's some people that have kind of taken hold of that and they've said quite the opposite. They've said, you know Thoughts and prayers aren't what's needed. We need more than that. We need to take action in this in this area. And again, they're they're despising that. Prayer is not something that's meaningless or that we can just cast aside or that we can say, oh, that doesn't matter. That's not going to have any impact. That's not the case. Prayer is needful. Prayer is something that can have an impact. Why? Because we're communicating with God. Prayer is not just a recitation. Prayer is not something where we uh just recite a poem. or something that's memorized. There are some religions that will do that, that they'll say, well, this is your prayer for this. And this will be the prayer that you recite in this case, and you should memorize it so that you have it handy. But prayer is not something that's just a recitation. I uh spoke to a uh a Jewish rabbi one time and what was interesting is you know when when a person that's that practices Judaism when they talk about prayers, they actually have, similar to what our hymn book would be, they have a prayer book in their synagogues. And they they they recite them as pretty much like songs. Some of them have tunes that that they sing to. But so for them, prayer is just a recitation of something. And I hope that we understand that prayer is not just something that we memorize, but it's something that is its communication. You know, communication is important in every relationship, and prayer is communicating with God. And it's also important to see that there's a change that can happen. In prayer, God is able to change your thinking into what He wants, into what His desire is. So in the scripture Hopefully tonight what we'll do is we'll point out seven people that we are to pray for. And I hope we can take this. and realize how it is that we practice our prayer life, how it is that we pray, and how perhaps we can change our prayer life to line up with what how God has instructed us or outlined for us to pray. So let's first start off here in 1 Timothy. You can turn there, 1 Timothy chapter 2 First Timothy chapter two and verse one The Bible the first people that we can pray for is to pray for all men. 1 Timothy 2. 1 says this. It says, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for who? All men. All men. An important factor to consider Is how much of our prayer, how much of our prayer time is for others. This could be for people that you don't know. Now that's something that we, I'll admit, I personally don't do a lot. I don't take the time to pray for people perhaps that I that uh that I don't know. But the Bible here says that we should pray for all men. So we should pray for people that we don't know, pray for people that we do know. You know, there's so many situations that come to mind that we can complain about people and about perhaps about what they do, but do we pray for them? Practical example in everyday living. A person that maybe perhaps on the road cuts you off. Our initial reaction is not to pray for them. Alright, perhaps we're at the store. And I'm sure this has happened to you. You're at the checkout and people are you're there at the register getting your groceries checked out. And you know how though there's some people that are behind you in line and instead of kind of giving you space, they like come right up next to you as they're as you're at the checkout, and you're just like, what what are you doing? You know, our and we're bothered by that, and we kind of want our space, but a lot of times, you know, our thought is is you know isn't, you know, I should pray for that person. And again, it's just when the Bible talks to us about having, you know, the spirit, having a spirit of prayer, the Bible teaches that we're supposed to constantly be in a spirit of prayer. You know, the Bible uh you know, we're not supposed to be praying twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, but constantly as we go about in our life, yes, we should have a time Where we set aside to have in our prayer closet, but also we should have a time as we're going throughout the day that we're communicating and talking to God Communicating with him. And it's not just for ourselves, but for for other people. And you know Different situations that come up that it it's it helps us to have a spirit of prayer. Also, we we should consider that again the Bible says that It's the will of God that all men should come to repentance. And it's not something that, again, personally, I'm constantly going and thinking about different people To pray for. But the Bible is very clear that we're supposed to be praying for all men. We're supposed to be having supplications and intercessions and giving of thanks for all men, for all people. And so these things are important for us to stop and consider. Am I praying for other people around me? You know, many times we pray for people that are close to us, but even people that we don't know we should be praying for. So as we move along Sometimes we think that prayer for ourselves is Selfish or something that is, you know, proud. Uh but let's see what the scripture has to say about that. When we look at another people or person that we can pray for is for ourselves. Um let's look at the book of Genesis. And right in the in chapter 24. I'll lay the groundwork for you so that you know where we're at. In Genesis 24, Abraham Commissions his servant to go find a wife for his son. And They make a pact, they make a commitment, uh, or the servant makes a commitment to Abraham to do so. And in verse number 12, the Bible of Genesis 24. Abraham's servant, whose uh uh name uh we believe is Eliezer Verse number twelve says this. And he said, this is Eliezer speaking. Of course he came to the came to the town for a well, and it was the time that the women go out to draw water, and he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee Send me good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master Abraham. So it says me, it says, Send me good speed this day. So then it says in verse 13, we know the prayer requests he prayed, uh that if that someone would say to him, I'll give you water and also get water for the thy camels. But this word here that says Good speed. Send me good speed. The idea there is of a happenstance And when you read what he's asking for here, he's praying for a divine appointment. And as you read that, it's really neat to look at because Abraham's servant Eliezer was praying for a divine appointment. And many times We this isn't something that we're praying for. We don't pray for divine appointments. We're not praying, God, would you uh uh bring this you know a person you know, I'm gonna go get gas today. Would you bring a person to the pump next to me that needs to to to receive a track today? And and it's not something that we're constantly considering, considering throughout the day. Many times we go about our life in a way that's reactionary where we're just going through and As things happen, we say, okay, well, we're going to deal with this as it happens, and we'll deal with this situation as it happens, and we'll just deal with it with the circumstances as they come, but we're not purposeful in our in our day-to-day. And it's interesting here that, again, the servant was praying for a divine appointment for something that was gonna that He didn't expect to happen, but he was praying for it to happen. That the Lord would give this happenstance meeting. And we see later on that that's exactly what happens. And so that's not something that's selfish to pray for. If we're praying for ourselves and we're praying for God. to give us a divine appointment. That's that you know, there's a biblical example for that. That should be a prayer that that we that we uh That we practice ourselves. But then we also see in Matthew chapter 14, verse 30. Again, we are familiar with this Passage and what happens, and this is a time where uh Peter, we know that is called to Walk on water, because they saw Jesus walking on water, and Peter says, Lord, if it's really you, bid me to come on the water. And so he said, Come. And so Peter gets on the water and he starts walking on the water. And the Bible says in verse thirty of Matthew fourteen, but when he saw the wind boisterous He was afraid and began to sink. He cried, saying, Lord, save me. So Peter here prayed in times of distress And again, as we pray for ourselves, it's important to consider it is okay, it is right for us to pray and to seek God in a time of distress. Or in this case, we know the a big factor in Peter's life at this point was that his faith was low He had lost faith. He he was uh uh it was mentioned that he he his faith decreased at this time. And so in times when our faith is low, it's a time where we can pray for ourselves. Lord, help me with my faith right now. There's some things that I'm struggling with, Lord, and it's okay to pray in that way. Then we move along in Luke 23 verse 42, again another familiar passage where Jesus is hanging on the cross, and a thief next to him turns to him, and he said unto Jesus, Luke 23, 42 says Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. The thief here asked, he prayed, that Jesus would remember him. It was something that he was praying for himself, and we see that this was a request, a prayer for salvation. And so it's not wrong to pray on our own behalf. And when we look at the principles of Scripture, that we How it is that we're to pray, it's okay to pray for ourselves when it's in God's will and when we're not consuming it on our on our own lusts. And that's a lot of times what our problem is. We pray for something and we're praying for it because we we we want it. We're praying for it because we want a a you know a Ferrari. So and that's not an acceptable prayer that God really, I mean he could answer, but he he's not going to, because it's something that we're seeking to consume it on our own lusts And so if we're praying in God's will and we're praying for not unselfish reasons, it's okay to pray on our own behalf. So that's another person that we can pray for. Another one that we'll see is to pray for one another. In the book of Romans, chapter 1, verse 9, the Bible says this. It says, For God is my witness. whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of the Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers So again, this is Paul writing, talking about praying for other people And so understand what it is that's on our minds when it comes to our brothers and sisters in Christ. Sometimes It's not our habit to be in prayer for them. It's our habit to Instead, analyze and extrapolate and think about other things and say, well, I wonder what that person meant when they said that. Or I wonder why they said that. And I wonder what you know what they meant by this or what they you know, why they said that, or why did they do this or why didn't they call me or you know what what's going on? And, you know, we can get bent out of shape about these things, but instead of doing that, it should take time, we should take time to pray for one another with our church family. For our church family. The things that we go through, the the the situations that we face in life, those are are can be burdens for everyone's life But we're also supposed to help each other to carry one another's burdens. And we do that partly by praying for one another. We also see in the book of James, chapter 5, a familiar passage that says, Confess your faults one to another and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much Th these two verses that that we just talked about, when it's you know, this idea of praying one for another It gives us a really good idea, a really good way to apply it by praying for our church family. And that's what prayer meeting is about. It's not about, you know, it's about sharing our burdens with one another, the things that are going on in our lives, whether it be uh uh a job mean, whether it be Someone that we know that is struggling with something physically and we're praying for that, or people in our church family who are dealing with things. And again, it's we're supposed to be praying one for another, our church family, we're supposed to be holding each other up in prayer. And then when we see this book of James, there's kind of an added step here because it says, confess your faults one to another and pray one for another. There's also this aspect that one thing that many times We're reluctant to do is to share our spiritual needs But that's also something, again, it doesn't have to be something that we announce and we make mention of, although it could be. There's nothing wrong with that. But When you're we're praying with a group or when you're praying, you know, when we're praying in men's prayer meeting, or when we're praying, you know, when the ladies have their prayer meeting, it's a time when we're Fain Again, we're confessing our faults one to another and saying, look, this is our shortcomings. This is the areas where we fall short. This is the area that I'm struggling with. And these are things that we should be praying for one another about. And so again, consider those things. And if perhaps somebody has a struggle or a spiritual need that they're dealing with, we want to make sure that we're praying one for another for our church family. Whether it be to make a spiritually wise decision, whether it be to be spiritually strong in in a certain situation that we're facing. Uh whether perhaps there's something, you know, but but the problem is a lot of times we're we're reluctant to open up that way. And and We need to be c we need to make sure that we're, you know, obviously people want to be cautious. They don't want to open themselves up there, you know, for whatever reason. But understand that that's what a church family is for: is to carry each other's burdens, to bear one another's burdens, to help people to spiritually edify one another and to strengthen each other. And that should be where we gain the strength and and as we pray for one another. And so that should be something that that that we should be open to do at times and say, hey, you know, I'm struggling in this area, pray for me. And we should be praying for our church family. As we consider that verse, James chapter 5, it's also a reminder to pray for the sick believers. In James chapter five, if you go back to verse fourteen and fifteen it says, Is any sick among you, let him call the elders of the church and let him Let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We are to pray for the sick. And many times we need to make sure that that we're doing that. And, you know, sometimes we can, again, belittle, you know, some one person may be dealing, you know, uh someone in the church family may be dealing with something maybe minor And it's still okay to pray for those things. We're supposed to be carrying each other's burdens. And also, there's some people in the church family that that are dealing with some major concerns, major uh sicknesses, things that they're facing, and and we want to make sure again that that we're praying for these things, praying for God's will, praying for wisdom, praying for the doctors. You know, a lot of times You know, sometimes I I pray that uh you know uh a someone won't have pain And I was you know, I was I was mentioning on Sunday that I read this book re recently that that uh someone in the church uh gave to us and It was really, really good because it said one thing. A lot of times we we want to be delivered from pain, but pain is one is a funny thing because Pain is something that's built into us that God put there to let us know that something's not right, that something needs addressed. And so many times we're like, God, take away the pain. We don't want to have the pain. But That's what letting what's letting us know that that something needs addressed. Maybe maybe that's that the that something that God put in us. And so we have to be careful, and we, you know, perhaps we can pray that we'll be able to figure out what the pain is from and how to deal with that and how to take it away so make sure everything is working the way it should. There's a variety of things, but consider what it is that we pray for. God designed it those things into us for a purpose. We can pray for healing. We can pray for deliverance. But over and over, one of the things that I'll say several times is that we need to pray for God's will. As you look at the scriptures and you look at what the what the Bible teaches, how we're supposed to pray, we're supposed to pray in God's will. And you know, different situations, different circumstances, in some cases, it may not be God's will that a person gets healed, that a person is delivered from their their ailments. But again, we need to trust that the Lord knows what's best and the Lord is in control and that we can look to God and say, hey, you know, we trust in Him regardless of the circumstances. And so that's another group, another people that we can pray for. Another group is that we can pray for pastors. The Bible says in Ephesians 6, 19 and 20, I'll read it for you. It says, And for me, this is again Paul writing this, and for me that utterance may be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly. to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. You know, I have a Sunday school lesson that I that I taught once about how to pray for pastors. And We need to pray for them. Yes, we need to pray for their families. But the biggest prayer for us to pray according to the scripture In Ephesians 6, 19 and 20, and in Colossians 4:3, I'll read it, with all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ. For which I am also in bonds, the biggest prayer is to pray for utterance. The words to say, the words to bring forth. And that's You know, that that's one of the hardest things is to look into a room that has different people from a from different walks of life, from different circumstances that are facing different things. at different times of life and to try to figure out the direction that God would have them to To bring forth the message that God would have us to bring forth. You know, it's not a supernatur I I wish it was, that there was a supernatural Voice that as we're praying would say, okay, this is the message that you need to bring. This is the topic. I wish it were that way. That would be great. But that's not what happens. We have to pray and we have to see God and we have to come to a conclusion on what direction we believe that God wants us to go. What passage and and what to say. And not only again what to say It's something that many times in in in in a person's mind, you know, you can fight against against it and say, oh, I don't know if I want to say that Or in uh in other cases m we have to be careful that we you know that we hold back, that we don't get too overly involved in it. That we convey the message in the best possible way. And one of the ways that one of the people that we can pray for, that we can pray for pastors, giving given this passages, praying for the words and the message that God wants them to give in the best possible way so that the believers can be edified, can be strengthened, can grow spiritually, and that's a a prayer that Certainly, we should all continue to have handy and make sure that we're doing. Another thought is that another person that we should pray for is we are to pray for our rulers. We read the first uh in 1 Timothy 2. 1, uh, but the passage goes on there. It says, I'll read all three verses in First Timothy two. It says, I exhort therefore that All that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of our of God our Savior. We are supposed to pray for our leaders. And it doesn't say the scripture doesn't teach us to pray for the leaders that we like. And the Bible doesn't say that we're supposed to pray for the leaders that we voted for. The Bible tells us that we're supposed to pray for our leaders. And it's interesting that as you look at this passage, and this is Paul writing to Timothy towards the end of his life. In the later years of his life, as Paul is facing execution by none other than the most Christian-hating emperor that made sport of killing Christians in the Colosseum was an emperor named Nero. So as we look at this, it's very likely we can come to the conclusion that Paul, as he exhorted Timothy to pray for their kings and their rulers, Those that are in authority, it's very likely that Paul was praying for this wicked king Nero. And the same example that we should take that regardless of our of our uh of who's in leadership, who is uh whether again, whether we voted for them or not, whether we like them or not, whether we like their policies or not, it should still be our practice to pray for them And we say these things, and as we look at this list, there's one more that we'll we'll go through, but as we look at this list, again, the the the purpose is not is to Look at these things and balance out our prayer life and say, okay, you know, maybe I'm I'm doing good and praying for my church family, and maybe I'm doing good for praying for for those sick believers. But perhaps I need to pray for uh pastor more in this area or pray for uh the people that are in authority in in our government and things like that. How can we better improve our prayer life And I lay that groundwork because the last one's tough. One more person that that we can pray for, the last on the list, is that we're supposed to pray for our enemies. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 44, again, we've we in the Sermon on the Mount, the Bible says, But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you And then we see an example of this in Acts chapter 7, as Stephen is being stoned and executed. In Acts 7, verse 59 and 60, and they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit, verse 60. And he kneeled down and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. So we see here that Stephen was praying for those that were stoning him. Now that's something very hard to do. To those that have done something against us, to those who need forgiveness Those are people that we're supposed to be praying for. So how often do we find ourselves praying for these people? How often do we find ourselves praying for our enemies, the people that are against us? And that's that's hard to do. And it but it's something that God instructs us to do. So, whatever situation we're facing, whether it be an enemy at work, or whether it be an enemy in a community, or whether it be an enemy in whatever circumstance we face. We're supposed to be praying for them. And so that's, again, difficult, challenging for us to do, but it's something that God has instructed us to do. So, in conclusion, tonight, the purpose of this evening's message is just to take time to evaluate, to evaluate the habits in our prayer life And many times we can become very systematic and methodical in our prayer, and we can just go through things, but It's always good to evaluate and take time and say, what could I be doing more of? And maybe some of you, perhaps, that if you have a prayer list, Maybe you can have a couple categories and add certain people to your list. People that fall into these categories. People that fall into the Category of those that are sick, or those that are the in authority, or those that we would consider our enemies. And the more that we pray for these things, again, it's something to evaluate so that we can do better, so that we can honor the Lord, and so that we can have a prayer life that God desires for us to have. And so all these things are the the Something for us to consider, to look into and evaluate, how can we improve our prayer life So we've added some more people to pray for this evening. And let's go ahead and close with a short word of prayer before we go into our prayer bulletin. Father, we do love you and we thank you for the day. And Lord, we just pray that you would help us, Lord, to be mindful of not just The different needs that perhaps are on the list, but Lord, the needs of others, the people that are around us, the people that we know Lord needs you And Father, I just pray that you would challenge us and help us to pray in a way that is honoring to you that our prayer lives would be, Lord, focused on on honoring uh your word and what it is that you've instructed us to do. And so Lord, I just pray that you would help us, help us in the areas that that were lacking. uh Lord to to step it up and to be more uh like the the heroes of the faith and and more importantly Lord to be more like your son. Lord, who who showed us, who who taught us how to pray. And Lord, we just ask these things tonight. We ask that as we uh take our requests and as we take time to pray as a church family. Lord, that you would just use this time to strengthen and help us, and Lord, we'll thank you for it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.