So I'll ask you to turn to Luke 24, Luke 24 in your Bibles. That's going to be where we start. And again, we're not going to go too far off from New Testament survey. We're going to be generally doing some overview of that. One of the things that the survey allows us to do is really go through some of the wave tops in the New Testament and understand uh very uh generally and at a surface level, very much overview as to what's going on in uh in the New Testament uh different themes that we see, different uh obviously uh the New Testament, the beginning of it, we've focused a lot of time uh on the the beginning of the New Testament which focuses on the life of Christ and so that's been a huge emphasis. Obviously that's a the huge emphasis of the New Testament and the beginning part of the Gospels But one thing that it does not give us the opportunity to do is really to go into some of the details, perhaps, that we see in the scripture. So as we take this pause, as we take a little detour, what we're going to do today is we're going to take a moment and during this time that we have together this morning, we're going to look at the What I call the shadows of Christ, uh the shadows of Christ in the Old Testament. And so we'll we'll cover that. We'll talk through a little bit about what that is. Uh but again, I I don't think that this is This is something that is going to be new. I think that as you read your your your Bible on your own Th some of these things jump out at you and and reveal themselves as as you're reading the scripture. And so I don't I don't think this is going to be necessarily anything that is new to anyone. Uh but I did want to at least Pull those threads and kind of point them out because they are very neat to see and and I think important for us to understand. And so we'll begin there in uh in the book of Luke 24 and uh verse 27 So why don't we pray, we'll get started with our our our Sunday school hour and uh we'll we'll ask the Lord's blessing. Lord, we pray that you would bless this time in your word this morning, that you would just guide as we read the scriptures and as we we we look at what what it is that your your your word reveals to us. I pray that you would open our hearts and our minds uh to what you have for us and uh Lord that as we look through the pages of Scripture that it would be something that we see you and uh Lord we'll we'll thank you for it. We ask it in Jesus name. Amen. In this chapter, Luke 24, we find ourselves in the passage after the resurrection. Where the disciples are on the road to Emmaus. And there's this conversation that takes place between the disciples And they're going back and forth, but there's this passage that that or this verse that we'll point out as you look at verse 27. So there's going that there's going there's this conversation that happens between Christ and the disciples. And the disciples are unknowingly talking to Christ. And so the disciples are saying like talking to this guy, saying like, hey, don't you know uh uh what things that that have gone on over the last few days, like where have you been? Have you been under a rock somewhere? These these things have passed here. in in Jerusalem and in verse nineteen uh Jesus looks at them and he says, What things? What things are you talking about? And so they they go forward and they they talk to him, but as the As the process and as this conversation, as this walk goes along, we find that Jesus, uh their their their their eyes are open and they see the fact that they're they're they're speaking to the resurrected Savior. And in verse twenty-seven, uh it says something very interesting, the scriptures. It says this uh and beginning at Moses and all the prophets he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so during this walk, the disciples, again unbeknownst to them, are talking to the resurrected Savior. And at a point he's he they're beginning to to uh talk and this man who they do not know who he is is discussing And explaining to them who Christ was. And this passage, this verse always stands out to me because I would love to know how that conversation went. I would love to know what it is that Jesus was saying to these two disciples. As he's explaining to them, the Bible says here, beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And so this man is explaining from the Old Testament, here is where Jesus was, and here is where Jesus was, and here is where Jesus was. And he's pointing out each of these steps, revealing to the disciples about what the Old Testament said about Christ Himself And so that's really what we're going to focus in on today. And I uh some people will call these the types. Uh I just I I've called them the shadows of Christ in the Old Testament that we see called out. And one of the things that I've uh kind of limited myself to, the this is not an exhaustive list, but they are specifically called out because Either someone in the passage or in in the course of the account in Scripture or Jesus himself said, Hey, this is the fulfillment of this passage or this is what this means. It was very a very clear line drawn saying this is how it's supposed to be. This is how these things are connected. And so this typology or this shadow, it's a figure, it's something that we see, and we see elements of Christ in it in the Old Testament will point those things out. And as we do, we'll mention in the New Testament how those things are explained or brought about. There's another passage in the book of John, John chapter 5. That says uh in verse 39, it says, search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. Again, this is Jesus' scripture speaking. Verse 46 goes on and says, for had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me. So again, as you're looking at the Old Testament passages, there were places and ideas where these examples come alive and point to A similitude, a shadow, something where we see a representation of Christ and a lesson for us to learn So that's really what we're going to walk through today. One thing that I actually find interesting is as I was looking at these things, there are there's a handful of them. uh and most of them are found in the book of John. So that that was something that I was a little bit uh interested in and uh intrigued about. But as we'll walk through the first one, if you have your Bibles, I'm sure it's very familiar to you, you can turn to the book of John and the third chapter of John, the third chapter of John. And that is where we'll talk through this first shadow or this first representation of Christ. John chapter 3. And again, a lot of these are the the these are going to reference the Old Testament as we bring them to light in the New Testament. All right So John chapter 3, so we know this passage, right? John chapter 3 is when Jesus was talking to whom? I heard one person say it. Nicodemus, alright? This is a passage, of course, where you if you as you read it. There's the discussion about uh can a man enter into his mother's womb again because he either because Jesus said to him he must be born again. And the first example we see is that of the brazen serpent. the brazen serpent. So as you go into the book of John and as you go to verse 14, uh right around that familiar uh verse in uh verse sixteen of course But John fourteen says this, and as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And so here is the picture, all right? Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, he's explaining to him that there's this similitude, there's this shadow. And a representation that happened in the Old Testament, and Moses discusses it, and Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness. Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And so that brazen serpent is the first shadow that we see, and we see that as God's solution for judgment. This passage comes to us from, or this reference comes to us from the passage in the book of Numbers. In the book of Numbers, it's a familiar passage. because the people of Israel, as they were wont to do, began complaining, and they were murmuring, and they were frustrated with their situation. And so God judged them in the book of Numbers Chapter 21 is where we see, and in verse 5 it says, And the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no bread, neither is there any water, and our soul loatheth this light bread So see there the the circumstances that are in this situation. And the the people of God To the are exaggerating to the point they're like, here we are, we're in the wilderness, we're gonna die, we don't have bread, but I make reference to this bread here in in the next in the next sentence. That's how Uh uh that's that's how extreme the people of Israel were being at this time. And they said, we have no water, we're gonna die. And so the people spake against God and against Moses. And then in verse 6 it says, And the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people. And they bit the people, and much people of Israel died. Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord, and against thee. Pray unto the Lord that He take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole, and it shall come to pass that every one that is bitten when he looketh upon it shall live And Moses made a serpent of brass and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Now again, just this unique account that comes to us in just a few verses here in the book of Numbers. But what it points to us is that we see that in This time of complaining and judgment that that was being needed out against the the children of Israel, they're complaining and they're frustrated And they turn and repent. And the solution, the solution for that judgment to appease that judgment of God was for them to look at this serpent that was on a stick. And that comparison was, again, if they were to look at this serpent They would live. That's what the scripture says. And so that picture is referenced here in of cr in Christ in John chapter 3, where he's saying, hey Even as Moses lifted up the serpent, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And of course that representation we see later on as well in the book of John. It talks about The Bible says in John that he uh Jesus said, If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. And so we see that, and there's that picture that God pr God has a had a solution for judgment. And so again, consider that. As we look at that and as Jesus is making reference to himself of that comparison. That comparison is that the cross, that Jesus was to die, as we look to the cross, that was the solution for God's judgment. And so there's that comparison, there's that shadow that we see. So the solution to their problem was to look at the brass serpent, and they were under God's judgment, but God provided a way to escape that judgment. And in the same way, that picture applies to Jesus Christ. People, men are under God's judgment, but God has provided a means to escape that judgment through the cross. And so that's the picture that we see here of the brazen serpent. So the next one that we see is the bread of life. The bread of life. If you're still in the book of John, turn over to chapter number six. John chapter number six, and as you go down to verse In John chapter six, as you're looking to verse thirty-one There's this again discussion back and forth with Christ. And verse 31 says Our fathers did eat manna in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Verse 32 says, Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you that bread from heaven, but my father gaveth you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven and giveth light unto the world. Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. But I said unto you that ye also have seen me and believe not. So there's this passage here that we see of the bread of life as another picture. Alright, as another picture of Jesus Christ in the Old Testament that Jesus Christ makes reference to, and he's saying, hey, hello This is me. This is what we're talking about. This is the explanation for that, for that. And so the bread of life shows us God's provision. So the the reference that The Old Testament reference is mentioned here in John 6, but it goes back to the book of Exodus, where God gave them manna. And again, there's this this miraculous provision that God gave to the children of Israel as they were as they left Egypt. And again, this was very early on. That passage, you're looking at Exodus 16. So this is right after the they had left Egypt very early on. And they have God's provision that's given to them as this bread from heaven, this manna that's provided for them And so we go back to Exodus sixteen, and we see in verse fifteen, When the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna, for they wished not what it was, and Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the Lord have given you to eat. And so as you go down into the verse 31, it gives a little bit more of a description of it. It says, In the house of Israel called the name thereof mana manna, and it was like coriander seed white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. And so this bread of life This shat'o shows or represents God's provision. The manna was sustain sustaining the Israelites. It was sustaining them as they left Egypt. Of course, Egypt is a representation of the world. And so that provision, what they needed, what they needed to survive was given to them by God, and it was given to them through this manna. that manna was provided by God and that manna is God's provision for their day-to-day needs. Now of course if you go back to that passage It talked about uh that there's a lot more explanation that goes into how much they're supposed to take in, when they're supposed to take it in, and all the the details in in that and there's some some unique things to learn there, but ultimately what we see here is that this was the provision that God made for the Israelites and in the same way uh through Christ through Christ as he explains to him or as he calls himself the bread of life. As later on in this passage, he says, I am the living bread. That bread of life, Christ is the bread of life, the sustenance. that is provided by God. So again, there's this picture that we see, this shadow of Jesus Christ as the bread of life, as this picture of this Old Testament representation and Jesus is bringing it to life and saying like, hey, I am the bread of life. I am this And there's that explanation and that beautiful picture that we see through of God's provision. Another representation that we'll see again in the book of John, you can turn back to John 1, is where the New Testament reference is that we take uh or that I'll take to to explain this. And the next shadow is the Lamb of God And again, as you look through, you know that the Lamb represented Christ. Uh there you see not just throughout the picture in the Old Testament of the sacrificial system, but you also see later on at the end of days in the book of Revelation. Of course, the angels, they're speaking there, behold the Lamb. They're talking about the Lamb. This is a representation of Christ throughout all the scriptures. But this represents or is a shadow that we see of God's sacrifice. God's sacrifice. As you look at the book of John in verse 1, verse 29, again a familiar passage that we see But we don't want to lose sight of this picture of this uh uh shadow that's given and the first reference that we see here in in John is John 1 verse 29. And this is the account as Uh Jesus is coming forth and going to be baptized. He's going to be baptized by John the Baptist. And John 1. 29 says this. We see the next day, John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. So again, this is John the Baptist pointing out and saying the representation that we see in the Old Testament of the Lamb This is the Lamb of God, and he's just making that very clear connection that we see. That picture we begin at in Genesis chapter 22. That explanation, you remember the account of Abraham. Abraham took his son Isaac. as a a as a young man and he took Isaac and th God told him to go up to the mountain and bring Isaac with him and if you remember that account going back and forth He rose up early in the morning and he went on his way to do what God had commanded him to do, which was to sacrifice the life of his son Isaac. And we get a little bit of insight as to that situation in the book of Hebrews in the New Testament, and we get a little bit of insight into Abraham's thinking because Hebrews talks about how Abraham, when he was given that command, he he followed it, he obeyed God, knowing that in some way, shape, or form Even though he were to take the life of his son, God would raise him from the dead. That was the mindset that Abraham entered into this account with. And so we see in Genesis 22, uh it says in verse 6, and Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife. and they went both of them together. And so again, here's a Abraham and his son making their way for this sacrifice. And verse seven says, Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. So again, we we know this account, we're familiar with this account, uh, but that representation we see God provided himself a lamb. And so that that we see this in the book of Genesis, but this comes even more to life as we look at the New Testament and as we see that God provided a lamb through Jesus Christ. And so that's the the representation and there's other ideas or other representations of the Lamb as Christ and as God's sacrifice. We see the representation of the Passover Lamb in the book of Exodus as they explain the whole uh concept of the Passover. through the plagues of Egypt and as they were getting ready to exit Egypt, there was the the that first Passover that occurred And so again, there was a sacrifice that went into that of the lamb and the blood of the lamb that was posted or or uh put on the doorposts. And with that, we see that representation of the Passover lamb. But in the New Testament, in 1 Corinthians, Paul points this out. He says this in uh 1 Corinthians 5 7, it says, Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye be a new lump, as ye are unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. And so we see in the New Testament here, Paul is calling out saying, Jesus Christ is our Passover Lamb. And so that's a representation, something that we don't want to lose sight of, that we want to make sure that we pick up on, that as we read the scriptures and as we consider the the lamb and the sacrifice of the lamb and the Passover lamb. All these things point to God's sacrifice as the Lamb of God. It's a shadow of Christ. It's something that we want to make sure that we that we visualize and that we see. Now, before I move on to the next one, I just wanted to pause. I probably should have said that at this be said this at the beginning Very much so we can look at these things. What we don't want to do is read too much into each of these representations and these shadows. The reason that I use that word shadow is because You know, with a shadow you can't make you know, as you look at a silhouette, you can't make up every single detail and figure all of it out. There's certain representations that you can see. There's like a similarity you can you can see those things, but there's particular details that you really can't make out. And so one of the things that as we look at these shadows, and you can really go very far with looking at each of the details that's given. And there's some truths that really the scriptures do point out to and that we can understand, but then we can also kind of go off the deep end and say, well, you know, this represents this and this represents that. and look at things very uh uh allegorically and we don't necessarily want to do that. We want to be careful uh to rightly divide the word and so and to not not go too far. And so that's the reason that I use the word shadow. And I I I mention that right now just because there is uh a as we go into the next one, the next shadow that we're going to see is the temple. And the temple, if you really look and and understand the temple, there's a lot of representation and a lot of symbolism that you see. And again I I again there's there's people all over the internet that'll take things way too far, but there is a lot of very rich truth that we see in the scriptures, especially as you're looking at the temple, especially as you're looking at the tabernacle. It's amazing how God in his uh uh uh uh omniscience put these things together, these pictures together, and there's a lot of rich truths. Uh if you dig into it, it's just a lot of rich truths. But another shadow that we see that we'll walk into right now is that of the temple. So where does Jesus say that I am the temple? We'll go to the book of John in chapter 2. The book of John and Chapter 2. Again, we're kind of all over the place and and with with pastor kind of going systematically through the first year of ministry and the second year of ministry. This kind of spans the Jesus' ministry and so I didn't want to I didn't want to like uh make it a little bit disjointed, so this just kind of covers uh a large kind of a s uh uh a side little detour, side scenic route, if you will, as we go into these shadows of Christ But in John chapter 2, verse 19, we see there's this discussion that Jesus has, and he's talking to the Jews to the Pharisees, then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign showest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? Jesus answered, And said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Then said the Jews, Forty and Six years was this temple in building it. Wilt thou rear it up in three days? But he spake of the temple of his body. So we know that the temple is a representation, is a shadow, and what I've captured this as is it's a a shadow or it represents God's dwelling place. If you look at the the scriptures, there is many places where God has has dwelt. And if you look at the the beginning of chapter uh one of the book of John. Verse 14 says this, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So there is this. uh idea that we see in the scripture that this theme, constant theme of God dwelling with his people. And we see this throughout the Old Testament and the the New Testament. If we see God had a dwelling place. We see that in the Garden of Eden. We see that as well in Mount Sinai. that God dwelt there. And there's a representation of Sinai. We also see that God dwelt in the tabernacle. And then we also see that God dwelt in the temple. And as we move on into the New Testament, God dwelt in the in Jesus Christ, and then as we go on to the current day, God dwells in believers. And so that representation, the temple, if you look at the temple and the same i it's very similar. for the tabernacle. The temple is there's a lot more intricate detail and very fine details in its representation, but If you look at the way the temple is structured, there is a what something that comes to light out of that is that it represents very similarly a man, a person. And so There's a shadow of Christ that we see in the temple. The temple and the tabernacle were both modeled after a man. There was separate portions of it. There was the holy place, there was the holy of holies, there was the outer, or there was the courtyard, and so there's there's different places, different sections. There was a purpose in the garments that were part of these uh the the priestly system. As you go into the temple and the tabernacle, there was a particular purpose and the furniture that was incorporated into each of these uh into these uh dwelling places but God had a dwelling place And so when we see that, this temple represents God's dwelling place. And so what I want you to understand through this is that God dwells today, he dwells in man. And so God's dwelling place today resides through believers. That's why we believe that when a person is saved, They are indwelt with the Holy Spirit of God. And so we see that representation or that explanation here in John because Jesus, the the Bible says that Jesus was Jesus was talking about himself. He was talking about the the temple of his body. And so that temple is God's dwelling place. And the same thing is true for the believers You and I, as we are saved, we are the dwelling place of God. So that's something that I want to make sure that we uh that we see, that we understand. So the next figure that we see in, or the shadow that we see mentioned in Scripture is in the book of Matthew, and it is of Jonah and the whale. Jonah and the whale. Matthew 12, verse 40 says this. For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth And so if you read this passage and what it represents, the there was again this discussion of people asking Jesus We want a sign. Show us a sign. Show us a sign that you're the Messiah. And he is his response is the only sign that you're going to get is the sign as the sign Of Jonas, and just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man. And so what Jesus is saying is that the sign that you're going to see is the resurrection God's sign to the age was his resurrection. This shadow, Jonah and the whale, represents his resurrection. And that's a sign we see that that the reason that Jonah was in there is a sign of judgment. And the sign that came out of it, as Jonah came out of the whale's belly, we see that that is a sign or a picture of the resurrection. And so as we look at that, the idea comes alive that, hey, here are some things, here are some shadows, here are some representations that we see of Christ. that help us to understand the references that were made in the Old Testament that as you read them There's certain things that these things represent. So each of them has its own theme or its own thought that goes along with it. But again, the idea of God revealing himself And Jesus saying, hey, this is where the Old Testament was talking about me, and there's this connection that you need to draw in your mind as understanding this is the fulfillment of this passage in the Old Testament So we're going to practice this a little bit. There's uh three that are not on this list and the reason is because There wasn't a direct correlation that said that Jesus said, I am this, I am that for each of these. So we'll go through it and we'll but what I w the the the test or the the the exercise that we're doing is understanding that there's places in the Old Testament that point to uh that connect to that are a thread connecting to the New Testament, especially as a picture of Christ. So The Ark of the Covenant was a piece of furniture that was in the temple that was also in the tabernacle. And so you guys know this if you've been in Sunday school for any length of time. There was three things that were inside the Ark of the Covenant. What were those three things? Does anyone recall? There's three of them. The but the the the butted rod of Aaron, Aaron's rod, that is one. Alright, what's what else? And what else? Ten Commandments, the law. Alright? So as we look at those three things, The reason that we bring those to light is because there are very clear, the law is the all three of these represent Jesus Christ in some way, shape, or form. So the law is the word. And again, going back to the book of John, John 1 talks about that the word was made manifest, the word was made alive. made uh it what was uh manifest to us, so in the beginning was the word and the word was with was with God and the word was God. So that's a representation of Jesus Christ as He's come. So that's one. So the law is a representation of the Word, and the Word is Jesus Christ. That's one So the bowl of manna, we've already talked about that, right? The bread of life. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. So that manna, that m bread of heaven is a representation of Jesus Christ. So we already went through that one. But the last one is Aaron's rod. So this one's a little bit a little bit tricky. So there's a couple places that we will go to. Isaiah 11, 1 says this. If you look through the scripture, there's another place where the the where Jesus Christ is called the rod of Jesse. And that's in Isaiah 11:1. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse And then it goes on, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. So the rod represents Jesus Christ because he's the rod of Jesse. Or there's another term that we see, and you see it in Zechariah, I believe, where Jesus Christ is called the branch. All right, the branch, and the branch represents uh Jesus Christ. So again, these three things are pictures that we see in the Old Testament that God again wants us to, again, it's not necessarily fully apparent. But it's things that are pointing, connections that are pointing, pointing to Jesus Christ. So I can't remember the preacher, and I'm sure you've heard it before. Uh I think it was Spurgeon, if if I recall correctly. But Spurgeon is one that said wherever you look at the he he would teach his uh uh the the students that would work under him uh to learn uh preaching at his at his college and he would say wherever you're in the scripture look for Jesus Look for Jesus and find Jesus. And so that's the exercise that we're working through this, that as we're looking through the scriptures as we're looking through the New Testament, as we're looking through, whether it be prophecy, whether it be history, whether it be books of poetry. Can we see Jesus in those books? And so Jesus is represented and explained all throughout the scriptures. And again, there's going to come a day where we too, like those disciples that were walking on the road to Emmaus, where Jesus was explaining to them, this is where in the Old Testament I was, and this is where in the Old Testament I was, and this is where in the Old Testament I was And that being it I'm sure there's things that we've that we miss looking, reading through the Bible. There may be some that have read through the Bible Dozens and dozens of times, but I'm sure that there's something that we've missed, but when we get to heaven, we're going to understand like, oh, that was talking about Christ. And so that's going to be a wonderful thing. But again, as we learn through it and as we study the scriptures, even now we can learn some of those things, those shadows that we see of Christ throughout the scriptures. that point to him, that learn, that help us to learn of these, to learn from these glimpses of Christ, and that we learn to see Jesus in the pages of scriptures. So I hope that was a help for you today. That's about all the time that we have that we'll get started, why don't we close in a word of prayer