Follow along with me as we read the first six verses where this story takes place. He says, and when they were escaped. Uh let me let me back up and tell you the context for the story. We'll start right back there in a second. But uh in chapter number twenty-seven it's an amazing chapter uh about God's leading and directing in the life of Paul. And uh they were he was getting ready to go to Rome and you remember the story how they were gonna get on a ship and he said, No, we can't go and they said, No, we're gonna go and so they got on a ship and they went and uh of course the ship full of of prisoners and They're gonna go to Rome and then the soft southern wind comes. Gotta watch for those southern winds. And uh the south southern wind starts blowing and and they say, Hey, uh God is with us. You know, we got the good wind. Let's go, let's do it. And they go, but then they're not out there long. And what is it, Euriclid? That great tempest rises up and and they're afraid for their lives. And they they throw all their stuff overboard. They take everything of value and chuck it. They're just trying to survive. They're just trying to live. And the angel of the Lord appears unto Paul and says, Hey. uh you're gonna be saved and everybody with you. And the so he tells them, listen, don't worry, we're gonna be saved. And and Then they of course then the storm takes them into a bay and the the ship runs aground and they are run aground and as they're run aground the ship gets torn apart. And Then again, the people, the the soldiers said, hey, let's kill. Let's kill all the prisoners unless they're going to escape. Let's just kill them. Except Paul was supposed to be saved. And the leader says, he wanted to save Paul, so he says, No, if they can swim, tell them to swim to shore. And if they can't, tell them to grab a piece of wood or something, and they those that could just floated to shore, and they were all saved Just as Paul said. And it's amazing, that story. And we pick it up here right in chapter number 28, that part of the story. So he says in 28, verse number one, he says, and when they were all escaped Then they knew that the island was called Melita. And the barbarous people showed us no little kindness For they kindled a fire and received us every one because of the present rain and because of the cold Now these folks were called barbarians not because of how they acted, not because they walked around as ogres and you know they they were called barbarians because they didn't speak Greek That was the only reason, because the Greek were were elevated and they they felt that they knew so much and and they understood things that the common man didn't know so much so that they looked at those that didn't speak Greek as barbarians like Paul, he said, I am debtor. I am debtor to the Greek and also to the barbarians Because that's what they called them, people that didn't speak the language. McLaren said this. These people did not speak Greek, but they sp but they could speak the eloquent language of kindness and pity. They were heathens, but they were men. They had not come down to wreck or to plunder, but to provide help. These people showed kindness unto them. Paul says, they showed us no little kindness. I mean an abundance of kindness they were shown to them. Verse number three. He says, and when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand. And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, They said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he had escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live. And he shook off the beast into the fire. and felt no harm, how be it. They looked, when he should have swollen or fallen down dead suddenly, but after they had looked a great while and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds. And said that he was a God. As we look into the Bible tonight, at this story, I want nothing but to be an encouragement to each of you. The fact is, is we are in this life in a spiritual battle. We fight not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and against the powers and the rulers of darkness. There is, in fact, a battle that is waging in our lives, is the battleground in which this war takes place. And you and I are on the winning side. We are. We are to be victors today, and ultimately we know, because we know the end of the story, we know that we're on the winning side. But just because we're on the winning side doesn't mean that on occasion we don't find ourselves like the old prophet under the juniper tree a little bit discouraged. A little bit downhearted, a little bit weary for the journey that we're on. And it seems like as a church We want to do so much. We want to accomplish so much for God. We want to go forward. And I tell you what, I was so excited yesterday. I was so encouraged when Brother Boots called me and told me about that. I said, Amen, brother. I said, I needed some good news, you know. That's awesome. Praise God. He's still on the throne and he's still answering prayer, and I'm excited for you. Because we as a church, it seems like on every front are being attacked by Satan. I look at it and I see how many people in their lives are going through individual battles, how many who are dealing with sickness and and dealing with attacks from family or dealing with uh a death in the family. It seems like it's kind of church-wide right now And you know, I think about it as a church, we embarked on some pretty hefty goals as we started this year. And if you recall in men's prayer meeting, as the year undertook And we I said, hey, as we start out on this journey for God, don't be surprised if the devil doesn't fight. Don't be surprised if the devil doesn't rise up and cause some problems. Yesterday we had 37 people out knocking on doors. God gave us a beautiful day to do it. We knocked on over 430 doors yesterday. Praise God. That in itself is a victory. However, I don't know how your visits went yesterday But my visits weren't all that good. I didn't have any real encouraging visits. I didn't see anybody just pray for salvation or repent of sin or or even say thank you or even say Anything nice. Yesterday's visits were kind of rough and and we you know, uh brother Ayler and I, we didn't have it too bad. We got to the car and I talked to my wife And boy, did she have quite a day. I don't know what she was doing to him, but somebody she knocked on, they Facebook messaged us, and they were upset. She knocked on one door and a guy came to the door and said, you know, we don't want you here, yada yada. I don't know what all he said, but he was upset. And then he closed the door and they're like, okay, and so uh very and Don went over to the next door and they ring the doorbell. And then that guy comes out of his house, comes over to this door and goes ding ding ding ding ding ding ding and then goes back in his house and closes the door So now you know the second door. You know that guy is not a happy camper. And he comes to the door just, what in the world are you doing? I don't have time to talk to you. You can ring them blah blah blah blah blah. You know I said, oh my goodness, I at least I don't have any like that, you know. What a challenge. You know what I'm saying is sometimes as we are fighting to do right, things like that happen and we can get discouraged. You know, uh yesterday I was a little discouraged. Back in two thousand and five when I was serving at Heritage Baptist Church in Lawrence, Kansas. Uh it was the very last service that my wife and I were going to be at, the very last message that we were going to hear. Here. And we were we bought a U-Haul. We loaded all of our stuff up into the U-Haul. We didn't know where we were going, so we didn't rent a U-Haul because we didn't know a place to unload it. We just bought the whole thing. We just we owned it. We loaded it in there and stuck all our stuff in there and we hit the road. We didn't know where we were going. We didn't know where got what God wanted. We had no idea where we would end up In that service, Pastor Scott Hanks, who is a tremendous Bible teacher, preacher. Preached a message. And I wrote in the margin of my Bible some notes. And yesterday, when I was looking through my Bible about what God would want us To have this evening. I read in this text and I read there in the margin, Shake It Off. Shake it off. That was the title of his message, Shake It Off. And I thought that's what I need to do. That's what we as a church need to do. We need to shake it off. We need to realize that God is in control and shake it off. So I alliterated the outline that I had written in the margin of my Bible and began to develop the message for this evening. As I lay this out, first of all, I want you to kind of get an idea to see. We're going to move quickly through this, but I want you to see that what what took place here. You understand that they were just shipwrecked. That they had gone for a number of days now without any food at all They had gone for a period of time here, 14 days, under threat for their life. They were shipwrecked, they were cold, they were wet, things weren't looking good. You know when the sun's shining and it's nice out and you get a flat tire it's like man that's inconvenient. But when it's sleeting You're like any other time. Why does this have to happen right now? I'm just saying sometimes those problems that come on top of problems that are already on top of other problems, that's when you really start to get frazzled. Are you with me? That's what I'm telling you that Paul was at. He was at that place. He had already been through so much. You know, when you think about this story, it's amazing to consider the fact that these people were saved twice. Because of the presence of Paul. Two times their lives were spared because Paul was present. One person can make a difference. One person on fire for God, one person praying that God would do a great work in our church, one person seeking God's will, one person on fire doing something real in the presence of God can make a difference. In a congregation like this, and the rest of us get to be the benefactors of God blessing that one person's prayer. That's why some people, Brother John, you can't come out and knock doors right now, but you can be a prayer warrior You can get a hold of God from where you're at and God can do great things with the time you spend in prayer. Miss Gracie, the same thing. There's a prayer warrior. I love to hear her pray. She just calls out to God and talks to him like a personal friend. Prayer warriors, we need people in church, men. You can't get out right now. Maybe you can't go do things, but God can use your spirit and your desire and your hunger for Him to bless the rest of the church. One person can make a difference. These people were saved because of the Apostle Paul. They found themselves shipwrecked here on this shore without any warmth, cold, and Burdened down. And you read this story and you you you saw what happened. I mean they're they're out and they're looking around and and and Paul's going and he's gathering up some sticks, right? He he's everybody's maybe working together on this. And maybe they're all doing it. He's just gathering a bunch of sticks up. He's just bringing sticks to the fire. He's sticking sticks to the fire and there comes a snake out of the snake, out of the thing. No, my snake, I couldn't find a real snake, sorry I mean can you imagine the fire, the heat? He picked up a bundle of sticks. And when he dropped that on that fire That he I mean that snake came out of there. He's like, whoa! The snake jumped out, and the Bible says it latched onto him. Now I don't know if you've ever been bit by something But I mean your first response is not to go, what was that? I mean don't you go like what was that? And then you look, right? He shook it off. He shook it off. He shook off the snake bite. And then he went on about doing what he was supposed to be doing. He shook it off. We need to shake it off. We need to shake it off. Well, first of all, we need to shake off the devil. You see here in the text, he says that the Viper out of the heat. The viper came out of the heat, that venomous beast. You know, all through the scriptures, the first time you see Satan, you see him in Genesis chapter 3. And what does the Bible call him? The serpent. The serpent, this more subtle beast of the field. All the way to the book of Revelation, chapter 12, verse number nine, where the Bible says, And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil. I can't hear that phrase without thinking that old devil is a sly old fox. If I could catch him up Put him in a box. I mean we sing we sing that song, but you know what? He was always called a serpent. And Paul shook him off. Listen. We need to shake off the attacks of the devil. The devil's gonna come and he's gonna attack you on every front that he possibly can. He's going to come and he's going to attack you with discouragement. He's going to attack you with temptation. He's going to attack you with trials and with tests. Whatever he can bring into your life. He's going to try and do it. How are the young people going to learn how to deal with the problems of life? They're going to learn it by they're looking at mom and dad, and they look at the leaders in the church, and they see that we we when Satan attacks. We shake it off. And keep going. When Satan comes and rears his ugly head, we shake it off And keep going. That's how the kids will learn how to keep going. How not to just quit and to give up when the going gets tough. When you lose a job, you shake it off. When the car breaks down and it's not running like you need it to, you you shake it off. When this old body doesn't function like you would like it to. Amen, Brother John. When this body doesn't have the strength that you want it to have, you've got to shake it off. Don't let Satan discourage you and get you down and keep you from doing what you can do for God. Satan is going to come and he's going to attack. He attacks from every front. But you know that we're supposed to be vigilant. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. He wants to destroy your life By any means possible. But you know that text is so amazing because he says he walketh about seeking whom he What's the next word? May. May devour. He's looking for permission. It's only two people that can give him permission. We can look at the story of Job and see how God gave Satan permission to tempt or to test Job. Or you and I can give permission. Satan permission to come into our lives. Wouldn't it be amazing as a Christian if Satan comes as the accuser or a brother and he he brings your name up before God and God says, okay, you can test him Wouldn't it be amazing if we came out on the other side of Victor instead of having failed our Lord? Satan wants to destroy us, but we need to resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Use the Word of God as Christ did and shake him off Don't let them hang there. The longer Satan hangs on, the more of his poisonous venom gets into your system. The more recovery time you need to get over that Satan comes and a lot of times what happens is we slip up or we fall. And our old sin nature says, well, I've already messed up, so what's another day or two? That's like the guy that was a drunk and he fell off the wagon. The thing to do is to stop immediately and get back on and say, Man, I shouldn't have done that. But what what happens? They don't do that. They say, Well, I already messed up And so they go for the next four months on a on a drinking bench. And a lot of times Christians are like that. Satan trip gets you to trip And you say, oh well, I messed up, and then you go the next four months without talking to God or reading the Word or doing anything that God wants you to do because you thought, well, I messed up, so I might as well just Right? I mean maybe I'm the only one that thinks that. Satan does that in my mind. Shake him off. Step back up and go on for God. He's going to attack you. Don't let Satan have the victory. Don't let Satan use you. Don't let him hang on to you. As soon as you feel in the bite, as soon as you feel that or sense that presence of Satan attacking you, whether that's in your spirit. Or from outside, or as a temptation, you say, Get thee behind me, Satan, and shake him off. Not only that, you need to shake off the disparaging. The disparaging. The derogatory, the demeaning, the disapproving. Now lots of D's that go with this one. The critical people You see in our story here, and when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hanging on his hand, they said among themselves That's usually the way it is. They're over there talking among themselves. No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea. Yet vengeance suffereth not to live. You understand that Satan is gonna attack, but also there's gonna be critics There's going to be people that are going to disparage your your work and I I don't have time to to carry this out as far as I would like to uh with all the things that we deal with, but you know people are gonna uh talk about your service for the Lord. Maybe even in the church house, maybe some other Christian or a brother or sister in Christ, and you know it always hurts worse when it's somebody close That hurts when you find out that they didn't like it or they didn't appreciate it or they thought it was a waste of time and and and y y y you the devil will use that to discourage you Don't worry about the comments of the disparaging, those people that just want to be derogatory or negative. There's always going to be a critic. Don't worry about the lost that are around us that that mock or make fun or laugh at what you do. Olivia, you go to work and taking a stand for Christ and some sometimes People at work might say, why do you do that? Why do you go to church? What do you need to do that for? They might they might mock or make fun. Don't worry about that. Don't worry about they're gonna change their mind one day. In the text here, these people change their mind after after a little while. They're gonna change their mind one day, I can guarantee it, because we know that one day every knee is gonna bow and every tongue is gonna confess. You're outdoor knocking and people give us a hard time. Shake it off. Shake it off. Some of you trying to raise your kids for God, and you've got lost family members that are criticizing you for controlling what they watch on the TV. They're criticizing you. I mean I remember as a as a child we didn't have a TV. We didn't have one. And people could come by our house and give us one And I sat there begging, please, let us keep it. And Dad would say, thank you. Lord bless you all, you know, and he would go out the back door and throw it in the trash We ne we you know we we didn't get to have a TV. Uh that's why I'm messed up today. Uh it means I got to play outside instead of waste time sitting in front of a TV, right? I didn't didn't I didn't lose anything. But I'm saying there's people, especially those of you that have family members that are lost, they're gonna mock. They're going to laugh. You want to train up a child in the way he should go. They're going to talk about how you should discipline. Listen, I have a whole article in here about about the world's philosophy about discipline, which is is It's baloney. It is. It's unbeliev it's it's mind-boggling to me how these people with PhDs behind their name and they're pumping this stuff into PhDs. people, the philosophy of the world on how to raise your children, you need to stick with the book. You need to shake off that stuff. Shake it off. One day we're going to stand at the great white throne judgment and see those people Who maybe made fun and laughed at the door. Those people that that slammed the door and they didn't want to talk to you. Those people that I mean, I was talking to Pastor Derek yesterday about it and he's like, you know, that doesn't bother me. And I said, well I'm happy for you I said I've been doing this my whole life and it still bothers me. Okay, I don't like it. I would rather people like me. I mean, you don't care what people think? I do. I'm sorry. I just b I just w why do they gotta be mean? Why do they gotta be rude? Why do they gotta be hateful? I mean it you don't have to take it, just say no thank you. But they they do that But you know what? One day when we're standing there and we see them because they rejected Christ at the great white throne and they're cast off into eternity, their blood will not be on our hands. When we stand at the judgment seat of Christ, and you're rewarded for the things done in your body, whether they be good or bad. You can stand there and you'll be thankful that you did it. You'll be thankful that you were a witness. You may knock on somebody's door and you make them mad because you pointed them to God. But as you're walking away, there's a smile on God's face because you pointed them to God. So let's shake off what this world thinks of us. And just see You gotta shake off the disparaging remarks. You also gotta shake off the damage. In verse number five, he says, and he shook off the beast into the fire and felt no harm. I don't know how literal that is as far as like if he literally did not feel it or I I'm assuming if If you get bit by a snake, it probably hurts a little bit. I mean, I know that the venom didn't have an effect, that God miraculously took care of that and cured him of this venom, but you know, there's probably still some pain But you don't see him saying, Oh, oh man, I got bit by a snake. Guys, I can't I can't do anything else right now. Guys, could you uh could you feed the fire and keep me warm? I I got bit by a snake. I I I'm gonna take care of my wound. There's no sense of that in the passage. When Kara was walking down from the choir, I asked her, I said, Do you feel the warmth of the fire, Karen? Not Karen. You guys know what I'm talking about Carol. Sorry, Carol. You know, he he wasn't babying it. He shook it off like you tell a boy who falls down and skins his knee. You tell him, stand up and shake it off. You're you're gonna be all All right. There might be some pain there, but you know what? You're not a baby. So Christian, you're not a baby. I know that sometimes what somebody says hurts. Sometimes it hurts deep, but shake it off. Shake it off. Let it go. Just follow God and do what God wants you to do and say, listen, I'm not going to sit and stew and I'm not going to sit and mull over this and let Satan use that to keep me from being what I all I can be for God. I'm just going to shake that off and let it go. And I know sometimes there's things in our lives that arise and and they cause us what might be actual physical pain. in our life, but through God and by God's grace, we can shake that off and keep going for God. Keep going for God. I know it's not easy, but with God's grace and with his help we can do it. With his power, we can shake it off. Understand the Apostle Paul was used in a mighty way because he was able to shake it off. If you read the rest of the story, We don't have time to. If you read the rest of the story, you'll see the miraculous things he does. The miracles that were performed. If you look over at the story of Lystra, you find the Apostle Paul was stoned. He was left for dead. If you could picture, I didn't bring a pile of stones in tonight, but if you picture a pile of stones here, he was stoned. They just got done stoning him to death. And out of the rubble is a hand. He moves it, he pile gets he he stands up. He shakes it off and goes on for God. And some of us can't shake off what somebody said. The Apostle Paul was stoned and he shook it off and went on for God Listen, I just want to encourage you tonight. I know there's attacks going to come. But by God's grace, we can shake it off and keep going for God. Let's not get discouraged. not be weary and well doing. Let's stand together with every head bowed and every eye closed. Dear Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to be in your house. I pray, God, you'd help us by your power to be able to shake off the attacks of Satan. The disparaging remarks of of those critics who, uh, Lord, many times aren't even involved in the fight, Lord, and and the the actual damage, the hurt that comes sometimes because of the trials of this life. I pray you'd give us the power to shake away. That we wouldn't get discouraged and downhearted that we could keep going for you. I ask you, God, that you would help us to be able to do that in Jesus' name. Amen.