Glad you're able to join us this morning. Got a number of different texts here. Uh I'm gonna read a couple of verses by way of launching off and and we're gonna be looking at a lot of scripture. I uh again, as I said on Thursday, I typically don't give you time to turn. Because I'm I'm running and I want to get there. Uh so we'll see if I can give you time to turn. We're gonna begin read I'm gonna read a verse in Psalm chapter nineteen and verse number seven, but I'm gonna read several other passages. this morning as well as I preach a message that I have entitled Shaken Ursure. Shake and Ursure. So The Bible says in Psalms chapter 19 and verse number 7: the law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul, the testimonies of the Lord is sure. Making wise the simple. uh or an email update something that we were doing that's in house that God has not given us the spirit of fear but of power and of love and of sound mind. At 9. 20 p. m. , April 13th, 1970, three astronauts by the name of Jim Lovell, Jack Swaggard, and Fred Hayes suddenly found themselves in the most frightening moment of their life. For Apollo 13 was on its way to the moon, 180,521 nautical miles from Earth. They were halfway to the moon and an oxygen tank on the service module exploded. One entire side of the spacecraft was blown away. Lovell said that he heard a small but distant bang. However, he was in mid-air at the time and didn't feel anything. Unlike Swaggard, who said at the time, he was at the controls and he felt in the controls a shutter go through the entire ship. They wouldn't have thought much about it except that at that very moment, in their headphones of all three astronauts, a master alarm went off. The control center at Houston, which not only monitors the spare spacecraft but the astronauts as well, said that in those five seconds the heart rate of those astronauts went from 70 To 130 beats a second. I think we would all agree that those three astronauts had suddenly In a moment, they found themselves filled with fear. It was then that Jim said those now most famous words. Houston, we have a problem. We have a problem. I think that those astronauts were actually shaken in their astronauts' suits. I tried to find the source of the idiom shaken in your boots. Sometime in the mid-1800s it begins to show up in print. That's pretty much all that I could narrow down. I couldn't find where it came from initially or or what developed it, but obviously there's the idea that somebody is so afraid. They might even be frozen like a deer in the headlights. Yet they're standing there, but they're so afraid they're shaking. Their feet aren't moving, but they're shaken in their boots This morning, as I deal with the topic of fear in this message, shaking or sure, are you are you shaking in your boots? I can tell you what society is shaking in their boots. Society as a whole is responding with such hysteria, and these sensationalist news media Who are out for ratings, do anything they can to stir that pot as much as they can. Instead of reporting facts, instead of reporting the things that are sound and stable And this has brought upon a present state of fear for us today. There certainly is a present state of fear. There is no question that we as individuals have some measure of fear. Everyone does. You know, it's impossible to build an exhaustive list. of the phobias that are out there. I tried to look. Somebody's got to have a list of phobias, right? I mean Mayo Clinic or or, you know, doctors online or what I mean somebody's got to have a list of phobias. Well I found somebody who said there's over 700. And a lot of websites have the top 100 list. Yeah. The top one hundred. So there's so many that they don't say the top five. They don't say the top ten. I mean it's the top one hundred list of phobias. It's quite funny that uh in the top, depending upon which list you're reading, but certainly in the top three is public speaking. That's a phobia that people just a fear of getting up in front of public And uh, you know, that's a that's amazing for all the things that people could be afraid of. But according to the Medical Newstoday. com In America alone, there's 19 million people who have a diagnosable phobia. Somebody said to me this week we have a panic demic. Not a pandemic. In our country today, we've got a panic demic. We've got people responding with hysteria To things that aren't really that bad. When you listen to those that are in the know instead of the news networks that are trying to stir the pot. You find uh it's almost like somebody who has a phobia of You know, there's some phobias that are that are that are reasonable. You know, there's some there's people that have phobias of all kinds of crazy, crazy, unbelievable things, you know. Obviously there's the dirt or germs that people just can't go outside. They're locked in their room because they're afraid of a germ. Herbert Hoover said, the dominant emotion everywhere in the world is fear. No matter what country you go to, no matter what group of people you deal with, it applies to every human activity Dealing with industry, farming, workers, thinkers, government officials, the dominant emotion is fear. Do you know fear is a result of sin? The first time that man ever experienced fear, I mean it was an emotion, it was a feeling that he Had never even had before. He didn't even understand it. He didn't even know where it came from. But all the way back there in the Garden of Eden, when Adam sinned. In verses 9 and 10 of chapter number 3 in Genesis, he says, And the Lord God called unto Adam, and he said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid. I was afraid. First time man ever felt fear was because of sin. From that time till now, it has been a dominant emotion in the heart of man, fear that we are faced with. There is a present fear, there's no doubt. There are profitable fears. There's profitable fears that we have. There are some that certainly are good to have. Children are taught from the time they're very young about those things that can hurt them. We say, hey, hot, hot, don't touch. We we try and hold their hand close but don't touch it so they can feel the the temperature and they kind of get a sense of the of what that what hot means and oh and they still don't quite comprehend until they've actually burned themselves once or twice And then it's like whoa and and you'll see 'em once they've really felt it they they're like hot, hot and they won't get close to anything hot. I mean they're a good distance away and they're hot hot. You know whether like if a wood stove or a uh uh a stove uh stove where you cook or something, it may not even be on. But that kid is like ha. He's he good fear. He doesn't want to get anywhere near it. You know, there are some fears like that. We teach them about knives and how they can cut and scissors and you know that old don't run with the scissors. I never understood that, but that's what they say. Don't run with scissors. I suppose that sometimes it's happened that some child some child impaled themselves on a pair of scissors. Just not sure how when you're running with a pair of scissors if you when you fall is it going to end up underneath you but I suppose it has happened and so yeah in your eyeball Amy you're you're such a sadist But you know don't don't there's fears like that that we teach kids and truly they can uh be advantageous to our health. The electrician has learned to have a healthy fear of electricity. You know, they say I've got a healthy respect. They're saying I've got a measure of fear that keeps me from being stupid. From making a dumb mistake, from from I I don't just stick my hand inside that you know transfer case or whatever. I'm very careful Because of the fear. They realize what it can do, the damage it can have, and there's a fear there. The demolitions expert has learned to have a little fear about the destructive power of the uh uh dynamite or C four or whatever uh uh concoction they're using to bring down a building or to break up rock. So there is profitable fears that are out there. There are many things in this world that when confronted with, you should respond with. I remember one time as a young man, I was walking out in the desert in El Pasto, I was probably twelve, thirteen. And uh I was walking along, and my friend, Kufis, was his last name For some reason it no. I don't know who it was. But I c I can't remember his name though. My mind just don't hey, I haven't seen him since I was about s sixteen, so You know that if I can't remember somebody sitting in front of me, don't worry about it, I guess. I can't remember his name. I don't know what happened, but it just left. Anyways, we were walking along out in the in the desert. And uh I was walking and he he goes, Stop! And I looked down and there was a rattlesnake curled up right there, bathing in the sun. Now he wasn't ready to strike. He was just bathing in the sun, but I can tell you if I'd have stepped on him, he would have str he would have bit whatever was closest. I backed up and I wasn't too far from the house, so I ran and got a 22 and I got a rattle that day. But uh we we killed a few rattlesnakes. You know, when you come across something like that it's good to have healthy fear It's good not to be like, oh, it's just a snake. There are some that can hurt you. I don't much care for snakes, I don't care what kind they are. I don't care if they're if they're if they eat the bugs or what, you know We did take a nice big snake and stuck it in the barn over there though to try and control the the the critters from running around in the barn. So I don't know where it went. Haven't seen it since we stuck it in there But uh we we did put it in there trying to help with that. But there are some snakes, you know. I remember one time my brother Daniel waking up there in El Paso, you know, in El Paso you dust out your shoes. Not just because there might be an animal in there, but because uh there's sand in 'em every day. You know, you live in the desert, uh y you dust out all the sand out of your shoes when you get up, put your shoes on. Well he dusted his boot out and a scorpion fell out of there. Somehow a scorpion climbed up in his boot in the night. If he would have just slipped his boot on He would have been hurting. It's good to have some fears. You know, Christians should fear God. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, the Bible says in Deuteronomy 6. 13. Proverbs, of course, tells us that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, beginning of wisdom. We know that we ought to have fear for God. There's an aspect of fearing God in the idea that obviously God is all-powerful God can and will judge sin, and there should be a measure of us that uh recognizes that and fears God because of it. I think there's too little preaching today on the fear of God, a holy and a just God. But there's also an aspect, I believe, for the Christian who loves God that we ought to fear disappointing him. We really ought to fear disappointing him. I remember hearing a story of a young lady who was out with some friends and They ended up at a party where there were some things going on that shouldn't have been going on and they were there and there was some some uh alcohol there and some Some people began to drink and they tried to hand her some alcohol and they wanted to say, Here, would you would you drink this? You should drink this. And she's like, No, I I'm not gonna drink. And they tried to get her to drink, and she said, I'm not gonna drink. And they they began to you know harass her and and jab at her a little bit as as as young people would do and they say, Oh you you afraid of what your mom and dad are gonna do to you? You afraid you're gonna hurt your mom and dad? You're gonna hurt your mom and dad are gonna hurt you. And she said, no. She said, I'm afraid that my mom and dad will find out and that'll hurt them. Because she loved her mom and dad. She wasn't afraid of of getting disciplined or worried about what mom and dad might do to her. In her heart she says, I I just don't want to break mom and dad's heart that much that I just can't do it. And as Christians there ought to be a fear in us that we just don't want to just don't want to displease God. There is although there's some profitable fear, I want you to understand that most fear is pernicious in nature. It's pernicious in nature. Proverbs 29, verse number 25 says, the fear of man bringeth the snare. In 1 John 4, verse number 18, it says that fear hath torment. Fear hath torment. There's so much. The pernicious nature of fear, yes, the fear is present, and yes, it is profitable at times, and we should have a measure of that, but You know, most fears that we have, that we deal with, are pernicious in nature. They are not helpful, they're destructive. They hurt us. They hurt us first because most of them really are phony. We laugh and kind of joke about the fear that a child has to go outside after dark. There's something about the unknown out there that there's a boogeyman out there. I read a story about a child who was afraid, so afraid to go to sleep in his room at night alone that the boogeyman was under the bed. And it got so bad the children took him to psychiatrists, and the psychiatrist was trying to talk them through, getting, and after several days, they just weren't seeing any progress And they went and they visited their grandfather. They came back the next week when the kid went to the psychiatrist. Sycratchers wanted to know how it was going. How is he doing with this fear? What's hiding under his bed? And uh this this kid said, oh, I'm sleeping good. I've been sleeping fine. And uh he says, Well, how did you overcome that? He said, Well grandpa cut the legs off the bed. There's no now there's nothing under there because the bed's all the way down on the ground. So Grandpa's pretty practical guy. He says, Hey, we can fix that. See there's nothing under the bed. You know, there's there's no way he could be hiding under there. That the kid was sleeping But you know, there's just that unknown. And as adults we look at and we say, well, obviously there's nothing under the bed. Nothing in there going to get you. You can go to sleep, but there's that fear that grips their heart so they can't even sleep What's going to come out from under my bed? And they're just hiding there. And you know, they go outside to take the trash out at night, and they gotta run, you know, go as quick as they can and run back. Why? Because there just might be something there You know, if you've ever been in an unknown city or an unknown location, you you know, you you're in your own home stomping grounds, you're you're comfortable I remember some nights late. I've been up in DC, twelve o'clock at night. Down there, uh, you know, right outside the Capitol, uh Awake America has an office there on 2nd Street, right across from the uh Justice Building. Well You're walking down those streets and you hear all the stuff about what goes on in Washington DC and you're like, okay, I don't know if this is a good street or not. I don't know if I I mean am I gonna get shot and by I mean this is not safe and you you there's that measure of fear you're kind of being real alert right real awake. You know most of the fears we have are phony. It's not really there. There's nothing really gonna happen. But it it's controlling us. You know the definition of a phobia? According to the Mayo Clinic, a definition of a phobia is an overwhelming and unreasonable fear Of objects or situations that pose little to no real danger. That's the definition of a phobia. I mean, take for instance the fear of getting up in front of people and speaking. There is literally no real danger. But we are consumed with fear. It's phony. It's destructive and pernicious in nature because it's paralyzing. Fear keeps you from doing what you should do. His years as the Prime Minister in the Soviet Union, Nikita Khrushchev, denounced many of the policies of Joseph Stalin. Once in a public meeting, he was there, a large press conference, a lot of people, and he was talking and denouncing Stalin's activities, and he shouldn't have done this, and he shouldn't have done that. When from the crowd somebody yelled, You were one of Stalin's colleagues! Why didn't you stop him? to which Nikita Khrushchev said, Who said that? And the whole crowd stood perfect. Nobody would move a muscle. And he said, now you know why. You see, fear is paralyzing. Fear stops you from speaking up when you should. Romans chapter 8, verse number 15 describes fear as being in bondage. Fear just locks you into bondage. It keeps you hostage. Many Christians today are defeated emotionally, physically, and spiritually because of fear. Because of fear. It stops us from working for God. It stops us from doing what God wants us to do. You know, in Luke chapter 19, you could turn there if you want to. Luke chapter 19, you have the story of the three stewards and their silver. You know that the master had given them. Now here, I'm going to give you this, I want you to take it and and and multiply it and use it and bring it back to me and The story progresses. Of course he had given five talents to one and three talents to one and one talent to the other. And you know the story how uh man with five talents he turned it into ten. They came back and he says, Hey, here's the five talents that you've given me and here's five more besides. And then the other one comes and says, Hey, here's the three talents you've given me, and here's three more besides. And you know the story about the guy with the one talent? You remember what did he do? He took it and buried it in the earth. Luke chapter 19 and verse number 20. And another came saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound. Which I have kept laid up in a napkin. But uh in verse number twenty-one, why why did he lay it up in a napkin? What is he saying? For I have feared. Thee. And he goes on and says describes, gives excuses as to why he did this But it was fear of losing the one, of not being able to bring that one back that caused him not to take it and to bring it back with usury, to multiply it, to accomplish something with what God had given. Fear fear of failure has stopped thousands and thousands from ever trying. Fear of loss has caused many, many men to choose sin over the sin. They have presented for them an opportunity to trust Jesus Christ and they they look and they say, Oh man, that sounds so good to be forgiven. That sounds so good I could have a home in heaven. Man, I sure do want that. But they look at it and they say, I don't want to give up this. They fear losing, they fear with a feeling of loss that they're going to have to give up what they what they've got over here in order to attain what God is offering through forgiveness of His Son. Now, if they would just do it, they would understand they have a privilege of letting go of that stuff. They don't have to sin anymore. They're not tied to that anymore. They've been freed from that. But boy, fear of losing it'cause caused many to choose sin over the Savior. Fear of water Has caused many to choose disobedience over obedience. You say fear of water? How'd that? Because behind me there's a baptismal tank. And that's the first step of obedience for a Christian. And I I don't understand it because I grew up and and and was two blocks from a lake and We went swimming all the time and and and I I've always enjoyed and loved the water, but there is people that have a fear of water. And they just don't like getting into water at all and and And for them, that fear keeps them from doing what God wants them to do in following the Lord and believers' baptism. They would remain week after week after week and year after year, disobedient to God, because they're afraid to get in three feet of water. I'm telling you, fear is paralyzing. It keeps us from doing what God wants us to do. I would say fear is the number one reason people don't witness for God. The number one reason why we don't share the gospel of Jesus Christ is fear of how people respond. Hey, you're not going to be beaten. You're not going to be imprisoned. Your life is not going to be taken. Somebody might just think That you're a little goofy for loving God instead of believing in evolution and living according to the philosophy of the humanism, humanists that are out there. Our fear of somebody that we've never met and might never ever see again keeps us from giving them the truth. Keeps us from sharing the gospel. I'm afraid they might not like it. I'm afraid they might not appreciate it, or they might think I'm weird. And you know how exciting and encouraging it is? I've had conversations with almost everybody in our church that actively witnesses in any way Man, I was in McDonald's and I gave a guy a track and he was a Christian. He said, man, thanks for giving me a track. Man, that was awesome. Boy, somebody else is sharing the good news, and oy, it so thrills our heart You know, he's already Christian. He doesn't need it. Somebody else needs it. But why does that so meaningful to us? You know why? Because they responded faithfully. When we give it with such apprehension because of fear There's a presence of fit sin, a presence of fear, there's a profitable fear that we have, but most fear is pernicious This has all pretty much been introduction. I turned it into points, but what I wanted to get to, especially in light of what's going on today in the world Is that God has given us power over fear? God has given you and I power over fear Are you shaken or are you sure? Do you have that assurance That solid foundation that we have from the Word of God and from the love of God, the power over fear. I want you to see this in the Word of God, so turn in your Bibles. If you're at home, you're here. Whatever, turn to Isaiah chapter 41 The rest of this point and the message can be taken. I'm going to give you a lot of other scripture, but the heart of the thoughts are from this verse right here, Isaiah 41 and verse number 10. God has given us power over fear. He says in Isaiah 41 and verse number 10: Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. There is an outline given to us right here. On the power to overcome fear because of our God. First of all, I want you to see that we have a promise of His presence. He says, Fear thou not. What's the next five words? For I am with thee. For I am with thee. He told Jacob in Genesis 26, 24, he says, And the Lord appeared unto him and said the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham, thy father, fear not, for I am with thee. You don't have to be afraid, I'm with thee. You know how many times a young person is afraid to go out at night, afraid to go do something. And then dad says, I'll go with you. And that kid's ready to go anywhere. He's ready to face anything. Why? Because dad is with him. That's okay. I mean there's nothing out here gonna bother me. Let's go. If dad turns around and says I'm gonna go okay, well I'm gonna go in. Well I'm going in too. Well I thought you said there was nothing out here Well, yeah, but you're not out here anymore. You know what? Because the Father is with them. Christian, we have the Father with us. He gives us that promise. I am with thee. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And whatever journey you're on in life, whatever path God has had you taking, He is with you. Be strong and of good courage. Fear not, be, nor be afraid of them, for the Lord thy God He it is that doeth good with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. God is with you. Your father is with you. He's given us that promise. I am with thee. He'll be with you to comfort you. In Psalms 23, verse number 4, that most familiar of verses, in the word of God, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? For thou art with me. Because God is there. Because God is with us. We don't have to have a spirit of fear. And in today's world, when this world is is responding with such hysteria, and this world has we have a panademic where people are just out of control and they don't know what to do. Christian, we shouldn't be that way We have a sure foundation. We've got God with us no matter what happens in this world. He gives us an acknowledgement of his person, who he is, and that he's our God. He says, I am with thee, right? Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I am thy God. Personal ownership. Listen, you can't claim that if you don't know God as your Lord and Savior. But when you do know him and you're assured of that fact and you've trusted Jesus Christ, you can know that he is your God. An all-powerful God. An omnipresent God. An omniscient God. He knows everything. He has all power. And he's everywhere at all times. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. Psalms 118, verse 6. Hey, he's your God. And he's with you. You have a promise of his strength. He says, I will strengthen thee. You know, sometimes our strength fails us. Sometimes we don't have the strength to endure the trial or the test. Sometimes we don't have the wherewithal to keep going when we need to keep going. But I can tell you that God, who is your God, who is with you, has promised he would strengthen you. And I don't know what's going to happen in the economy, and I don't know what's going to take place in in with your 401k and and the markets, the bottom is felling out, and it's the worst Worst fall since 2008 and and the the drastic measures that have been taken. And I can't tell you what's going to happen tomorrow. But I do know who holds tomorrow. And I know he holds my hand. Do you know that he holds yours? Do you know that he's with you? That he said he would strengthen you. David was given power from God over and over to accomplish the impossible As we saw last week when we talked about David and Goliath and facing the giants that you face in your life. It was God that was with him that gave him those victories. He says in Psalms 34, verse number 4, he says, I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. Have you spent any time seeking God? Been listening to the Communist News Network. Been listening to everybody's comments online nonstop. Been listening to everybody chime in about how bad things are and where we're going next and all that. You're allowing fear to grip your heart as a Christian, can I ask you, have you spent any time seeking God? The psalmist said, I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and he delivered me from all my fears. Listen, this world is being gripped with fear. They're responding in unbelievable ways. Fear can make people do some unbelievable things. But a Christian doesn't have to be that way. Because we have a God. He's our God. He's promised to strengthen Not only that, he's promised to provide for us. He said, I will help thee. I will help thee. It's not just that God's up there and He's aware of your situation and He knows that you're going through this and that He's gonna He's alongside you and He understands what you're facing But he says, I'm gonna help you. You know, I remember when I was a young man, I was going to buy my first car, and I was shopping and looking around. I was looking for my first car, and boy, I was excited about it. We went and looked at a little Dodge Omni. Oh, I don't know, it's probably an 80-something vehicle. And uh this Dodge Omni, I think it was around $2,500, $2,800. And I look at this this Dodge Omni and I'm like, man, I can't afford that. Oh my dad looked at me and he said, son, I'll help you. Oh. That opened up a whole new level of possibilities. That's when I started loving Mercedes. You're helping me. Oh, okay. Let's go shop it I mean let's go see what's out there. Now I got the Dajomini. He wasn't helping me get a Mercedes. But hey, what what what gave me that confidence and that ability to go shop for something for real Because I wasn't restricted to just what was in my pocket. I didn't, my limitations were not just with what I was carrying. It's with what dad was carrying. Now I didn't know at the time he wasn't carrying anything either. I never knew how poor dad was, which by the way, I'll throw that in for free, parents. You ought not be sharing that stuff with your kids Your kids don't need to know how tight things are. You're praying together as a family for God to provide. But this idea of blaming blaming the hardships of your life because, oh, we don't have any money, listen, you're not helping your kids. Your kids shouldn't be carrying the burden. When your six-year-old comes into the church house and is telling people, we just don't have any money in our house. Boy, we just need somebody to help us. They've been given the wrong spirit. They've been given the wrong spirit. They need to know that God's in control and God's helping us, and regardless of how tight things are, God's there and we're trusting him. That's the spirit they should have. That woe is me, we're not going to make it spirit that you're letting come through and you're sharing with your children. Your children shouldn't have to bear that. I never knew how tight things were in our home It was just for just trusting God. And anyways, that was free. But God allowed me to get that. Why? Because I wasn't limited to just me, but what dad had. And Christian, whatever happens with the stock market, whatever happens with your investments. God's in control. You know, when you got absolutely nothing, looking up and trusting God It seems like it's harder when you have something. You say, man, I didn't I didn't need to look to God. I I had all this. But now it's gone. Now what? He said, I'll help thee. I'll help thee. Your Heavenly Father wants to help you. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all Your heavenly father gave you his own son. He sent his own son to the cross to die for you. That's the kind of love he has for you. Your heavenly fathers looked at you and he said, I'll help you. I'll help you You've got a need, you're going through a trial, you're going through a test, the unknown is out there and there's struggle. Don't let fear grip your heart. Be sure, because you've got a father. He's your father. He's going to strengthen you. And he is going to help you. You might not understand how. It might not make sense. But you got to trust God. You remember that story of the woman, the man of God came to her and says, Hey, you got any food? She says, well, I got just enough food to make a cake for my son and I. We're going to eat it, we're going to die. And he said, Okay, make one for me. As a man of God, I would have a real hard time doing that. I mean, even if God told me to, I I just What, Lord? I don't know if the lady thought, I'm dying anyway. What difference does it make? What's one more cake? I don't know what her motivation was, but she obeyed God. She baked him a cake, and you know the story how God miraculously provided with that meal and the cruise of oil that failed not God can do it in miraculous ways. We don't need to understand it or see how. We just need to trust. Amen, Wilby. I mean God can give you a twelve dollar car, amen. God can provide a car for twelve bucks? I mean I think God can meet our needs. Listen, could I relate to you a miraculous story about how God provides I've been asked not to give the names of the individuals involved. But in nineteen fifty-nine there was a gentleman who was Working as a loan officer in a bank. He was successful. He had a good job. He was making good money. He came into the bank one day and they said, uh, you're done. Back up and go home. Just like that. No warning, no notice, just you're done He knew the Lord and was trying to follow God and trust God and didn't know what God was doing. He went home that night and, of course, broken and didn't understand what they were going to do now and where was the the money going to come from to meet their needs. They had a little bit of money saved, so there wasn't an immediate pressure, but they they knew they needed to do something. This man and his wife got down on her knees and they began to pray and to seek the Lord. What would God want them to do? And for some reason, the the he felt very strongly that God wanted him to take his skills as a loan officer And be a realtor and sell homes. And he thought, okay, I can do that. I mean I've I I've got a few connections out there and I know this process. And he he did what was necessary to be able to sell homes and he he went and set up a reality company. Took all of his money that he had left and threw it all in this realtory company. He he gave all of his effort, everything he had, he sank it into this and Two weeks went by and he didn't sell any homes. Two months went by and he didn't sell any homes. Now they're they're out of money, and I don't recall how many months total had passed. But it got to the point where they had no money left. And again he found himself, him and his wife, in tears on the living room floor, praying and seeking God. Saying, God, what what can we do? I think we took these steps for you. I think Lord this is what you wanted us to do. I just was trying to follow your leading. It seemed this is what you were directing me to do. Now I've got all these months and there's been no sale of any homes. What am I going to do, God? And as him and his wife were there on their knees praying and asking God for a solution, the phone rang. And on the phone, there was a man that was looking for a house. The man said, Can we meet tomorrow? And the man came and they met. The man liked the house that he was shown and he bought it. And the man there, as they were signing paperwork, he he he told this gentleman And I have uh four extended family members and friends that are moving to this area as well. Can you find a house for them? And just because of how it happened where the guy right when he was praying and the guy called and he said, I just gotta ask, he says, why did you call me? He said, Well, I'm a Christian. He said, I'm actually a missionary to the Congo. And I've been a missionary in the Congo for the last 40 years. years. He said, due to health, my wife and I have to move back to the States. Several months ago, we were packing our belongings up We were there on the shores of the Congo. We were loading our things into barrels, and the barrels were set onto a pallet and wrapped in a net and Being hauled up to be put on the ship we were going to sail back to the States in. And he said, and somebody walked up to me and began talking to me and asked me where I was going. He said, I said, I told them I was moving back to the States and I was moving to Nicholsville, Kentucky. They said, the man said, you're going to Nicholsville, you need to call this guy. And he gave me your name. And I looked down to write down your name, and I was gonna get more information, like a phone number or a contact, you know, address or And he said, when I looked up, that guy was gone. I don't know who he was. But when I got to the States, I looked your name up and called you. You see, months before, God had a servant in Africa, in the Congo, that was going to come back to the States and need a place to live And God had a servant in Nicholsville, Kentucky, who he said, I need you to start a reality company because you're going to provide the home that my other servant needs And neither one of them knew yet what was going to happen. But God put everything in place. And that night as he was praying and saying, God, why did you put me here? He got his answer. From that day till now, that man has had a realty company. And today he's a multimillionaire. Blessed many, many times over. But he's a faithful, godly Christian who still attributes every sale. To the direction of God. You see, we don't have to fear. We can stand sure. Because we have a God in heaven. He's our God. He's going to help. And he's going to strengthen. we need it most. This is what God did. He also gave us a promise of protection. He says, there I will uphold thee in that verse. Romans 831 says, What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Listen, when the enemy looks strong, whatever the enemy might be, when the enemy looks strong, you can know that God is stronger. He said he answered, he said, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. Sometimes Fear is nothing. Fear is a f it's just phony. Sometimes there might actually be something that can harm us. But either way, God said he would protect us. I will uphold thee, he says. I think of that servant of God, Joseph. He said unto them, Fear not, for I am in the place of God. It will do each of us well to learn. Like Joseph. Joseph didn't know what God was doing. What he had to do. But God was putting Joseph in a particular place so that he could be where he needed to be and meet the needs for an entire nation. I don't know what you're going through. I don't know what problems you're going to face, what struggle you you have, but listen, God's given us his word and he's given us a promise that he's going to protect us. He's with us, he's there, he's for us. We can be sure we don't have to be afraid. In a moment, we have a moment of invitation here. Listen, would you take time to make a decision if God spoke to your heart? Would you take time to talk to your Lord? I know many of you're not in church. You're at home, you're sitting on the couch, you're sitting in a chair watching on a computer or an iPad. But you don't have to be in church to make a decision for God. If what's been going on in the world has you wrapped up and tied in knots and you're in fear over what's going on, listen, God doesn't want us that way. He's not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. Maybe you just need to admit to that spirit of fear that has you paralyzed and kept you from doing what God wants you to do Whether that be getting baptized or maybe getting saved, maybe joining the church. Maybe fears kept you from witnessing to your family, your friends, or loved ones, your co-workers. Would you just admit it today and respond to God? Commit to do whatever God has asked you to do. We're going to take a moment of invitation here. I'm going to ask the pianist to come and to play, and we're going to allow the pianist to play, and we're going to allow the Spirit of God to work on your heart. Maybe today you're locked up in fear over what's going on. You're just like those in the lost world. Those who don't have God, who don't know God, but God doesn't want us to be that way. You know God, and you know He holds your hand.