Today is Saturation Sunday, a day where we go out this afternoon and we're going to give out presentations of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're going to give invitations to church. We're going to be hanging those on the doors. It's always a great time of fellowship. It's always a lot of fun. But for the most part, what we do today, very few people will actually have an opportunity to share their faith one-on-one. We're leaving the gospel on the door. We're leaving it there for them to read at their own leisure. For the most part, today we won't get the opportunity to share our faith. But what we're talking about this morning is sharing your faith, talking to people. One-on-one, giving the gospel, sharing what God has done in your heart with others. And that's what we as Christians are supposed to do. Aurie Tory used to tell how if every Christian alive today Would share their faith and lead one soul to Christ this year. In an entire year, if they would lead one soul to Christ, And then next year, that Christian and the Christian that they won would go out and lead one soul to Christ in an entire year. And then the next year, that Christian and those Christians would go out and lead one soul to Christ, that in thirty-two years the entire world will be saved. Because of multiplication. But the sad fact is, is many Christians get saved and never share their faith. Never share with others what God has done in their heart. When we talk about the idea of sharing our faith, when we address the topic of sharing your faith, there's many responses. people have. First of all, some response that oh I know all about sharing your faith. I know how to do that and and they feel that they don't have anything to learn. I want to encourage you no matter where we are in our life, no matter where we are in We can always improve and get a better understanding, and God can use the simplest thing to uh to allow you to lead somebody to Christ or give them what they need need and so there's always more we can learn. And there's some who feel that they need more to learn even though they've been doing it a long time. They want to learn more. They desire to learn more. They want to sharpen their skills. They want to get better at it. And uh, you know, that's the fact is, is that we can get better at it. We can improve, we can get better at this thing. It's like anything else. Although leading a soul to Christ is a spiritual battle It is a spiritual battle that's taking place. The fight for the souls of men is a spiritual battle. But we can improve in our skills at fighting that battle. We can get better at it. It is a skill that is developed over time, not one that is just inherently possessed. You see, that's what a lot of Christians think. They think, oh well, I wasn't given the gift of evangelism. Uh, you know, or or I don't have that skill. Uh there other people can share their faith, but I don't know if I can And we can improve. We can get get better. You remember old time uh firetrucks back when they fire trucks, uh I would say fire engines when they pulled them with horses Well they didn't want the horses to be under the burden of the fire truck, uh fire engine all the time. So they actually would have the harnesses up in the air and they would have them up above the horses, the horses would be in a stall ready, ready to go, and when the bell would ring, the harnesses would fall, and men could come quickly, harness them up, and they would take off to go to the fire. Well what if the horse decided he didn't want to wait for the harness to fall? And he just took off and headed to the fire. Now he would get to the fire much faster. But when he got there he would not have an engine with which to fight the fire. He would be ill-equipped to handle the tasks that he ran to do. And that's what we're talking about this morning is getting the skills to be equipped to handle the task of winning souls to Christ. Of fighting for the souls of men, of reaching the lost, we can get better so that we have the skills to talk to anybody. We should be able to talk to young and old alike. We should be able to talk to people that are educated and people that are uneducated. People that are rich and people that are We should be able to talk to all types of people. And it shouldn't matter what they are. Our ability should be developed You know, there was a man that was in a good Bible preaching church, and they were teaching the Bible, and they were teaching about winning souls to Christ. And this man got a burden for it and he said, I need to be doing this and and I need to be I mean he was stirred in his heart and he said I need to do this and you know the war that wages in our in our heart when we're out in the world and on Sunday morning we're on fire and we're gonna share our faith and And then on Monday morning, it's like, oh, I'm not so sure. Well, this had happened for several weeks in a row, and he said to himself, the next customer that comes through my door, I'm going to share the faith with. my faith with him. And uh this man was a barber. And he said he was the the next customer, the unsuspecting man that came through the door, sat down and he's like, here, here is that gotta share the faith and he's he's telling himself I've gotta do it, I gotta do it. Have you ever had that battle? Have you ever I've had that battle. He says I gotta do it. I gotta do it. I gotta share my faith. And so he like absent mindedly he you know Came in and says, uh, you know, the guy asked for a shave and and he he got his uh stuff out and lathered em all up and he's kinda absent mindedly not really paying attention. He put that down, he's like, I gotta do it. He walked around in the front of the chair and the guy's sitting there and he pulled out his leather strap and he's like I gotta share my faith. You know, he's like, I gotta do it. He's just, you know, shh he says, I gotta I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. And he's wearing a razor out, just encouraging himself, but I gotta share my faith, right? He's like I gotta do it, we gotta do it. And I tell you what, that razor was as sharp as could be and he got down and he said I'm gonna do it and he dropped that leather strap and he looked at the man and he said Sir are you ready to die Well that guy jumped up and ran out of that barber shop. The barber the barber lost a customer and the man lost the potential uh opportunity to witness A little bit of tact and a little bit of wisdom and really a little bit of skill developed in talking to people could have made a saint out of that center. Could have changed that person's eternal destiny. We can develop our skills. And you know what? There's a third group of people. There's some some that feel no matter what happens No matter how much you teach me, no matter how many times I see what we're supposed to be doing, I could never share my faith. There's people in this room right now that feel that way. They feel I could never do it. Pastor Caleb, you could give me all the soul winning helps you want to give me. You could meet with me every day and you could put it in my hand and I could never Share my faith. I want to encourage you that there's been people in every generation and every people group from all through history that felt that way. You see, in the Bible they even asked, they said, God Give us boldness. They had to ask of God for boldness to share their faith. And I would encourage you, if you're here this morning, you say, I'm not sure that I can share my faith like that. Ask God for boldness to share your faith. And God will give it to you. It starts with a desire in your heart and then you ask God, Lord, give me boldness that I could share my faith. In Acts 4. 29 And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto us thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak. Thy word. That with boldness we could speak the word of God. That's what we need to do. So if we're going to speak the word of God, we've got to have some preparation There's got to be some preparation. First of all, be ready to share your faith at any time. 1 Peter 3. 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to what? To give an answer. To give an answer of what? Of the hope that is in you. Are you here this morning and you've got hope? You've got Jesus Christ as your Savior and you're on your way to heaven? I mean you hope you've got hope of one day walking on the street Streets of gold. You've got hope to go through the trials of this life because Jesus Christ is in your heart. You've got hope to endure some of the struggles that you're facing. Well, there's a world of people that have no hope And God says, be ready to give an answer of the hope that is in you when people see that you're different, when people see that you've got joy in your heart and you've got a spring in your step and you know what it's not all drudgery and dreary to you that that the the sun is shining in your soul even when it's dark outside they come and they say man What do you have that I don't have? I mean, basically they're saying, what must I do to be born again? I mean if somebody comes up and asks you that, you better be ready to share your faith. Or you are going to be held accountable. I can guarantee you that. Somebody comes up and says, what do you got? Be ready to share your faith. And if you're going to be ready, you've got to have some preparation Some preparation, being ready to share your faith. That's what this morning is about. You can share your faith anytime, anywhere to anybody. And I'll tell you what, the devil will give you every kind of excuse that you can imagine. imagine on why you shouldn't show your face. It doesn't matter the place, the time. I've walked up, there's a guy on the street, and I'll tell you what, there's this biker sitting there. I remember it like I mean he was tatted up like you couldn't believe he had piercings everywhere. He's sitting on a big old Harley and I'm walking down the street and there's a dear old lady here. I'll witness to this lady. I ain't talking to that guy. That guy's sitting there and I'm I mean I see him there. I'm walking down door to door, I'm going door to door and I'm like, Lord please help that guy to drive away before I get there because I do not want to talk to that guy about Jesus, you know. He is not gonna want to talk to me. And you know what he was a I shared my I mean the whole time I'm like he'll never listen. I mean the world's gonna you know what I woke up this morning not feeling good. You know why? Because we're supposed to go out soul this afternoon. I mean man I sure don't feel like it today. This is just I mean today I mean I don't know. I haven't felt good for several days now. I don't think I should go. The devil's gonna give you an excuse It doesn't matter. He's going to give you an excuse. I've had the privilege and the opportunity to lead people to Jesus Christ in church, in my office, on the street, right on the street. I've had privilege of leading somebody to the Lord at their front door. In their living room, in their place of business. They bowed their head and trusted Jesus Christ right in their place of business. I've had the privilege of leading somebody to Christ on the top of Keystone Mountain. In Colorado, skiing. You don't have to be in church to get saved, amen. You got to be ready anywhere, anytime to share your faith, and you have a little bit of preparation. Then you can do that. We need to be spiritually minded. Have the gospel with you. Have some tracks. Have some kind of presentation of the gospel with you at some point. Point. Something that has the Word of God on it because the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword. Now if you don't have all that, if you've done some preparation, there's been many times I didn't have the Word of God, but God said talk to them. And I said Hey, can I tell you what God did for me? And you can tell them the word of God from memory. But to begin, you might not have it in your memory, and you've got to have it with you. in some type of printed form. Have tracts, have John of Romans, have invitations to church, have your New Testament. Now I believe In a concealed carry. Myself. I believe in concealed carry. Now you can do whatever you want. Listen, but let me tell you, you're not any more spiritual because you're carrying a big Bible. It's what's in here. Now I like to sneak up on them. If I'm coming down the street and I'm wearing a suit and I'm carrying my Bible, what are they doing? Yeah, they think I'm Mormon. But either way, they're gonna go they're they're gonna go inside. They're gonna lock the door. Now what we're talking here today is not necessarily about door-to-door soul winning. I'm talking about sharing your faith with your friends. your family with people you come in contact with. But what I'm saying, even in those situations, you I believe in Castile Carrie. Try and find something that is small, that is portable, that you can have with you. Obviously you can have something like this all the time and this has printed word of God. But you also, there's a lot of options as far as testaments. This one is in the bookstore. It's nice, leather bound, Soul Winners New Testament. The nice thing about it is that the texts are a little larger. Now that text is still small, uh but Compared to this, that's like large print. Okay? Anytime you're sharing the gospel with somebody, if you have the Word of God, you want them to see it You want them to see it in the Word of God, not take your word for it. So the problem with something so small like this is you're like, you know, can you can you read that here? You know what I'm saying? They can't They can't read that. You want them to be able to see it. So it's good if you could have something that has a little bit larger print. But here's some different options. Uh these are all uh mine and my wife's and so on. This one I just grabbed out of the bookstore this morning. So this one's still for sale if somebody wants it wanted it. Um and we just sell those for what we get 'em for. But uh I believe in concealed carry. Have it with you, but don't don't have it out because you're just gonna uh turn people off or drive them away. So be prepared anytime you show your face Be yielded to the Holy Spirit. Don't depend on your talent. Understand that it's not you. It's the Word of God. You say, man, I'm not as skilled at communicating. I'm not good at getting that across. I can't I can't tell those points like you know somebody I heard say it. You don't have to. The Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God is what will direct you. And I'll tell you what, we're talking about sharing your faith with people You know, you have the ability to talk to them like nobody else. I could go to them, and with my years of practice and all the things that I've done and all the times I've shared my faith, and I wouldn't have half the impact that you would Because of your connection with them as an individual. So you need to share your faith. Follow the Holy Spirit. Let Him use you. Depend on Him, not your talent, not your energy, not your your experience or your past success, but the Holy Spirit will do it for you. Then you want to identify. Identify with the person you're talking to It's got to come from the heart. You need to identify with them. You need to think about the fact that this could be you that is blinded and on your way to hell. This could be you that does not believe Or is blinded by some false religion. You need to identify with them. Think about the fact that this could be my father. This could be my son or my daughter. There could be a dear saint of God somewhere else in the country that's praying, begging God for somebody to come and share their faith with their son or their daughter. Identify with them and realize the importance of what it is that you're sharing with them. Let it come from a heart of compassion and love and concern for them. You know, love motivates. Love moves people. It should never be about getting another check on your belt It should never be about, oh, I want to have a testimony to give on Sunday about how I shared my faith this week. It ought to be about the soul of the person that you're talking to. And the fact that they're going to spend an eternity in a place called hell unless they trust Jesus. Christ and you need to identify with them and ask God to give you that compassion. There was a young uh there was a Sunday school teacher there was ministering to a young boy in the neighborhood and he was trying to get this boy to come to church and he was burdened about him and he would say hi to him and talk to him and invite him, you know, when are you gonna come to church and so on and he had talked to him for a while and one day they were talking and uh he says, Hey, when you c why don't you come to Sunday school, man. We've got uh we got uh boys and girls in our class, and he goes, Yuck, who wants girls in their class? And he's like, Oh, well, we have the funnest time singing songs, and he says, I don't like to sing And he's like, well, we give prizes away in class and we got we can win prizes and have prizes and and it's a lot of fun. And he's like, I have all the stuff that I want at home And the guy was the tiny school teacher was about to give up, about to just turn away. And the little boy says, Will you be there? He says, yeah, I'll be there. What the boy is saying is all these other things don't motivate me, but what I've seen is a heart of love from you, some compassion from you. And if you'll be there, I've got to interest you We've got to have a heart of compassion. We've got to identify with them. Prepare. Let me just say this: be polite. And leave the door open. Be polite and leave the door open. If somebody doesn't want to listen to you, don't say open your mouth. Open your mouth. I mean, don't shove it down their throat. Don't shove it down their throat. Just leave the door open because if you d if you're a jerk, what it's gonna do is it's gonna confirm in their mind what they already think about Christians. You need to leave the door open and let the Holy Spirit give another opportunity. So be kind, be compassionate, leave the door open for another time to be able to witness They may not let you give the gospel that time. But when they see your heart, six months from now, you're at a garage sale together, whatever. it may come up. Something might happen in their life and it'll draw them to a place where they say, Man, I need to talk to him if you leave the door open. So that's some preparation thoughts there. Alright? Be ready all the time to share your faith, yield to the Holy Spirit, and identify the one with the one that you uh are witnessing to. Then the presentation. Now getting to the presentation, getting to the point where you can present the gospel. This is where a lot of people get hung up. You know, we can stand around and talk to people about the weather all the day. But how do you get from the weather to worship? Uh we can talk to them about the ball game. But how do you get from the ballgame to the Bible? How do you do that? How do you get somebody to well first of all you've got to have a desire to want to do it. When you want to do it, the Holy Spirit will give you thoughts in your mind and give you ideas about how to do that. I mean when you're talking to them about the b about the ball game, in your mind is Lord, how can you How can I get this over to the Bible? How can I get to the place where I could talk to them about Jesus? And the Lord will start giving you ideas. There was one salesman that was going through the neighborhood. And he was selling uh stain remover. And he came to this old dear saint of God's home, and she wasn't the least bit interested in stain remover, but she invited him in and sat down and was talking to him, and she asked After a few minutes, she says, you know, Sonny, I've been around for a long time, and I have found the best stain remover there is in the world. And he, of course, being a salesman of stain remover, his his mind was perked. He's like, really? What is that? She says, Well, let me tell you about it. A few minutes later he bowed his head and trusted Christ. God will give you ways to bring the conversation around to the things of God if you have a desire in your heart to do that. But let me give you some practical thoughts here about how to how to do it. How to get the conversation to to that place. First and foremost, you can just just give your testimony. This is the most basic, the most fundamental just share what God's done in your heart. This is the beginning place. And just start talking to Him about what God did for you. And uh, you know, this is something you don't have to memorize. It's always from the heart because it's your story. It's right there. You've got it. You can tell it at a moment's notice because it's your story. And so sharing your your testimony, just saying what God did for you is a is a great place to start. You could ask them about where they go to church. Or if they're a friend of yours and you know that they go to church over at St. Michael. Ask them and say, hey, what do they do for church at St. Michael's? What are the services like? What do you guys do? Oh, really? Do they well how are the Bible lessons? What do you learn from the Bible or whatever? And then You're on your way. At that point, you're right, you're right there. And you say, Well, you know what? I learned something in the Bible that's really neat. It changed my life. And and so just ask them about their church experience or where they go to church. Um ask them this. Hey, do you ever think about heaven? Do you ever think about heaven? I wonder, I mean Do you how many people are gonna go to heaven? Do you know if you're gonna go to heaven? You know that somebody showed me in the Bible how we could know for sure we're gonna go to heaven. Um getting just getting around there to asking asking some questions. Um You need to be able to read the person, read the situation. When you start moving towards spiritual things, you're going to notice a lot of times people shut the conversation down. They would stand there and talk to you until they're Blue in the face about the Oreos. But they aren't when you start talking about Jesus or start talking about church, they're going to shut it down. You need to be able to read the situation. Don't be ignorant of how they feel. Don't again cram it down their throat. Share your faith up to the point where you realize that they're they're not interested, not talking, and leave the door open for another time. Say, can I take a couple minutes? And show you what God's Word says about going to heaven. What I like to use is I like to use the phrase, can I show you what somebody showed me? I went to church a lot growing up. I was in the church house all the time. But one day somebody took a Bible and showed me, and I like to use that because then that's not lifting Me up above this person I'm talking to. I'm saying, hey, somebody showed me something in God's Word. Can I show you what they showed me? And they, you know, say, oh, sure. And you can take God's word and show that to Him. So there's some things. Now, let me give you, we're going to talk about the Romans Road. The Romans Road. Back in under preparation, I meant to tell you this. I've got there's two things here. Um the New Testaments, um John and Romans, here's a Oh, here's a John in Romans. Um this John in Romans is a marked edition. You say, well, I'm not sure what to do. Um These generals that we have, they're marked in the front of this. It tells you marked editions, see page 42. Now you can do this in your own Bible, in your own New Testament, whatever you want. You turn to page number 42. And the nice thing about these they have pretty good size print. So in page number 42, the verse is underlined already for you there. What you're going to talk, what you're the verse you're going to show them, not what you're going to say. And then at the bottom of the page it says turn to page 46. Now you could mark your own New Testament like that. When I first started out, I used these, these little stickers. And I put them in my Bible right at the right point. And then I knew, okay. Now if you use if you use these colors, you also have the the colors of the wordless book with you all the time, so you're dealing with kids uh you have those colors and you can give them teach them by using the colors of the word of the book and we don't have time this morning to look into that but then you know okay I start with green hey can I show you and then your verse is highlighted it's already highlighted under aligned right there and and have it have it marked out have it done now this here is a pocket size uh so winning helps from from Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Pastor Derek put it together and I edited it yesterday because I wanted to change the outline a little bit. You know, I like things alliterated, so I alliterated some of the points. But what we're going to talk about first of all here is the Romans Road. Now the verses are here. You have those right there and you have the points right there. But I'm going to give you some of the some of the things to say with that, some of the background to go with it. But the Romans Road is my go-to presentation of the gospel. There are a couple of others in here, and if we have time we'll talk about those. But the go-to this is the basic. It you have the convenience of it all being in one book. It's all in the book of Romans. Uh all of it what you need to lead somebody to Jesus Christ. And there's only four points. And I always tell people when I talk to them, hey, uh, there's just four things that you need to understand. Can I give you those four things? And you read the situation, find out how much time do you have. If they're antsy and ready to go, I can give the gospel in under two minutes. Hey, at least they've got it in their mind. And and the Lord can start to use that word of God in their heart. But I've taken 20 minutes before too. So you you you read the situation, find out how interested they are, how much time they have, how much explanation they might need on these things. So the Romans wrote, first of all, the problem. The problem is all have sinned. All have sinned. Each of these verses, they give you your outline right in the verse They tell you exactly what you're supposed to be talking about right in the verse. First of all, all have sinned. So what does all mean? All means all. All have sinned. You always want to point to the Word of God, not point to yourself. You say, Would you agree with the Bible? Don't say, do you agree with me? Say, would you agree with the Bible that all have sinned? That we're all sinners. And most people will say yes. Again, trying to find a way to connect with them, I usually will reference myself and say, I know I'm a sinner. And if somebody's with me, let's see, where's John? Brother John and I've been so one a number of times together, and I always say everybody knows John's a sinner Just like you laugh, they laugh. It's a connection with them. It just in it just opens the door a little bit. It opens their heart a little bit. And they realize we're just a couple of guys. We're nothing better than them. We're just sick And we're sinners, and they say, Well, yeah, yeah, I I I know I'm a sinner. All has sinned. Um then you talk about the fact that you've come short of the glory Of God. We've come short of the glory of God. God's glory is perfection. We come short of perfection. God's glory right now is in heaven. We come short of being able to get to heaven because we aren't perfect, because we have sin. Then I always like to illustrate this point because some people don't feel there is much of a sin. Or is anybody else, but we come short. There's several illustrations you can use to illustrate the fact that we come short of the glory of God. One is three three Olympic swimmers. So you can just write down there on the edge, swimmers. And in the re the rest of the story will come back to your mind. But there were three Olympic swimmers that wanted to swim the English Channel. This is before it had ever been done. And they decided to go out and they were going to swim swim the English English Channel and these were these were athletes. I mean nobody even thought about the fact that there needed to be some type of protection, there needed to be safety boats and so on. These guys were the I mean, there was a whole crowd there gathered around to watch these guys swim the English Channel. They got in the water and they took off and they were swimming. They got a little over halfway across, and one of the swimmers just could not swing another s swim another stroke, and he sank. And drowned. Then they they just swam a little further. Those other two swimmers, they they they knew they couldn't help the guy because they were just barely they had a long way to go themselves and they couldn't help him, and so they kept on swimming. They got not too much further in the second swimmer He he couldn't swim anymore and he drowned. Then then the other the third swimmer he was doing pretty good. He got you know he was getting Getting close to the other side and the crowd was saying, Come on, come on, keep coming. Don't don't stop, don't stop, come on, come on. They're cheering him on and everything. And he was working for all he could, but finally got to the point where he could not swim another He made it almost all the way across. But he drowned. Then you ask him and say, which one would you want to be? Well, I don't want to be any of them. Oh, but the third one made it almost. But he came short, didn't he? You see, it doesn't matter how good you are as a person, we still have sin. And so we come short of God's perfection So that's one illustration that you can use to drive home the point. The second illustration which I use a lot is playing darts. And uh we have a dartboard, mock for dartboard here. You can use anything, anywhere you are, you can say here's the dartboard, and you play darts and you say Let's say you throw your dart and uh let's say this screen is the dart board and the goal is right here, this this bullseye. And uh you throw your dart and you hit right here. I mean you were I mean you were there. I mean if we were playing for money you'd be close. And I threw my dart and it missed this whole wall and went over here. I missed by a long ways. But you still came short, didn't you? That's because we're we're not perfect. We've missed the bullseye. And you can use that illustration of plain darts to illustrate the fact that we come short of the glory of God. So You illustrate those things and then again point them back to the Bible and then review review review You're you're telling a lot of stories you're talking to them you're explaining things now go back if you get done telling the story and say now Okay, would you agree with the Bible that we're all sinners? So first of all the four things we realize, we realize that there's uh the problem is that we're all sinners, right? Now secondly, there's a penalty. So you want to give them the penalty. There's a penalty for sin. The penalty for sin is that we're gonna die. And And you don't have to talk about this verse for the Romans roam. Beginning out you may not want to. But there's a penalty for sin, wherefore as by sin uh death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. So the penalty is deep. And an eternity in a place called hell. You don't have to reference that. You can just talk about the penalty and then say for the wages of sin is death, Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Again, your outline is right in the verse, what you want to talk about. First thing, a wage. We know what that is, but when you see it in the scripture. People are like I mean it doesn't register and you say okay what is a wage? A wage is what you earn. If you know them and you know where they work, you say, oh hey, you work down over here at McCormick and uh at the end of the week They give you a check because you've earned it, right? What if at the end of the week McCormick said, Ah, sorry, you're not getting a check this week. See you Monday. You would say, I don't think so. Right? You'd say, I earned that. They've got to pay me what I've earned. Well, we're going to get paid what we've earned. The wages of sin, what I've earned because I'm a sinner, what I deserve, what I've earned because I'm a sinner is death. Would you agree with the Word of God? You're a sinner You said that already. You agree with it. And what you've earned as a sinner is death. Is to spend an eternity in a place called hell. And you say, now that's not very good news. Is it that's not good news? You say, man, I I thought you said this was the gospel. The gospel's a good news. This isn't good news. Well we're not done yet. There's four things you gotta know. But you talk about that, uh the penalty of sin. Um I like to illustrate with this with breaking the law. We know that there is a penalty for breaking the law. I like to use the fact of speeding because Everybody at some point has gone faster than they were supposed to. And they've all felt that like their heart drop when they're going down the road and the officers right there and you you're like, oh and it hit the brakes and you felt that fear and and And oh no, I hope I don't have to pay you could say the ticket or the fine, but the penalty. And when you talk about that, it connects with people. like oh yeah I've been there and you say if you were driving your car down the street out here and a police officer saw you he wouldn't just wave to you oh hey no he'd pull you over and give you a ticket you would have to pay the penalty. What? For breaking the law. We've broken the law. We've broken God's law. And so we have to pay the penalty. There's a penalty. That we're all going to have to pay. But that verse goes on, I say, first of all, for the wages of sin is death, what we've earned is the penalty, but also the penalty has been paid. The payment was paid by Jesus Christ. And that same verse, Romans 6. 23, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Again, the things that you want to talk about are right in the verse. Talk about the fact that it's It's a gift. This is a free gift that God gives to us. You know a gift by its nature is free? I always illustrate with whatever I have in my hand. And I'll say, if I was going to give you this For free. And I said, all you have to do is ten push-ups. Is that free? You you'd be surprised how many people said yes. I've had many people say yes. And then I have to say, well what if after you did the ten push ups I said, Ah just kidding? Then they say, You can't do what? I say it wasn't free, was it? You earned it. Right? Well a gift by its nature is free, Jesus. Christ is the free gift of is eternal life through Jesus Christ. So a gift by its nature is free. A lot of people feel they have to earn their way to heaven. They earn it by saying, Oh, I'm going to go to church. I got to be a There's a lot of things people do that they feel are gonna get them to heaven, but they're trying to earn their way there. And those things connect with people too. because they've done it. They've done it. And say God has given us a free gift. The free gift of eternal life. Then you see that here that it says it's through Jesus Christ our Lord. I like to show the point that it's through Jesus. It's not it's not through our church It's not through me. It's not through what we do as people. It's not how we it's Jesus Christ that does it. You know, salvation is not what we do, it's about what's been done. are ready, done by Jesus Christ. I like to illustrate this fact that Jesus Christ paid the penalty for us, and I the most powerful illustration that I've ever used that God gave me is is uh the illustration of the judge. And the idea I'll go back to the speeding ticket and say let's say you got a speeding ticket and you had to go before the judge and your speeding ticket was going to be five hundred dollars or five five days in jail. you say, man I can't go to jail for five days because uh I'll uh uh miss my work and I'm gonna lose my job and who's gonna take care of my kids and I said if you had to go to jail for five days that'd be pretty inconvenient wouldn't it? And they say yeah Yeah. And I'd say, but let's say you didn't have five hundred dollars. So what are you gonna do? The judge get d the judge do you think the judge should just let you off because he's a loving judge? Well what if the judge just let the the rapist off or the killer? the murderer off because he's a loving judge. If he wasn't just, right? The penalty has to be paid. And that makes sense to people. They say, yeah, the penalty, I mean Here's what Jesus Christ did for us. He's a just judge. The penalty must be paid. He's standing at the judgment seat before you and saying the penalty has to be paid. Paid. But the miracle of the cross is that Jesus Christ came and he stood up and he took his judgely robes off, walked around the bench to the front of the bench, and he handed you five. That's what Jesus did for you and I. He said the penalty must be paid, but then he himself paid the penalty for us. Could you imagine a judge doing that for you, paying your $500 fine? And they're like, wow, and I can't tell you how many times that illustration right there, because people, especially in today's world, think that God is a God of love. And he wouldn't send anybody to hell. And I don't want any part of a God that's not a God of love. This mean God that you guys talk about, I don't want any part of that. But they understand justice. And justice must be done. They see the demand for justice by the judge, but they see the love of God when He pays the penalty for us. And that has connected with people, I mean, I've seen a light bulb. Come on, so many times as I've used that illustration explaining that the penalty must be paid. There's a penalty, and we gotta pay it, but Jesus paid it for us. us. And then the last thing is the process or possession of that free gift that God gives us. You got to believe and confess. Romans 10 9 and 10 and Romans 10 13. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So many know about God. You stand in there with them, you're talking to your friend, you say a lot of people know about God. They know he came and he died on a cross. I mean we uh we celebrate Christmas. They know Jesus came They celebr we celebrate Easter. They know that he rose from the dead, and all people uh in in America, for the most part, people understand that, they know they know about that. We're getting further and further from that, but for the most part, people do know about these things. And so you can say they know about God. And they may even been religious at some point, but we've got to it somehow accept. Let me let me illustrate this way. A lot of people know about planes. They know about planes. And they believe that a plane could get them from here to Texas. But they have never flown in a plane. So there's a big difference between knowing, even believing that a plane could get them there, and actually going and climbing in a plane and Doing it, right? And that's the difference. A lot of people know about God. They know that God could save them, they know that God wants them to go to heaven, but they have never actually trusted him They've never actually possessed that gift, the free gift that God gives. How do they possess it? How do you possess it? Well, that's what God gives us in this verse. He says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And in Romans 1013, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I always take the word whosoever out of there and I put their name in it. In there. Say for if Joe would call upon the name of the Lord, or if Aaron, whoever I'm talking to, whosoever means everybody, right? That means you. That means For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And say, does that make sense? Do you believe the Bible that uh Jesus, what Jesus said here, that if you call upon the name of the Lord, he would save you. So the the difference is between knowing and actually accepting. And you can go back to the illustration of the judge. And say, let's say the judge came around the bench and he had $500 for you. And you stood there and you said, Man, that's amazing. I can't believe a judge would do that, that he would have that $500, that he would pay it for me. And you knew about it. And you went around and you told people, man, isn't this neat with the judge? The judge, he paid my fine. I mean he had five hundred dollars for me. And then you turned and you started to walk out of the courtroom. What do you think the bailiff would do? At some point you have to take that money, you have to take what Jesus did for you and apply it to your account. You have to go and Pay your ticket with it. He made it available, it was there for you, but you have to get it and apply it to your account while we stand debtors before God and we've got to take what Jesus gave us, the free gift, and apply it to our account. We do that. By confessing with our mouth and believing in our heart that God has raised him from the dead, that we, God the Father, raised him, God the Son, from the dead. Do you believe that? Would you like to, right now? And a lot of times people will say, right now? Like right here? So yeah, you don't have to be in the church. You don't have to be uh, you know, in anywhere special. You can call on is there anything in here? You know the verses that we looked at that you gotta No, Jesus said, Whosoever shall call. Are you are you ready? Are you willing? Do you want to call right now? And you asked him, Do you want to call on the name of the Lord to be saved? That's the process of accepting. Do you believe Jesus would do that if you called on him right now? And they say yeah, they say, Would you? And a lot of times people are going to want you to lead them in a prayer. They're going to want you to lead them through Uh because you'll say, Do you want to pray yourself? And they haven't talked to God much, if ever, and they're not sure what to pray or how to pray. And you say, I'll be happy to lead you in a prayer, and then explain that it under Understand it's not it's not a special set of words, it's not this magical thing. It's you believing in the heart that God died for you and wants to save you and forgive you of your sins. And then they will bow their head with you and you you lead them in the And you need to be ready to ready to do that. And there's a lot more I have here. I'm on I'm on page six of page number eleven of my notes. Uh so there's a lot more I wanted to give you here, but we're about out of time this morning but I wanted you to at least be ready to share to share your faith. Um this has in there there's a couple of other things. Uh the second thing, the ABCs of salvation, this uses pretty much the same verses. A lot of the illustration things can be You gotta admit you're a sinner, you've got to believe Jesus died for your sin, and then confess and trust him. And then the last one, you must be born again. Again, is where a lot of my notes are today because that il that is what you want to use with somebody that's religious. Somebody that goes to church all the time. Somebody that believes that they're earning their way to heaven because You see, uh Nicodemus was a Pharisee. In order to be a Pharisee, I've got to shut it down, in order to be a Pharisee, you had to memorize the first four books of the Bible. You had to pray in the synagogue two hours a day. You had to tithe part of your income. I mean he was a Pharisee, he was religious, and I'll tell you what, you list those things off of what a Pharisee did, and that'll make any any religious person today pale in comparison. And you say he d he he wasn't ready to I need to close and dismiss today. I wanted to have time for questions as well. at least get through the Romans Road. Um let's close in prayer