Thank God for his goodness to me day by day. The ability to walk, to hear. I don't hear too well. My wife says I got selective hearing. What to do? Okay. But I do have struggle with hearing. I was talking to a friend of mine, hadn't seen each other for mm, probably nineteen years, went down at Pensacola, met with a family we'd known way up here in Octon many years back And his wife says, he can't hear anything, but he can smell. I said, I'm the same my way. I'm the same way. So we God gives us gifts that amaze other people. And today I want to give you a little bit about my t testimony, my life, what God has done. How many have heard my testimony before? Got a few people here when it first came in 2006. All right. I was born in India And at the age of four years old, I lost my parents. My mother died of TB. I remember her very well. They took her to the hospital. She dropped me off to an orphanage. And she knew the last word is, by God's grace, I stayed in that orphanage for four years of my life. Very southern tip of India. And in 1980, by the grace of God, I was adopted out of the country, adopted into a Christian home in the state of Wisconsin. Grew up on a dairy farm, milking cows, getting up at 5 o'clock, getting on a school bus by 7 o'clock. I learned the terminology of a dirty little word, W-O-R-K. And I praise God for that. And it's trained me, molded me to what I what God has called me to do. Then At the age of nine years old, I heard the gospel for the very first time in my life. My parents had put me in a Christian school in Platte, Wisconsin. Preacher came. Shared the gospel on a Wednesday chapel service. And I remember going back downstairs to the school area. And in my book it said, ask Jesus to help you today. And I began thinking to myself, I'm not saved. How can Jesus help me? And I remember thinking, if I die today, I'm going to hell. I knew what kind of a sinner I was. I was hard-hearted, I was a fighter, I was a thief, and By God's grace, God spoke to my heart that day and convicted me of my sin. And I bowed my head and I said, Lord, forgive me a sinner. And I never had both. Went home to my mom th three years later, had the opportunity in Dubuque, Iowa, where we were going to church at the time, to take baptism, join the local church there, begin to grow. And under the leadership of that man, I begin to study the word. He's the first one to challenge me. So Brian, you need to study the word every day. Church is not good enough. And so you need to study the word every day. And I'll never forget those words from that pastor. So I began studying, learning. At the age of 13 years old, I had the opportunity to go to summer camp. Burlington, Iowa. It was there the Spirit of God used the preacher, preached the message on 1 Corinthians chapter 3, what you do with your life. He says, young people, you can have a great job, a great education, a great degree. You can have a great position. Maybe even become a CEO of a great company. But when your life is said and done, what have you accomplished for the Lord Jesus Christ? And I said, Lord, I don't want to waste my life. I don't want it to be empty. Lord, use me. And I threw in my life that day. Whatever you want me. I didn't have any clue what God wanted me to do. But I said, Lord, you just use my life, do what you want with me. And about four years later, at a youth conference, God called me to preach under the text of Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. It's by mercy we're standing here today. It's his mercies that we're saved. And you present your body is a living sacrifice. The Old Testament required a dead sacrifice. God says, I want a living one. We don't need anything dead. Dead life is a wasted life. And so I was challenged, and God spoke to my heart, and I said, Lord, if you want me to preach, I'll preach. I was 17 years old. My father was having some health problems. He had a farm of 120 acres. My grandfather had the homestead way back, settled way many, many years ago. And he had, I believe it was 240 acres there. And so between that, my uncle, my grandfather, my father, we farmed the whole place. So it was a busy time. But dad's health was getting to have some struggle. And he said, Do you want the cows? Well, I'd already planned to go to Baba College. I said, no, this was in March of 93. I planned to go to college. Next month was graduation, or two months from now, April, May. And so I was all geared up. I said, no, I don't want the cows. So he sold the cows, rented the fields out to a neighbor. Come April. I received a phone call from the college where I had registered, given my enrollment, said we're closing. We will not be halting it fall semester. Seventeen years old, I didn't know what to do. I couldn't go back to the farm, God's Papa sold sold the cows. You ever get angry with God? You ever ask why? Mm-hmm. I got angry with God. I said, Lord, I'm trying to do something good. Why are all the doors closing? And so I said, okay, Lord, let me make money. At the age of nine years old, I was working for neighbors, making money, put money in the bank. My grandfather told me, Brian, whatever money you make, make sure you give God first 10%. I've never failed to do that. And praise God, God allowed me to make money. So 18 years old, I went into the work world. Forget about college, forget about studies, I went out to make money. I made money. Begin to put thousands of dollars in the bank. We're from a little low position in the shop, cleaning floors, moving machinery, almost ready to go into management. In 18 short months. God give me all the benefits. Are you listening, young people? Satan will give you anything to keep you from serving God He'll give you pleasure, he'll give you security, he'll give you a great job to keep you from serving God. You say I worked eighteen months, but I wasn't happy. I had I was everything. I bought a car with cash. I traveled when I pleased. I was the envy of my friends. I was making more money in that shop than people have been working there for ten years. One night, two o'clock in the morning, I was sitting at my desk sorting parts, going through paperwork Spirit God spoke to me, said Brian, you need to be in Bible college. I looked this way and I looked that way. And I can still to this day remember those parts names. That's how vivid it was. I knew there wasn't anybody in my cell that night. I looked way down the next cell, there's three guys down there talking, carrying on, goofing off. And I knew who it was. I said, God, I tried, that's not for me. Have you ever tried to argue with God? Huh? We carried on a conversation for 15 minutes. My machine went dry, the oil stopped. I was in a deep conversation with God. I said it isn't for me. I tried Bible College. Studies are not for me. Well I went home that night, got home, I got off work at 3. 30, I waited for dad, even though he's not farming, he was driving truck at that time. He gets up at 5 o'clock in the morning. And I waited for Bob and Dad to get up. I said, I don't know what the problem is, but I got this burden. God wants me to go to college. My mom broke down crying and said, Well, we've been praying for you. I praise God for people who keep praying. You see, I was in the world. I wasn't serving God. No, I wasn't drinking. I wasn't involved in any filthy lifestyle. I just wasn't doing anything for God. And so I praise God for his faithfulness, pray for God for those who pray for us. Six. Weeks later, God miraculously laid me off from my job, put me in a Bible college. I ended up in Elkkin, Maryland, right up here, about 45 minutes from here. And a thousand miles away from home, away from anybody I never knew. And sad part of it is I got into the college and two other guys who were supposed to be rooming with me, they didn't show up for college. So they said, well we don't want to ru pay the bill for a whole dorm for you to stay in. We're gonna put you in a private house. That's what I did. I went over for orientation on Monday night, there was a room full of girls, I got scared. I went back to that room where mom and dad were that night and I said this isn't the place for me. It's a w girls reform school. And I said, This isn't the place for me, I'm ready to go home. Dad looked at me and said, Did God call you to come here? I said, yeah. Did God provide for you to become here? I said, yes. Did God give you peace to be here? I suggest. The white change because of circumstances. And so I finished four years of college, one of those girls was Angela. Long story short, in our third year we begin To get together. Sh we she finished her college year in 1998. We were married a month later. And at our wedding, actually let me go back one more step. At her graduation, I was down front practicing for a graduation commencement service. We're leading a ensemble, college ensemble. I love music. And I thought God had called me to do musical evangelism. That was where I was headed for when the first college closed. See, God sometimes closes one door, main reason is to change our plans. To give us his plans And so I had to change my plan, surrender. Ended up, I was in the ensemble, we were practicing a man coming to the w back doors. He came up, shook my hand, and said, Brother Brian, what are you gonna do with your life? I said, I don't know. I'm a junior in college. I didn't know where God wanted me. He said, why'd you think about coming to India? I said, okay, I'll think about it. And so next month was my wedding, Pastor Joe Pagano from Pennsylvania. He's now in New York He came to our wedding, he said, Brother Brian, I'm thinking about going to India. Would you be interested in going? I said, nope, just got married an hour ago. I'm not planning on going anywhere. He said, okay, you think about it, pray about it Six months later, I was working full time, going in my final year of school, had a heavy load, and I came home from work on a Wednesday afternoon. I said, honey, we need to take a survey trip. Got a burden of my heart Now her mentality is, okay, that's great. She had finished her education major. She's teaching. She got a good job. She's happy. She's from the state of Maine, as I told you this morning, you've got to get a visa to get in their place. But I praise God she was willing to go. It was hard coming from that background setting to be able to go into a foreign country where it's five times the population. In Maine you got one person for every ten miles. There you got about five million people for every mile. Okay? And so we went over there. I said, Lord, I don't have the kind of money. Being a college student, my final year married, I said this was in December. The brother said we're going to travel in February 1st of March. In three months we need the $3,000. I said, I don't have that kind of money. So I went to my pastor. He said, why don't you pray about it? I said, I will. I said, Lord, if you give me $3,000 in three months, we'll go. God gave us $3,000. And so we began preparing, going over there. At that time there was a major riot in Gujarat. Bibles were being burned. All kinds of ruckus. We delayed our trip for a little bit. Ended up going in April. Spent 17 days there. God broke my heart. Seeing souls walking down midnight, one, two o'clock in the morning, carrying a candle, walking to the temple. Making sacrifices, thinking that will apple their God. And so I knew I had a peace. Come back. Angela had a different story. How can I go? How can I leave home? How can I do this? How can I do that? So I went to the pastor again. I said, Pastor, what do you do? I said, he said, you wait on God. That's what we did. And so we had taken that verse when we first got married, Psalm 27, verse 14. Wait on the Lord, be of courage, he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say on the Lord. And so again we waited on God. By September of that year, God gave her peace. Our first child was born in August. We made ourselves available for deputation in September of 1999. God allowed us to raise our support in 18 months. We ended up on the field working with that man. And God showed us after four years that we need to go into full-time church plague ministry. Teaching in a Bible college down there, I got contact with almost every state of India. I began a traveling ministry. God burned my heart. You see, India has a lot of orphanages. India has a lot of colleges. India has 5,500 business schools. We have over 262 Bible colleges. We have more than 700,000 students studying Bible. That's great. Wonderful things. But one of the things India is lacking is churches. You see, it's the church that's the pillar in the ground of truth. It's the pillar that will carry into the next generation. It's the pillar that will ground a generation to carry on the ministry. And so God guided us 2005. We left everything in Kerala, moved to north. India, Punjab, six hours from Pakistan border, not too far from Kashmir. And in my packing I got laid up with my back again. Had back problems most of my life since I was about 13 years old. Major back problems when I was 18. And then started going to doctor when I was about twenty-two, twenty-three years old on a regular basis. And so every doctor wants to give me injections, they give you epidurals, they give you this medicine That medicine everybody wants to do operations. I've always put off operation. 2005 though in March, after packing the truck myself, a couple of guys with me, I was out. I couldn't walk. And so we had to cancel the f train that we had booked. One brother I'd met in the college, he said, I have a friend in Bangalore. Why don't you go there and spend a few days and just rest? So we got a flight there, ended up in Bangalore. I was on the floor. He said, Well, you can stay here for a couple weeks. I said, No, I'm going north. That's our house. Our things are up there. We had two little kids. Alyssa was just two years old when we landed in India. Naomi was just eight months old when we landed in India. And so now they're getting a little higher, five years old. So and so God just burdened our heart. We went anyway. I got up there, got into the house, I laid on a cement floor for three days. Could not walk. And so I laid on the floor, I said, Lord, I've never done anything like this. How many of ever plant a church? I know your dad has. How many of you plant a church? I've never done it. I was scared. Anybody ever get scared to start something new? Yeah. And so I said, Lord, you're gonna have to show me and I laid on that floor and I pr looked up. I said, God you're gonna have to show me. God showed us what to do, how to start. We took two young men, began training them. And so that's how our church started. Molly Baptist Church started in 2005, of Mar April, sorry. That church is still going to this day. I turned it over to that young man. He's still carrying on that ministry. November 2006, we decided to start another church. Our area is big enough you could put a church in every block, preacher, and never overrun anybody else's territory. Okay, we have about 6,000 families in every three blocks. Can you imagine such a place? Okay, we have over 1. 4 million people in our tri-city area. Okay? So if I could get every one of you to come over and start planting a church, nobody would overrun each other's property. Territory. You would have your own area you could work with. So how many ready to go? Alright? So pray for those things. We really need more workers. And so I pray God will continue to use us. 2006 we started Grace Baptist Church. Then I got challenged again to train more people and to train others. And so young men began to call me, couples began to call us. We began training, establishing local churches in other states. And so we praise God that throughout the past, since 2006-2008, we begin planting churches throughout India, different states, starting with two men, two families in each. state. And our goal is to have three that all three of them can work together. Support each other, strengthen each other, and in turn raise up young people, training them so they can continue to church plant. God has been faithful. Eleven churches have been planted. Two of those churches have now started other works, and we're praising God for that. I've got my site set on more church planting. I don't know how God's going to do. I don't know how he's going to open doors. But I would love to see another church in the state of Sikkim where it's on the Nepal border. Have a lot of Nepali people in our area. We've got a couple of families come to our church. And as any other part of the world To convince people in this day and age, to get a conviction is very hard. To get involved is very hard. It's not easy. And I empathize with pastors in America because you're dealing with ease, pleasure, activities. Securities, retirement programs. We're dealing on the other end of the spectrum. Education and the desire to go abroad, go outside and great get something great. So people don't want to commit themselves to anything And that's becoming a bigger and bigger problem every year. And I ask you to continue to pray for our young people. 2012 then God allowed us to start pastoring an English fellowship. Bunch of college students, many young people got saved. They come from the northeast states, five states up there. They speak English And so they're able to um communicate well, they study well, most of them are doing master's, PhD programs. So it's a great challenge to teach them. Because they have a lot of questions. Whether you know it or not, between 2013 and 2016, atheism was the fastest growing religion in India. Okay? And so to feel and answer those questions requires a lot of study. And God by God's grace we were able to ground a lot of young people. You got a young agnostic that just came to Christ here. February, March Yeah, about seven months ago. Now praise God for that. Because now he's taking a stand for truth. He's taking a stand against what he's been brainwashed with for years and years in the colleges. And so that's what we're looking for. And I've got a young man just doing a PhD right now. God's called me to preach. He knows it, but his parents don't want it. He said, You can't preach. He said, Pastor, what do I do? I said, You've got to follow God's will first. Alright. So we've got three young men in both of those churches now that have trained for full time ministry and have prayed that God will keep them faithful and that we'll continue to grow. All right. Now I'm going to ask open the time up for just a few questions if you have any. Concerning the ministry, concerning the family. If we can get a mic down here, it'd be great. Any questions? If not, we're going to go straight to the message. Don't hesitate. Maybe something I left out. Okay. Yes, brother? How how easy is it to talk to people about using the money? Say that again, use the microphone. How easy is this to talk to someone about Jesus Christ? I'll ask you the same question. Human nature is the same the world over. And I tell people it's all based on your perspective. It's called a worldview. When you study world religions, it's a worldview. Okay? And so yes, some worldviews have a Christ or Christ Christian background, some have a non-Christian background And to understand that, especially among the Indian culture, is to know someone who has peace. Why? Because the Indian mind is for philosophy, looking for inner peace And that's the goal. And so we deal with that question. Have you found peace in your education? Have you found peace in your career? Have you found peace in the family? Have you found peace? Whatever you're doing. Okay, and that's Jesus Christ is a peace giver. That's how we deal with it. challenged him even uh Friday about coming. He said he was gonna come in the last two weeks. But it was the same thing. Um are you satisfied with your life now? Same question you're asking me to ask him. And the pr the hindrance for them will be family. Cultural barrier is that family barrier. What will my family think of me if I start going to church? If I trust Christ, are you leaving our religion? Religion is 3,000 years old. Why do you want to leave it? It's been good enough for your parents, right? Good enough for your family, good enough for your culture. Why do you want to leave it? So it's the same pressure is there. that we face today. Anybody else? Yes, right here in front. Go ahead. Go ahead and ask, because I'll repeat it. Yeah. So usually what we're Do you talk to people in India like when you invite them to church? Do they usually come? No. Usually when you invite somebody to church, do they come? I said no. Okay, when we invite somebody in America, do they come the first time? Okay, human nature's thing. We've got that security, but we also have that fear. To stop out into something new. Okay? And so we have to understand when we do visitation, we knock on doors, we do not share about our church, believe it or not Okay? We share about Christ. He is the person of the gospel. And so the first question they have, especially when I'm dealing with students. You mean to make and a young man asked me, he sort of there, we give him the Bible, we week after week we began Bible study with him. Finally he came to the understanding, he said, you mean to tell me I have to make a choice between Jesus and my gods. I said, that's ultimately the question. He said, I can't do that. I can't do that. And so he never came Okay, so that's the issue we face. Yes, brother. I was wondering if you could talk just uh a minute about the difference. I think some of the question might here be as far as the The openness to share and you know, the freedom to share the gospel where you were telling me some states you can't even pass out of track. Uh the only way to minister is the reason you have that We are in a church planting ministry. Started a local church. But in Punjab that is allowed. Anybody can come in and start a church. If I go to Maharashtra, that's not allowed. If I go to Madhya Pradesh, that's not allowed. If I go to UP, it's strictly prohibited right now. Gujarat is prohibited. Orissa is prohibited. You're not allowed to go in there as anybody else from another state and evangelize. So I had a young man come to me in 2006. He's a pastor, his name is Pashat, his pastor, I want to go witness and start a work in Gujarat. I said, you know very well you can't get in that state. You're an outsider to them. He said, well I talked to some pastors there when I visited, and they said if we start an orphanage, you have an inroad to that state. You can come live here. He said, what do you think? I said, as long as you got yourself under the authority of a local church, you can do anything. Okay, and so that's what he did. He went in there, started an orphanage. We had forty-two kids. And with those kids, we were able to preach the gospel, share. But now what is he doing during the weektime? He's going out into the villages, reaching with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have in turn been able to raise up seventeen pastors in that state. Okay? The Prime Minister of India is from that state. 2012 he made a statement, he says, if I become prime minister, we will eradicate Christianity. Okay? I can go on with story after story, but the reality is God called me to do an open meeting down there. Open meeting in Gujarat means a secret meeting. So he picked me up and said he said I'll pick you up in such and such place. They did. We drove for six hours. Right up on top of the mountain. I said, what are we doing on top of the mountain? He said, people are coming. And so the lights weren't on. About ten thirty at night they turned the lights on. Bloodlights. The place was packed. The whole hillside was packed with 3,000 people He says you're the first preacher. You preach as long as you want to. I preached at one o'clock. Okay? A little over two and a half hours. Well would you love that? All right. Two and a half hours preaching. It was awesome. Two a young computer engineer, his wife got saved. They went back home. His parents kicked him out of his own house that he had just newly built. You're not welcome here anymore. It's my house. He invited his own parents to live with him. Got kicked out of his home. You know what they did? They went to the orchards. Built a little tin hut, dirt floor, and began praising God and singing. What happened? The orchard workers heard. Before long we had a service started. Okay? Does God do miracles? Yes, he does. The question is: is my big house more important than my Savior? Is my retirement more important? That's ultimately the issue that comes down. So yes, some states are wide open to the gospel. Some states will invite you to come and preach. Other states, it's very tough. Okay? It it all depends on how much Hindu politics is involved. It's all political. Yes, brother. I've I've heard stories about um you know where the uh people believe that their the souls of their ancestors went into Uh cattle for example. Yes. We have a religion over there, it's called Jainism. How many have heard of Jainism? Okay, they worship ancestors, but they also were they believe Hinduism does too that we are reincarnated When you leave this life, you could based on your karma, you can come back as another form of life. Alright? You can become a fly, you can become a cow, whatever it may be. Jainism takes it to the degree that every life is holy, you can't even breathe it or drink it. They wear a mask on their face, afraid of bacteria going into the mouth. They're pure vegetarians. I have a lot of fun with that. We won't go there. Okay? But the reality is they don't understand there is one life to live. They don't understand because of that worldview that there was a judgment to come. Okay? They are taught, I think it's 64,000 cycles in Reincarnation and ultimately you become God. Does that sound familiar? Satan said you can become as God Same philosophy. And their number one deity. Do you know what Israel worshiped when Moses came down off the mountain? The cow. That is their number one deity, the cow. Okay? And so they respect the cow. If you hit a cow, buddy, you better get out of there. In UP you will get beat, you may get killed. And so anybody who runs the black market for beef, they're gonna get hurt. Okay? So it's sad, but it's reality Yes ma'am, I need a mic right back there. Um we recently heard that uh there's I can't hear you. Yeah. We heard that uh elections could be held earlier. Mm-hmm. And what do we pray now? Uh what do you think of it? I am not really sure, okay, concerning the election. I am a person, to be very honest with you, as a missionary, as a worker, I try not to get involved in politics over there Okay? Two things I'm not allowed to get in the election process or own a farm. And I love farming. Okay? So I don't get involved in that. If I get an answer concerning who's gonna have what the outcome is, I can let you know. But as of right now Most states have turned over to BJP Party. Okay? Very few states have gone conservative this time. But that is not election based as the space. Okay? It's a lot of corruption. Yeah. This is a simple question maybe, but I I heard you say w when you go out uh knocking on doors or whatever. You don't tell people about the church, you tell people about Jesus, which is our ultimate goal. But how do you approach people uh and tell them that you want uh to tell them about jesus. I mean how how what is the approach how do you approach a uh with that philosophy okay. Where do we start? Is that the question? Yes. Okay. Where do we start here Personal evangelism class, what do we do? First of all, you've got to develop a relationship that they trust you. That you're not accusing them of anything. Right. Okay? And that is true in any culture. Because if I were to come up to him and try to convince him to do something he's never heard of in his life. He will not listen until he learns to trust me. Okay? And so there's a lot, and that's the great thing about India, is that people are very friendly. They'll invite you home for tea. Guess what? They'll give you a glass of water. And I don't recommend you drink it. Okay? That's a little dangerous. Some water is very dangerous over there. I told the pastor and his wife, we'll get bottled water for you And that's true even in in anywhere you travel in the world. So what do we do? Don't be offensive. Explain why. Don't just refuse it. But at the same time, you're developing a relationship And I have found out 90% of the time your lifestyle, the way you speak, the way you talk, people know you're Christians. I get it all the time. My kids get it all the time. You people are Christians, aren't you? Guess what? Yes, we are. We love Jesus Christ. Can I tell you about him? Opportunity yesterday in the airport. Some guy was cursing up a bitter street, a filthy smile, sitting right next to me, because the flight was late by fact five, ten minutes, we weren't boarding. I said that's life, isn't it? People hate waiting. And from there, you will not believe it. I was able to bring him to the point, Jesus Christ is the one true God. Ultimately we have to face him for everything we do, everything we say, everything we live in life. He looked at me and said, You're a preacher, aren't you? I said, yes I am. But that's after 15 minutes of talking. You understand? Right. Just carrying on a casual conversation. Did I condemn him for speaking filthy words? No. It's just we develop a relationship. That's what we did. Okay? Anyone else? So you have a Bible college in Mara Sure. I teach in Bible colleges. I don't have one. Oh, okay. Okay. Uh I have a brother there, a friend of ours, who comes preaches for our conference. He has a good Bible college there. I go there and teach. My wife goes there and teaches We do it my wife and I we team up once a year to travel. Okay, just like here, going to Alaska, brother, taking a whole family is not cheap. Okay? It takes a miracle to bring seven peoples anywhere. Okay? We don't raise money for that. So we travel once a year. We go into an area. We do a missions conference, we'll do family conferences, we'll do leadership conference, we'll even do youth conferences. And so we go to that area and I taught the staff. We brought family meetings and then we brought it to the college and then evening time we were in church meetings. So that's what we do when we travel together. Any other questions? Do the majority of people um know who Jesus is or do most most of them are No. That's the sad part Before coming to Christ, before becoming a Christian, how many of you have heard of Jesus? May I see a show of hands? Most of you heard it one time, right? I have been in many places, even in our own city. We knock on doors whenever we have a meeting, we go out and distribute literature. We're having special meetings about Jesus. We don't tell them we're having a religious meeting. We're having special meetings about Jesus. And more than once, people ask me, who is Jesus? Okay? We have a population of 1. 2 almost four. 1. 24 billion people. Okay? And we have seven hundred and eighteen million people who have not heard of Jesus. Can you imagine? Twice the population of the US. Most of them never heard the gospel story one time. Why is it we can hear it over and over and it doesn't face us? It doesn't stir us. It doesn't enable us. It doesn't move us. But they're slipping into eternity at that last. They've never heard the name of Christ. Is it their fault? We have failed, haven't we? We've got to go, folks. We've got to pray. We've got to pray God will raise up more young people. Okay, if I start going into missions statistics, it will blow your mind. Okay? We have over 1700 missionaries coming off the field every year. Do you know how many are going back? Average missionary today spends four months on the field. It's called short-term mission work. Nobody's given themselves a full-time ministry anymore. Out of every 25 people, God calls the ministry. Only eight, are sorry, twelve answer the call. Only twelve. Out of those twelve that are called, only eight do something in preparation. Out of those eight that are prepared, maybe Bible college, candidate school, whatever it may require, only four up and end up on the mission field. Out of those four, one end up, one family ends up doing a lifetime of ministry. That my friends is not what the church is about. Satan has deluded our minds, deceived our young people, and bribed us to the point that convenience, pleasure, and our future is more important than the souls Jesus Christ. Okay. So that's a good question, thank you. Any other questions? Let's go to God's Word. Matthew's Gospel, chapter five I normally do this message on a Sunday school level. I don't usually preach this one. So I want to bring it on a family basis, teaching basis. And I do this all throughout India and our churches, our conferences. I want to do the same thing to you just to be encouragement tonight. And so Matthew's gospel chapter five, let's all stand together and read God's word, verse 48. Verse 48. The Bible says, be ye therefore. Perfect. Even as your father, which is in heaven, is perfect. Our Father, I need you tonight. Without a broken heart, without tears, O God, we are nothing. Without your spirit working on our midst, O God, we are nothing. Lord, break us. Lord, touch us. Lord, challenge our hearts. We want to give Jesus the glory. I thank you for the love your people have shown us here. And I pray you bless this pastor, bless this church, bless this ministry. May Jesus Christ be glorified tonight. We thank you and praise you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you, maybe Satan. When we look at the book of Matthew, written to the Jewish mind. Okay? So you have to remember most of what is written to the Jewish mind relates to the kingdom, the future, because they have rejected Christ. In John's Gospel, chapter 1, he tells us he came unto his own, his own received him not. His own people are the ones who rejected him. And so Matthew Who the publican, a tax collector, writes to the Jewish mind, trying to present to them their king. They misunderstood it. They could not understand the parable because they thought it was going to be something that would be fulfilled here and now. That was not the plan. So when you read the book of Matthew, you understand that the parables relate to a future kingdom. But they are appliable to our current situation. And so I take chapter 5 and I look at the Sermon on the Mount, and I want you to think with me just a few thoughts. This is not about salvation. First of all, we see the attitude of the believers. Verses 1 through 12 in chapter 5. I'm not going to preach on the Beatitudes. But that's the attitude as a Christian we are to carry into the kingdom. Now how does that affect us in this age today? By being right in our attitudes towards Christ, in our attitudes towards work, in our attitudes towards worship, and our attitudes towards others. Attitude is everything. They say that over and over, and I can't emphasize that enough. You may be in a wrong situation, you may be in a bad situation, you may be in a tough situation, but can I tell you what? Your attitude determines the outcome. And that's what he's talking about, verses 1 through 12. Then we go on into verses 13 to 16. We see the aptitude of the believer. What are you going to do with it? Are you a light? Do you have the ability to be what you are called to be? Ye are light. Ye are salt of the earth. When somebody persecutes you, what are you going to do about it? Is there an instant reaction or is there an acceptance? I think some of you missed that. Is there an instant reaction when somebody ridicules you, persecutes you, hurts you, offends you? Or is there an acceptance? How much did Jesus react when they beat him? Not a word. As the lamb before her, she was in them. Okay, that's the attitude of the Christian. How is our reaction? Do we accept what God sends our way? When sickness comes, do we accept it or do we get angry? When the doctor says it's terminal, do we accept it or do we say, why, Lord? Are you following me? We have to take this attitude and make it an ability so that we are at an ability to serve When I teach our pastors, I said there's two forms of suffering. One is willing, one is unwilling. Which one God's going to use? Has to be willy suffering, isn't it? If you're unwilling in that circumstance, God can't use you. It's not your ability God wants. It's your availability that God wants. Number three. The habitude of the believer. Verses seventeen to twenty-one What is it you have a tendency towards? He says your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Remember comparing ourselves among ourselves, we are not wise. So often we begin to compare in Christianity I'm better than him. I do more than them. I'm involved in this. I'm involved in that. I do this. I go to church. I correct. We go on with a big list. And all of a sudden we begin that our habits are wrong What is your habit of today? Do you have the right habits? Or are you just doing things out of routine? I use the word duty. Hmm. I do it 'cause I have to. Worship should be a habitude, amen. It has to be. It's not based on my health. It's not based on my convenience. Have a young man who retrained for ministry. Called me last January. He said, Pastor, I have an opportunity to finish my final semester and they want me to go to Thailand. I said, Did you pray about it? He says, Yes, I've been praying about it for two weeks. But I want to tell you first. I said what's your dad say about it? He don't want me to go. Lost his mother three years ago, so it's just him and his dad now. Dad's not safe. Made a profession of faith but never really came to fruition I said, if you go to Thailand and they offer you a job there, you have to think, is it God's will or is it my will? Because that is the big issue we face with India. We can get a better job outside the country. I know that. It's reality. So survival mode kicks in. Okay? Well, it's better for me to go there. Wait a minute. If it's not God's will for you to go there, stay put. Are you moving south? Are you moving north? You're moving out of here? But you don't have a church, don't do it. That's what I told him. Don't go to Thailand until you find a church. Well, can we find a church? So my wife got on lunch, she's on the missionary Baptist um group, missionaries women, and we began searching. Found them a church. He travels, believe it or not, twenty-six kilometers one way on a cycle. So he can be in church organization. That's like fifteen twelve, fifteen miles, one way on a cycle. We live three, four miles away, we have struggle to get church on Sunday night. You understand what I'm talking about? It has to be a habitude. It has to be a habit. I will not miss search for anything I will not miss worship for anything. I will not stop giving for anything. Why it's a habit I've developed. Young people, your habit determines your character. Are you listening to me? Working class, your habits determine your character. Mm-hmm. Oh yes, we gotta have the right habits. Let's keep going. Verses 22 to 42. I'm rushing, okay? Forgive me. We're talking about the purity of the believer. The purity of the believer. Okay? And I'm not going to go into a lot of detail on that. But I think you'll get if you start reading through there you'll understand. There's some things you've got to get rid of. Things you've got to add on. But I got to get to the message tonight, so let's keep going. Verses 42 and down into chapter 6, we're talking about the maturity of the believer. Verses 42 and down, we're talking about the maturity of the believer. You have heard that it has been said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. I call that worldly philosophy. It's a worldly ideology. You love if you are loved. You give if you can gain. That's worldly, is it not? The Father gave the Son when there was nothing to be given back. What are you giving today that you know in this life you will never regain? That's true giving. Okay? So let's pick up in verse chapter six, verse one. The signs of the maturity and that whole thing comes down with love, okay? And I understand with this type of crowd, we're going to have all levels of maturity, amen? Some people have been saved 40-50 years, longer than I've been alive. Some people saved just a few months. So what am I saying? You're gonna come to a point in your life where one of these things is gonna click. It's gonna hit home. And you have to realize I need to start doing this. Not everybody's going to start at the same level. Not everybody's going to grow at the same rate. Okay? But I want you to look at just a few of the signs of the believer, all based on love, alright? When we talk every one of these points, remember we start with love. Loving your neighbor. But look down at verse 1. Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them, otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. The first sign of a Christian that is maturing is giving. We have the world's second largest population of Muslims, next to Indonesia. India has the second largest population. And they swap back and forth with Pakistan. Pakistan sometimes has more, sometimes India has more. We're right there of neck and neck. But Islam, one of their basic tenets, you are required to give, whether you like it or not It comes out. You are required to pray five times a day, whether you like it or not. I have a question. Why do we give? Because the pastor says we need it? The missionary is pleading? The children are crying? No, it's not. Based on love, is it not? As we grow. As our love matures, we understand it's less about me, it's more about him. Same thing with marriage relationship. During that courtship, it's all about what I can present myself as. Am I right? You see these boys get all dolled up, right? Huh? They didn't care a rip before. But all of a sudden, during that period of time, it all becomes how I present myself. So she will like me. Uh-huh. Well you know what? As they mature they begin to understand it's not about me. It's about him. It's about her. The more we mature, the more we understand my wants, my desires are to give to others. My time is given for my children. My time is given for my husband. My time is given for my wife. Make that a priority. When you give. Then he gives the how to give. Don't make it a public show, amen. Your right hand should not know what your left hand is doing. Okay? We're not here to make plates on the wall telling this person donated five million dollars. Alright? We're not worried about those things. Why? Your father, which sees in secret, will reward you openly. Amen. That's one of the signs of it early. Christian. This has to be one of those steps. I tell people when they get saved, you trust the Lord Jesus Christ, your first step as a Christian is baptism. That's the first step. It's called obedience. If we're willing to obey the Master, obey Christ He did it in an example. I must do it as an example, as a public example to my family. I'm no longer having anything to do with the gods. I no longer have anything to do with the temple. I no longer have anything to do with that Ideology. I follow Christ. It's obedience. Giving is not just a matter of obedience, it's a matter of love. We love him. Okay? So then it goes down to be verse five. Verse five. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues in the corners of the street, that they may be seen of men, verily I said to you, they have their reward. But when thou prayest. I want you to notice something here. He doesn't say if you pray. Hmm Hello? It's not if I get a chance to pray, I'll pray uh I hear this all the time, yeah. I'll be praying for you. I know who do those who do. There's matitude difference. Mm-hmm. There's a relationship. The greatest relationship on earth for mankind is the relationship with his Father. And that's prayer. When I understand prayer is my power, my relationship that makes me humble enough to realize I am nothing. I need my Heavenly Father to take care of everything. Prayer has to be a priority. Then he talks about the action of prayer. Okay? Oh yes. When thou prayest, prayest into your closet. Now we're not talking about the sliding door closet. Alright? It's not a closed closet. This is the bed He said, what do you mean? You have to understand the Jewish mentality. The Jewish culture was there is an incest in the wall. When they built their home. And they're talking about something, just a curtain that you will pull aside, something you will open down, and there's the best. Inside. Nobody disturbs you. Curtains are there. When you pray, you need to find that quiet place. Close that place up. Spend time alone with God Okay? It's not a matter of going to church to pray all the time. And I tell people public prayer is needed if you want to save your country. Private prayer is needed if you want to save your life and your family. If you want your family to go to hell, stop praying. You understand my point? It has to come down to the point. I have private time with God for my family, my kids, my grandkids, my nephews, niece, whatever it may be, your brother and sister. It's not prayer time. It has to be real. Okay? So he says when you pray, then we use the exact what we call the model prayer. Verse 8. The model prayer. This is not the Lord's prayer. Okay? I like to use the term, it's the disciples' prayer. He taught them how to pray. He didn't say repeat after me. And I hear many people repeat this. Jesus never said repeat this. He just said this is the example to learn. And if you want the elements of prayer, go to 1 Timothy chapter 2. Alright? You'll find the elements, four of them right there If you want the purpose and how to pray, go to Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 and following. You'll get the elements of how to pray, what to pray for. But it's not a classical prayer. Let's keep going. So he says There all the way down to verse 13. Verse 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Number three. If we're going to sign up a mature Christian is forgiveness. Forgiveness. Number one, giving. Number two, prayer. Number three is forgiveness. Can I tell you why? Do you know the number four cause in America that divides churches? Unforgiveness. Somebody said something. I can't get over it. People leave churches over it. People divide. Families separate. Bust it up. The Lord says we have to forgive. But you don't know what they said to me. It does not matter what they said to you, it's about the Father forgave you. I have to forgive others. Forgiveness is a hard one. Why? Because pride comes up strong. Mm-hmm. It does. The cause that we do not want to forgive is because it's all about me. What I think, what I feel, my position, my power, my relationship with somebody. Don't tell me to forgive. I haven't seen my parents in three years. I haven't seen my sister in seventeen years. My sister walked out, left her family, went out into the world, began living her own life. Refuse to talk to me, refuse to talk to my parents. And she said, if you're going to talk to mom and dad, then I'm not going to talk to you. I said, You can't put that over me. I refuse to make that compromise. She has a daughter that's sixteen years old this November I've never seen. She has a son that's four years old I've never seen. But you know what I do? I pray for them every day by name. My parents struggle with it. My dad has a hard heart towards it He came to find out I was communicating with her, excommunicated us, my wife and I. Because two people could not get along. You understand my point? They couldn't forgive. And I sat down in my living room and I sat with my father and my mother. I said the whole issue comes down to two things. Number one, forgiveness. Number two, love. My dad got angry with me. He says, I want your family around. What do I do? What do I do? I could get angry, right? I could bash them. I can go tell the world how bad they are. Or I can love them. Forgive them. I call them every ten days. I love you, Mom. I love you, Dad. You understand what I'm pointing? It's not a matter of how great we are, what we lose. Oh, I lost this, I lost that. Don't worry about the things of this world. Relationship is more important. Forgiveness is that attitude that you understand your feelings are not as important as your relationships. Understanding that. Dear Christian, if you want our church to grow, you want to fill up these views, you want to see Sunday night go strong, it comes the relationships of forgiveness. We have to be a forgiving people. Alright, let's keep going. My time is shortening up here. Verse sixteen. Verse sixteen. Moreover, when you fast Be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. I notice here it doesn't say if you fast. Well America's a land of plenty, right? We've got a beef house on every corner. Steak house, everything you want to eat. I tell you what, if you want power with God you have to learn to fast. Yes I do it. My wife does it. Our kids do it on a certain basis. Well, I can't do it because I'm taking medicine. There's ways to get around that. I'm on pain medicine, I'm on blood pressure medicine, I'm on this medicine, I'm on that medicine. I know how to handle it. Learn how to handle it Okay? The Bible doesn't say if you fast. He says when you fast. What says that me teach me? Three aspects it deals with. Culture, I use the word society, self, I use the word growth, and number three, spiritually. Purity is involved. Self-denial is involved. And learning self-discipline. That's what it's all about We have a society that does not know anything about self-discipline. That's right. I will do what I want to do, I'll do what I want to do. You can't tell me what to do. You ever hear those words? Why? We have not learned that we have not taught our young people to fast. It is a matter of self-denial. It's not about eating every time you want to eat what you want to eat. Do you know God gives two elements in the child for learning? My wife and I we teach family classes. Two elements, what are they? Hunger and pain. Two elements God gives in training of the children. And you don't have to beat them. But if you will learn to deal with a young child at the age of six months old Through pain, through discipline of nursing, they will learn how to sleep at night all night long. We did it with all five kids, and all five kids slept. It's a training process. Guess why? It's called fasting. They don't eat at will. They eat at a certain time. All five of our kids left overnight. Mm-hmm. It works. If it works in the real world, why can't it work in the spiritual world? Learn to disciple yourself, deny yourself, and it also deals with the matter of purity. Purifying your body. Did you know when you fast? You can get rid of those cancer-causing agents in your body. What do I drink? Get online, Google's right there. The best thing to drink is lemon water. It purifies the body. You don't need anything else. You don't need sugars. You don't need tea. You don't need a coke. Wow, whoa. That's anti-Baptist, isn't it? Uh-huh. What am I saying? Fasting is a part of the Christian life that gives me power with God. It gives me purity on a level that I need. It gives me cleansing. If you read the book of James, you'll understand as Christians we're spotted with the things of the world. We need that cleansing, do we not? We need that purification process on a regular basis. That's why the Jews understood fasting. They do it twice a week. We're lucky to get American Christians to fast twice a year. And then we wonder why we don't have power with God? Then we wonder why we have health problems. Now I don't go to the extreme of Brother Lester Roloff, okay? I don't carry my sticks and my carrot juice. It was got to be a balance, amen. We've got to have a balance in the Christian walk. Daily living requires certain things I don't need to take in my body. It may be fun, it may be tasty. What's the philosophy of the world say? Just do it. Burger King says, have it your way. You understand what I'm saying? The worldly philosophy says, do it whatever you want to do, enjoy life. What's that other one? Live, love, and laugh. Nothing wrong with that as long as we understand it's in moderation. Okay? That's what fasting teaches us, moderation. Self-denial. Knowing what's pure in my life. Some things I have to get rid of. Try it once a day. Well, I can't do it all day. Do it for four hours. Miss one meal. During that time you spend in prayer. The normal 20 minutes for some people it's a half hour, for some people it's five minutes. I see some people fork down food pretty fast. Okay? I've just started to cut my steak and they're already finished. But in that time that it takes you to eat, spend that time in prayer. That's all you gotta do. Keep your liquids going. Understood? Keep the liquids going. You got sugar problems, diabetes problems? Learn how to handle it. Okay? But you spend that four times four hours in prayer. That's a half-day fast. Understood? Go eight hours, miss two meals. Make that 12-hour cycle that you don't eat anything. I found out that works best works best for me. Okay? Keeps my pain level in my body down. Wish we travel I get on a flight early morning, I start traveling 4 30, 5 o'clock in the morning. I don't need anything until 5 o'clock again at night. It works. What am I saying? Teaches me pure before God. Teaches me self-denial. Helps me have a relationship of power with God. Have you learned to fast? It will help you become a mature Christian. Let's keep going. Time's long gone. I know that All right. Verses nineteen down to twenty two twenty three. 19 to 23, lay up, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. That word treasure there is the word theosaurus. We use the word thesaurus for English language, right? It's a place of compository. Place of a depository where we have a collection of many things. He said, I don't want you to make this world a compository, a place where you deposit everything, but lay it up in heaven. As a maturing Christian, we have to understand our things that we gather on this world are temporary. We have a heavenly deposit I use the word prioritizing. Okay? So when we look up that thought, lay up not for your start treasures upon earth where moth and rust have corrupt or thieves way through and spear. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rough doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal. Now once you look at verse twenty-two. Well let's read for them up. But where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, the whole body shall be full of life. Most people don't understand that verse. What are we talking about? How many eyes do we have? Two. Do we see two things at the same time? You see, you can look at a lot of things. I got four eyes, okay? If I don't wear wear these, I can't see in the back. I can see okay here. Far side business, right? I struggle to see far away. So what do I do? God has designed these two eyes to focus on one thing and give how many images to the brain? One. We use that word singularity, right? Christian, we see many things, but we've got to focus on one. Are you following me? God gives us an ability to hear with two ears. Do we hear two voices? Some people do. I know that. We won't talk about that today. Alright? But we hear one voice. God is telling you you're going to hear a lot of things, but we need to prioritize, we need to focus, we need to say, Lord, I'm listening for your voice. I'm focused on, I'm purposed on the purpose you have for my life What are you doing with your life? People get pulled this way, they get pulled that way, and they run themselves thin, trying to fulfill everybody else's wishes, and they forget to focus on God's will for your life. That's what he's talking about there. Prioritizing. Verse 22 is a very interesting verse. Let's keep going. Then we keep going down into verse 25. I use the word in verse 24 for sincerity. Okay and you can look at it and study it on your own. No man can serve two masters, so either he will hate the one, love the other, or he will hold to the one, despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. That word there mammon has the idea of a corrupting influence. That's the word. What is it you are allowing in your life that will corrupt your thoughts? Your thinking, your habits, your eyesight, your hearing. Be careful. Keep it focused. Keep it sincere. I can take this wood and if it gets scratched, I can put wax on it. Polishes nicely, nobody knows there's a scratch. Bible says in 1 Timothy, have a sincere faith. Don't make a hypocritical faith. Because that word there is the idea of polished faith. We don't want that. I want a real faith. Amen. Keep it real, folks. When I begin to serve those other things, my faith becomes Just a pretense of false activity. Yeah, I go to church, but it doesn't show on Monday. Hello? You follow me what I'm saying? You can't serve God and mammon. Keep your faith sincere. Alright, let's keep going. And then verses 25 down to the end of the chapter, we deal with the Thought of trusting. Trusting. And that's a hard one. I know it is. Your future is not yours. Did you know that? Well, I planned for my whoa wait a minute. I planned for my future what? I planned for my retirement. You notice everything comes back to my my But look at verse 33. What does he say? Amen. Seek ye first. The kingdom of God. And his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. In our mentality, it's all. See, see my position. My goals, my future, all the things that I want to have, we have to focus on Christ. That takes a lot of trust. I know that. I don't have time to go into it. But I challenge you today, as we mature, do we have these things in our Christian life? Are we growing? Some of the things will hurt? Yes, I know that. Some of the things are new? Yes, it may be. Maybe some of the things you've never tried. And I've preached this message before. I had two ladies come up to me after this pastor, I've never tried fasting in my life. I want to try it. That's what it's all about. Let's grow together, amen. Serve God together. Let's pray