Taken into captivity, but the Bible tells us uh about four of them that we know. Uh Daniel and those three Hebrew children which we've come to uh call uh by the name that they were given, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo. And we know some of their story. But if they were to find Men that were upstanding, the best men, the smartest men, the strongest men, and they were told, Eliphaz told them, get them in shape Get them ready to meet the king. Get them ready so that they can serve as a guide, as an instructor, as a as a help to the king. And you know the story that he began to do that. He tried to get Daniel and uh the others and get them into shape and ready for the king. But I want you to see a verse in Daniel chapter 6 and verse number 28. The Bible says there, so this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of Cyrus. The Persian. It is said here that Daniel prospered. He prospered in this heathen land. He prospered even though he was living in captivity. Even though he was by anyone's standards a slave in a foreign land, yet the Bible says that he prospered. I want to speak to you this morning on that thought. So this Daniel prospered. Why and how is it that Daniel prospered even in the face of great adversity? How did he prosper even when everything that from a worldly standpoint was against him and he shouldn't have prospered? Now, there are those in this world that would preach a gospel which is called prosperity gospel. They preach a gospel that uh touts that if you love God and and you plant your seed offering and you speak life, They like to say that. Speak life into your life. You speak hope into your life that you will be blessed. You will be prosperous. You will have the car you want. God doesn't want you to be poor. You need to have a big the house you want to have, God wants you to have it. You just need to have faith in God and love God and that'll happen. That's a false gospel The Bible doesn't teach that anywhere. The Bible will bless you, but I want you to understand this morning that the most important things in life cannot be bought with money. The prosperity that I'm talking about this morning goes so far beyond driving a nice car. Goes so far beyond having a big house. Beloved, you've heard them say that you can buy a bed, but you can't buy sleep. You can buy a house, but you can't buy a home. You can't buy that kind of thing. The things that are most important in our life, health, hope. Happiness, love, joy, family, fellowship, satisfaction You can't buy any of that, no matter how much money you have in your wallet. These are things that are blessed and that are given to you and blessed to you by an Almighty God. I want you to see that when we're talking about Daniel prospering in this land, there is a measure and a portion of that that he was successful in what he did. But it goes far beyond just that. It's a prosperity given to them by God. Those that preach the prosperity doctrine around the country and on national television today, they just want you to send in your seed offering. So they can be prosperous. That's what they want Now, in today's world, there's certainly a standard when considering and thinking about prosperity, but everybody's standard and everybody's measure of prosperity is different. For some in the world today, just to have three three meals today would be prosperity. Would be pro I mean wow. We here in this country we've basically become so used to that, that's just expected That's not even we're almost to the point where we don't even uh thank God for it anymore. We just so oh that's just life. Uh so our measure of prosperity is drastically different. The Bible talks about a man. I love the King James Version in its way that it describes this man. It says that he fared sumptuously. That's kind of descriptive term. He fared sumptuously. I mean he was just bountiful. This was a rich man in Luke chapter 16. But I want you to understand this rich man by Anybody's standards would be, as far as a worldly standard, a worldly aspect, they would say he was prosperous. But the Bible says that he lifted up his eyes being in torment. That after all the prosperity they had here on earth, the Bible gives us a picture of what took place afterwards, and he lifted up his eyes in a place called hell, being in torment. That's why the Bible says, what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I mean, what does it matter how much we acquire in this life if at the end of it we end up in hell? The true prosperity, beloved, begins when we come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and experience the forgiveness of our sins. Because regardless of what happens here on earth, regardless of what hardship or trial or struggle that you go through, this is but a short window in eternity. And we will one day lift up our eyes and behold heaven. You'll lift up your eyes, you'll open your eyes, and you'll be in glory. You'll find yourself there in the presence of God Himself. And won't that be prosperous? I want you to see this morning why Daniel prospered. We're going to look at several things. I want you to stay with me, stay engaged. I feel like we're a little tired. I don't know if it's the heat. Or what it is, but I feel like maybe we had too many announcements. We didn't keep it moving. But stay engaged this morning. I'll try and move quick. I do have a lot to cover. But I'm going to try and condense it. Alright? But give you what you need that you can go away with this truth this morning. First of all, I want you to turn to Daniel chapter number one and verse number eight. Daniel chapter one and verse number eight. There's many things And I have a bunch here in my outline really about ten things. I'm not going to give them all ten to you. We're going to walk through, give you a few of them, and we'll be done But I want you to see some things about Daniel and why he prospered. First of all, in Daniel chapter 1 and verse number 8, if you would look there with me, it says, But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the princes of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. Now there's a lot of teaching that we could do right there, but I want you to grab a hold of that one idea there that Daniel purposed in his heart. Daniel purposed in his heart. You see, Daniel lived by some convictions. Daniel had some things that he believed that he knew to be true, that he knew God wanted him to do, and he was going to live by those convictions. Regardless of the cost. You see, he was supposed to do this. He was in a foreign land. He was a slave, and he could have been put to death for denying to eat the king's meat. But he said, regardless of the cost, whatever it costs me, I'm gonna not do that which I shouldn't do. You know, young people. How many of you are living by principle? Living by conviction? You see, the normal spirit of a young person, the normal actions of a young person. Are when the cats away the what the mice play You see, that's the way it is normally. I mean, are you the kind of young person that as soon as mom and dad are out of the house, as soon as supervision is not around, you're looking for the opportunity to do that which you know you shouldn't do? Have you just been waiting for the house to be empty, just waiting for mom and dad to go away, just waiting for the supervision to go somewhere else so that you could engage in that which you know you shouldn't be doing? That's not living by conviction. That is not purposing in your heart to do right. Daniel purposed, and he prospered because he purposed. that he was going to do right. And it didn't matter what it cost him, he was going to do right. Christian, are you living by conviction today? Do you have some truths from the Word of God that you know to be true that you're going to hold to regardless of what it costs you Are you willing to stand on the truths of the Word of God and say, This is what I know to be right? It's not about who's watching. It's not about whether Pastor happens to be By the house right now or not. I can't tell you how many times I've been out visiting, been out knocking doors, and I come into somebody's door and they they open the door and they see that it's Pastor Caleb and the beer goes behind their behind their house Hello, preacher. Good to see you today. Now listen, beloved, you do what God wants you to do. I'm not here to stand in judgment of you, but you see they understand that there's something there that they shouldn't be participating in. There's something that a Christian shouldn't have any part of. and they know that to be true, but they're not living by conviction. They're living by convenience. They're doing what they want to do unless somebody happens to be by and look at them and see what they're doing and what they're participating in. But you know the truth of the matter is is God sees it all. God knows where you're at and God knows what you're doing. And when you live by conviction, when you live by principle, God will bless you. When the lights are out, and when it's dark, and when nobody else is watching, and the temptation is there, and you say by God's strength, Get thee behind me, Satan, with God's power, I'm not going to engage in that wickedness The God of heaven sees that and he prospers you for living by purpose. He purposed in his heart that he wouldn't defile himself with the king's meat. Are you willing to pay the price to do right? They could change Daniel's name, but they couldn't change his nature. They moved him into a new land. But they couldn't make him live in a different way because Daniel knew what God wanted him to do. Are you living that way? It's beloved, it's not about what's socially acceptable, it's about what God wants Daniel not only was not about to do that which God didn't want him to do, but he wasn't going to engage in Or he wasn't going to give up on those things which he knew he should do. This is a little further in our lesson here this morning, but you know, Daniel knew that he was supposed to be praying and he was going to keep doing it He wasn't going to give up on the things that he knew God wanted him to do. How quick are you to give up on what God wants you to do? How easy is it for you to leave off your personal walk with God? Leave off your devotion time. How easy is it for you to leave off The things that you know God would have you do. Do you have convictions today? Talking about things that you believe that you know are right. I heard someone say once, you have not begun to live until you have found what you're willing to die for. That's conviction. Conviction My family and I just finished reading the story of a young lady which describes her entire family, but the extreme oppression that they had under communism. In trying to be Christians. And how if they got caught with the Bible, they were thrown in prison. If they got caught with notes that alluded to, even even alluded to creation. Notes it said something about creation opposed to evolution. They would be interrogated and maybe thrown in prison. Her father, her grandmother were thrown in prison. Her father was sent to Siberia because he was a Christian. And they said, if you'll just deny Christ, you can get out. You can be released today. All you have to do is deny Christ, and you can be released today. And you said, I won't do it. What are you willing to stand for? God blesses men and women who stand for Him. Look in Daniel chapter 1 and verse number 9 there. He says, now God hath brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the princes of the eunuchs. Look down at verse number 15. And at the end of the ten days, their countenance appeared fairer and fatter in the flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. You see, beloved, God gave him favor. It wasn't because Daniel had such an amazing, dynamic personality that he won over everybody on his side. No, Daniel was doing right, and God gave him favor with the leaders of that land. Daniel and Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego and the others that stood with them. were blessed of God. It says they were fatter living on pulse than those that ate of the king's meat. Now, let me just throw this out. This is not a text to teach being vegan. Okay? Now, if If you want to eat if you want to be vegan, that's fine. You know, some people they they feel healthier when they eat that way, that's great. Nothing wrong with that. But don't use this text to try and teach that that's what God wants I've had people tell me that. You see he God blessed when they did that. Well, this goes back to biblical interpretation and you need to understand who this is written to and what it was for. And this is not teaching that you as a Christian should be vegan. Okay, and we can give you other scripture on that. But if you want to be vegan, that's fine. You can be. Some people like it that way. One guy was telling me he was vegan, and he said it's just because he says, you know what? Food is only about taste He says after it passes right here, it's all the same. Doesn't really matter. It's all the same after it passes here. He says, between here and here is where you get your satisfaction. And he says, the rest doesn't matter. That's pretty much true. But I enjoy eating it, amen. So So I'm going to continue to eat it, but you you can can eat however you feel healthy, and that's wonderful, but don't misuse scripture. Amen. But I want you to see God bless them. God made them fatter living off of pulse than those that ate of the king's meat. And you know what, Christian? The prince had to admit that Daniel and these men were in better shape. Than those that ate of the king's meat. And Christian, you and I, we need to start living in such consistent ways that the world watching us, and beloved, they do watch you. That the world watching you, they may not like it, but they'll at least have to admit that what God is offering is ten times better than anything that Satan is selling. We need to start living that way. That the world sees that. And they may not enjoy it, but they'll at least have to admit that you fared ten times better because of God's blessing. Hey, the world doesn't like it. You know what? Your family might not like it. Because light in a dark place is not pleasant. Nobody likes light shown on the dirt in their life. When you are living right and you become a light, those around you sometimes they really don't like it. But you live by a biblical principle, and God will bless you. But I encourage you to get what you believe from the Word of God, not from society. I would say not even from your church. Not from somebody on some radio station. From the Word of God. What we believe needs to come from this book. We do our best to teach and hold to the truths of the Word of God. But what you have, the convictions you have in your life, could I encourage you, if somebody asks you, why do you do that or why do you believe that, don't say because my church does this. The church does not have authority. There's a lot of churches and they all say different things, right? The church is not the authority. Don't say, why do you do this? Well, because my pastor teaches that. Your pastor does not have the authority. This is the authority. Somebody says, why do you do that? You say, well, because look let me show you what the Bible says. Let me show you what God's Word says. This is the authority that we have to go back to, why we do what we do. Get some biblical principles and live your life. Purpose in your heart that you're going to honor God and do what God wants you to do. I was talking to somebody this week about capital punishment and I said, listen, it doesn't matter what people like or don't like. It's biblical. It's what the Bible teaches. And there's a lot of varying opinions about whether we should or shouldn't use capital punishment. But the Bible teaches it. I can tell you this If somebody that took a life lost their life in about 30 days, there would be a whole lot less lives lost. That's biblical. Not very popular, but it's what the Bible says. We gotta get back to what the Bible teaches. You see, God ordained government to do that. God ordained and gave government the authority to take a life when a life has been taken. Now let me tell you this, God did not give government the authority to decide when life begins. That is not in their purview. God established when life begins. And it's mind-boggling to me that people who will Stand in a picket line against capital punishment will also stand in a picket line for murder. To have innocent y y you can't take the life of a murderer, but you can take the life of an innocent baby. The problem is, is the authority for what they believe is become what's acceptable, what's popular, what's promoted, instead of what the Bible says. Amen? We need to live our life by principle, by the word of God, purpose in your heart. Now I've said don't use your church your church, but I want you to know we need a church. I've been in church my entire life. 47 years. Gone to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Wednesday night, every week of my life. 47 years. I've missed a few because I was sick. Maybe a couple others because I was broken down on the side of the road or something, but but but very minimal. And in all that I've learned that you need a church. Beloved, I need a church more than the church needs me. I need a church because I need to be challenged of my perceptions of life I need a church because I need to be fed from the Word of God on a regular basis. I need a church because I need men and women who not only love me but challenge me spiritually consistently. I need a church because I need encouraged when I'm discouraged. I need a church because I need men and women praying for me when I'm too weak to pray for myself. I need a church More than the church needs me. You don't have to tell me, I've been in church my whole life. You don't have to tell me about the problems that are in the church. But here's what I've come to know after 47 years. The blessings far outweigh any of the problems. What you get from church will far outweigh any of the problems. Could I encourage you, if you want to be blessed by God, would you purpose in your heart? Secondly, I want you to see that Daniel prayed in his home. Look at Daniel chapter 6 and verse number 10. Daniel 6 and verse number 10. The Bible says there, now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house. And his window being open in the chamber towards Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he did aforetime. Now you know the story of Daniel. You know how God blessed him and prospered him and he continued to grow in position here in a heathen land, in a foreign country. And those that were around They didn't like that much. Those those people that were there, Daniel beginning beginning to pass them up, and he was promoted to leadership above them. And after all, he's a foreigner. He shouldn't be in that position. And they got jealous and got angry. And so they tried to find a way to get Daniel knocked down. They tried to find a way to take Daniel out, and Daniel lived such a consistent life that they couldn't find anything. You read in the Bible, it says they determined that if they were going to get Daniel, what they were going to have to do is find something concerning his God. That was something that he did faithfully, and so they connived and plotted in a way to trick and and get Daniel removed and set in motion this this decree that nobody was supposed to pray to any other anybody else but the king. And if they did, what was going to happen to them? Just seeing if you guys are awake, what was going to happen if they prayed to somebody else? Going to be put in the lion's den. But the Bible says here that Daniel went and prayed as he did aforetime. Daniel learned that no matter what was going on in his life, he needed prayer. Back in chapter number two, when uh they uh none of the wise men could interpret the dream that the king had. And and the king was ready to kill them all. The king says, kill all the wise men. Daniel said, wait, don't be so fast. I'm one of those guys. Don't don't kill what what hey, there's still a God in heaven. He told the king, give me a few minutes. I'll spend some time in prayer and God will reveal this unto you. And Daniel did. He prayed. Beloved, when you're up against it, When it looks like there's no hope, remember there's still a God in heaven. You want to be prospered in your life? Become a person of prayer Purpose in your heart and live by conviction and then consistently be a person of prayer. The Bible still tells us that God's people are to be praying people. Amen? We are to pray without ceasing. The Bible says men ought always to pray Do you pray without ceasing? Do you pray over everything? Is your first response when something happens to pray? Or to scream and yell and throw things or whatever. I mean, what's your first response? Our first response ought to be: Lord, help me. Lord, what is this? Show me what to do. If the Bible is where we get our beliefs, which we've established that already, then the Bible teaches a Christian ought to be praying. Last year we preached 12 messages on prayer, one every month. And I wonder how many of us in the church our prayer lives today are any different than they were A year and four months ago. Like an entire year of focusing on prayer as a church, and I wonder, have has our prayer life grown? Has our faith in prayer grown? Have we increased? Have we begun to be more consistent in prayer? Beloved, you look around the world past or present for anybody that God used, and you'll find a praying individual. Because the work and ministry of God is done in and through the power of prayer. God still answers prayer, beloved. This week, on our prayer sheet, we have several answered prayers that we're praising God for. Miss Lois doesn't have COVID. But if God miraculously took that away Or the test initially was tested wrong, whatever it is, God answered that prayer, and Lois doesn't have COVID. Miss Trudy praising God because her kidney functions that just a few months ago were were just about in kidney failure. now are functioning in a in a much higher rate, much improved condition. Martha's mom answered prayer. She has improved in her condition, was able to be moved into her own unit. Miss Berg, her cancer surgery was successful. They got all the cancer when they went in for it. And she is progressing very, very well. We've got answer, God still answers prayer. That's on our prayer sheet this week. Are you taking advantage of your church family that can pray for you? That can hold up your request before God? Brother Armando medicine supposed to have some terrible side effects. He only walks around like this now, but But other than that, he's doing good. No, he's praising God because the medicine is functioning and it's not creating any side effects. He God answered prayer. Listen, I was talking this morning to Mrs. Crane and Miss Margaret's on some medicine that the side effects are are tearing her up. So it's not always this way. What I'm saying is God answers prayer. We need to be using and being a people of prayer. Do you need something from God? Are you praying about it? I want you to see thirdly that he was promoted through humility. Look in Daniel chapter 2, verses 19 through 21. He is promoted through humility. You see, Daniel could have come and he could have said, Hey, I know the interpretation of that dream I could show you what that is. Daniel could have come in with pride over and over again. You remember we're not going to turn there, but later in the chapter when there was a handwriting on the wall. Daniel came in and gave the interpretation of what the handwriting on the wall was. Nobody else could. Not one other wise man could give the interpretation, but Daniel did. But what does Daniel say about it? Look in chapter 2, verse number 19. The Bible says Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision, and Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Daniel answered and said, Bless the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. Jump down to verse number 23. He says, I thank thee and praise thee, O God. Oh thou God of my fathers, who hast given me wisdom and might. He says, God did this. God showed the interpretation. God answered this prayer. God is the one that's doing this. You know, you start prospering in your life. You start seeing God bless you, and don't just wait, somebody's going to attack you. Somebody's going to come and say, you don't deserve that blessing, and you'll be standing there saying, I never said I did. You're right, I don't. It's all God But it it has nothing to do with me. God did it. But you know what? Those around Daniel didn't like it that he was so prosperous Those around Daniel didn't like it that he had the answer and they didn't. And Daniel's like, I don't have the answer. God has the answer. If you want, you can talk to him too. You could get the answer. But they didn't want to talk to God. They didn't want to live by principle. They didn't want to be praying They could have, but they didn't. They would rather stand back and try and find a way to knock down the guy that's being successful. And that's normal in our world today. Let's stand back and tear down the guy that's making it happen. Instead of joining him, living by principle, purposing our heart, we're going to do what God wants, being a person of prayer. And then just humbly letting God have the results. Just letting God have the results. It wasn't about Daniel. The meaning came from God. But I asked you this morning, what hast thou that thou hast not received? Everything we are. Everything we have. And it's amazing to me, but so many people lose sight of that. Even out door knocking and talking to people on the street, you know, they they they say, you know, oh well I I did this. Well, how did you do that? Who gave you the ability to do that? You see, you removed God out of the entire picture. Who gave you the air to breathe today? Who gave you the mind to be able to think and process and deduce, to be able to figure that out? Listen, my sister, Melissa, who's two years older than me. was born without part of her brain. When she was born, they told us that she would never learn to read or write Part of her brain that calculates, part of her brain that interprets things, uh is not there. And part of her brain that communicates with her digestive system is not present. She could literally eat herself to death There's nothing in her body that tells when you eat and you get that satisfaction, oh I'm full. Melissa doesn't have that. She could just keep on eating. When she was born, they said she'll never learn to read or write, and by the time she's 18, she'll be so big that she will not be able to get out of bed. Probably die before she's 20. And the government tried to take her away from my mom and dad because they said it was an undue burden on them. Obviously, mom and dad weren't having anything to do with that. Now, God blessed, Melissa has a fourth-grade education. She can read and write, and she still gets around. But what I'm saying is that could be you. That could be me God gave you the ability you have to process, to think, to deduce, the to the skills that you have to accomplish or do whatever it is you do for work, to be able to earn whatever it is that you earn, to be able to pay whatever bills you have. It all comes from God. And if we want God to continue to prosper us, we've got to stop taking God's credit. And point people to him and let them know that it was God that did this. Daniel kept over and over again giving praise to God. Want you to see lastly and will be done that he was protected by the God of heaven He was protected by the God of heaven. You know the story. We're not going to take time to read it. We're going to wrap it up here quickly, but Daniel prayed. They couldn't change the law of the Medes and Persians, and they had to throw him into the lion's den, right? They threw him down there. It's amazing that the the the king had more faith than than than most of the people because the king, when he's throwing him in, is like Daniel I can't change the law of the Medes and Persians. We've got to drop you in here. But listen, your God that you serve, He'll save you. And then he had enough faith that the next morning the king came back and he called down there. He says, Hey Daniel, did you God save you? I mean, I don't know about you, but I mean if somebody got thrown into a lion's den, I would be, well Couldn't it happen to a nicer guy? I mean but uh it's Whoa, that's rough, man. I mean Sorry, it's over. You see, the enemies of Daniel thought they had won the victory. They thought they had taken Daniel out, but they forgot about Daniel's God. And Daniel's God protected him from the lions. He closed the mouth of the lion. The Bible says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour I want you to understand God closed the mouth of the lions for Daniel, and God can take care of your adversaries as well. You know what? Let me we'll close this with this truth. I want you to understand something. That Bible, that that verse. 1 Peter 5. 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about, the Bible says, as a roaring lion. Right. He is not a lion. Because there's only one lion. The Lion of Judah. The bright morning star. The creator of the world and my God. And He can and will protect you when you do what He wants you to do, when you live and do right. Amen? He is the victor. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And he's on your side. He'll protect you.