Okay. Alright. A lot of times people say, okay, hey, it's it's either red or green, but I'm colorblind. So that matters nothing to me at all. So it's just like hey I I sound like an idiot, but am I on or off? Is this what I mean? So Ugh All right. Uh first of all I just want to say again thank you all so much for for having us and really we're excited to be here. Uh we really are. We've been looking forward to this meeting. Um I think I don't remember when I talked with Pastor Patrell or uh Brother Steven. But I I feel like it was a few months ago and we were actually kind of on the fence of whether we were gonna come or not, not because of you, but because we were getting very close to leaving. And so I remember telling Brother Stephen, I was like, I don't know. We're really close at that time to leaving and I just don't know where we're gonna be at. And he's like, Well look, we'd really like for you to come. and you know, try to push for it. And so I talked with uh my pastor and another missionary friend out of our church and and said, Hey look, what do you guys think? You know, we're leaving in May and You know, do you think we could they're like, just go, just just do it. So we're very glad that we did it. We're so glad to be here. Um thank you for the wonderful accommodations. It is very comfortable. Uh we enjoyed it. Um one of my favorite things um when we stay in places that there's like a separate room for our kid. So then I can go out in the evening and like read or my wife and I can have a conversation. Um or we can wake up in the morning and read our scriptures, I'm gonna turn the lights on and then you know, land in a waking up. He's a teenager, he doesn't really wake up, but I'm afraid he's gonna wake up And so it's a blessing. So we really appreciate it very much. All the meals have been amazing. I think I'm gonna have to fast next week. Um because I I've I've eaten we've eaten very well. So thank you all so much. Uh go ahead and open your Bibles to Psalm sixty-seven. Psalm sixty seven. Psalm 67. I'm going to read the whole passage. It is a short passage. I'm going to read the whole thing. And then after I read, I'll pray and then we'll we'll get into it. Okay? Psalm 67. The Bible says, God be merciful unto us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us. Selah. That thy way may be known upon the earth, thy saving health among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God, let all the people praise Thee Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Selah Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. Then shall the earth yield her increase in God. Even our own God shall bless us. God shall bless us. And all the ends of the earth shall fear him. And let's pray. Gracious God, Creator, Lord of this earth, we come to you tonight, Lord, desiring to hear from heaven. Lord, you said in your word, where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I in the midst. Lord, we are gathered. Lord, I trust we are gathered in your name. And so we know that you are here. But Lord, I pray, Lord, that you would just make it very evident that we had met with you tonight. Lord, that you would work in our hearts, that you would stir us, God, that your Holy Spirit would have free reign. That your word would have free course, that your name would be magnified. I pray, Lord, that you would keep back all distractions, bind the strong man from this place, and Lord, may our thoughts and attention be only unto you. Father, I pray, God, that you would use me as I preach. Lord, that it's not my words or my actions or my charisma or lack of charisma thereof, Lord, that you would use the words, God, to glorify your name We'll be careful to give you the honor and glory. Father, for you deserve it above all else. In Jesus' name. Amen. This psalm is often called the missionary psalm. It's a prayer of God's people to continue to bless them. Not for selfish reasons, not to consume it upon their lusts, but for a specific purpose. And many times when we pray, if we're not careful, we're we're asking God to bless us, but it it's it's because we want the blessing. It's it's we're, as James said, we're praying amidst. consume it upon our own lust. So here we have a prayer of God's people and they're praying. They're saying God bless us. That's not a wrong prayer to pray at all. But they have a specific reason why they want God to bless them. The psalmist view is not solely on himself nor his nation, but distant nations and peoples. His mind is on the uttermost. The nation of Israel, just as we, the church, is called to be a witness to the world of God. That he is the one true God. That living under his reign and obedience to him brings true joy. You see, that's why God called Israel He said, I called you out so you would proclaim my name across the world. This is the same reason he called us. Same reason he called us was to save us and so that we would declare his name among the nations. We as God's people are not to be the terminus of his blessings, but instead a channel. There ought to be a missionary zeal amongst his people. Some see this psalm as looking forward to the millennial reign of Christ, as a prayer of Israel. And many think it to be a prayer of the 144,000. Jewish evangelists who will go forth to declare the gospel of Jesus during tribulation. So in a sense, it it is a psalm of missions. And there are great principles in this psalm that it can apply to revival as well as worldwide evangelism today. A commentator said of this psalm: an exalted view of God. Should compel the believer to do great things for God. At the heart of this is a desire to reach the world with the saving message of God's truth. Higher a believer's view of God, the stronger should burn his passion that others will come to know this glorious God. Do you understand that? If you have a low view of God, you are going to have a low view of missions. But if you have a high view of God, that He is high and exalted, and His train fills the temple, and the door of the posts move, and His smoke fills the temple. You will realize, oh God, how great thou art. Surely the world must know of you And we must take your name to the nations. The church can and should make this our prayer. Lord bless us. And desire this psalm as well. Those praying this psalm desire that all nations will come to Christ. That the earth will be filled with all of God's glory, that all the earth may know. Is not this the heartbeat of missions? So, number one, we have the reason for blessing. Look at verse 1 and 2. He says, God be merciful unto us and bless us. And cause his face to shine upon us, Sila. So let's stop there real quick. It's always a sila, so we're gonna we're gonna stop. We see a prayer, a call for God to bless his people. Now, this verse, if you If you've read your Bible and you're familiar with the Old Testament, it'll bring to mind the Aaronic blessing that's found in Numbers chapter 6. Number chapter 6, 24 to 26, the Bible says, The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. Now this blessing was often cited after the morning service at the temple, at synagogues, and it was also prayed as well by parents towards their children before the Sabbath dinner. So after the end of this, it says, God be merciful to us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us. We have Selah. This word is placed there for the singer or the reader to pause and to meditate on what was just said. The only hope that one praying has is God. It's a realization that there's nothing left but God's mercy and blessing that will have any effect. Look, no politician can bring change or revival. It is impossible. No amount of social work, however good, can bring true change to the human heart. And we're sitting on the crux of this movement in our country of this make America great again. And I don't want to talk about politics, but that's not the key. I love America just like you do. But that's not the point. That's not what's going to bring revival. What's going to bring revival is when God's people finally realize it's only God. God, it's only you that can bring blessings. And shine your face upon us. It doesn't matter how filled our wallets are, it doesn't matter if the economy is good. God, we need you. So now we have this reason for prayer. So they pray. God be merciful unto us and bless us. And cause his face to shine upon us. This is a great prayer. It's okay to pray that prayer. But there needs to be a reason for that prayer. And verse number two is the reason. That thy way may be known upon the earth, thy saving health among all nations. What I find most interesting about this prayer is the reason. It's not necessarily a prayer of deliverance, although the aspect is there, it's a prayer of intercession. The prayer for God's blessing, mercy, and his presence to shine upon them is not for themselves, but for the world. It was the same spirit was found in the first century church. In Acts chapter 4, verses 24 through 30, after Paul and John, or not Paul and John, excuse me, Peter and John. were at the gate called beautiful and they saw that the lame man was uh uh made whole and silver gold have I none but such as I have give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk, right? And they go, he's he's He's made whole and he's shouting and praising God and then are brought before the Sanhedrin and the Sanhedrin say, We forbid you from ever speaking this name. Don't don't preach in his name, don't heal in this name. And they flogged them and sent them back Right? And they go back to the church and report what happens. And the church hears this report. I want you to listen to the prayer of the church. Because if it was us, we'd be praying something differently. If it was the modern day church, we would pray something differently than what they pray. This is what they say. And when they heard that, they lifted their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, thou art God, which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is Who by the mouth of thy servant David has said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. So far, so good. Okay, we'd pray this, right? Okay. For a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pajuspilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together, for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. And now, Lord Behold their threatenings. And we'd say, and rebuke them. Destroy them. Now, there's nothing wrong with the precatory prayers. Okay, the Psalms are filled with the precatory prayers. And God would judge the wicked. But here's the church. They've just been persecuted. And they said, Now, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants That with all boldness they may speak thy word, totally different than what you and I would even think about praying. By stretching forth thy hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of the holy child Jesus. It's obviously a spirit-filled prayer. Their desire for the earth to know Christ was deeper than their desire for deliverance. When we're praying for revival, why are we praying for revival? Are we praying so that God would deliver us and we would have this peace and why God why send an awakening to America so we can have peace and and and and be away from all this, or Lord, so that thy name may be known upon the earth. Many times in the Old Testament, we see the people of God praying for God's blessing, whether for a battle or for worship, but always It was so the earth would know that there's a God in heaven. David and Goliath. David in 1 Samuel chapter 17, he says. This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand, and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I will give thee the carcass I will give the carcasses of the hosts of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. The dedication of the temple to Solomon, 1 Kings chapter 8. Hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place. And do according to all that thy stranger calleth to thee, that all the people of the earth may know thy name, to fear thee, as do thy people Israel. Hezekiah's prayer for deliverance. Now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee. Save thou us out of his hand that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. So now the question is, when we are praying for God's blessing, and we should pray for God's blessing. When we're praying for his presence or for him to revive us, what is the reason? Is it so that all the earth may know his name and his ways, or for them to know our name and our glory? For him to be glorified, or for us to be glorified. The reason for missions and revival ought to be so that his way Will be known upon the earth. The reason for God's blessing, look, folks, the reason why God has blessed America so long Is because we have understood that this blessing was so that the gospel can go out into the world. When we stop understanding that is when the blessing of God is going to be removed from our country. Look at England. England, Britain, one of the the greatest missionary sending agency in the world, Hudson Taylor, was was from England, right? Jonathan Gorbson from Canada. But you all the great missionaries, I mean Carmichael, I mean we can go on, McKay, all of them. Came from Britain. All those great missionary biographies you read about, most of them came from Britain. And when Britain stopped believing and understanding that their blessing from God was to be a channel to send the gospel across the world, God removed their hand of blessing. God has blessed this country. God has blessed you. God has blessed this church. So that his name will be known across the world. From the beginning, God has sought man. When man broke God's law in the Garden of Eden, he came looking For Adam. And despite our rebellion to God and living our own way, and we've all sinned against the Holy God, God has sought us. God sought you. So the question is, what are you gonna do about that? Keep it to yourself? He calls all sinners to repentance so they may have eternal life. That includes the nations. The Bible says, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. And the Son of the Holy Ghost, teaching to observe all things which are commands you, lo, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. The word which is translated teach also holds the meaning to make disciples. The reason for going to the uttermost is not just to build buildings, dig wells, teach English, etc. And all these are great avenues, but the reason to go Is to make disciples of the nations. The reason God has blessed is to make disciples of all nations So now we come to the reminder for missions and revival. Look at verses 3 through 5. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy. For thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Selah. We can see the heart of the people praying this prayer. It's not about them. It's about Christ. It's a cry for the nations. We see the continuation of the prayer. It's a call for worship. A desire for the nations to know and worship the king. It's a prayer of excitement, as well as the prayer of supplication As the psalmist, as the singer meditates on God's way filling the earth, there's this exuberant joy as they realize that this will come true. The whole world, Jew and Gentile alike, will come to know God and will seek him. This is the climax of the prayer. This is the climax of this psalm. Psalm eleven nine says, They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Look, one of the things I have uh enjoy doing one of the things that encourages me when I'm I'm reading my Bible and studying it. When the word shall or will happens, I underline it. That's a promise. You can bank on it. It's going to happen. God's The earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord. Maybe not now, maybe not ten years from now, but eventually it will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord. And at the millennial reign of Christ, when Christ is sitting on the throne of David, And he is sitting in Jerusalem as king. The earth will know who the king is. For the earth shall be filled, Habakkuk 2. 14, with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. Jeremiah 31, 34. And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all Know me. From the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and I'll remember their sin no more. We see this part of the prayer, the reminder for missions, the glory and worship of God Do you realize that's the the point of missions? Is for the glory of God? You see, Brother Paul, I thought the point of missions was to go and start churches. No. It's for the glory of God. Because I thought the point of missions was to go and see people saved and baptized in disciples. No. It's for the glory of God. You see, because planting churches brings God glory. Leading someone to the Lord and baptizing the disciples brings God glory. But if all I'm doing is going to do that so I can bring glory to myself, I'm failing. And so we must get under our but why do you go knock on doors? Hopefully, it's for the glory of God. Not so that Hunt Valley Baptist Church is known in the area, but so that God is known in the area. The motive of missions in evangelism is for people of all nations to come and worship the God of heaven and earth. Revelation chapter 5, 8 through 10. And we had taken the book, the four beasts and four twenty elders fell down before the lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain And has redeemed us to God by thy blood, out of every kindred, every tribe, and tongue, and people and nation, and has made unto us our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. That is the motive for missions and evangelism. God desires that all men know him and receive salvation and forgiveness of sin. Look unto me, he says in Isaiah, and be ye saved all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. Just as Israel desired to see all nations praising God at times. We as well should desire and yearn for people of all nations, tribes, and tongues to crown him Lord of all and declare Christ as Lord We should desire to see his name glorified among all the nations. Verse 5 gives us the reason for rejoicing. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. During the millennium The nations will rejoice because now I'm sorry, this is verse 4. Oh let the nations be glad and sing for joy. Why? Verse 4b. For thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon earth. During the millennium, the nations will rejoice because now there is peace. Christ is reigning in righteousness and justice Revelation 19, 6. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as a voice of many thundering saying, Alleluia, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth forever. During the darkest time of the earth, the darkest time the world will ever see, the great tribulation, there's still hope. There's a promise that God will reign. God will not be defeated. Notice the word shout. This will happen. For thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon earth. God will reign, and the powers of hell can do nothing about it. Do you see the heart cry? Nations come, come and praise God, for he will reign in justice and righteousness. Come, give him praise. Tyranny will be defeated. Communism will fall. Dictators will bow before the King of Kings. Come, nations, rejoice. With us. Listen, I I you need to grasp this. When you're you go out and you're knocking on doors, you're having gospel conversations with your friends or your neighbors. This understanding that Christ is king, and Christ will reign, and death is defeated, and he will reign forever. Come worship him with us. Come know him. Know this great king. Know this great God who condescended What king has ever condescended to earth? What God has ever come down to earth to die for his people? None. But one, the true and living God, came down to man and became man to die. For us, come worship this king. We once again come to the word sila. End of verse 4. The writer of the psalm wants the singers and readers to pause and meditate on this truth. Pause and meditate that God will reign. His will will not be thwarted. He is sovereign. Christian, listen. Listen. Rejoice. The Christ is on the throne. He is one. Hell is defeated. Darkness is conquered, and death. Is destroyed. Second Timothy says, Who hath saved us and called us with the holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Christian, go into the highways and hedges, to the cities, to the villages To the public square, to the uttermost, declaring the good news of the gospel. Declare death is defeated since payment is paid, and declare freedom for the captives. That Is what we are called to do. Now we come to the result of missions and revival. Look at verses 6 through 7. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us And all the ends of the earth shall fear him. Already we've looked at the rising action of the petition, the anticipation of God's blessing and reigning. And then we reach the climax where God's people are rejoicing in the coming reign of their King, a call for all nations to join them in the worship. We now come to the resolution of the prayer or the psalm. In the next few verses, we will see a falling action that will resolve into a peaceful assurance. He said, Brother Paul, what are you getting at? You understand this because you this is what happens when you pray. You start when you when you're praying and you're asking God to do something, it is almost like an arch. Because what happens is we start praying, God, I need you, Lord, I I I I'm in this straight, I'm I'm between two things, and look at God, I just need you to do something, and there's this this climax and you're, God help! And then all of a sudden the Holy Spirit comes and He says The Father's heard you. And there's almost this falling action, this restful assurance that comes, God has heard. And he is going to bless. And what he says will happen. So now we come to the results of Christ's reign Verse 6. The prayer now comes to result of God reigning on the earth. The nations are all praising God. His ways are known from sea to sea. The knowledge of the Lord has filled the earth as the waters of the ocean. In verse 6, we see that the curse is broken. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, our own God, shall bless us. The earth once again is filled with bountifulness. There is no drought, no thorn or thistle The earth will restore to its former glory. No longer will man eat in sorrow of the fruit of the earth, as it will yield its fruit to him easily. Because Christ reigns. We come to the assurance of Christ's reign. We now come to the restful assurance of the prayer. The struggle, if you will, in prayer is ended, and now they can rest in a promise. And God, even our own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. There's no doubt in their minds and hearts now it will happen. For this is the will of God. Psalm 22, 27, all the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. Psalm 66, 4. All the earth shall. Do you think God wrote this in the Bible for no reason? You think this is just empty promises? All the earth shall worship thee and shall sing unto thee. They shall sing to thy name, Selah. This restful assurance comes from knowing the promises of God, resting in them, and allowing the Spirit to assure you with them. Think about your own prayers. How often do we start with a pleading, a seeking, a lament? Then we come to the understanding by the Spirit that God is bigger than our problems. He is bigger than our enemies. He's bigger than our sin. And we're reminded of the true character of God. This then leads us to a restful assurance that God has heard your prayer and do what we will ask. So, as we in this era pray for revival and for the nations to return to God, we can pray with assurance that God will hear and perform it. I fear In our modern era, we we pray these prayers almost rote uh rotely. It's just, okay, we're we're gonna pray God. Save Hunt Valley. God save Baltimore. God save Hopkinsville. God save Maryland And it's almost this, we just say this prayer. There's no faith behind this prayer. There's no assurance behind this prayer. It's just something we say. But God wants us to have an assurance. God wants us to know this is His will. Do you understand? It's God's will. That people in Maryland come to know him? It's God's will for your neighbor to accept Christ. It's God's will for Canada. To be revived, awakened, and heart stirred and soul saved? It's God's will For countries in Africa to know him is God's will for Taiwan and Asia to know God. We can pray with assurance that God will hear this prayer and performance Because we have these promises of God. You say where? I just gave you like 25 of them, but if that wasn't enough, 2 Peter 3. 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to us word, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That'll knock out any Calvinist bone right there. All will come to repentance. That's who God is. He wants everyone saved 1 Timothy 2, 4, who will have all men to be saved and to come into the knowledge of the truth? Galatians 6, 9. Let us not be weary of well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. My brothers and sisters, listen, rest in his promise. When we pray for revival and we pray for souls to be saved, know that is his will, and he will perform it. As we pray for laborers for the harvest, know that He will hear that prayer. Have faith. Look, Mark 11:24. Therefore I sent you whatsoever things you desire when you pray, believe that ye receive them, and Ye shall have them. Matthew 21, 21. Jesus answered, said unto him, Verily I say unto you, if ye have faith And doubt not. You shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if you should say into this mountain, be thou removed and be thou cast in the sea, it shall be done. So as we pray, in conclusion, as we pray and give towards missions, look, we must just do so in faith. In anticipation that God will work and the nations will come to him Look, as we get ready to go to Taiwan, we must do so in faith, knowing that Taiwanese will come to the saving knowledge of God. Saturday men, as we go out door knocking, we must go in faith, knowing that God desires for that neighborhood to know him and to worship him. When we go to the streets, our jobs, the marketplace for the gospel, let us go in faith that God will bring a harvest. God's power is not diminished. He is still on the throne. It is 100% okay to read books and revival. I love books in Revival. I love stories in Revival. I love all of them. It's okay to read those books. And you should. Let them stir you. Let them let them get your heart on fire to see what God did in the past. But don't stop there. And I fear what we do is we stop. And God, you just hoe crate back during the Second Great Awakening and the Fulton Street Revival and the Manturia Revival. And God, that was so amazing. But it's almost like we believe he can't do it anymore. Well God we we live in this age and I mean no one's gonna get saved. Well not with that attitude. It's a defeatist attitude. It's not a faith-filled attitude. Let us make Psalm sixty-seven one through two our prayer and our desire. God Be merciful unto us and bless us, and cause his face to shine upon us. Selah, that thy way may be known upon the earth, thy saving health among all nations Then let us rest in the assurance of verse 6. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our God, shall bless us. Rest the assurance that God will bless and revive, and that God will send a harvest of souls. Don't let the decline of the world and society depress you. But instead look to God. Christ is Lord. The King still reigns. Let us go out this week. With the knowledge that we serve Christ the Victor. And because of this, we have the victory This tellers of Christ, His power to save, believing in faith that God will bring a harvest. May we pray with the psalmist that God will bless his people. Not for our sakes, but that he would use us so that countless people from all nations will turn to Christ in saving faith and become worshipers of the one true. And living God, let's pray. Father God, I I am in awe of how great a God you are. You have won the victory. Lord, how faithless we I so often am Not truly believing God that you want to do a work because you want to do a work. Lord, you want to save souls. You want to see the nations come to you. You want to see our neighbors and our friends and our coworkers and our classmates. Lord, you want them to know you. Lord, would you give us the boldness? Would you give us the faith? Lord, help our unbelief. We believe, but help our unbelief. Give us the courage to go out, the assurance to know that you're with us. So that all the earth may know. We ask these in your name. Amen. With your heads bowed and your eyes closed, if you could stand with me, Pastor.