Perspective. Would you turn your Bibles to First Kings? I think this morning I was I was mixing up my messages and I told you to turn to First Kings this morning and I This morning's message was 2 Kings. Now we're going to go to 1 Kings uh tonight. So uh we're 1 Kings chapter 17 and not 18. We were in 2 Kings 18 this morning, but Yeah. Amen. Well, I think we'll start out just read our text and then uh get into it uh this evening. In 1 Kings chapter 17, we're gonna read verses 2 through 7. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. So he went, and he did, according to the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook. Cherith that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread, and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening. And he drank of the brook, and it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. I want to bring a message that I've entitled this evening, Some Counsel from Cherith. Some of the lessons that we can see and learn from this Situation that unfolded here in the life of Elijah, the man of God, the prophet. He had just told Ahab And his wicked queen, Jezebel. He had just told them that there was going to be no rain, that the land was going to dry up, that famine was going to come. I can imagine that they laughed at him. They probably thought, who are you? What do you know? This is the rainy season. You know, ha ha there's no rain. I'm sure they weren't that concerned about what he said until you know, the second Third month, fourth month, still no rain. And then they started to look. Where is Elijah? Where is Elijah? He's the one that said it wasn't gonna rain. In the midst of this great famine that plagued the land, God had provided in a miraculous way for his man. God sent him here to cherith and fed him in a miraculous way. Beloved God will often take his servants to the backside of the desert or to the edge of a small brook to teach them some things. Moses was far from ready to lead the children of Israel until he first learned how to lean on God in the wilderness. And Elijah wasn't ready to face the prophets of Baal until he had learned the lessons that God had for him at Cherith. We want to see those tonight. The first thing I want you to see is the command that God had given him. And the word of the Lord came unto him saying, Get thee hence. The Lord gave a command and told him where to go. Can I tell you that this command was personal? That God had a plan for him specifically, and I want to carry that over to us tonight Regardless of your age in here tonight, regardless of your gender in here tonight, can I tell you that God has a plan for you God knows right where you are right now, and God knows where you're going to be or where you should be five years from now and ten years from now. twenty years from now and sometimes we get too consumed with what is gonna be ten, fifteen years from now when what we ought to be worried about is what we're doing right right now What we're doing that we ought to be doing, God said, get the hints. If the man of God had not gone to the place that God told him to go, he wouldn't have been fed. He would not have known the sustenance and and the provision that God gave him there at Cherith. He had to be obedient in what he knew to do today. And beloved, if God has told you that Hunt Valley Baptist Church is where you ought to worship, that's one thing you ought to do. You ought to say, Man, uh if everything else fails, at least I'm gonna be in God's house. At least I'm gonna be under the preaching of the Word of God. At least I'm gonna get with God's people. I'm gonna serve the Lord as best I can where I'm at And you don't have to worry so much about tomorrow or the next day or the next. You just do what God wants you to do today. God has a plan for you, a direct plan. And beloved, God is perfectly capable to make his will known to you. God will use miraculous means to communicate his will to you, what he wants you to do. If you're searching for wisdom on a decision that you have to make, and it's amazing how through the years I've heard so many different testimonies about how God directed his people through the Word of God. Through uh their safety in a multitude of counselors, and sometimes God will bring somebody into your life and it's just a random comment that they make. It's not something they weren't trying to give you direction for your life. just communicating to you and all of a sudden the Holy Spirit says, that's it. That's what you need to do. And the Holy Spirit gives you clarity in your heart and mind that listen, this is direction, this is what God wants you to do. And and God will make his will known to you if you have ears to hear and you're ready to listen and you're looking for his leading, beloved, when we are submitting to him. The Word of God is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path, and God definitely wants to wants you to know His will more than you want to know it. So he's certainly not hiding it. He's not making it mysterious. God has a plan for you. This was a personal plan. God told the man of God, listen, get thee hints. You need to go, turn the eastward and hide thyself there. We see it was a personal plan. God didn't give him vague directions. He gave him some exact instructions specifically where to go to two cherith. Why? Why cherith? Why this place? Cherith's not where you would think. Like, if I asked you tonight, where do you want to go for dinner? Nobody's gonna say, well let's go to the bridge over here where that river's at. You know, there's that bridge. Let's go back there and Um be you got a stacked lunch or you gotta what what are we gonna eat over there? Why would you go there? You you know, you may pick a restaurant or you may pick somebody's house or look why don't you come to my house? I mean, but you're not gonna pick that. Like why did God send him to Cherith? There's nothing Cherith was a rocky place. It was a place of uh known for its great uh uh ravines and and uh caves and of course there was a brook there. But this was not something that in in Man's eyes you would look at and say, Well, of course that's where God wants me to go. That's obviously that's where God's gonna take care of me. No, in man's eyes it wouldn't make sense, but God had a plan. God was gonna take care of him. And can I tell you that God sent him to Cherith for his protection. Notice what he says there. He says, turn thee eastward and hide thyself. He said, there's a little bit of time here, Elijah. There's some people that are a little bit frustrated with you. Ahab and Jezebel aren't happy. that uh you ha were the one who pronounced this judgment and this famine now they believe it's your fault and so they're out to get your head and it was a solitary place Cherith literally means separation. God said there's a time here that you need to go and separate yourself You need to get alone. You need to get a hide yourself. It's a place where I'm going to protect you until the time's right for you to come out. But God protected him. Can I tell you that God will and can protect you? Whatever this life brings, whatever you might be going through, God can protect you. God's the one that will do it. He had been falsely accused in chapter 18. You can look over it if you want, but verses 17 and 18. He says, And it came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Adab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? And he answered, I've not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam. He wasn't missing any words, but you know, Ahab and and Jezebel, they were ready to kill him. They were like, he's the one that did this, he's the one that brought this famine on us. And uh so we need to kill him. They were out to get his head, but God sent him to Cherith for his protection. Sometime God puts some moves or sends you a place for your protection. You know, there's times that I've been traveling on the road and I get behind somebody that does not know how to drive. I'm sure we've all been there. You know the speed limit's forty-five and they're going twenty-seven and you're like, okay, and you can't get around them and you're just stuck traveling and you're like, oh, I want to get by him. I pr Please turn right. Please turn right. Please turn. You're like, get out of the way, you know. And uh it's so frustrating at times. But there's been many times that in the midst of that I've been going, I'm like, you know what? Uh it's possible that God slowed me down because He's protecting me. If I was traveling at my normal speed, I may be involved in an accident up the road up there. Who knows what might happen. I better just let God have his way. Instead of being too pushy and trying to find my way around this, maybe God's just saying, hey, you need to slow down a little bit. There's a reason for this. God has He's working in our lives. He doesn't send you to Cherith for no reason. We see that Cherith was for his protection, but we also see that Cherith was for his preparation. God wanted him to learn some things. You see, beloved, when you find yourself at Cherith, God is preparing you for what's next. God is getting you ready for the battle that's down the road. He wasn't ready to face the prophets of Baal and to take that mighty stand before the entire world and ultimately to be recorded in the pages of scripture about standing for God. If God be God, serve him. If Baal be God, serve him He wasn't ready to take that stand and have that kind of faith until he sat lonely at the edge of a brook and waited each day for the miraculous deliverance of the sustenance that God had for him He had to learn about how to trust God and to be able to rely on him in faith, seeing that God was giving him his lessons. You know, sometimes when it feels like maybe God's moved you out of the way, can I tell you that it's not so that you're being discarded, it's so that you can be prepared. You know, when I when I tell the boys, hey, you need to bring the lawnmower up to the shop. Bring it up to the garage. That's not so it could be taken out of commission. It's so that we can stop and sharpen the blades. So that we can grease the grease shirts. So that we can do a little bit of service so it can be uh prepared and ready to continue to mow for the whole season Maybe God's m pulled you to a particular place, pulled you back, or made a change in your life that you say, well, it feels like I'm being set aside right now, but God's preparing you. God's preparing you for what's next Yeah. We see not only the command of God, but we see the care of God in verses four through six. We see that Sherith was for his provision. God said, And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. God, we see first the promise, and it shall be. He had a promise from God. If you'll go My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Beloved, we have a promise from God that God is going to supply our needs. That God is going to take care of those things that we need for life. Now, not necessarily all of our wants, but can I tell you that God is so gracious and his goodness is so far beyond measure? That more often than not, you'll find that God grants you many of your own wants as well. But He He promises to provide for the need. the needs that you have and his hand is not shortened that it cannot help and God desires to and wants to provide the needs for you, whatever needs you have There was a promise that it shall be. The psalmist said, I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken and has nor seen his seed begging bread. God provides. He will sustain you. He will see you through. The provision came as God allowed the water to continue flowing that brook. And then God commanded the ravens to feed him there. You know, beloved, God's provision might come in a way that you didn't expect. Something a little out of ordinary. Something a little different. I know all of us have been waiting for a check in the mail. That doesn't come till after the fifteenth. Say that my check in the mail went the other direction. It was supposed to come this direction, right? You've been waiting for a check in the mail, you've been waiting for something, you know, you hear the stories and and oh I needed $79 and a check came from randomly from nowhere. The $79 that I needed and you're like, why doesn't that happen to me? You know, God may do that, but He may uh meet the need in many other miraculous ways. You know ravens, they're very smart birds. And they're omnivorous. They'll eat almost anything. They they're carnivores, they they eat animals, a lot of, you know, usually rotten animals, usually smaller animals. But if they're hungry or need to, do you know that they actually they're conniving enough that they will follow a predator and wait until the predator Soaks away to get in on the dinner. Like they're smart enough. They'll just watch. They'll just wait. And uh they also will eat seeds. They'll they'll eat insects. They'll eat insect larvae. Okay, what I'm saying is most things that ravens eat, we probably don't want to eat. Okay? But here's what I can imagine. I don't think God fed Uh Elijah, insect larva. Here's what I'm picturing. I'm picturing Ahab sitting at his table. And that raven is sitting in the window just waiting for Ahab to turn his head, and then all of a sudden he poof he swoops through and grabs that chicken leg right off the table. flies out the other window. I imagine for some period of time Ahab was really frustrated about all the ravens that were around his property. He's like, what are all these birds doing around here? You know, every time I turn my back he's cutting through. He's in the kitchen and the chef is making up some some meatballs and the chef turns around and next thing you know, there's a raven. Grab some meatballs and carried him off, you know. And and there there's Elijah, getting fed. I'm saying if God doesn't just give you scraps or leftovers, God will take care of you It's God's provision. He had a promise. It shall be if you go. And God provided for him the water that he needed, the food that he needed. And we see it was a sufficient portion in verse number six. Twice a day it came. It came as it was needed. Twice a day. You know, if you eat twice a day, you're doing pretty good. All that he needed, God provided for. But the heart of this message Really kind of ties in with this morning. And here's where I want to get to. I want to get to verse number seven where we see the challenge by God. The challenge by God. In verse number seven, he says, and it came to pass after a while. That the brook dried up because there had been no rain in the land. Can I tell you, beloved, that the very place of provision The very place that God told him to go. This is where God said I should be. I mean, what's going on? I'm where God wants me, but the brook's drying up. The ravens stop coming. What's going on, Lord? Why is this happening? The question I have for you tonight, beloved, is what are you going to do when your brook dries up? What are you going to do when your Cherith is gone? You see, Cherith, beloved, is a representation of that place of blessing. That place of supply. That thing that brings you so much joy, that meets so many needs in your life We could even apply that cherith to maybe a friend that has come into your life that seems to be exactly what you need. They encourage you and they strengthen you or a brother or a sister. Or a mate whom you love dearly. But the time comes that God says, Okay. That cherished is going to be gone. That Which means so much. That place of sustenance, that place of supply, that person That friend, that loved one, that sheriff that you've relied upon so much, it's time. How are you going to respond? We we remember, because we just went through the study on the book of Ruth, we remember what Elimelech did. When the brook dried up, when the when the famine started. He ran down to Egypt. Boy didn't he pay for it. He paid for it. But what are we going to do? How are we going to respond? I want to encourage just with a couple of thoughts as we close this up tonight. What to do when your cherith is gone? When that challenge from God comes to you, and he says, Okay, how are you going to respond when the cherith is gone? When the brook dries up. We want to remember a couple things. First of all, you need to remember that it rains on the just and the unjust. It rains on all. What I'm saying is this world loves to look at this thing and they love to point at people and they say, oh, you your problems are special. You are walking this only road and you're the only one that's ever have to endure such things. I know other people have been through it, but not the exact same as you Your situation is unique and nobody could possibly know what you've endured. That's the worldly mindset. Listen, it rains on the just and the unjust. Elijah could not hope to be in a land plagued with famine and not feel some pain. And not go through some hardship. Beloved, we live in a sinsick world. And although God has saved our soul, and we know that beyond a shadow of a doubt, the day is going to come when we're going to be in heaven. And we will be reunited with all of those that we love so dearly and look and long to be with. But the fact is, is while we're here, we have to know the pain of a sin-sick world. We we can't expect to go through life and not feel any of that Not have to endure some of that. It's just the the fact of the matter is sin causes pain and sin is in the world and therefore sin is something that we have to struggle with, but also we have to deal with the effects of it. And one of those is that the brook dries up, that famine comes, that we experience loss. It rains on everyone. Good bad things happen to good people. It's part of being in a sin sick world. It's just the reality of life. We need to remember that it rains on everyone. That we're not the only one that is going through it. We need to remember. That cherith don't last forever. You see, God sent him to that place for a time. You know that good job that you had? That high-paying position that seemed like it was too good to be true It's not that that that may have been the cherith for you for a while, but it's not going to last forever. Cheriths don't last forever. That place of sustenance doesn't last forever. People are not here forever. Those friendships, although they may last for the time we have on here on earth, we know at some point we may have to say goodbye to them. These things are part of life. We just remind ourselves that they don't last forever. Beloved, let me encourage you to remember to thank God for your time at Cheritz. You see, the world They want to get bitter at God because they look and that this God who allowed the water to flow for so long and allowed the man of God to sit there and be sustained And the ravens to bring food. The world wants to get mad at God because the ravens stopped coming. Instead of remembering how God provided for so long. What God gave you for so long that you had the privilege To love and be loved for so long, my beloved In reality, it's easy for me to stand up here and to say that when your brook dries up, when your cherith is gone, Remember to thank God for how long you had them. It's easy for me to say that. But I also understand that it's awful difficult sometimes to do when you're the one going through it. To be thankful for the years of good health. Instead of being bitter or mad that you've got bad health. To be thankful for the years of being loved and know and having loved Beloved, the g the the greater the love, the greater the loss. And what I'm I'm admitting before you tonight is I understand how I'm not being insensitive. I understand how easy it is for me to say something like that, but I also realize how important it is I remember when Brian Azarenko was going through the loss of his dear wife. And can I tell you it was months that we were meeting every single week. We were spending time together, praying together. And he came to me. We got together. I drove out there. I picked him up at his house and was taking him out to eat somewhere. He got in the car and he looked at me and he tears running down his face and he said, Pastor Caleb, realize this week. How blessed I was for all the time that I had with her It took a while to get to that place. It took months, and I understand that. But can I encourage you as believers who love and know God and know that one day we're going to be restored? What I'm saying is when your cherith is gone, whatever that might be, we need to remember. Don't get bitter at God because the cherith is gone. There are some people in here right now that are that are this pain is real and it's fresh. But it I'm not being insensitive to you. I'm trying to encourage and and And remind the younger generation that's here, the day's gonna come when you are gonna be feeling that loss. And this message needs to come back to your heart and mind and you need to remember it. How are you going to respond in that time, in that day? It is very important. That we we remember that it rains on the just and the unjust, it rains on all of us. We remember that cherished don't last forever That place of sustenance that God took us, that blessing that God brought into our lives, that thing that we looked at and said, this the God gave it to me. Why would he take it away? We need to remember to thank God for the time we had, and we need to remember, beloved, that God has a plan. Even in hardship. Even in heartache, even in struggle, we look at it and we might not understand it. But God has a plan. God has a plan for you and He will, all things that are brought into our lives are for our good and God's glory. And this is where it ties in with this morning. Can you trust them through it? Can we just remember to say, okay, Lord, I trust you. Sometimes God brings dries up the brook because we have a tendency to get comfortable at the brook We have a tendency to look to the brook for sustenance instead of remembering that it's God that allows that water to flow. And God will make a change in our lives sometimes so that we will look back to Him, so that we'll rely on Him. But can I tell you that long before the brook dried up, long before the ravens stopped bringing food, Can I tell you that God had prepared a woman in Zarephat? And God will do it for you. I believe it was Connor in testimony time even tonight, saying that when God brings change in your life, He always has something more miraculous. God is doing something that if we can look to it and see it and understand it, we know that God is working. Can I tell you that God has a plan long before he dried the brook up, he prepared a woman at Zarephath. We see in verse number 8 and 9 of 1 Kings chapter 17, and the word of the Lord came unto him saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath. Which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there, behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. You see Sometimes we get too tied to these things in this world. And it comes to a time where God's saying, okay, it's time to take a step. It's time to move. It's time for you to See that I'm the one that's supplying, I'm the one that's sustaining, I am the one that is with you. Are you willing to follow him? Are you willing to just obey him? And let go of that which means so much. That God might be glorified, that men might be converted, that souls might be saved. To see God's work done here on earth. Beloved, are we willing to listen to the command of God, to learn how to lean on the care of God? And to trust God even when the challenge comes. Maybe that challenge is from God, like it was here for the man of God. Maybe that challenge comes from another place, but we need to trust God in it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Are you obeying God's commands even when it doesn't make sense? Are you trusting in God's care, even when it might come in unexpected ways? Are you accepting God's challenge even when the brook dries up? When that place of blessing, which God sent, which God prepared and gave you, and you look at it and wonder, why is it gone? Or can I tell you that God has a plan? Would you trust Him?