Roundup Sunday next week, uh opportunity to preach, even just a very short message, you know, five, ten minutes max. I only have one uh person that came and said they desire to participate in that. Uh so it would be beneficial to have several more if you have uh an interest or would be willing to participate in the proc popcorn preaching for next Sunday night. We're not going to assign topics or give you a topic. You get to choose that and and kind of get ready for that. But that's part of the afternoon service. Next week, if you can please let me know. Um shoot me a text or something, uh, but don't forget to let us know about that. Um Turn your Bibles tonight to Proverbs chapter 12, verse number 25. Proverbs chapter 12, verse number 25. We'll just look at a few verses here quickly, and uh I don't expect this uh message this evening to be very long. It's gonna be practical. It's going to be very simple, but please don't let the simplicity of the thoughts keep you from experiencing the profound change that could take place if you implement it. We see in Proverbs 12, verse number 25, Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it disturb, but a good word maketh it glad. Look at Proverbs chapter 15 and verse number 23. Proverbs 15 and verse number 23. A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth, and a word spoken in due season, how good is it? Look in Proverbs chapter 25 and verse number eleven. We could look at Probably 40 or 50 verses that could be applied to this topic tonight, but Proverbs 25, verse number 11, a word fitly spoken is like apples of gold and pictures of silver Beloved, tonight I would like to speak to you just for a few minutes on some things every couple need to say. Some things every couple needs to say. Now this could be applied to uh Really, it could be put into every relationship we have in different aspects. I'm by and large going to apply it tonight to the husband and wife relationship, but uh it definitely could be applied to parent-child relationship. It could certainly be applied to in some aspects to your friends, uh but co-workers or or employee or employer relationship, just uh some things that need to be part of our conversation, some things that need to be on the edge of our tongue, and we need to have a habit of using them often. Poor communication is the source of much of the conflict in our homes. And yet very few people are really investing any effort in trying to improve the communication. They know without question that There is a problem in the communication aspect. There is no debating it. There is n I mean the number of people that I have sat with That is a prevalent concern is many. And yet, when asked, and so what are you doing about it? Nothing. They know there's a problem when you guys know we had multiple issues with Melissa's car. Which is very good because it helped her. It helped her to learn that you need to know your vehicle. You need to be able to hear. When there's a tick that wasn't there before. You don't just keep driving it. You don't just keep going down the road and say, well, yeah, I heard it making that noise, but I didn't know what it was, so I just kept driving No, I mean more than once Melissa called me from somewhere and said, um, I don't know what's going on, but the vehicle's doing this or it's doing that, and so I diagnosed over the phone, said, Here's what you need to do, or whatever And that probably saved her engine on one occasion, uh, because she was out of oil. Uh but Because she was consciously aware of it and she stopped and was going to do something about it. Here's what I'm saying is we're consciously aware of the fact that there is a communication breakdown. Somewhere, and yet how many of us are investing energy and time and trying to improve our level of communication? The number of books that are available to you is astronomical Even good, strong books on communication from Christian authors that that could help you and guide you, but are you trying to read them and improve? The fact of the matter is is left to itself. Without conscious effort, most couples' communication will digress to the point where they are virtually strangers living in the same house. That's what happens. Beloved, words have power to develop and to destroy. The words that we use have power to develop the relationship or destroy the relationship. Her words reveal what is in our heart Norman Wright in his book, The Key to Communication, said satisfying companionship is a result of quality communication. There are many couples who would love to have satisfying companionship, but they have done nothing to improve their communication. M, which I do not know what his first name was, but uh one man I read after, M. Aroyus, said A happy marriage is a long conversation that always seems to be too short. Yeah, I probably shouldn't go there with Mary. Occasionally, not very often, but occasionally when she's telling me something, she'll see me go like this. That means to get to the point. That means I know we're going somewhere, but let's take a more direct route. Let's try and get there. And uh I know I should be more patient and uh willing to hear the whole of the story. Uh so I certainly am guilty of needing some help in the communication department. So this is for me as well tonight. But just want to give you some practical things that we really need to have on the tip of our tongues. We need to be using often. We're going to go through these quickly. And I didn't give them to Gus, so they're not going to be on the screen. But first of all, we need to be in a real habit of saying, I love you. You need to communicate that. You need to say it. I know that there are methods in which we prove our love, and I know that action speaks louder than words And uh you certainly should be a man or woman of action. You need to use that as well. You need to be proving your love with what you do, not just saying it, but let me encourage you, you also need to be saying it You need to be hearing it. I performed a little bit of tests last night. Uh Mary and I we always talk before we go to bed and we're sitting in bed talking or chatting or whatever and then you know before we go to sleep We'll say something, uh, you know, hey, good night, you know, love you. Uh see you tomorrow if God wakes me up. You know, whatever. Uh we we'll say something to each other. Well last night uh she was reading her her Bible and So I'm like, well, I'm just gonna roll over and go to sleep. You know, it felt really, really weird to just go to sleep without saying something. Without even acknowledging the her or whatever, I just rolled over and went to sleep. And I mean that took me probably about twenty minutes uh to just actually be able to fall asleep uh without commenting, without saying something. It felt like I was mad at her or something, just goofy. You know, you need to have it as part of your habit. Just make it something that you say, I love you. You communicate that love to one another. Beloved, God proved his love towards us. There's no question in that. For God so loved the world that he gave. Amen. We know God proved his love towards us, but he also tells us over and over and over again in his word that he loves us. And we need to communicate that love. Parents need to tell your children that you love them. They need to know that. Every night. That's a little harder for my boys now. Every night after devotions, we give our kids all of our kids get a hug and they they go to bed. It's always a little awkward when we have the interns and other people like that over because we're all hugging each other and they're kind of like You know, what are you gonna do? I said, Well I ain't hugging you. Um but Mary's always up for a hug. You can hug her, you know. So a lot of them do uh give Mary a hug, but uh, you know, then we'll hug each other and I'll say, Hey, good night, son, I love you. And the boys reciprocal comment has gotten a lot softer and a lot, you know, kind of like halfway there, you know, now that they're older and it's uh I don't know. It's just pretty it's like like they said something. I think that's what they said that they love me, you know. Uh but you need to communicate that. You need to say I love you. It needs to be on the tip of your tongue, it needs to be something that you use often Say it often. Don't use the excuse that you were never told that, so you don't say it. That's just an excuse. You can say, well, the home I grew up in, nobody ever said that they loved one another, so I don't I don't say that. That's an excuse. You should say it. It's not that hard to say it. I know it's uncomfortable for you if you've reached a point where it's been so long since you said it. It would feel kind of awkward. But if you do it, you'll break the awkwardness. If you just do it. Just say it. Just get it out there and uh make a habit of it. If you have to, set a reminder on your phone. Do something like that. Do something if if it's that hard for you to remember to do it, set a reminder so that you're communicating that. Young people, you need to say it to your mom and dad. And those of you that aren't married yet, you're not quite there, you can put this stuff in the back of your head for when you you get there. Just don't let it ever get to that place where it's awkward or uncomfortable to communicate that I love you. Say I love you. You know, don't say, oh, it's not my personality. Or I'm not good at expressing myself. Sometimes our personality needs to change. Sometimes we need to make an adjustment. And you need to express your love one for another. You need to say, I love you. You need to say thank you. You need to say thank you to one another. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Beloved, there there's One person in our life that impacts us or or is closer to us than anybody else, and it needs to be our appreciation to them should be expressed continually. Thank you. Thank you. Acknowledging even the small things. Thank you. Look for opportunities to say thank you. They they are many. There's many, many ways in which mates serve one another. If they have even the modicum of of a decent relationship, they're serving one another. There's many things that they do. And you should acknowledge that. Thank you. Thank you for taking the trash out. Thank you for ironing this shirt. Thank you for making this meal Thank you for stopping at the store. Thank you for picking that up. Just today, I told Mary, I says, you know what? I think I have a new favorite chip. Because she bought me some on the border chips for chips and cheese, which is one of my favorite snacks. Chips and cheese, so from on the border, they're salty, they're light and fluffy. They're delicious. I said, thanks for buying me those chips. I got a new chip for chips and cheese. By the way, I'm going to the store to buy some right now. So I dropped her off at home and I went to the store and got some chips and cheese for lunch And uh just thank you for picking those chips up. She thought I would like them and she told me about the process. She's like, yeah, we were going through the store and I picked some out and uh Melissa says, those are scoops. Dad doesn't like scoops. And mom says, I know, but I can't find the regular ones And so they went through this process of looking around the store to find the ones they thought I would like and they were awesome. Thank you. Just thank you. Find a time, find a place to express that gratitude, to say thank you. You know we teach our kids to say thank you. What do you say? What do you say? You know, one of the easiest ways to teach them is if they hear it coming out of your mouth a lot, often I can tell you that uh Mary's a whole lot better at this than I am and the kids hear her often say thank you to me for many, many things. Things that I don't even think I need to be thanked for. But she's saying, hey, I appreciate what you did. And it's meaningful. Say thank you. Show appreciation one to another. It ought to be a way of life. In everything, give thanks. Ah, here's another one, please. Why is it we just expect them to do something? You know, a lot of times we're we're more courteous to the teller at the bank or to somebody at the grocery store. We wouldn't give them a command. And yet sometimes we if we're not careful, we're giving our mates a command. We're we're telling them, you know, pass me that Get me that. Take that outside. You know, we we we need to express that with some You know, a request, please. Let nothing be done through Philippians 2. 3, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Letting each esteem others better than themselves in lowliness of mind. We shouldn't expect our mate just to serve us and to do for us and to be there all the time. We ought to express some, you know, hey, please. Would you would you please do that? Some basic manners goes a long way Colossians 4. 6, let your speech be always with grace. With grace. Are you using grace in the home with your mate? Just using simple things like please, just communicating. Another thing you ought to be real often saying, let's talk. Let's talk. Philippians 4. 14, notwithstanding, ye have done well that ye did communicate with my affliction. Paul says, boy, you took time to communicate with me regarding my affliction. Learn about each other's day. Come in and let's talk. Ask questions. How did it go? Yesterday when I got back from the barbecue and putting everything away was, I don't know, maybe 3. 30 or something Uh I got into the house, came into the house, merry first thing. How did the barbecue go? And I filled her in, let her know about it, and we talked for a few minutes and then I left to go study. And then later in the evening after supper I asked her, I said, hey, how did the ladies thing, uh, what was it, the baby shower. How did the baby shower go? And uh she says, oh, it was great And she said, and Amanda's so much fun, you know. She sa she's like me, so she gets the she was so excited about the gifts and everything and it was just she's just giving me the whole rundown, you know, telling me all about what uh happened there and the people that came and and all that and we just to learning about each other's day. Fine, you could, there's things like that that you can talk about if you just say, hey, let's talk. Let's talk. Learn about their wishes and desires. Talk about your lives and what's going on. Sometimes we need to just slow down. We need to put the device down. Look at each other and talk. Many couples have allowed their children to consume their time and their emotions and their effort, and the day comes when the children are gone and they no longer know each other. It's been years since they've talked about anything beyond the day's events, like, oh I have to go to the bank and I gotta stop and drop the kids off at here and then I gotta pick them up at four o'clock and okay, see you tonight. You know and and They're living their lives, but they haven't really communicated about anything deeper or beyond the surface. You have to do it on purpose. Ask one another about it. Talk about what God's teaching you. What did you get out of your devotions today? What passage of scripture are you memorizing right now? Communicate about what God is doing in your heart and your life. Go deeper than just the schedule of events that you have to fulfill throughout the day Let's talk. Another way you need to say is, I need you. In Genesis 2. 18, the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make a help meet for him. I don't know what would happen if the women would have been here first. Maybe God would have let them be, but but he said, Men, it's not good for you to be alone. You need a help meet and I don't think so. I think that it's by God's design we are social beings and by God's plan, you know, it's God's plan for Most people to have a meet, a help meet, a partner that they're going through life with. We need one another. Your wife, your husband needs to know that you need them That you need them. Communicate that. Say it. You are one flesh, and you're not complete without one another. Galatians 6. 2, bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Listen, I know that the man's spirit is I'm strong and I don't need anything. I don't need anybody. But we do need them. It doesn't happen a lot, but I can tell you that there's times that I've held on to Mary, and that's all I had to hold on to. And I've literally cried on her shoulders and said, I can't do this I can't go another day. I don't have the strength to bear this anymore. And it is from her that I got strength to do it again. I need you. She needs to know that she is that for you. And he he needs to know that he is that for you. That that person helps you. They give you the strength to go on that you need one another. It's this it is a sad commentary on society today that a lot of times they they like to portray the the husband as this bumbling oaf and that the woman really literally does not need him at all. Like she could doesn't need anything, she could just do everything without him. She doesn't need the husband. I mean he's such an idiot. If if he if if she wasn't there to dress him, he wouldn't know what to do. Which really bothers me. Mary's never dressed me one day in my life Okay, I can match all my own clothes and and most guys can. I don't understand this philosophy and ideas that oh man he can't get dressed without me. He can't make a meal without me, he can't do anything with the This is a society today and how they're they're portraying this. No, you need each other. And you're just shooting yourself in your foot if you look at your mate or you communicate that spirit. You know, you're certainly, at least I hope you're not, going to look at them and say, I don't need you. I mean you are in a bad shape and you just set an appointment right away, if that's the kind of communication you have in your home But maybe you're communicating that by your actions, but I don't need you. Young people, I know you think you don't need mom and dad. As you start getting a little bit older, but you do. Eli. If you were driving to work tomorrow, some other vehicle crossed over the road, slammed into you. You were injured and got sent to the hospital, who would you have them call? Mom and Dad. But I'm a grown man. But you still need mom and dad. They are that rock. They are the ones that are always there. Don't forget that. As we get older and we start to kind of want to stress or flex our muscles and find our place in the world and and listen, that's what you've been raised for. You and you know Timothy and uh of course a little bit behind that the other guys, you know, that's what your parents have raised you to go out and to Go do what God wants you to do with your life, but don't forget, you still need mom and dad. And you need to communicate that to them. Let her know that you need them. Let your communication be respectful. Let her know you value her opinion You know, I've heard a lot of ladies tearing down their husband in front of other people. That's crazy. Not only you're undermining him and his leadership, but you're undermining your relationship. You're undermining what you see, the the underlying need of every man is to be respectful. That's why God gave you the command to do that, something that doesn't come naturally to you, to honor and obey But the underlying need for a woman is to have security and love. That's why God commanded man to love her as his own to fulfill and to meet that underlying need. And when you talk down or talk bad about him in front of others, you're you're undermining, destroying that underlying need that is in the heart of every man. to to be respected. Communicate, I love you. We need to say another one is I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Beloved, we need to be able to admit when we're wrong. Proverbs 28, 13, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. That we of course know talking about God and our sin against God, but you know when we sin against our mate, the same thing. You can't just pretend it didn't happen. We need to admit when you're wrong. When your mate comes to you and presents a problem or complaint. And by the way, every home needs a healthy complaint counter. Now hopefully that's not getting used all the time, but your mate needs to be able to come to you and express a concern. Bring an area that bothers them or, you know, if you bought something at a store and got home and found that it was broken or the wrong color or didn't fit and you had a problem with it, you have a customer service counter that you can go to. And if when you got to the customer service counter, they took it from you and they went, what in the world You brought this back? I mean, are you the biggest idiot in the world? You can't bring that back looking like that. What uh what are you thinking? Oh, you want your money back? Yeah, yeah. So does the dog that's outside I mean, they just ripped you upside down the other and let you have it. Let me ask you, would you go back to that store? No, you would stop shopping there, you wouldn't buy anything there. Okay, well when your mate brings something to you, And you tear them down or rip them up one side and down the other, do you think they're going to bring anything else to you? They're going to live with it. They're going to bear it. They're going to endure it until it cannot until they can't take it anymore. And then an explosion is going to happen But if you have a healthy complaint counter, a place where you can go and communicate those things with respect and mutual respect then the relationship can develop and grow. You need to remove you need to move from the defendant position to the investigator position. When your mate comes to you with a problem, initially we are all on the defense. Right? There's an issue. But never. I wouldn't. I didn't. You're looking at it wrong. I mean initially there's this it's all defense, right? You need to move from the defense position To the investigator position and say, okay, how is he, how is she seeing this? Where is the truth in what she's communicating or what he's communicating? Because there is some truth. Now, there quite possibly could be a little bit of exaggeration We are all prone to that, if we are honest. When we're expressing frustration, it's very hard to not do so without a little bit of Over the top. You know, it's just the nature of man. So understand that. Don't get all worked up. You said I did this 23 times, and it was only 21. You know, I mean, there's a little bit of exaggeration. That's okay. Investigate and find the truth that's there. Okay, there was 21 times. Okay, I understand this. Allow that to come, and we need to get to the place we're ready to admit that we've done wrong. When you admit that you've done wrong, it opens the door for healing. James chapter 5 and verse number 16. Confess your faults one to another and pray what pray for one another that ye may be healed. When you're willing to admit that you have done wrong, when you can acknowledge that and move forward together, it opens the door for healing. And too many relationships have swept things under the rug or they've let things go. They have not dealt with them, acknowledged them, confessed, and forsaken them. And so that that healing didn't take place. And now you have years of these things that have developed and grown and exasperated and created greater and greater problems. So just admit it and then healing can begin to take place. Admitting that you've done wrong will give you respect, not undermine it. Beloved, when you're honest and you own up to things that you know you did wrong, The other person will respect you. Norman Wright writes in his book Communication is the Key to Marriage. He says, when you honestly own up, To knowing that you have wronged them and that the other person is right, you improve communication a thousand fold and deepen your relationship with your spouse. You improve communication a thousand fold and deepen your relationship with your spouse. So just acknowledging it and moving forward together. Everybody in the home knows that you're not perfect. Including you. So why is it so hard for us to just admit when we messed up You know, I mean, we know we're not perfect. They know we're not perfect. The kids know we're not perfect. And yet somehow we want to act like we're perfect. Like we haven't messed up. We didn't do that. But if we turn into the investigator and find the truth, we'll find usually some place in the middle where we need to change. There's a principle of communication that we need to remember, and that is the law of response. The law of response. Do you understand, beloved, when somebody accuses you of something, They do not have control. The responder always is in control. If this turns into a fight, it is not because of what they said to you. It's because of how you responded. You are in control. The law of response. You are going to allow this to digress into a full-fledged fight. Or you are going to control that. And the moment they bring an accusation, the moment they come and they accuse you, you can put whatever excuse you want in front of it, but the fact of the matter is, is at that moment now you are in control. It's not what they said, it's how you responded. So you are in control. You can decide. How are we going to go from here? Let me evaluate what they said honestly and am I willing to acknowledge it? A soft answer? What is it? Turneth away wrath. Our response is what makes the difference. A soft answer turneth away wrath. But grievous words stir up anger. So are we going to give a soft answer or grievous words The last one here really is applicable to our kids, but we need to be able to tell our children Watch me. Watch me. Proverbs 23, verse number 26, my son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. And I wonder, beloved, if your children have a relationship like you have. Are they going to be a happy couple? Are they going to be in love and living life together and They respond to one another the way you respond to one another, and they live life like you guys. The fact of the matter is, is that's very likely what's going to happen. So we need to live in such a way that we could tell our young people, watch me, observe my ways. I certainly am not perfect. But if you do what I do, you'll be okay. Now I hope you do better than I do. That's the desire for every parent that the children would do better than we do, that they would go further than we go. And we we hope that they do. But we certainly do not want to be guilty of saying, don't do as I do, do as I say. No, they need to be able to do as we do. They need to be able to observe our ways and live and do like we live. So just some simple things that need to be often used in our in our homes and On our lips. It shouldn't be hard to say any of those, and those things should all be said often with one another. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The pianist is going to come and play. We'll have a moment of invitation, and I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart tonight or how you've applied the messages evening, but whatever God did for you, we want to give opportunity for you to use the altar if you desire. You do as the pianist plays. Well someone's a little bit more than a little bit. Lord, we come to you tonight. We're grateful for your love for us. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege it's ours to gather in your house. And I pray, Lord, that this wouldn't just be something that we keep And think all of that could help. But Lord, we would do what's necessary to make a change in our communication that would improve our homes. Or a church is only as strong as the homes that make it up. And Lord, I pray we would have a strong church because we have homes that are centered on you and strong, Lord, and we'll praise you for it.