It's the text verse for this evening. I want to speak to you for a few minutes on uh this thought. 2 Corinthians 12, verse number 15, says, and I will verily, I will very gladly spend and be spent for you. Though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved. I will very gladly spend and be spent for you, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I beloved. This evening is going to be a follow-up message of sorts from this morning. Uh I thought about it this afternoon and I thought maybe if indeed I do have a hobby horse It would probably be in this vein. It would probably be in this vein that we're talking about tonight As I considered the message, I thought maybe this would be like a like a one-two combination. Uh a the same type of thought but from a different direction As we saw this morning, that to whom much is given, much is required. Really looking at the fact of this family here That have decided to give their life to go to a foreign field. We look at them and certainly are thrilled about them following God and and it means a lot to us that people would surrender to go to the foreign field. I know you were struck just like I was as you consider the thoughts of where God has called them to. And a willingness to go to a place. It seems as though you go to a uh an area of the world that literally is physically cold. It also really translates into the hearts of the people, where people become so very cold and hard and set in their ways. And they've surrendered to go and to do this task for God. And I look at this verse and I see them in it. I would like to spend just a couple minutes and speak to you a message entitled Spent or Squandered Spent or squandered. As Jacob closed in prayer this morning, he used that word. He said, Lord, help us not to squander our lives. The talent, the treasure, the gifts, whatever you've blessed us with, help us not to squander it. I want you to understand, beloved, that you are either going to spend or squander what God has given you. Would you pray with me and let God speak to our hearts? Lord, as we take the next few minutes and look at this thought from your word, Lord, I pray God you would give me liberty to preach, that you would speak to the hearts of your people. That we wouldn't just be gathered in your house for one more service, that we wouldn't just be here for uh doing our duty and fulfilling our time on a Sunday afternoon, but Lord, that you would stir us You would draw us into the very presence of God and move us out of our complacency and our casualness and stir us to a fervent heart of service for you. Lord, I need this message tonight. I stand in need of this thought And I pray God you would move in the congregation your people that need it as well. In Jesus' name. Amen. This verse has always hit me right between the eyes. As a young man With normal aspirations of being great and being wealthy. I had my heart set on what I wanted to do with my life and desired to be a businessman and I've told you before that that desire was not just to work in business somewhere but You know, I wanted to be Jeff Bayles. I mean, I I wanted to be Mark Cuban. I mean, I I wanted to be wealthy. I want to be recognized for my accomplishments. I don't suppose that's different than almost any young man who Desires greatness, the visions of grandeur that I had for myself had no end. But I was a typical teen, a typical young man. I only did what I had to. To be honest, I would rather be on a skateboard than do anything else as a young man. I invested untold number of hours on a skateboard to the point where my dad one time grabbed my skateboard and he looked at me and said, Son, I feel like I ought to cut this thing in half because I believe that this stick has become your God. I only wanted to do what I wanted to do. I had aspirations of greatness. But as a senior in high school, I looked at myself And I thought, you know, my aspirations and my goals and my desires about what I want to be didn't line up with what I was. I I I wanted to be great, but in reality, when I looked at myself and I looked at my friends, we were little more than well-dressed bums. We were all about ourselves and entertaining ourselves and only content to do that which we wanted to do, only doing what we had to do and playing and entertaining ourselves the rest of the time. However, I determined as a senior in high school that I was going to change that and I put my Best put forward, and I endeavored to work hard, and as a senior in high school during that year, I completed two years of high school education in one year. Not only did I complete two years of high school education in one year, but at the same time I was working a little more than a part-time job at Walmart. Not only that, at the same time I enrolled in community college and went to night classes and studied computer science Many people congratulated me, many people patted me on the back, and some even said, Man, we're proud of you, and Caleb, you sure seem to have turned over a new leaf, and you sure seem to have purpose and direction in your life. sure seem to to have really uh got serious about about this thing and and you you just you're doing so well Caleb I'm so happy for you But I had uh to look at my life in all seriousness and realize that It was still a selfish desire that motivated that change. Because what I wanted to be was wealthy. And I knew it was going to take work and I was going to have to start pursuing that. And so I did However, I had enough common sense to know that the world, people in the world were not happy It didn't matter how much money they had, and it didn't matter how how much prestige they had or what size business they were running. The fact is most of them were miserable And more than anything else, I I wanted to be happy. I wanted to enjoy my wealth I didn't want to be a miserable rich old p old man. I wanted to have a good time and enjoy my wealth. I wanted to have wealth, but I wanted to have happiness more than wealth. And I understood that most people in the world were not happy. So, not fully convinced that God was even real. I determined that I would truly give God a try Having grown up in church and around the Word of God the entirety of my life, I mean I I knew what was right at that time. I was working on a bus route and I was teaching in junior church and uh you know all all of these things, ministries, being involved in those things, and I knew all of the things to say had led people to Christ and so on. But in my heart of hearts, really not even knowing if Christianity was true, if God was really there. But what I knew and understood about God led me to the place where I said, okay God, and I mean quite literally, I looked up into heaven and I said, God, if you're real. If you really truly are the creator of the universe and the savior of my soul, if Jesus Christ is what stands between Heaven and hell, and I've trusted and put my faith and trust in Him, then Lord, I want you to show yourself strong in my life. God, I want you to give me the desires of my heart. Because my motivator was I wanted to be happy, and I understood that in order to be happy, if if indeed God was real and powerful, and it was all true what I had been told, if that is a fact. That if I was going to be happy, what I had to first do was please God. So what I determined in my heart was: God, if you're real, Would you do one of two things? God, would you give me the desire of my heart? Or God, would you change my desire to please you? And over a year's time where I earnestly sought after God, truly from my heart, desiring to please Him, God began to work in my heart. God began to work in my life, and He changed. My desires. He changed me. I wanted to know the power of his resurrection. You see, it was during that time that I adopted my life's verse. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Do you see how God was working in my life? How I desired all of these things? And I came to God and said, Lord, I want all of these things, but if you're real and powerful, I understand I need to please you. God, would you either give me the desires of my heart or would you change my desire? And God brought me to that verse, and I adopted that verse and chose in my heart, in my life, to seek first the kingdom of God. And righteousness. And all these things would be secondary, and God could give me those. I cannot say that I have not gotten distracted. I cannot say that the enticements and the allurements of this world over the past 25 years of serving my Savior now. But they have not, at times, lured me away Mark 4, verse number 19 says, And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches and the lust of other things entering in choked the word, and it became unfruitful I cannot say that I have not let other things creep into my life and choke out even my life's verse to seek God first and foremost. To the point where I became unfruitful. And that is why tonight I'm bringing this message. I can't say that I've always lived up to my own ambition and my own desire, but beloved, tonight I can tell you that for these twenty-five years and hopefully for twenty-five more, it is my desire As was Paul's, to spend and be spent for Jesus Christ. You're either going to spend your life doing something that God has for you to do, like this family. Or you're gonna squander it in pursuit of a useless dream. They are not from Lawrence, Kansas anymore. Their family long ago moved away, but in Lawrence, Kansas, where I was an assistant pastor, like no other place I've ever been. The people in Lawrence, Kansas are consumed with physical fitness. It's a college town. There's a hundred thousand people in town and thirty thousand of them are college students. A young town, a vibrant, energetic town, but as a people consumed with this physical body Investing so much time and effort and energy in keeping this body up. Beloved, we do the same where we invest time and energy in and exercise. Hey, I know that the Bible says bodily exercise profiteth. It does profit and we should take care of the body. But there's a qualifier there. It says little. It profits a little. I mean there is something to be said about Taking care of the temple of God and we shouldn't just needlessly abuse it. But listen, we can get out of balance and be investing all of our time and energy on physical fitness Fighting against uh this this body as it begins to fall apart. You can go get surgery for everything today. Everything can get nipped and tucked and pulled and shrunk and gathered and stapled You can get it all adjusted. You can invest so much time and energy in in taking care of the body. But is that what God wants you to be spending your life and energy and money on? Listen. I got news for you. Gravity's gonna win. Okay? No matter how you fight against it, friend, no matter how much Anti-wrinkle key cream you wear. You know, I looked it up today. They've got an ant uh an anti-wrinkle cream, and I didn't do it, I just did a quick search, anti-wrinkle cream. There was an anti-wrinkle wrinkle cream that came up It was $185 an ounce. And that's probably not the most I didn't I didn't search for, you know, the most expensive out there. I just did a search for anti-wrinkle cream. Listen That would be a couple months support for a missionary. And we're we're fighting against gravity. Keep the wrinkles back. Give you all this vanity of vexation of soul and spirit You're spending it or you're squandering it. Like the prodigal of old, who squandered all he had. It's amazing to me as I look back in Luke chapter fifteen and verse number fourteen says, and when he had spent all. When he had spent all that he had, there arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want. What are you spending your life on? What are you spending your time on? What are you spending your energies on? What are you spending your financial means on? The woman at the well. The woman having an issue of blo issue of blood in Luke chapter 8, verse number 43 says, and the woman having an issue of blood twelve years Which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any. She had spent all of her living for all of those years trying to be healed of this issue of blood, and Jesus Christ could heal it in a moment. But she was spenting all spending all that she had to try and take care of this. What are you spending your energy on? Isaiah 49, verse number 4 says, Then I said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for naught. I've spent my strength for naught. Will you one day look back and say, boy, I've spent all of my energy for naught I spent all this money that I had in search of a cure or in order to to stay back the tide of decay of this old body or to try and have or keep up with the Joneses. I've invested all of my energy and my time and effort in this way, and it's all been for naught. How empty and dry and dead will that be But listen, anything that you give to Jesus Christ goes on before you. It's an investment in eternity that will last forever. I love the song because it speaks to the very heartbeat of my passion. The song, It's Not in Vain. You labor in the vineyards of our Lord. Don't do it for reward. But all your labor for God is not in vain. It's not in vain, friend. But what are you laboring on? What are you spending your life on? What are you spending your means on? We want to see God do something great in our church I've heard it from many of you as you've echoed that same thought at different times and different opportunities at restaurants or in conversations in the foyer or out and just say, Boy, I want to see God do something great in our church. It's not going to happen until one, two, five, ten, fifteen of us get to the place where we say, I want to be spent for God. We've got to get to the place where we're willing to go and to do whatever's necessary to see God do great things. Would you look at this verse again? 2 Corinthians 12, verse number 15. I don't if you've got a pen or a marker, would you circle a word for me or underline it or highlight it? Whatever you've got. He says, I would very gladly spend and be spent for you. Gladly. Listen. Gladly. There's a big difference between spending Being spent and spending gladly. He didn't do it grudgingly. He didn't do it because there was nobody else who would do it. There could have been a whole line of people ready to do it, and he would have been pick me, pick me, I want to do it, pick me. He was ready to do it, he was gladly did it You know, my sister Rebecca was notorious for this. Actually, to this day, it's still a joke in our family. Because any time that her and I would go out to dinner, she mysteriously forgot her checkbook or her purse or whatever. For some reason, she never had money. Well we're there and we've already eaten and she would say, Well, I don't have my money with it. Oh, shocker. So I would pay for her meal But I didn't necessarily do it gladly. Somebody had to pay for it. You know, many times I ask of my kids, I ask them to do a job. And It's not that they are upset about doing it or that they have a bad attitude about doing it, because they know that that just means they get to do it for four extra hours if they have a bad attitude But they do not do it gladly. You understand there's a difference. They do do it and and maybe they do it willingly and maybe it's not even begrudgingly and they're not giving me a hard time about it, but I understand that they're not eager to do it. But beloved we in our service for the King of Kings, it ought to be something that we do gladly Something that we want to do, that we're thrilled to do, that we're pleased to do, that we're looking for the opportunity to do. I'll gladly go to Russia. I can guarantee you, church after church after church, look at them and say, Why would you go to a place like that? Of all the places in the world you could go, hey, I'll gladly go to Hawaii Do we serve God gladly? Or is it just because we have to? Or is it because there's nobody else? We kind of got pushed into it and so we're filling the position, but Beloveds, we've got to get to the place where we're if we want to see God do great things in our church, we've got to have a large portion of this church that's ready to serve God gladly. To do whatever's necessary gladly. Are you truly glad about the opportunities you have to serve God? Think about Paul. Paul's the one that's making this statement. You know, Paul, he was a a Pharisee among Pharisees, somebody that in the world of that day was very successful. He would have been at the top of his class. He would have been you know, uh the the one that was recognized, the one that everybody knew. He was uh in the forefront of it all. As far as if he was a businessman, he was a successful businessman But what does Paul say after he comes face to face with Jesus Christ on the road to Damascus and he gets saved? He's given us this verse here, but in Philippians chapter 3, verse number 8, he says, Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and to count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. He said, Everything else in my life, all of the plaques on my I love me wall Are nothing. They mean nothing to me. But I would gladly spend and be spent for you. Now that he is following Christ, all that went before means absolutely nothing. What are you spending your life on? You say, well I'm I'm living my life, Pastor. It's my life. What? For you are not your own. For you've been bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body. This message tonight was really spurred on because of Jonathan being here. Courtney, you know, he's just passing through. He was just using the White House. But he asked yesterday, he says, Hey you guys going so winning? Can we go? You know, we've had missionaries that were here that were here to present their ministry. They were here to be at this church for the weekend that didn't go out stolenly. He just said, Yeah, I'll gladly go. I'm sure that he could have had a life he's probably as a young man had dreams and aspirations of other things. Maybe he wanted to be a fireman I don't know. I I we could talk to him and talk to Courtney and talk about what their what their dreams might have been as young men, but they came to the place where they said, pleasing God and doing God's will is what's most important. They understand the principle that they're going to be the most happy. Doing what God wants. They're going to have the most fulfilled life and experience the most joy pleasing the Lord instead of pleasing themselves. Isn't there a cause? Isn't there a cause? Don't you have a cause that you need to spend your life on? David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? You know, in in context there David's responding to his brother's accusation about him coming to the field, to the miss to the to the mission. He was coming to the battlefield. Do you remember? He came and his brother said, Oh, I know the naughtiness of thy heart. He said, You come down here just to see the battle. And David's response to him, he says, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? And we can apply that many ways, but I want you to understand he was responding to him what he was saying, he says, Dad gave me a job to do. That's why I came here. There's a cause because my father sent me here. And do you know, beloved, your father has given you a cause. Your father has given you a cause. All of what we do at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is wrapped around that cause. To see the salvation of men. the discipling of God's people, to see them saved, baptized, added to the church, and invested in seeing other people saved, baptized, and added to the church Our father's giving you a cause. I think about this world and Job Job says this. Now we know Job was saved, but Job said, my days are swifter than the weaver's shuttle and are spent without hope. I think about the world and they're spending their days that are passing so fast and they're spending them without hope. They have no hope. And we have the hope. The hope that's within us that we can give them We don't think anything about spending hours watching a stupid television show or a movie. But if getting to church a few minutes early. Oh, we can't do that. Being here just fifteen minutes early to be in men's prayer meeting. I don't have time for that. Staying a few minutes after to pray with the ladies. Getting out to men's prayer breakfast once a month. Last Monday there was four four men there One of them was John Smith. I'm just saying, what are we spending our life doing? Oh I know, you're living your life. Are you spending it for the cause of Christ or are you squandering it on self-pursuit? You can spend hours and hours and thousands of dollars on your hobby, whatever it might be. I'll talk about Joe's hobby because he stopped doing it. Racing cars. He enjoyed that. But he had to come to the place where he had realized I gotta quit doing that because it's wasting a lot of money. It's taking a lot of my time. It's fun to do, nothing sinful about it. But we gotta come to the realization that are we squandering what God's given us? You know, when you are motivated by a cause, there's no such thing as inconvenience. So many times we're inconvenienced by the ministry. We're inconvenienced by the projects at the church or the job that needs done or the task that needs fulfilled at church. But you know when you're motivated by a cause there is no such thing as inconvenience. When you were in pursuit of your love, the love of your life, there was no such thing as inconvenience. If I told you some of the things that I did just to spend a few minutes with Mary when we were dating, the hours I drove in a car. To spend a few minutes with her, to drive hours back. Now I look back and I wonder where my head was, but I still love you, Pim. But we would laugh. But then we could talk about your story. And the things that you did in pursuit of the one that you loved. And we could laugh about that. But what I'm asking is, do we love God like that? Why is it that so much of what we are doing for God is an inconvenience? Sometimes I feel bad about asking somebody to do something for God. Because it's inconvenient. But there should be no such thing as inconvenience when it's for Jesus. And I should never feel bad for giving you an opportunity to serve God. Are you spending or squandering the life that God has given you D. Al Moody said, the world is yet to see what God can do with, for, and through, and in a man who is holy and wholly consecrated unto him. I will strive to be that man. We really don't know what God could do here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church if a few of us would just be willing to be spent for God. I'm willing, God. Holy and completely used up for God. Are you that man? Are you that woman? Are you that child? And say, God, I want to please you most of all. You see, we want to see supernatural and great things from God. But we want to give so little to see it happen. We want to see great answers to prayer, but we want to invest so little time in praying. We want to see great results and great wisdom in our life. But we want to spend so little time in the book of wisdom. We want to see so many souls saved, but we spend so much, so little time trying to win them. We want great things from God, but we give so little of ourselves to see it happen. Because if we were honest, we're not willing to stand with Paul and say, I would gladly spend and be spent. this cause. Are you spending your life for the cause of Jesus Christ? Are you squandering in the pursuit of selfish dreams and ambitions? Maybe God hasn't called you to go to Russia, but my God might have called you to do something else. Are you relieved tonight that God didn't call you to Russia? Or do you have a heart that's willing and ready to say, God, I would go to Russia if that's what you wanted? That's what Paul was saying. God, I'll be spent for you.